43287356|Metabolic depression is a common strategy used during stressful environmental conditions, allowing animals to survive for prolonged periods on limited endogenous fuel stores; yet, the mechanisms involved in regulating metabolic depression are poorly understood. The endogenous opioid system (EOS) has been implicated in the regulation of metabolism during hibernation in vertebrates, and we hypothesized that opioids also may regulate metabolic rate during aestivation in the Green-Striped Burrowing Frog, Cyclorana (Litoria) alboguttata (Gnther, 1867). When incubated in the presence of opioid agonists, liver and muscle tissue slices from C. alboguttata underwent tissue-and agonist-specific metabolic depression, and the effect of opioid agonists on metabolism was more pronounced in tissue slices from aestivating animals. Gene transcript levels for the -opioid receptor remained constant in the brain and muscle of aestivating C. alboguttata compared with that of active frogs, as did brain transcript levels of the opioid receptor XOR1. The results of this study demonstrate that opioids can influence metabolic rate in isolated tissues from alboguttata. The maintenance of key opioid receptor gene transcript levels in tissues of aestivating frogs suggests that despite the energetic costs, maintenance of receptor abundance is important. We propose that the maintenance of opioid receptor abundance during aestivation in C. alboguttata is indicative of a role for the EOS in the regulation of metabolic rate during aestivation.
10.2307/1564418|Two salamanders, Aneides lugubris, and Batrachoseps sp., are reported from the latest Miocene (Hemphillian) upper Mehrten Formation of the western Sierra Nevada foothills of California. A record of Batrachoseps sp. is also reported here from the Pinole Tuff of the same age in the San Francisco Bay area of California. These are the second Tertiary records of plethodontid remains and the first from west of the Rocky Mountains. The minimum age of Aneides lugubris, and the Sierra Nevada population in particular, is established at approximately five million years. This is consistent with the estimated longevity of this species based on biochemical evidence and modifies a previous biogeographic speculation.
10.2307/1564339|The phylogenetic relationships of the poorly known African pipid frog Pseudhymenochirus merlini were studied using phylogenetic analysis of comparative morphology. Forty-nine characters from fourteen species were surveyed from integumentary structures, osteology (especially of the cranium and pectoral girdle), and larvae. The resultant cladogram is well corroborated; only six of the characters exhibited homoplasy. Pseudhymenochirus is not merely a primitive Hymenochirus, nor is it an intermediate between Xenopus and Hymenochirus. It is the sister-group to Hymenochirus (boettgeri and curtipes) and possesses several derived features not found in other pipids. Pseudhymenochirus and Hymenochirus together (the hymenochirines) are the sister-group to Pipa; the three genera are included in the subfamily Pipinae. Several of the unique features in hymenochirines may be related to the small size of these animals.
10.2307/1563569| Dissection of 187 specimens provided data on body sizes, sexual size dimorphism, food habits, reproductive cycles and inferred growth rates of this small venomous snake. Adult Echiopsis curta average approximately 30 cm snout-vent length, with males and females attaining similar sizes. The diet is diverse: 52% lizards, 31% frogs, 13% mammals, plus occasional birds and insects. Amphibians may be eaten less often in eastern populations of E. curta than in western populations. Bardicks are viviparous, with three to 14 (x = 7.1) offspring born in late summer. Fecundity is highly correlated with maternal body size. Neonates measure 10 to 15 cm snout-vent length, and grow to 20 cm in their first year of life (based on analysis of body size distributions). Male bardicks mature in their second year, but most females delay maturity (first ovulation) for an additional year. 
10.2307/1564374| Pristidactylus volcanensis, a new species from El Volcn, Cordillera de Los Andes, unlike its congeners previously reported for Chile, is not associated with Notophagus forest. It is distinguished from the other Chilean and Argentinean Pristidactylus by coloration, squamation, measurements, and habitus. Males and females have a primitive karyotype of 12 macrochromosomes and 24 microchromosomes. An hypothetical evolutionary mode of speciation is discussed. 
10.2307/1562696|In the present study, color changes in the scales on different parts of the body, hemorrhage in the upper eye-lid, substantial decrease in heart rate, and overall decrease in longevity, of the common garden lizard, Calotes versicolor, as a function of gamma irradiation are discussed.
10.2307/1563324|Modifications of the jaw mechanism of the lizard, Dracaena guianensis (family Teiidae), for durophagy (feeding upon hard-shelled foods) are described on the basis of comparisons with its close relative Tupinambis. There is an enlargement of sites for jaw muscle attachments and strengthening of palatal architecture for the crushing mode of feeding. The distinctively flared quadrate allows for enlargement of the Add. mand. externus muscle, resulting in improvement of the mechanical advantage of the muscle as well as reinforcement of the jaw articulation. Study of the dentition in relation to size reveals that enlarged and flattened teeth are present even in smaller lizards and are not the result of ontogenetic alteration. The state of the constrictor dorsalis muscles and the intracranial joints indicate that cranial kinetic motions may occur during feeding. These findings indicate the need for re-evaluation of theories of the adaptive significance of cranial kinesis in lizards.
10.2307/1563621|The dependency upon prey type and size of: (1) feeding behavioral components, (2) mean number of feeding behavioral components per feeding session, (3) feeding transition sequences, and (4) feeding complexity was examined. Ten isolated frogs were randomly presented with mealworm larvae (Tenebrio molitor), small liver cubes (1 cm<sup>3</sup>) and large liver chunks (equal to 20% of frog body weight). Five to seven behavioral components were associated with all 3 prey types; however, the hindlimb kick and stuff were elicited only when large liver chunks were presented. Use of the hyobranchial pumping mechanism occurred more frequently with mealworm larvae and small liver cubes. Sequential transitions were ordered, and varied with prey type. Sequence modality also varied with prey type.
4498594|A calcified pseudodontoid in the mandibular symphysis of Leptodactylus troglodytes was described from fresh, macerated, and cleared/double-stained preparations. Histology confirmed that the pseudodontoid was mineralized and composed of fibrocartilage. This structure was found in all specimens of both sexes, suggesting a role in either prey capture or defense rather than in courtship or combat. The structure in L. troglodytes differed morphologically and histologically from the pseudodontoid observed in other Leptodactylus and in other neobatrachian species. Our sampling indicates that the presence and morphology of the pseudodontoid is synapomorphic to a clade recently named Tinctanura. However, a broader sample is still necessary to strengthen this assessment.
4498532| The Leopard Tortoise (Geochelone pardalis) is the largest of the southern African species and has a wide distribution encompassing a variety of habitats. There is a paucity of ecological information about Leopard Tortoises in these habitats. The goal of this study was to determine the population density, biomass, sex and age distributions, and morphometrics of Leopard Tortoises on farmland in the semi-arid NamaKaroo. Because previous studies have found that body size distributions vary between mesic and xeric habitats, we expected that these Leopard Tortoises would show an increased body size compared to those from more mesic areas. In addition, we expected lower densities of Leopard Tortoises compared to more mesic areas. In total, 92 tortoises were caught with a male to female sex ratio of 1:1.3 that was not significantly different from unity. Adult females were significantly larger than males with respect to all morphometric measurements. Leopard Tortoises (excluding juveniles) were larger than those from more mesic areas. A population estimate of 57.6  4.0 tortoises in a 5500 ha area was obtained using a mark-recapture sampling method and radio-telemetry. Density of tortoises was extremely low at 0.017 tortoises ha, with a biomass of 0.002 kg ha. Population density and biomass were lower compared with Leopard Tortoise populations in more mesic areas. This has implications for the understanding of fitness parameters and conservation of this species in semiarid areas. 
10.2307/1565322| Two new species of Hyalinobatrachium are described from eastern Honduras. The first is distinguished from all other Mexican and Central American species of the genus, except for H. chirripoi, by having extensive webbing between fingers II-III and a clear parietal pericardium. This taxon is most easily distinguished from H. chirripoi by having smooth to weakly granular dorsal surfaces, a faintly indicated tympanum, a short loreal region, non-protuberant eyes, and numerous brown flecks on the dorsal surfaces. The second new species is distinguished from all other Mexican and Central American species of the genus by the combination of having a clear parietal pericardium, vestigial webbing between fingers II-III, a faintly indicated tympanum, and by lacking brown flecks on the dorsal surfaces in alcohol preserved specimens. /// Se describe dos especies nuevas de Hyalinobatrachium del este de Honduras. Se distingue la primera de todas las otras especies del gnero de Centroamrica, menos H. chirripoi, por la posesin de membranas extensivas entre los dedos del mano II-III y un pericardio parietal claro. Este taxa es distinguido mas faclmente de H. chirripoi por la posesin de superficies dorsales lisas a dbilmente granular, un tmpano escondido, un regin loreal corta, ojos no abultados y puntos de color pardo numerosos en las superficies dorsales. Se distingue la segunda especie nueva de todas las otras especies del gnero de Centroamrica por la combinacin de poseer un pericardio parietal claro, membranas rudimentarios entre los dedos del mano II-III, un tmpano escondido y por no poseer puntos de color pardo en las superficies dorsales en los especmenes preservados. 
43287358|We describe a new species of Phyllodactylus from a xerophytic forest in the Andes of southern Ecuador. The new species differs from other mainland species of Phyllodactylus from South America by the combination of the following characters: preanal scales similar in size to other ventral scales, well-defined longitudinal rows of tubercles dorsally, a medial longitudinal row of enlarged caudal scales ventrally, tubercles on dorsal surface of tibia present, enlarged postanal scale absent, tubercles on dorsal surface of forearm absent, interorbital scales homogeneous in size, enlarged scales on proximal one-fourth of tail absent, guiar scales granular, and maximum snout-vent length of 55 mm. Even though morphological similarity suggests a close relationship between the new species and Phyllodactylus reissii, phylogenetic analyses of 10 nuclear and mitochondrial genes contradict this hypothesis. We also report the first records of Phyllodactylus kofordi for Ecuador.
25599226|The treefrog Hypsiboas bischoffi is endemic to southern and southeastern Brazil occurring in submontane and montane areas of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest. Here, we focus on geographic variation in morphological traits of H. bischoffi by analyzing the distribution of two distinct color pattern forms (striped and nonstriped) to examine the hypothesis that color pattern is polymorphic within populations throughout its range. We additionally describe variation in several morphometric traits and examine their association with either color pattern or environmental gradients across the range. Our results show that the two color pattern forms are parapatric, with the striped and nonstriped forms occurring in the northern and southern parts of the species range, respectively. The two forms were not observed to co-occur, but nonstriped individuals appeared to present somewhat intermediate color patterns near the putative contact zone between the two forms. Multivariate analysis of morphometric variation showed that variation in body size explains most of the observed variation, but neither body size nor further morphometric variation was associated with color pattern or geographic distance between populations. Body size appeared instead to be associated with local levels of summer precipitation. The geographic differentiation pattern in H. bischoffi is apparently concordant with those observed for a few other codistributed organisms in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest.
10.2307/1565203|We present data on the reproduction of the endangered Hierro giant lizard (Gallotia simonyi machadoi). The general sequence of the reproductive cycle and time intervals of the different phases are described, together with courting and mating behavior patterns. Behavior patterns prior to mating included male head bobs with an inflated throat. In two courtship sequences, males performed seven consecutive head bobs of almost constant duration. Sexual activity, including copulation, began during the first two weeks of May. Clutches were laid from the first week of June until the end of August. Mean clutch size was 8.6 (range 5-13 eggs). Significant relationships were found between clutch size and female snout-to-vent length (SVL), clutch weight (CW) and female SVL, and between CW and female body weight. Mean relative clutch mass was 0.25. Eggs began to hatch in the beginning of August; at 28-29 C the incubation time averaged 61 days. Biometric data of different morphological traits are reported for 146 newborn lizards (3-20 days old).
4092850|A diminutive new species of Uperoleia (male snout-vent length, SVL, 17.3-21.3 mm female, SVL 21.8 mm) is described from 30 km south of Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia. The combination of small size, possession of maxillary and premaxillary teeth, and a completely exposed frontoparietal fontanelle distinguish the species from all other Uperoleia. The variation in number of pulses and duration of the advertisement call distinguish the species from the other sympatric Uperoleia species, Uperoleia inundata and Uperoleia lithomoda, as well as from the other Northern Territory species. The proximity of the type locality to Darwin highlights the current inadequate state of knowledge of the northern Australian frog fauna.
10.2307/1563405|Rate of water loss (RWL), vital limit of water loss, and survival time were studied in three sympatric species of lizards living in the dry southeastern part of the Island of La Martinique, West Indies. The experiments were conducted in dry air (5% relative humidity) at 26-27C using anhydrous calcium chloride as a desiccation material. The iguanid Anolis roquet salinei, the teid Gymnophthalmus pleii, and the gecko Sphaerodactylus vincinti psammius are shown to have RWL of 1.71, 1.79, and 7.65 mg/g/hr respectively and to withstand a loss of weight of 37.8, 28.2, and 23.9% respectively. The results are discussed in terms of adaptation to microenvironment and success of colonization.
25599265|We used radio-telemetry to investigate the seasonal dynamics of wetland use by Spotted Turtles (Clemmys guttata) and Blanding's Turtles (Emydoidea blandingii) in southern Maine. Habitat use was examined in a temporally segregated manner, comparing wetland use among seasonally discrete activity periods. Distinct seasonal movement patterns were detected and logistic regression revealed significant differences in wetland characteristics across seasons for both species. Spotted Turtles exhibited a positive association with wetlands hosting abundant Wood Frog (Lithobates sylvaticus) egg masses in spring, and a negative association with forested wetlands from spring through late summer. Blanding's Turtles were closely associated with forested wetlands in spring, wetlands with abundant Wood Frog egg masses and good sun exposure in early summer, and deep-water wetlands in late summer and fall. The seasonal differences in habitat use found in this study highlight the complex and dynamic landscape required to sustain these rare turtles. Spotted and Blanding's Turtles' diverse habitat requirements require frequent terrestrial movements, exposing them to threats for which mitigation requires understanding spatial and temporal shifts in habitats use.
10.2307/1563612|A complex pattern of color changes is described for Anolis coelestinus involving three basic background colors--gray, green, and brown--and three types of patterns--solid, striped, and mottled. This complex set of changes within one individual cannot be explained given the models and mechanisms for color change described for Anolis carolinensis. In addition, the change from green to brown occurs with the brown being stippled in, suggesting all-or-nothing responses of sets of regularly distributed melanophores. The differential occurrence of the patterns in differing habitat situations indicates camouflage as a primary function in females and juveniles. The frequent use of bright green by male A. coelestinus and the use of a peculiar green/orange pattern by a male A. distichus vinosus emphasize the importance of conspicuous color patterns in male advertisement.
10.2307/1564180| The normal table of development to tail bud is described for the genus Triturus. The rate of development is strongly influenced by temperature. Embryos raised at 25C develop about 6 times faster than those raised at 10C. The morphological stage of embryo arrest which occurs in half of all tadpoles of the two Triturus species, T. cristatus and subspecies, and T. marmoratus, is defined. Embryos raised at 25C arrest 1 or 2 stages later than those raised at temperatures below 15C, but the proportion of embryos that arrest stays the same. Hybrid embryos also exhibit embryo arrest. Embryo arrest is a consequence of homomorphism for the longest chromosome (chromosome 1). Normal development requires heteromorphism for chromosome 1. 
10.2307/1562799|From the point of view of the frog fauna, the great Eastern or Cisandine to Platine Subregion of South America, west of the Andes and north of Bahia Blanca, can be divided into 4 provinces. They correspond roughly to the 4 divisions proposed by Humboldt and by Martius (1840-1849): Hylaea (Naiiades), Continental Province (Oreades and Hamadryades), Platine--Cisplatine Province (Napeae) and Atlantic Province (Dryades). The Northern Hylaea and its known frogs are rather homogenous. The Continental Province can be subdivided into a Chaquean, a Northeastern and a Planaltine Subprovince. The Cisplatine--Platine Province whose southern limits are vague may be divided into Oriental and Mesopotamic Subprovinces. The Atlantic Province stretches along the southeastern and eastern coast. It comprises 4 life-zones: maritime scrub (Restinga), coastal lowlands (Baixada), montane rain-forest and alpine meadows (Hochstaudenwiesen). A fifth disjointed province might be formed by grouping together the different continental orographic systems, such as the Maritime Escarpment of Brazil and the inland parallel sierras, the mountains that separate the Brazilian shield from that of the Guianas, the ranges between Brazil and Venezuela and even the Andes. The Cisandine to Platine frog fauna is only partly generalized. It presents osteological specializations that seem like a reversal of evolution; it also shows caenogenetic innovations that give the impression of frustrated attempts to attain the direct development of the higher classes of vertebrates.
10.2307/1565243| Lygosoma unlineatum de Rooij 1915 is a large New Guinea skink known from five specimens. It was previously associated with taxa now considered to be in the Sphenomorphus group of lygosomine skinks. However, it is a member of the Eugongylus group of lygosomines, best placed in the relatively primitive genus Eugongylus. Within the Eugongylus group, the species has two unique primitive characters: nine premaxillary teeth (versus 11) and pterygoid teeth. The species also has one unique derived character: fusion of the first supralabial and the nasal scale. The two primitive characters make the species especially important in reconstructing the phylogeny of the Eugongylus group. 
1565766|We used night driving to examine large scale habitat associations of four common desert anurans in Big Bend National Park, Texas. We examined association of soil types and vegetation communities with abundance of Couch's Spadefoots (Scaphiopus couchii), Red-spotted Toads (Bufo punctatus), Texas Toads (Bufo speciosus), and Western Green Toads (Bufo debilis). All four species were disproportionately associated with frequently inundated soils that are relatively high in clay content. Bufo punctatus was associated with rocky soil types more frequently than the other three species. Association between all four species and vegetation types was disproportionate in relation to availability. Bufo debilis and Bufo punctatus were associated with creosote and mixed scrub vegetation. Bufo speciosus and Scaphiopus couchii were associated with mesquite scrub vegetation. Bufo debilis, Scaphiopus couchii, and B. speciosus were more tightly associated with specific habitat types, whereas B. punctatus exhibited a broader distribution across the habitat categories. Examining associations between large-scale habitat categories and species abundance is an important first step in understanding factors that influence species distributions and presence-absence across the landscape.
10.2307/1566118|The endemic, dendrobatid frog, Colostethus beebei, lived and bred only in water-filled axils of a giant terrestrial bromeliad, Brocchinia micrantha, at Kaieteur National Park, Guyana, South America. Vocalizations initiate reproduction in frogs, and male C. beebei employed three types: advertisement, territorial encounter, and courtship calls. Males responded aggressively to advertisement calls from strangers played in their territories but vocalized antiphonally in response to calls from neighbors. Male C. beebei spent 40% of their time-activity budget vocalizing. Females preferred advertisement calls delivered at repetition rates above that of the population mean and from larger males. Courtship was prolonged and included close-range vocal, visual, and tactile stimulation between the sexes. Clutches of four pigmented eggs were laid on leaves above the water of bromeliad tanks. After ovipositing, females spent much time on their mates' territories. Both parents provided care--males tended clutches, moistened eggs with fluid squirted from their cloacae during low humidity times of the day, and transported tadpoles. Tadpoles occasionally fed on unfertilized eggs deposited directly in their pool by their mother. Most tadpole nutrition was obtained by grazing on algal mats and by capturing mobile prey in bromeliad pools. Although we observed con- and heterospecific cannibalism among C. beebei tadpoles, cannibalism seemed to be rare. Overall, our observations suggest that C. beebei exhibits long-term pair bonding and facultative nutritive egg provisioning. These behaviors have not yet been reported for other members of the genus Colostethus but seems essential to C. beebei's obligate life on B. micrantha with its food-limited larval microhabitats. Comparisons with other frog species that feed eggs to their progeny suggests that this strategy is an evolutionarily derived trait in C. beebei.
10.2307/1563164|A study of feeding behavior and food habits of the Sonoran mud turtle (Kinosternon sonoriense) was conducted in central Arizona. Turtles were examined from 4 localities. The results showed that Kinosternon sonoriense was basically a carnivorous, opportunistic feeder, with a shift to omnivorous feeding habits in streams with a depauperate benthic fauna.
40665020|We used skeletochronology to estimate the age and growth patterns of a subtropical highelevation Torrent Frog, Amolops tnantzorum, based on 138 adult specimens from western China. The lines of arrested growth in phalanges were distinct, and each line was assumed to represent one year of age. Mean age of adult male frogs was 4.3 yr (SD = 1.3, range 2-7), significantly younger than 5.2 yr (SD = 1.4, range 3-9) in adult females. At the same age, males were significantly shorter in body length than females, and females appeared to require an extra year postmetamorphosis to reach maturation. The von Bertalanffy model described the growth of the frogs well, with males having a growth rate significantly lower than females.
10.2307/1563204|Between 1964 and 1966 minimum spring densities of horned lizards ranged from 1.0-2.5/hectare (ha) in 3 8 ha enclosures in Rock Valley, Nevada. Minimal survival of hatchling horned lizards to the age of 8 months was about 26-38 per cent. Annual minimal survival of older lizards was 50-60 per cent. Female horned lizards usually laid one clutch of eggs per year, but multiple clutches were observed in 1969. Conversely, no reproduction was observed in 1970. The maximum life span of horned lizards is at least 94 months. One of the enclosures was subjected to continuous gamma irradiation from a centrally located source of <sup>137</sup>Cs. Between 1964 and 1966 numbers of horned lizards declined in all 3 plots. Between 1967 and 1970 numbers of horned lizards increased in the two control areas, but continued to decline in the irradiated plot. Female sterility owing to regression of ovaries is judged to be the cause of the population decline. Similar radiation effects have previously been observed among leopard lizards (Crotaphytus wislizenii), whiptail lizards (Cnemidophorus tigris), and side-blotched lizards (Uta stansburiana).
4498556|The relationship between the mean number of maxillary teeth and the mean head length was investigated among 67 species of skinks, each represented by five large adults, and chosen to represent skink diversity. Only 52.4% of the potentially available morphological space defined by the four coordinates representing the ends of the range of these two variables is actually occupied by the datapoints for the species. There is no relationship between the two variables within skinks as a whole or within major lineages. The most primitive species falls close to the center of the cloud of datapoints. The ratio of the mean number of maxillary teeth to the mean head length is significantly greater in the Eugongylus group of eugongyline skinks than it is in the sphenomorphine skinks. Considering the number of teeth on other bones, these differences may be even greater than indicated by the number of teeth on only the maxilla. Because these two groups occur in broad sympatry in the Australian region, the difference between them in the number of teeth may represent major "guild" differences in the kind of food they are eating or the way in which they are processing it. Within most species, however, the number of maxillary teeth increases significantly with head length, and the slope of this regression is significantly correlated with the ratio of the number of maxillary teeth to head length.
10.2307/1564077|New and recently published morphology and life history data on Desmognathus welteri and its two most similar sympatric congeners, D. fuscus and D. monticola are examined. No single morphological characteristic distinguishes all individuals of the three species, but when suites of characters are used (as with discriminant analysis), up to 99% of specimens can be correctly allocated. Tail shape, toe tip morphology, and melanophores on the roof of the mouth offer the best discrimination of adults; size and other characters, including tooth characteristics that are sexually dimorphic, exhibit modal differences. Color pattern is a relatively poor discriminator, but is probably the best available for juveniles. The larval stage of welteri may last nearly 2 years in contrast to the 9-10 months typical for fuscus and monticola. The number of larval spots and toe tip morphology are the best discriminators among larvae, although other characters exhibit useful modal differences. A summary of useful characters and geographic variation of these three superficially similar, sympatric taxa, as well as a brief discussion of the literature on D. welteri, are presented. The evidence overwhelmingly supports the recognition of Desmognathus welteri Barbour, 1950, as a distinct species.
10.2307/1563483| The feeding and activity patterns of the salamander Desmognathus ochrophaeus were studied near the northwestern limit of its geographic range to determine the main factors influencing feeding. Salamanders were less active and ingested less prey when the temperature was low (5-0C), and they remained in subterranean refugia when the minimum daily temperature was below 0C. The specific habitat was an important determinant of feeding activity; slamanders inhabiting seepage banks initiated activity and feeding earlier in the spring and remained active later in the fall than streamside salamanders. Feeding success of salamanders in seepage banks showed no consistent correlation with either temperature or precipitation, but in streamside habitat feeding success was positively correlated with precipitation. For the entire study period diets were qualitatively similar in the two habitats, although there were important time-specific differences. Feeding success was consistently dependent on a moist substrate. Oligochaetes and dipteran larvae were the major prey consumed by salamanders in both habitats, although diets were more variable and diverse in streamside salamanders. The quantity of prey ingested was highly variable and showed greatest variability when conditions for feeding were most favorable. It is suggested that the high variability in feeding under favorable habitat conditions results because the salamanders do not actively forage but eat only nearby prey; large quantities of prey are thus ingested infrequently. The physical habitat is limiting on D. ochrophaeus by prohibiting foraging activity or by restricting prey availability. 
1565879| We studied the helminth fauna of the digestive tract of the lizard, Eurolophosaurus nanuzae, from the Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais State, Brazil and tested for sexual, ontogenetic, and seasonal differences in prevalence (proportion of infected individuals) and intensity of infection (number of parasites per host). We also analyzed the distribution patterns of the helminths along the digestive tract of E. nanuzae. We found the nematodes Physaloptera lutzi, Subulura lacertilia, Parapharyngodon sceleratus, and Strongyluris oscari and the cestode Oochoristica vanzolinii. Males and females differed in prevalence for P. lutzi, S. lacertilian, and O. vanzolinii. None of the helminth species differed in intensity of infection between sexes. Prevalence was significantly higher in adults than in juveniles for P. lutzi and S. lacertila; however, this difference was not observed for P. sceleratus. Only adults were infected by S. oscari and O. vanzolinii. Intensity of infection increased with lizard body size for P. lutzi, S. lacertilian, and S. oscari but not for P. sceleratus and O. vanzolinii. Only P. lutzi differed in prevalence between seasons, with lizards being more parasitized during the wet season. Physaloptera lutzi and S. lacertilia differed in infection intensity between seasons. For both species the mean intensity of infection was higher in the dry season than in the wet season. Physaloptera lutzi used the stomach and the other helminths used the intestines. 
4092914|The Texas Horned Lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) is a species of special conservation concern in Texas and the southwestern United States. This study was designed to compare capture rates of adult female and male Texas Homed Lizards by time and month. Homed lizards were captured by road cruising at Chaparral Wildlife Management Area in southern Texas. We found a female bias in morning capture rates compared with evening capture rates. These sex-specific differences in timing of activity may indicate an important difference in physiological constraints on the sexes. Sex-biased movement patterns must be accounted for in population sampling and plans to conserve this imperiled species.
41415321|Understanding habitat selection is a fundamental goal of ecology and is vitally important for effective species conservation. Dekay's Brownsnake (Storeria dekayi; hereafter "Brownsnake") is one of the most widespread snake species in eastern North America, and its association with cover objects is generally well known, but details regarding choice of refuges are largely unknown. We investigated Dekay's Brownsnake microhabitat use during annual surveys at Point Pelee National Park, Ontario, Canada from 1990 to 2010. We systematically checked all woody debris in stabilized dune habitat for snakes and noted the size and state of decay of woody debris that was used. Nearly all of our observations were of gravid females under woody debris. Greater use of large, moderately decayed woody debris relative to the range of available debris provided strong evidence of selection. Although most snakes observed were solitary, we found a significant number of aggregations. Female Brownsnakes appear to migrate to stabilized dune from other habitats in the park to select suitable woody debris for gestation and parturition. Although these refuge sites would reduce predation risk, they also provide a moister and cooler microclimate than ambient conditions. Numerous observations of shed skins also suggested that this woody debris provides important microhabitat for ecdysis. Analysis of relative abundance over time showed considerable variation in numbers (1-31/yr) and an increasing trend. Our results provide strong evidence of microhabitat selection by this species and highlight the importance of not making generalizations about microhabitat requirements, even for common snake species.
10.2307/1562905|Storeria occipitomaculata were examined from 35 Minnesota localities. Minnesota represents a zone of intergradation between S. o. occipitomaculata and S. o. pahasapae established on the basis of several characters: number of infralabials, oculars, temporals, midbody scale rows, ventrals, caudals, and scales between the chin shields and first ventral; and the presence of nuchal spots and a light spot on the fifth supralabial.
41515024|Almost nothing is known about the biology of the recently described, enigmatic Lao Newt (Laotriton laoensis). Using a combination of field surveys and village interviews, we determined that its geographic range is restricted to a small area in northern Laos. Aquatic adults occur in pools of small, cold, slightly acidic, flowing streams that traverse a variety of vegetation types at elevations above 1,100 m. Mark-recapture estimated that aquatic adults are locally abundant where they occur. Analysis of stomach contents found that the species consumes a wide variety of invertebrates and vertebrates, including large prey, and females eat conspecific eggs. Aquatic courtship takes place during the coldest and driest part of the year, and eggs are laid over a long period between dead leaves that accumulate on the bottom of stream pools. Larvae are aquatic and metamorphose into terrestrial efts. The species is threatened from overharvesting for food, medicine, and especially the international pet trade.
40060479|Surface foraging activity of terrestrial urodeles in northern climates is restricted by unfavorable conditions during extended portions of the year. Thus, salamanders should forage intensively during the short active season in order to reach maturity rapidly and gain sufficient energy to ensure an optimized reproductive frequency. We examined whether the Red-Backed Salamander, Plethodon cinereus, conforms to these predictions at the Mastigouche Reserve (Quebec, Canada) near the northern limits of the species' distribution. During one active season (1997), we monitored surface movements in four subpopulations by a system of drift fences and pitfalls, and we analyzed reproductive traits (testis and follicle sizes) in two of these subpopulations. Age of specimens was determined by skeletochronology. Salamanders captured during the first two weeks of October represented 63.6% of a total of 775 salamanders found in pitfalls in the four study sites for the entire sampling period. None or very few were captured in midsummer although July and August recorded the greatest precipitation; less than 7.8% were from late spring/early summer samplings. Sex ratio of juveniles was skewed toward females. Males reach maturity in 3-5 yr and seem to reproduce annually. Females oviposit for the first time at 4-6 yr but, according to follicular growth rate, necessitate another three years to produce a second clutch. However, longevity in these salamanders is only 8-9 yr. Plethodon cinereus at the study site does not meet our predictions of optimized surface activity and reproductive traits; nevertheless, populations maintained high abundance.
43287384|It is known that crocodilians are able to locate the source of air-borne sound. However, locating the source of water-borne sound is difficult for physical reasons. I tested the ability of American Alligators (Alligator misstssippiensis) to determine the direction toward the source of underwater sound by using their tendency to be attracted to slaps on the water surface. To produce surface slapping sounds with no air-borne component, I slapped the surface of the water inside a submerged diving bell and recorded the direction of alligator movements after the sound. The results show that alligators have a directionally biased response to water-borne sounds, indicating that they are capable of locating the source of a sound signal transmitted through the water. It would be physically difficult for the animal to do so by using the differences in time of sound arrival or in amplitude between left and right sides of the animal's head, so it is likely that alligators use other methods such as a sound pressure gradient system.
40060475|The timing and synchrony of sea turtle emergences from the nests are primary factors in determining hatchling vigor and likelihood of survival. A clear benefit of synchronous emergence is a reduction in energy expenditure through social facilitation, but disadvantages also result from reduction in energy stores if hatchlings have to wait any appreciable time in the nest. We investigated hatchling emergence times throughout emergence of the entire clutch for 21 clutches of Flatback Seaturtles, Natator depressus, incubating in a beach hatchery at three clutch sizes and three nest depths. Emergence of the entire clutch spanned an average of 3.1 days, with shallower nests exhibiting greater emergence asynchrony
10.2307/1563313|Dispersal of hatchling crocodiles was investigated by mark-recapture. The rate of movement of crocodiles less than 6 months old was unaffected by their age or the salinity of the water in which they were living. Movement was not random and patterns of movement differed between the lower and middle reaches of rivers. Most animals in the middle reaches moved less than one kilometre during the first month though a few moved much larger distances. Approximately equal numbers moved upstream as downstream. In downstream sections most animals moved more than one kilometre in the first month and almost all of these move upstream.
43287342|Amphibians are in decline in many parts of the world. Understanding the population dynamics of amphibian species is an important prerequisite for developing effective conservation strategies. We used capture-mark-recapture and skeletochronological techniques to investigate population size, body size, and age structure of metamorphic and pedomorphic forms of Ommatotriton ophryticus between 2006 and 2009 in the northwestern Black Sea region of Turkey. Our findings showed that time-specific survival rate, constant capture probability, no temporary emigration, and time-specific population size were the most appropriate models for this population. According to the best model (Model 6), population size of metamorphic forms of O. ophryticus was estimated as 517 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 338-851) adults in 2006, 338 (95% CI = 282-421) adults in 2008, and 527 (95% CI = 443-646) adults in 2009. Average annual capture probability was estimated at 0.21, although average survival rate across years was 0.35. The mean body size and age structure of the pedomorphs and metamorphs was significantly different for both sexes. Also, body size of both forms of O. ophryticus showed positive significant correlations with age. In addition to this, both forms shared a common allometric slope of the snout-vent lengths vs. age, and older individuals had larger bodies. Moreover, age at first reproduction and longevity exhibited great differences between forms whereas the median age was 4 yr for each newt category, except for metamorphosed males, in which it was 5 yr. These results indicate that pedomorphs in this population show retardation of the somatic development and an earlier maturation.
10.2307/1564831|Black iguanas (Ctenosaura similis) are eaten by humans and other predators throughout Central America. The importance of a human face to the avoidance and fleeing behavior of black iguanas was examined using an approaching person as the stimulus. Iguanas were exposed to an approaching person either with an exposed face or with the face covered with hair. In the latter case the iguanas received the conflicting stimuli of a person both approaching, yet appearing to retreat. Iguanas moved earlier, ran earlier, and ran farther when the approaching person had an exposed face compared to a face hidden by hair. For iguanas exposed to a face there were significant correlations between the escape behaviors; iguanas that moved and ran earlier also ran farther. However, for iguanas exposed to the hair there were no significant correlations among escape behaviors.
10.2307/1564936|We investigated quantitative variations and inheritance of the dorsal color pattern of Uta stansburiana stejnegeri exclusive of the strongly sexually dichromatic spotting pattern. The color pattern was quantified by measuring both the variation in stripe width and the proportion of the body that was striped. Each measurement technique resulted in a single value representing the color pattern of each individual. There was no strong quantitative relationship between variations of the color pattern either of mothers and sons or mothers and daughters. Therefore, heritability, if present, could not be detected. However, the color patterns of mothers and daughters tended to be similar, but the color patterns of mothers and sons differed significantly. This suggests a genetic basis for previously documented adult difference in aspects of the dorsal color pattern not obviously related to social displays.
10.2307/1563780|A new species of skink in the sand-swimming genus Lerista is described from two islands on the western side of the Gulf of Carpentaria, Australia. In lacking forelimbs and in having only a monodactyl or stylar hindlimb the new species is one of the six most reduced-limbed members of the genus. It appears to be most closely related to L. praepedita from far western Australia.
41415324|Florida scrub is a fire-maintained ecosystem with a high concentration of endemic and imperiled species. To assist in the conservation of these taxa, we evaluated how communities and populations of amphibians and reptiles varied with fire history in rosemary (Ceratiola ericoides) scrub. We calculated species richness, evenness, total abundance, and individual species abundance for all amphibians and reptiles captured from May through August 2003 and May 2004 at 12 rosemary scrub sites in Highlands County, Florida, that differed in fire history (time since last fire, TSF). Vegetation structure (bare ground and canopy cover) varied polynomially with TSF, with intermediate TSF sites most open and long-unburned sites least open. Species richness, evenness, and total abundance did not vary with fire history. At the species level, only two species, Plestiodon reynoldsi and Aspidoscelis sexlineata, showed significant relationships with TSF: P. reynoldsi was most common in least open, longest-unburned areas and least common in most open, intermediately burned areas, whereas A. sexlineata was most common in most open and intermediately burned areas and least common in recently and long-unburned areas. The close relationship of abundance to vegetation structure suggests that indirect fire-induced changes may be more important than fire per se. In sum, amphibian and reptile communities did not vary with fire history; however abundances of some species did.
10.2307/1563587| Difference in carapacial and bridge patterns, and in mensural and meristic data indicates that the populations of Platemys platycephala from the ros Cenepa and Santiago, Per and the ros Napa and Curaray, Ecuador represent an undescribed dark subspecies. The Quaternary rainforest refuge theory is discussed in view of the origin and subsequent zoogeography of the new subspecies. 
10.2307/1563201|A Bunyamwera group arbovirus was isolated from the blood of a naturally infected turtle, Trionyx spinifer emoryi, from South Texas. The virus could not be distinguished by neutralization tests from either Cache Valley or Tensaw viruses. The relationship of arboviruses and reptiles is reviewed.
1565851| We studied the ecology of a population of the mountain knob-scaled lizard, Xenosaurus grandis agrenon, from Oaxaca, Mxico. Males and females did not differ in body size (SVL), but males did have larger heads and hind limbs than females. Mean litter size was 3.2. Sex ratio did not differ from 1:1. All lizards were found associated with crevices. The size of the crevice (thickness and depth) increased with lizard SVL. Mean body temperature was 25.6C. Body temperature was related to air and substrate temperature. Body temperature was influenced by the amount of cover, and the lizard's body position in its crevice but not by sex, month, vegetation type, or any crevice characteristics. We compare the ecology of this population to that of other Xenosaurus. /// Estudiamos la ecologa de una poblacin de la lagartija cantil de montaa, Xenosaurus grandis agrenon, en Oaxaca, Mxico. Machos y hembras no difirieron en tamao corporal (LHC), pero los machos tuvieron cabezas y fmures ms grandes que las hembras. El promedio del tamao de camada fue de 3.2. La proporcin de sexos no fue diferente de 1:1. Todas las lagartijas fueron encontradas asociadas a grietas de roca. El tamao de las grietas (grosor y profundidad) incremento junto con la LHC de la lagartija. La temperatura corporal promedio fue 25.6C. La temperatura corporal estuvo relacionada a la temperatura del aire y del sustrato. La temperatura corporal estuvo influenciada por la cantidad de cobertura vegetal, y por la posicin del cuerpo de la lagartija en la grieta, pero no por el sexo, mes, tipo de vegetacin, o cualquier otra caracterstica de la grieta. Comparamos la ecologa de esta poblacin con la de otras lagartijas del gnero Xenosaurus. 
10.2307/1564877|The holotype of Megalophrys weigoldi Vogt, 1924 is described, compared to other species of Scutiger, and referred to the subgenus Scutiger (Aelurolalax).
10.2307/1565453|All species of diurnal leaf-litter anurans in central Amazonia changed the type and size of their prey as they grew. Postmetamorphic individuals of all species ate principally mites and collembolans, and larger frogs ate larger prey of other types. The shift in prey types was not a passive effect of selection for larger prey. There was a strong relationship between electivity for prey types and frog size, independent of electivities for prey size, in six of the seven species. This study showed that most species in the community had strong ontogenetic changes in diet composition and electivity for prey types, and these changes did not conform to simple models of the effects of predator size and diet quality.
1565770|We used mitochondrial DNA sequences to investigate the phylogenetic relationship of Rana subaquavocalis and Rana chiricahuensis. We sequenced 1344 base pairs of the mitochondrial control region from 39 samples of R. subaquavocalis and 53 samples of R. chiricahuensis from localities throughout their Arizona range. In maximum-likelihood analysis, R. subaquavocalis samples were on a short branch within the southern Arizona clade of R. chiricahuensis. We also found two distinct lineages of R. chiricahuensis, one on the Mogollon Rim of central Arizona and one in southern Arizona. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that R. chiricahuensis and R. subaquavocalis are conspecific.
40983596|The Bokermannohyla martinsi species group includes two species, B. martinsi and B. langet. Bokermannohyla martinsi is found mainly in rocky permanent streams, associated with gallery forests in the highlands of the southernmost portion of the Espinhao Mountain Range, Brazil. Its tadpoles have robust, oval/ovoid in lateral and dorsal views, black bodies, and a muscular tail. External morphology, color in life and in preservative, and detailed morphometric data are presented, as well as natural history notes for the species. Diagnostic characteristics that help distinguish B. martinsi tadpoles from other species within the B. circumdata, B. pseudopseudis, B. alvarengai, and B. claresignata groups are as follows: labial tooth row formula, absence of a median gap on the anterior row of marginal papillae, and black coloration of the body and tail. Data on microhabitat use available for five species of Bokermannohyla indicate that their tadpoles have broad niches, being able to exploit many types of microhabitats (e. g., substrate type, depth, current, and vegetation presence or absence) throughout the year within the streams where they occur. Regardless of the available microhabitats in the sampling sites, tadpoles showed high niche overlap, rendering their differentiation based on microhabitat use unlikely.
10.2307/1564744|We examined diet composition of postmetamorphic bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) and green frogs (R. clamitans) co-occurring at two study sites in southwest Michigan to gain insight into the nature of potential interactions between the species. Observations during sample collection indicated that bullfrogs tended to be found in the water and green frogs tended to be on land within a few meters of the water's edge. This habitat difference was reflected in diet composition. The percentage of the diet composed of aquatic prey items was significantly higher for bullfrogs on three of four collection dates. Comparisons of adult and juvenile classes of the two species indicated interspecific diet similarity was negatively related to the body size difference between classes. Juvenile frogs were common in the diet of adult bullfrogs, but were almost never consumed by green frogs. The small size of frogs consumed by adult bullfrogs indicated that juvenile green frogs constituted the great majority of frogs eaten. Our results suggest that, because of differences in habitat and body size, the opportunity for substantial competition between these species is probably small, and is restricted to individuals of similar body size. The potential for predatory interactions, however, may be substantial, and is highly asymmetrical, with the interaction largely restricted to adult bullfrogs preying on juvenile green frogs.
10.2307/1564990|The seasonal sexual cycle of the timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) was studied in the northern part of its range (northeastern New York) to determine when males prepare morphologically for seasonal mating, and to estimate the age of maturity and cost of reproduction in males. Testis and kidney tissues from accidental mortalities obtained over a 14-year period were examined histologically and seminiferous tubular diameters, spermatogenic stage, and sexual segment of the kidney (SSK) diameters were quantified. Males reached sexual maturity in the fourth, fifth, or sixth calendar year of life; mean age of maturity was 5.3 yr (range 4-7 yr, N = 12). Maximum spermatogenesis and seminiferous tubular diameter were reached in July and continued through September. The SSK was hypertrophied throughout the active season. Thus, although mating potentially could begin early in the season, a lack of female reproductive pheromones may account for an absence of spring mating in this population. Crotalus horridus did not begin its annual shedding cycle until June, and females may not become vitellogenic and sexually attractive until mid-July when heterosexual pairs indicated the mating season began. Rattlesnakes were most frequently encountered by humans during the mating season. Sightings and road-killed males significantly outnumbered females (male/female encounter ratio 3.9:1.0) and males had a much higher human-caused mortality than females (male/female mortality ratio 13:1). Among males, mortality was significantly greater during the mating season than during the non-mating season (3.25:1.0). A mating system in pit vipers described previously as "prolonged mate-searching polygyny" is associated with a high cost of reproduction in males caused by their increased movements and exposure to predators during the late-summer mating season.
10.2307/1563486|A morphological study comparing Desmognathus welteri with D. monticola and D. fuscus was conducted. The structure of two characters, toe friction pads and jaw teeth, were assessed. Darkened toe friction pads were found in D. welteri and D. monticola, but were absent in D. fuscus. In contrast, D. welteri and D. fuscus share similar jaw dentitions (blunt-crowned teeth) as opposed to the dentition of D. monticola (piercing, pointed teeth).
10.2307/1566182|Surveys for amphibians along large rivers pose monitoring and sampling problems. We used canoes at night to spotlight and listen for anurans along four stretches of the Rio Grande in Big Bend National Park, Texas, in 1998 and 1999. We explored temporal and spatial variation in amphibian counts and species richness and assessed relationships between amphibian counts and environmental variables, as well as amphibian-habitat associations along the banks of the Rio Grande. We documented seven anuran species, but Rio Grande leopard frogs (Rana berlandieri) accounted for 96% of the visual counts. Chorus surveys along the river detected similar or fewer numbers of species, but orders of magnitude fewer individuals compared to visual surveys. The number of species varied on average by 37% across monthly and nightly surveys. We found similar average coefficients of variation in counts of Rio Grande leopard frogs on monthly and nightly bases (CVs = 42-44%), suggesting that canoe surveys are a fairly precise technique for counts of this species. Numbers of Rio Grande leopard frogs observed were influenced by river gage levels and air and water temperatures, suggesting that surveys should be conducted under certain environmental conditions to maximize counts and maintain consistency. We found significant differences in species richness and bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) counts among the four river stretches. Four rare anuran species were found along certain stretches but not others, which could represent either sampling error or unmeasured environmental or habitat differences among the river stretches. We found a greater association of Rio Grande leopard frogs with mud banks compared to rock or cliff (canyon) areas and with seepwillow and open areas compared to giant reed and other vegetation types. Canoe surveys appear to be a useful survey technique for anurans along the Rio Grande and may work for other large river systems as well.
10.2307/1565113| In the Sierra Nevada of California at high elevation, two species of amphibians, Rana muscosa and Bufo canorus, have dramatically declined in numbers during the past two decades. The surface waters in which these species spawn typically are extremely low in acid-neutralizing capacity, and thus may be vulnerable to changes in water chemistry due to acidic deposition. Such changes have been hypothesized to be a cause of the recent population declines. The present study assesses the sensitivity of embryos and hatchling tadpoles of these species to low pH and an elevated level of dissolved aluminum. Embryos and hatchlings were kept for 7 d in reconstituted soft water (RSW) at pH 4.0 to 6.0 (inorganic monomeric aluminum effectively 0 or 39-80 g/L), and subsequently for a post-treatment period of 4 to 14 d in RSW at pH 6.0 (no aluminum). LC<sub>50</sub> pH values for post-treatment survival of embryos and tadpoles of R. muscosa averaged 4.4 and <4.0, respectively, and 4.7 and 4.3, respectively, for B. canorus. The estimated extreme pH for Sierra Nevada surface waters (5.0) did not cause a significant reduction in survival for either life stage or species. However, sublethal effects at pH 5.0 were evident as reduced body size in R. muscosa embryos at pH 5.0 and 5.25, and earlier hatching of B. canorus embryos at pH 5.0. The concentrations of aluminum used were greater than any recorded levels in the field, although the field concentrations that may occur during snowmelt are currently unknown. Experimental exposure to aluminum did not affect survival of embryos or tadpoles of either species. However, sublethal effects were evident as reduced body size of B. canorus tadpoles and earlier hatching in B. canorus embryos. 
43287302|We studied diet and size-related dietary patterns among American Crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus) in marine habitats of coastal Belize (1996-1997). Prey items recovered from crocodile (N = 97) stomach contents included insects, mollusks, crustaceans, fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Based on an overlapping group analysis of percent occurrence, we concluded that hatchlings and small juveniles feed largely on insects and crustaceans, larger juveniles broaden their diet to include fish and nonfish vertebrates, subadults consume increasing amounts of crustaceans with lesser amounts of insects and nonfish vertebrates, and adults subsist primarily on marine crustaceans. Dietary diversity was uniformly low across all size classes but greatest among small and large juveniles. Conversely, hatchlings, subadults, and adults had the most specialized (least diverse) diet owing to reliance upon a limited selection of prey, largely insects (hatchlings) or crustaceans (subadults and adults). Dietary overlap was greatest between adjacent size classes and lowest between the largest and smallest size classes. The high prevalence of freshly ingested prey among all size classes indicates frequent, regular feeding by C. acutus in coastal habitats, perhaps driven by the relatively small size of frequently consumed prey such as crabs. Because crabs have a blood salt content equivalent to the external medium and comprise a large portion of the diet, these prey likely impose a high osmoregulatory burden on C. acutus inhabiting hyperosmotic coastal environments. Contrary to earlier assertions that salt glands in C. acutus lack the excretory capacity to balance salt and water, we suggest populations in coastal Belize rely on these glands in addition to behavioral strategies to maintain osmotic homeostasis.
10.2307/1563693|Incubation time for Gopherus berlandieri ranged from 88-118 days and hatching success was 60.6%. Hatchlings were about 40 mm in carapace length and width and weighed approximately 21 g. Eggs hatched from 27 August to 5 November and the hatchlings grew until about the first of November. Growth ceased during winter, but resumed in March and continued throughout spring and summer. The most rapid increase was in weight followed in order by carapace length, plastron length, carapace width and shell height. Comparisons suggest that incubation time, hatching success and size at hatching are similar among Gopherus species.
1566156|We studied microhabitat use and selection by Northern Cricket Frogs (Acris crepitans) along a stream in west-central Missouri. Field observations of microhabitat use indicate that cricket frogs preferentially use moist (muddy) substrates with some proximity to shelter items (e.g., rocks) and the water. Laboratory choice experiments support the importance of substrate moisture and shelter presence. Temperature may also play a role in site selection independent of substrate selection.
10.2307/1563105|Thamnophis sirtalis concinnus (Hallowell) and Thamnophis ordinoides (Baird and Girard) were studied primarily in the Willamette Valley. T. s. concinnus is most often found in wet lowlands and is uncommon in habitats lacking water. T. ordinoides is a secretive, terrestrial species usually inhabiting areas of dense vegetation in the lowlands and foothills. Male concinnus frequently emerge to bask on mild winter days, but ordinoides are rarely seen during the winter. The breeding season of concinnus begins in mid-February, reaches a peak in mid-March, and ends in early April; that of ordinoides probably begins upon emergence in mid-March and ends in April. Some fall mating probably occurs in both species, but it is less common than spring mating. Most females of both species ovulate in May and bear their young by mid-August. New records for maximum size have been established for both species: T. s. concinnus female, total length 1130 mm, snout-vent length 890 mm (old record, total length 914 mm); T. ordinoides female (live measurements), total length 850 mm, snout-vent length 695 mm (old record, total length 745 mm). Data on minumum adult size and newborn size are also presented. Newborn males of both species tend to be longer than females and to have proportionately longer tails. Ontogenetic changes in these characteristics occur. Both species show positive maternal size-newborn size and maternal size-litter size correlations. The sex ratio in newborn young of both species is biased in favor of males. Some specimens of both species were cursorily examined for internal and external parasites. Metacercarial cysts, lung flukes, and tapeworms were found in concinnus. No parasites were found in ordinoides. Neither species harbored ectoparasites.
10.2307/1565458|We studied the occurrence of exposure to Upper Respiratory Tract Disease (URTD) in gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) at protected sites in southern Mississippi (Marion County Wildlife Management Area [MCWMA]) and east-central Florida (Kennedy Space Center [KSC]). Based on antibody assays, exposure to URTD was very common in both populations, with combined positive and suspect results ranging from 60% (KSC) to 100% (MCWMA). At KSC, males were significantly more likely to show positive or suspect results than were females. Tortoises with active signs of URTD were seen at KSC but not at MCWMA. Our data do not support the hypothesis that exposure to URTD is associated with human disturbance or habitat destruction; several sites that had good habitat conditions and little disturbance by humans had high rates of URTD, whereas some sites with high levels of disturbance had low rates of URTD. Long-term monitoring of populations with positive antibody test results is needed.
40060490|Apart from certain species of the African clade, the lizard family Lacertidae has generally been described as consisting of active foragers. We made quantitative field observations of 14 species of lacertid lizards, mainly belonging to the more basal Eurasian clade. Our data show that sit-and-wait foraging is much more widespread in Lacertidae than previously alleged. We also investigated the influence of weather and times of day on foraging activity levels and conclude that for comparative purposes observations should be restricted to circumstances that are optimal for activity. We did not find sex differences in foraging behavior.
4498579|Increasing evidence shows that alkaloids in the skins of poisonous frogs are sequestered from a specialized diet of ants. It is considered likely that in the small aposematic bufonid genus Melanophryniscus, skin alkaloids are taken up via a similar system. However, quantitative aspects of the diet in this genus remain poorly studied. As a result, studies that correlate diet and skin alkaloids in these toads are precluded by the lack of extensive information on the diet of most species and populations within the genus. We describe diet composition of Melanophryniscus rubriventris with a particular focus on geographic variation over much of its range distribution in northwestern Argentina and compare the diet of this species with that of other members of the genus. The diet of M. rubriventris was composed of 17 arthropod prey categories. The species consumed primarily small, gregarious prey such as ants, mites, aphids, burrowing bugs, and beetles. Diet composition of the populations studied was similar in the number of prey categories, but we found noticeable interpopulation variation in the proportion of each prey item consumed. Earlier works had reported that ants, collembolans, and mites were prominent in the diet of other Melanophryniscus. Our study indicates that, although ants are common prey, they are not the main prey category in all populations.
40060454|We present a new, plaster model for measuring operative environmental temperature (
10.2307/1564359|A recent collection of amphibian and reptile fossils from the Gilliland local fauna (early Pleistocene: Irvingtonian: Burnett Quarry site) of the Seymour Formation of Knox County, Texas, contains two frogs, two turtles, one lizard, and at least seven snakes. Ten taxa (2 frogs, 1 lizard, 7 snakes) are herein reported as new to the herpetofauna of the Gilliland local fauna. With the exception of Geochelone and Eumeces cf. E. fasciatus, all the fossils represent extant forms that live in north-central Texas today. An ilium referred to Bufo w. woodhousii is distinctly thicker than those of Recent specimens suggesting that this subspecies of toad was more robust and moderately larger in Irvingtonian time than it is today. The presence of Geochelone indicates warmer winter conditions, and Eumeces cf. E. fasciatus implies moister habitat.
10.2307/1563131|A summary is presented of classification of extant snakes down to the tribe level, based primarily upon and extrapolated from McDowell's higher-category taxa, but incorporating other recent innovations as well. Dates and authorities are provided for each taxon in all categories. The system incorporates 2 infraorders of Serpentes, one with 3 families, the other with 6 superfamilies and 12 families. Six of the latter families contain subfamilies, with 2 each in 5 and 28 in the other, for a total of 38 subfamilies. Among the proteroglyphs, 17 tribes are recognized in the 2 families and 4 subfamilies, and in the solenoglyphs 4 tribes are listed for the 2 subfamilies of one family.
10.2307/1564471|The first case of cyclopia in a snake is described. Despite the grossly changed morphology, most bony elements in the skull, and the head scales, can be identified, and there is a correlation between scalation and bone position. Malformation is not restricted to elements of common ontogenetic origin but is mainly positional. Alcian blue did not stain the cartilage; the tissue could be abnormal. The ventral union of the eyes most probably started in a very early ontogenetic stage, where it hindered forward growth of the trabeculae cranii, which in turn led to fusion in the nasal region.
10.2307/1564880| Three topographically isolated populations of whistling frogs were discovered on the island of St. Barthlmy in the French Antilles. These are the first amphibians recorded on this island, and a morphometric and electrophoretic investigation shows that all three populations are members of the highly variable species Eleutherodactylus martinicensis (Tschudi). The data suggest further that the frogs on St. Barthlmy are most similar to populations on Guadeloupe, a geographically distant but commercially close island. This discovery, in combination with historical evidence and recent records of sudden whistling frog activity in other commercially linked locations, suggests that trade-mediated human introductions may have been the single most important factor in creating the present distribution of Eleutherodactylus in the Lesser Antilles. In the particular case of St. Barthlmy, introduction has most likely occurred via material transports to construction sites near each of the three localities. 
10.2307/1563063|This paper examines the ultrastructure of the visual cells of two Colubrid snakes, Coluber constrictor and Hypsiglena torquata. The visual cells of the two snakes are remarkably similar morphologically. The similarity in visual cells and in over-all retinal morphology is viewed as support for Walls' theory of transmutation. A new significance for the presence of double visual cells is suggested.
25599180|Bolitoglossa nicefori is a terrestrial salamander only known from its original description. We report the discovery of two populations of this species; analyze annual reproductive activity, diet, and microhabitat use of one population; and compare this information with that known for other species of Bolitoglossa. Sexually mature males ranged between 29 and 50 mm standard length and females between 39 and 75 mm. Histological analyses of testes and ducts revealed the presence of sperm through the year, indicating continuous reproductive activity for males. Adult females were captured year-round; however, reproductive females were observed only during the driest months of the year (November to February), indicating that females have a seasonal reproductive activity. The contents of 89 stomachs were analyzed, and perch height, type of vegetation, and substrate type were registered. The diet of this population consists of 13 items, with ants and coleopterans accounting for 87% of food ingested by the different age and sex classes. Ants represent 58% of the diet, reflecting their greater availability in this microhabitat. Intra- and intersexual differences in diet were not found. Bolitoglossa nicefori exhibited both terrestrial and arboreal behaviors related to temperature and humidity conditions during the daily cycle. Mature nonreproductive females, males, and juveniles were found perching from 0-60 cm above the ground on Araceae bushes that predominate in the study area, whereas reproductive females were always found within the leaf litter. Life-history features of B. nicefori are determined by environmental conditions; however, they follow common trends shared with other species of Bolitoglossa.
10.2307/1562885| Vipers, that had not hibernated for several years reproduced either in large terraria (15 and 8.5 m2), or in 505050 cm cages each containing 3 females and 2 males. Sexual behavior in the male continues throughout the year. Matings in January, February and March were fertile, while the two observed in August 1968 and October 1967 were not. The period between mating and birth (insemination plus gestation) was 88.4 days as compared with 5 months under natural conditions. The female lost on the average 1/3 rd of her pregnancy weight on giving birth to her young. The average number of young per birth was 5.4 (51.8% female, 48.2% male). Average measurements of males at birth were 21.6 cm and 7.1 g; of females, 20.5 cm and 6.7 g. The reproductive cycle of the female was reduced from one year under natural conditions to 9-10 months. Growth of the young in captivity was very accelerated: length and weight of a one-year captive corresponding to a 4-year-old found in nature. The sexual maturity of the snake was also precocious: one female gave birth for the first time at 3 years and living spermatozoa were found in the cloacal liquid of 9-month and 1-year males. 
4092856|It is commonly thought that predators use olfactory cues to find turtle nests and that these cues are diminished by rainfall. We studied the relationship between rainfall on the date of oviposition and depredation of nests of the Painted Turtle, Chrysemys picta, on a major nesting beach between 1996 and 2003. We analyzed two scenarios: rainfall versus no rainfall on the date of oviposition; and no rainfall versus intense or weak rainfall on the date of oviposition. For the first scenario, we found no consistent association between rainfall and nest depredation before hatching. In 1996, rainfall on the date of oviposition appeared to increase the chance of nest depredation; in 2000, it appeared to decrease the chance of nest depredation; and there was no statistically significant relationship in the remaining years or overall. In the second analysis, the relative amount of rain was associated with nest depredation before hatching. Nests constructed on days with a larger amount of rain were less likely to be depredated than nests constructed on days with no rain or smaller amounts of rain. Nests constructed on days with smaller amounts of rain were more likely to be depredated than nests constructed on days with no rain.
4498568|The Foothill Yellow-Legged Frog (Rana boylii) is a threatened river-dwelling amphibian endemic to California and Oregon. Determining the genetic structure of populations that have not yet declined is an important tool for their conservation. In this study, molecular markers were used to asses the genetic structure of R. boylii. The ND2 region of the mitochondrial genome and Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were examined amongst 51 individuals collected from seven relatively pristine tributaries branching off the Eel River in Northern California. Both markers exhibited significant genetic differentiation among tributaries; however, the RAPD markers revealed a positive correlation between geographic distance and genetic distance. Cluster analysis illustrated a distinct separation between northern and southern tributaries within the study site. In contrast, relatively little geographic structure was apparent when mtDNA haplotypes were examined. Discordance may be caused by the number of loci examined in the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes, recent divergence, and sex-biased dispersal.
1566102|Establishing the ancestral area of a taxon is a central theme of historical biogeography. We used the cladistic method of ancestral area analysis devised in 1992 by K. Bremer to determine the ancestral area of rattlesnakes (genera Crotalus and Sistrurus). We then extended this approach to determine the vegetation type of the ancestral area. The most probable ancestral area of rattlesnakes is the Madrean Occidental. The most probable vegetation of the ancestral area was pine-oak forest. Knowledge of the ancestral area and its vegetation was applied to macroevolutionary hypotheses regarding the evolution of the rattlesnake rattle.
43287367|A common belief in the southeastern United States is that Cottonmouths (Agkistrodon piscivoras) bask frequently in tree branches over the water's edge and are therefore of considerable hazard for anglers and boaters. Although this notion is almost certainly based upon observations of nonvenomous watersnakes (Nerodia spp.), there are no quantitative data that specifically address this belief. I analyzed a 7-yr dataset on Cottonmouths from two populations (Georgia and Alabama) to determine the frequency of this behavior by Cottonmouths. I recorded behavioral and substrate information for 804 separate observations on Cottonmouths. Only two of these Cottonmouths were exhibiting arboreal behavior (0.25% of observations)snakes observed over the ground or water surface on branches narrower than their own bodiesconfirming that this is indeed a very rare tendency in this species and not likely to be observed by the public. Instead, I frequently encountered Cottonmouths on the ground along the water's edge in their characteristic ambush posture, uncoiled in aquatic situations, or coiled on elevated platforms (e.g., hummocks, piles of driftwood, logs, beaver lodges). This demonstrates that Cottonmouths have the capacity to climb but are not likely to be observed in arboreal situations.
40060477|Proctoporus consists of six high-elevation lizard species distributed in the cloud forest and puna habitats of Peru and Bolivia. Proctoporus ecology is poorly understood despite a recent increase in phylogenetic research on the clade. To examine differences in diets among species, stomach contents of Proctoporus from 24 sites in central and southern Peru were analyzed, including individuals of all six species. Feeding niches were compared among the species, and differences caused by species, sex, age class, and body size were examined. Proctoporus ate prey items that were large in relation to lizard body size. Collectively, Proctoporus species had broad diets with 10 different arthropod orders represented. Beetles, ants, and spiders made up the largest proportions of diets. Diet overlap was high among species but did not appear to be directly connected to species relatedness. Sex and age class were not important determinants of diet. Despite the small body size and reclusive nature of Proctoporus lizards, they possess the ability to subdue and consume heterogeneous prey species. /// Proctoporus incluye seis especies de lagartijas que viven en sitios altos en los biotopos de bosque nuboso y puna en el Per y Bolivia. La ecologa de Proctoporus se desconoce a pesar de que hubo un aumento reciente en las investigaciones filogenticas en este clado. Para examinar las diferencias en las dietas entre las especies, se analiz el contenido estomacal de Proctoporus de 24 lugares en el centro y sur del Per, incluyendo individuos de todas las especies. Los nichos de alimentacin fueron comparados entre las especies y se evaluaron las diferencias de acuerdo a especie, sexo, edad y tamao. Proctoporus consumi prensas grandes al relacionarlas con el tamao del cuerpo. Colectivamente, las especies de Proctoporus tienen dietas amplias con 10 rdenes de artrpodos representados. Escarabajos, hormigas y araas tuvieron las proporciones ms altas de la dieta. El traslape de dietas fue alta entre especies pero no fue relacionada directamente con relacin de especies. Sexo y edad no fueron indicadores importantes de la dieta. A pesar de los cuerpos pequeos y los caracteres recluidos de Proctoporus, poseen la habilidad de capturar y consumir especies de presas hetergenas.
10.2307/1564676|A review of 94 cases of snakebite by the brown tree snake, Boiga irregularis, in Guam spanning a two year period shows a high proportion (80%) involve victims bitten while sleeping in their homes at night. Some bites apparently involve attempts to feed on small children. Of all children less than 1 yr old that were bitten in a two year period, infants 1-3 mo old comprised 82%. The symptoms exhibited by children are more severe than those experienced by adults. The snake is a rear-fanged (i.e., has enlarged and grooved teeth on the posterior maxillae) colubrid with a moderately large Duvernoy's gland.
10.2307/1563829|The courtship behavior of Crotalus atrox, always initiated by males, follows a triphasic schema: tactile-chase, tactile-alignment, and intromission and coitus. The third phase is longer than in other snakes (20-28 h). Female lateral tail-whipping and the slower tail-waving are apparently not indicative of her receptivity, although the latter is correlated with an increased male tongue-flick rate. Cloacal gaping by females apparently indicates female receptivity and occurs prior to successful intromission. Combat behavior between males is similar to other viperids. The vertical display is punctuated by periodic topping movements until a dominant individual is established. Evidence is presented that indicates subordinate males are refractory to courtship while dominant males actively court females following combat. In one instance a female assumed a vertical stance similar to that of a combatting male.
25599221|The introduced Cane Toad Rhinella marina has recently expanded its range into the monsoonal north of Australia near Darwin, Northern Territory. Aggregated toads were collected toward the end of the prolonged dry season from an isolated and localized occurrence of moist soil, where they were observed in typical water absorbing postures. Water potential of the moist soil (-31 kPa) was sufficient that toads could extract liquid water via the ventral pelvic patch, but surrounding dry soils with water potentials lower than -8,000 kPa could not be used as moisture sources. High mean plasma (358.5 mOsm kg) and urine (353 mOsm kg) osmolality values are indicative of dehydration, and high urea concentrations in plasma (109 mmol L) and in urine (237 mmol L) demonstrate accumulation and retention of waste nitrogen. All parameters differed markedly from those of fully hydrated toads in the laboratory and from active animals collected in the wet season. The urine osmolality of wet season individuals (mean  SD: 118.9  76.4 mOsm kg) was intermediate compared to the laboratory hydrated animals and the dry season sample, but plasma osmolality and urea concentrations were similar to fully hydrated toads. Differences in body fluid osmolality reflect the availability of soil and surface moisture in the environment in the wet and dry seasons. The need to access residual moisture sources during the late dry season is likely to limit Cane Toad movement and resulted in the aggregation of toads at the rehydration site. This enforced aggregation potentially facilitates effective control of toads at a local scale.
10.2307/1565670|Many techniques are used in the study of amphibian breeding populations despite lack of knowledge of their inherent biases. I examined trapping and marking techniques for Rana temporaria and Bufo bufo. Panjet dye marking and PIT (passive integrated transponder) tags had negligible effects on survival and body condition, while persisting up to two years. Pitfall trapping was a reliable technique with <1% of individuals escaping from experimental traps; however inaccuracies were found when pitfall traps were used in association with partial barriers. The proportions of species and sexes trapped varied between partial barriers within a site.
1566224|Mating period and gametogenesis of a temperate population of Gekko japonicus were investigated by gross dissection and histology. The mating period of this gecko extended throughout the active season, as inferred from the year-round presence of sperm in the epididymis, consistent with reports of copulation. Because oogenesis occurred from April through July, the oogenetic pattern followed an associated reproductive cycle typical of temperate areas. However, although males exhibited an associated reproductive cycle, spermiogenesis continued throughout the active season, similar to that of constant reproductive cycles observed in the tropical lizards.
10.2307/1563293|Breathing was associated with an elevated heart rate and apnea with lower rates, the pattern and level of change varying with activity and breathing frequency. Inactive snakes breathing infrequently achieved a low, stable heart rate, called the "apneic heart rate", which is distinct from diving bradycardia. Breathing tachycardia occurred in anticipation of the actual initiation of ventilation. Activity caused an elevation in heart rate during apnea. Resting heart rates were similar to those of other diving reptiles but somewhat lower than those of non-diving species, although comparisons were tentative because of the different methodologies used by different investigators. In the evening, breathing tachycardia was reduced; consequently heart rate differences between breathing and apnea were smaller than during the day. The physiological adaptations of marine snakes to their environment seem to consist of quantitative rather than qualitative departures from the basic reptilian mode.
10.2307/1564473|The drinking behavior of nine captive Phrynocephalus helioscopus was observed. When wetted, animals assumed a stereotyped posture in which the head was depressed to within several mm of the substrate, the limbs splayed, and the hindquarters and tail elevated. Drinking involved repeated, slight tongue protrusion, but without lapping from the substrate. This behavior was elicited in no other context. Simple experiments showed that the interscalar channels transport water across the skin to the mouth by capillary action. This mechanism is compared with that reported for another agamid, Moloch horridus. We hypothesize that the drinking posture 1) facilitates drinking rain water and/or 2) facilitates drinking water condensed on the skin and moved to the mouth by capillary action. We conclude that derived features of water collection and transport shared by Phrynocephalus and Moloch are convergent.
10.2307/1565125|New material of Phrynocephalus laungwalaensis is described in detail. This species shares many apomorphies with the other species assigned to Phrynocephalus but it lacks several characteristics of that genus: scleral ossicle number is not reduced to eleven or ten; an external ear opening is present; and the tail is not habitually raised and curled. Phrynocephalus laungwalaensis also differs from other Phrynocephalus in possessing a distinctive, very short tail. Because these differences would make the otherwise quite uniform genus Phrynocephalus heterogeneous, Phrynocephalus laungwalaensis is removed from it and given separate generic status. The recognition of this primitive sister taxon of Phrynocephalus provides evidence of how the external ear opening was lost in that genus and suggests its primitive habitat was soft sand.
25599252|In this work, we studied chromosome morphology, Ag-NOR, and C-banding patterns in the Neotropical leiuperid frogs that compose the Physalaemus henselii species group: Physalaemus fernandezae, Physalaemus henselii, and Physalaemus riograndensis. The chromosome diploid complement in all species was 2n = 22 and consisted of seven large to medium and four small chromosome pairs. Chromosome fundamental number (FN) varied, because pair 11 was metacentric in P. henselii and P. riograndensis (FN = 44) but telocentric in P. fernandezae (FN = 42). Each species presented a single pair of Ag-NORs, which are located in the secondary constriction of pair 11 in the case of P. fernandezae, in pair 8 in P. riograndensis (as in many other Physalaemus species), and in pair 5 in P. henselii, which is a unique character state among leiuperids. There were no substantial interspecific differences in C-banding pattern, and the heterochromatic bands were mainly located in the centromeric regions of all chromosomes. Noncentromeric C-bands adjacent to NORs were detected in P. riograndensis and P. fernandezae, as already reported for other species of this genus. The karyotype of P. fernandezae was quite similar to that of species in the P. signifer group and of the leiuperid Eupemphix nattereri. Neither karyotypic data nor adult and larval morphology support the P. henselii species group as currently defined.
10.2307/1563620|Aspects of courtship and copulation, egg-laying and parturition, with data on the neonates are presented for eleven boid species: Candoia bibroni, C. carinata, Corallus a. annulatus, C. canina, Epicrates angulifer, E. cenchria, E. g. gracilis, E. f. fordii, Python boeleni, P. spilotus and P. timoriensis. The functional use of spurs during courtship was observed in Candoia bibroni, Corallus canina and Python boeleni. Geometric growth rates were calculated for C. a. annulatus, C. canina, E. angulifer and P. timoriensis.
10.2307/1565387|In 1937 Percy Viosca described Necturus alabamensis as a flattened form from the southwestern extremity of the Cumberland [=Appalachian] Plateau. Necturus beyeri was described as a more cylindrical-bodied form occurring over a wide area of the lower Gulf Coastal Plain, but sympatric with N. alabamensis in the Black Warrior River near Tuscaloosa, Alabama. Subsequent workers considered N. alabamensis to be allied to or synonymous with N. beyeri, ultimately applying the name alabamensis to populations throughout the Mobile Bay drainage, and to lowland populations from southern Mississippi and eastern Louisiana to southern Georgia and panhandle Florida. We present pigmentation, morphometric, and distributional evidence that: (a) the distinctive waterdog in the upper Black Warrior River drainage is in fact the form Viosca described as Necturus alabamensis; therefore, the epithet alabamensis applies to that form; and (b) N. alabamensis and the lowland form Viosca referred to as N. beyeri are in fact syntopic on the Appalachian Plateau just above the Fall Line near Tuscaloosa. The juvenile pigmentation pattern of the upper Black Warrior waterdog (unknown to Viosca) is described and related to the distinctive adult pigmentation pattern. Past taxonomic and nomenclatural treatments of eastern Gulf Slope Necturus are summarized, and recommendations are offered for revising the taxonomy and nomenclature of these populations/species based on available evidence.
43287327|We describe a new species of Stenocercus from the Andes of Ecuador that previously was erroneously assigned to S. guentheri due to its general phenotypic similarity with this species. Based on phylogenetic analyses of mitochondrial DNA sequence data, we show that the new species is not nested within S. guentheri but is actually sister to S. festae. The new species can be distinguished from other Stenocercus by the combination of the following characters: imbricate scales on posterior surface of thighs, smooth ventrale, a posthumeral mite pocket consisting of a shallow depression with a wide opening (more distinct in adult specimens), small scales on occipitoparietal region, supraoculars of similar size, 62-83 scales around midbody, and no black midventral stripe or black transverse band on the ventral surface of neck in adult males. Describimos una especie nueva de Stenocercus de los Andes de Ecuador, que debido a similitud morfolgica estaba errneamente asignada a S. guentheri. En base a anlisis filogenticos de datos de secuencias de ADN mitocondrial, demostramos que la especie nueva no est anidada dentro de S. guentheri y es la especie hermana de S. festae. La especie nueva se puede diferenciar de otras especies de Stenocercus por la combinacin de los siguientes caracteres morfolgicos: escamas imbricadas en la superficie posterior de los muslos, ventrales lisas, bolsillo posthumeral poco profundo con una abertura ancha (ms marcado en adultos), regin occipitoparietal con escamas pequeas, supraoculares de tamao homogneo, 62-83 escamas alrededor del cuerpo, franja medio ventral negra o banda transversal negra en el cuello ausentes.
10.2307/1563206|No evidence was found on the basis of ability to increase heart rate upon stimulation to support the idea of a thermal preferendum for Plethodon cinereus near 15 C. Light had no predictable effect on heart rate.
4498595|Histological examination of long bones from wild American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) reveals weakly defined growth zones and extensive fibrolamellar bone formation in both healthy and stressed adult individuals. The discovery of this tissue in wild adults of variable health status challenges three current assumptions concerning fibrolamellar bone in crocodylians: first, that it can only be formed in juveniles; second, that it occurs only in captive animals; and third, that it occurs only in individuals experiencing optimal physiological conditions. This highlights the need for further detailed study of bone microstructural diversity among modern crocodylians. Moreover, these results have potentially far-reaching implications for studies of fossil archosaurs, which often draw on extant crocodylian models, and for the phylogenetic significance of fibrolamellar bone within Archosauria as a whole.
10.2307/1563737| In central Kentucky, adults of Ambystoma texanum become active on the ground surface in early October. Migrations to breeding streams begin in late October and continue through March. Breeding begins in late December or early January, peaks in mid-March, and ends in mid-April. Breeding occurs more or less independently of rainfall and temperature conditions. Males tend to appear on the ground surface and in breeding streams before females. The sex ratio of migrating and breeding adults was 2.2 and 1.5, respectively. The number of mature ova in gravid females was positively correlated with SVL and averaged 262  61. Egg masses averaged 122  97 eggs and were most numerous in shallow, rocky pools. 
1565825| We conducted a quantitative analysis of adult and juvenile Eleutherodactylus coqui (coqu) habitat preferences in Puerto Rico. The analysis consisted of two surveys: one to quantify potential habitat and another to quantify habitat use. Coqus were found to use most habitats available to them; however, adults and juveniles preferred different plant species, habitat structural components, and heights from the forest floor. Adult and juvenile conqus had opposite associations with many important plant species in the forest (e.g., Prestoea montana and Heliconia carabea) and habitat structural components. Adults had a negative association with leaves and a positive association with leaf litter. Juveniles showed the opposite trend. Adults were more evenly distributed with respect to height than were juveniles, with adults preferring heights around 1.1 m and juveniles preferring heights closer to the forest floor. The quantitative survey technique for determining habitat preferences used in this study generally confirmed coqu habitat preferences known from qualitative assessments. 
10.2307/1565090|The green anole (Anolis carolinensis) occurs throughout the southeastern United States and its distribution defines the northern limit of the range of this genus of neotropical lizards. The variation in female, egg, and hatchling sizes is quantified for eight populations of the green anole that range from south Florida to the mountains of east Tennessee. Six populations are composed of the typical red-throated (dewlap) morph of this species, one of the gray-throated morph, and one population is representative of a variant of the red-throated morph. Among populations of the red-throated morph, female, egg, and hatchling sizes all increased significantly with increasing latitude. Additionally, females in the north had disproportionately larger eggs and offspring than did females to the south. We propose that increased selection pressure for large hatchling body size associated with decreasing winter temperatures (i.e., increasing latitude) results in the observed latitudinal diversification in the sizes of green anole eggs, juveniles, and adults. Whereas egg size was largely independent of female body size in southern populations, there was a significant positive relationship between egg and female sizes in northern populations. The relationships between egg width and pelvic aperture width, relative to female body size, were examined for lizards from three populations that varied in the degree to which egg size was related to female body size. The size of the pelvic girdle aperture appeared to constrain the egg size of northern females to a greater extent than it did in southern females. Taken together, these data suggest that egg size may be optimized by natural selection in southern populations, but not in northern populations. Optimization of egg size may not be possible for lizards in northern populations due to this apparent morphological constraint on egg size, which is consistent with predictions of the pelvic constraint model. The environmental, physiological, and morphological factors that may combine to limit the continued northward range expansion of this successful colonizer are discussed.
10.2307/1563359|Confrontations were staged in the laboratory between attending (brooding) female salamanders and known or suspected predators. Females successfully defended their eggs against conspecific predators of various age and sex classes, and against ground beetles, but were not as successful against large heterospecific salamanders and ringneck snakes. A qualitative summary of these encounters is presented.
40664954|Phosphate pollution is a widespread problem resulting from agricultural runoff and urban wastewater. Phosphates are known to cause eutrophication and algal blooms, but little is known about phosphate toxicity, particularly among amphibians. To investigate possible phosphate toxicity, Hyla chrysoscelis tadpoles were exposed to concentrations ranging from 0-200 mg/L PO-P for 15 days. Phosphate was found to have no effect on the survival, growth, or developmental stability of the tadpoles, indicating that phosphate may not be toxic to this species at levels associated with anthropogenic inputs. Phosphate was found to increase the pH of the test water, which, in conjunction with other Stressors, may have negative effects within aquatic communities. However, phosphate could also affect anuran tadpoles positively by increasing algal food resources. Because phosphate is a ubiquitous pollutant, further testing using more complex experimental designs is warranted.
40060545|Our main objective was to establish the population size, density, body size, and sex ratio of a local Emys orbicularis population. We examined the population structure of E. orbicularis in Lake Yayla, Buldan (Denizli), Turkey, using capture-recapture methods. The population consisted of 54% males, 42% females, and 4% juveniles. The adult sex ratio was significantly skewed in favor of males. Using the Jolly program, the population size was estimated at 1,462 (95% CI = 1,161-1,763), corresponding to a density of 81 turtles per hectare of optimal habitat. Females were larger than males. In carapace length, the Lake Yayla population resembles other small-sized populations inhabiting the southern parts of the species' range. The conservation status of the Turkish populations and their main threats are also discussed.
4092976|The Mink Frog, Rana septentrionalis, is closely related and behaviorally similar to the Green Frog, Rana clamitans, and the Bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana, but has a much smaller geographical range and is not as well known. We used mark-recapture and observation techniques to estimate male chorus attendance and site fidelity during the breeding season. We captured, measured, and individually marked 139 males in 2002 and 85 males in 2003. Each male's initial and subsequent positions were recorded using a Global Positioning System. About half the males were never recaptured in either year. Most of the remaining males were recaptured only four times; two males were recaptured more than 10 times. Males were recaptured from subsequent positions as far apart as 90 m and as close as 0.6 m. Males recaptured on consecutive observation nights were in positions less than 15 m apart on average. Although aggressive calling, chasing, and fighting occur when males encounter each other, there is no evidence that male Mink Frogs defend territories over prolonged periods as in Green Frogs and Bullfrogs.
10.2307/1563220| The important classification of snakes by Underwood provides sources of nominal snake taxa, but overlooks several original usages and in some cases does not fully conform in form of citation with the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature. With the invaluable assistance of Kuhn's catalog, this commentary attempts to rectify the nomenclature of certain snake taxa of the higher categories (family-group), in accordance with the Code and original sources as now known. Names discussed are: Acrochordidae Bonaparte, 1831; Aniliidae Stejneger, 1907 (1826); Anomalepididae Taylor, 1939; Boiginae Stejneger, 1907 (1896); Bolyeriinae Hoffstetter, 1946; Calamariinae Bonaparte, 1838; Dasypeltinae Cope, 1886 (1858); Dipsadidae Bonaparte, 1838; Erycini Bonaparte, 1831; Hydrophiinae Boie, 1827; Leptotyphlopidae Stejneger, 1891 (1890); Loxoceminae Cope, 1861; Natricidae Bonaparte, 1838; Pareinae Romer, 1956; Sibynophiinae Dunn, 1928; Tropidophiini Brongersma, 1951 (1894); Typhlopidae Merrem, 1820; Uropeltidae Mller, 1831; and Xenodermatinae Gray, 1849. 
41415297|We examined the systematics of two frequently confused Albertine Rift endemic treefrogs, Leptopelis karissimbensis and Leptopelis ktvuensis. One mitochondrial (16S) and one nuclear (BDNF) gene were sequenced to demonstrate genetic differences between the two species. Although we did not find morphometric differences between the two taxa, several characters can be used to diagnose each species, including coloration (adult male throat), ventral pigmentation, presence/absence of a slight heel spur in large individuals, and male advertisement calls. The geographic distribution of each species is revised based on our new locality records and reconsideration of historical records from the literature. We recommend that L. karissimbensis be downgraded in conservation status to near threatened, because it does not meet the IUCN restricted geographic distribution criteria of an endangered species.
10.2307/1563998|A total of 37,654 leatherback turtle visits were recorded over a period of 10 yrs (1967-1976) on the east coast of peninsular Malaysia. The mean number of visits/yr was 3765 (range 1962-6721), made by 1924 individual turtles (1067-3103), with a mean number of visits/turtle/yr of 1.96 (overall general mean). The mean number of visits/yr made by a turtle tagged in any one yr was 2.89 (overall tagged mean). The number of visits declined somewhat during the last 4 yrs of the program. The turtles visited mostly between May and September, with a peak of 626 individuals and 1278 visits (34% of the mean annual total) recorded in July. The visit (nesting) frequency/mo/turtle increased from April (1.84 visits per month) to June (2.20) and tapered off in September (1.24). The breeding population was estimated to be 15,525 females, the yearly survival rate 0.89, and the proportion of return of tagged turtles 0.31. About 2039 newly matured females were calculated to join the breeding population every year, 65% of which (=1328 individuals) would return to this beach. Maximum use was recorded in the middle part of the nesting beach, and the highest number of nests/km was 886, recorded in 1972. 33.4% of the total tagged turtles (12,997) visited the beach only once (when they were tagged). Those that returned 2, 3, and 4 times constituted 19.9%, 15.6%, and 11.0% of all turtles that returned at least once in subsequent years. The maximum number of visits made by a turtle during the ten yrs was 14, recorded for 6 turtles. The number of visits was found to differ significantly among years, among months, and among sectors of the beach (P < 0.001).
10.2307/1565576|Life-history data were collected for the tropical salamanders Bolitoglossa rufescens and B. mexicana at a site in Veracruz, Mexico. Individuals of both species consumed a wide range of prey taxa, but ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) comprised a large proportion of the diets of both species. Niche breadth for B. rufescens was significantly narrower than B. mexicana, due, in part, to a stronger representation of ants in the diet (importance values for ants: B. rufescens = 0.480, B. mexicana = 0.343). We hypothesize that this difference in dietary breadth is due to differences in body size and, possibly, microhabitat; B. rufescens is smaller and strictly arboreal while the larger B. mexicana occupies both terrestrial and arboreal habitats. Diets also differed in size of prey; the larger species consumed significantly larger ant prey. Although there was substantial dietary overlap in terms of the taxa of prey consumed, niche separation based on size of prey may be important for these two species. Due to relatively low numbers of B. mexicana in the sample, reproductive data were collected only for B. rufescens. Developing follicles were visible in all female B. rufescens, but only six out of the 16 females had enlarged ova (minimum SVL of a female with enlarged ova = 24 mm). Because only two of the remaining females were smaller than 24 mm, we infer that most of the "nongravid" females were sexually mature. Two out of 19 males in the sample were immature. Size sexual dimorphism is minimal for this species. The largest five individuals that were captured were females, but, overall, males and females were not significantly different in size.
1565833|Although several investigators have discussed different herpetofaunal sampling methodologies and their effectiveness, few have quantitatively examined which methods are superior for inventorying reptiles and amphibians in rain forest habitats. I examined two years of data from Tambopata, southeastern Peru, to compare and contrast visual encounter survey (VES) and quadrat methodologies and to determine which method yields the highest number of individuals and species per sampling effort. Four separate questions were posed concerning the number of captures for short-term surveys, long-term surveys, arboreal versus terrestrial amphibian surveys, and particular taxonomic group surveys. Over most of the analyses, more individuals and species of amphibians and reptiles were captured using VES than quadrats. In addition, more unique species were recorded with VES. However, particular microhabitats and taxonomic groups were better sampled with quadrats. In long-term surveys, the methods were equivalent with respect to number of individuals and species captured. This study provides quantitative data on the efficacy of the two methods and describes, for the first time, the particular instances in which the different methods are best suited for sampling rain forest herpetofauna.
10.2307/1563666|The pattern of alligator nest location is measured for four consecutive years across a set of quadrats on Orange Lake (Alachua County) Florida. The nests are clumped, and this clumping is evident even given controls for habitat heterogeneity.
4093009|Appropriate and relevant measures of body size are essential to understand scaling relationships or to compare morphometric data from specimens or taxa of different sizes. Traditionally, body mass and snout-vent length have been used as measures of body size in lizards. Here, we report on the relevance of an alternative measure of size, skeletal mass, which is highly correlated with traditional body size measures and may have more practical value when using skeletal measurements based on museum collections.
4092880|Tail autotomy serves as an aid to escape predators in many lizards, but potential costs include loss of fat stores, impaired locomotion, loss of social status, and reduced growth and reproductive output. Two potential costs of tail loss were examined in juvenile skinks, Eumeces fasciatus, through manipulation in a laboratory study. Changes in growth and sprint speed were compared among full autotomy, partial autotomy, and control groups of lizards after these treatments at three weeks of age and up to four weeks later. Full tail autotomy was associated with increased growth in mass during the two weeks posttreatment and increased growth of the tail between two and four weeks posttreatment. No other measures of growth were affected by partial or full tail loss. Immediately following treatments, fully autotomized lizards became significantly slower, with respect to maximum sprint speed, relative to both other groups. However, this effect was gone by four weeks after tail loss.
23326897|The structure, sizes, and shapes of amphibians and reptiles almost defy imagination; their morphology has long been investigated. However, attitudes about the nature of the contribution of morphology to herpetology and to science in general have changed as research has become more specialized and as new tools, techniques, and theories have been developed. Now, as integration of specialties is of interest to answer complex questions in biology, the contribution of morphology is being clarified. I explore the practice of herpetological morphology over time, with emphasis on research on caecilians, highlighting many of the changes and advances that have occurred. From its beginnings in ancient Greece to current investigations in such areas as systematics, "evo-devo," and biomechanics, morphology has been highly relevant to understanding biology, and the discipline continues to make major contributions.
10.2307/1565291|Predicting the effects of habitat fragmentation on the demographic characteristics and habitat use of a species is critical for managing that species in fragmented habitat. In contrast to other geckos, Gehyra variegata exhibits a high level of occupancy in remnant habitat in the Western Australian wheatbelt. In this study, I compare the population characteristics of G. variegata in 12 smooth-barked Eucalyptus woodland remnants with those in similar woodland communities in three nature reserves. Population sizes in the remnants ranged from 11 to 545 and were highly correlated with remnant size while sex ratios and age structure were reasonably consistent among remnant and nature reserve populations. These data suggest that populations are most affected by habitat or characteristics associated with habitat such as food and shelter availability and are inconsistent with stochastic effects associated with small population size. Habitat use varied markedly between remnant and nature reserve populations, with the lizards largely confined to logs or eucalypts in habitat remnants but using shrubs in the nature reserves with high frequency. This indicates that habitat change has caused G. variegata to alter its habitat usage and emphasizes the value of being able to occupy a wide variety of habitats. Comparison of the demographic characteristics of G. variegata populations with those of other species of geckos suggest that the generalist habitat requirements, stable population structure, and long life expectancy in adulthood (all typical of G. variegata) are important contributors to its ability to persist in remnant habitat.
4092845|We studied a population of Florida Box Turtles, Terrapene carolina bauri, from September 2002 to December 2003, in the Florida Keys at the southernmost limit of its range. Population structure was estimated to be 7.5% juvenile, 58.75% female, and 33.75% male, resulting in a female biased sex ratio (1 male:1.74 females). Population size was estimated at 39.9-114.4 turtles/6 ha in a pine rockland forest, with an estimated density of 4.8-10.2 turtles/ha. Males had significantly longer carapace and plastron lengths than did females. Comparison of data with other populations of T. c. bauri revealed similar morphological characteristics among populations although this southern population had higher mean body mass than did populations in the central parts of its range.
4498558|Intraspecific variation in turtle life-history traits has been well documented for many turtle species; however, comparative studies of such traits for the Western Pond Turtle (Actinemys marmorata) are lacking. Here we compare three years of morphometric data on A. marmorata from three study sites in northern California. Our study sites represent various habitat types where A. marmorata can be found and include foothill creeks (BCCR), valley sloughs (SR), and human-made canals (HS). We used maximum carapace length (MCL) as a measure of overall body size and found that A. marmorata differed in body size among sites. For all sites combined, males were significantly larger in mean MCL than females. Among the three sites, both mean male and female body sizes were significantly different (HS > SR > BCCR). Within sites, males were larger than females at SR and HS, but no difference was found between males and females at BCCR. Controlling for body size (MCL), A. marmorata in the foothill creek habitat were flatter and narrower than those in both the valley slough and human-made canal habitats. The observed variation in body size among sites could possibly be caused by differences in prey availability, water temperature, or microhabitat characteristics. Although we have no hard evidence to explain our observed size differences in A. marmorata, we suggest that phenotypic plasticity is responsible for determining maximum size at maturity. Additionally, it is unclear at this time whether fusiform, or compressed shell shape, in A. marmorata offers any adaptive significance in lotic environments.
10.2307/1562903|Based on the geographical distribution and karyotypes, in particular on satellite localization and number in the various species of Odontophrynus, a hypothetical phylogeny for this genus of anurans is suggested. Tetraploid O. americanus could have originated by autopolyploidy from the diploid O. americanus. These populations are already isolated to such an extent that both may be considered different species.
10.2307/1563325|A sample of 25 Varanus bengalensis was maintained in captivity and regularly observed for 27 months, showing that adult males and females differ significantly in feeding, basking, and nonsexual aspects of social behavior. Males tend to feed more often and longer, consuming more flesh, leading to higher growth rates. They also seem to adjust to changing conditions more rapidly, are less shy, and perhaps more genuinely curious than females of the same species.
40665015|Little is known about many aspects of the ecology of the Desert Nightsnake (Hypsiglena chlorophaea). I studied the ecology of H. chlorophaea from 121 specimens collected May to October 2004 and 2005 in central Washington State. In this region, males ranged in size from 184-382 mm SVL (283.7  5.8 mm,   49), whereas females were 158-532 mm SVL (335.5  69.4 mm, N= 58). Body mass of males was 2.6-22.1 g (10.2  5.04 mm) and females 2.3-53.9 g (15.1  9.49 mm). In Washington, H. chlorophaea feeds on a wide variety of prey such as scincid and anguid lizards, thamnophiine snakes, anurans, and the eggs of other squamate reptiles. In addition, I report the first mammalian prey item taken by H. chlorophaea. The reproductive ecology differs little from other parts of the range of H. chlorophaea. Males (N = 22) with enlarged testes were found from mid-May through late August. Females (N = 17) with enlarged follicles and ova were found from May through June, with recent hatchlings collected during mid-August. Based upon these data, in Washington, H. chlorophaea has a more varied diet compared to southern populations but shows a similar preference for lizards. With regard to reproductive patterns, Washington populations of H. chlorophaea differ very little from other populations.
10.2307/1563526| The effects of progressive hypoxia and rocking activity on blood gases and pH were measured for Cryptobranchus alleganiensis. Measurements were taken at 100%, 75%, 50%, 25% and 0% water O<sub>2</sub> content while temperature was held constant at 12C. The data show animals that are rocking maintain constant blood O<sub>2</sub> tensions until water O<sub>2</sub> content drops below the 25% saturation level. Abolishing rocking activity results in a loss of ability to maintain constant blood O<sub>2</sub> tensions as water O<sub>2</sub> content drops below the 75% saturation level. The frequency of rocking activity increases as the water O<sub>2</sub> content drops below the 75% saturation level. 
23326905|We conducted experimental feeding trials with larval and juvenile Bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeianus) and Rough-skinned Newts (Taricha granulosa) to assess the accuracy of the scaled mass index (SMI). A control group was fed and a treatment group was starved within a randomized block design. After each of three trials, amphibian tissues were analyzed for lipid, protein, and water content. Mean pretreatment wet weight and SMI of individuals of each species and body form, representing two populations of equal body condition, were similar between control and treatment groups. Starved animals, representing a population in poor condition, had a 1732% lower SMI than fed animals. Scaled fat and protein or lean mass were strongly correlated (r = 0.850.99) with SMI compared with percentages of fat, protein, or lean mass (r = 0.08 0.60). The SMI accurately reflected amphibian energy stores, but the depletion of energy stores differed by species and body form, with tadpoles retaining fat and the other species and body forms depleting fat stores. In addition, factors that we controlled in the laboratory (e.g., hydration, gut fill, reproductive state) may alter mass-length relationships in the field, so we advise collecting some specimens for body composition analyses to ensure the accuracy of the SMI when used in other applications.
10.2307/1565166|Between 5 January 1990 and 27 August 1992, a total of 482 Sternotherus minor were marked at Rainbow Run, Marion Co., Florida. Sex-specific and size-specific growth rates (plastron and carapace length) of S. minor were determined using data from a mark-release-recapture study. Growth rates decreased with increasing carapace and plastron lengths, with no significant differences in specific growth rates between males and females. Ages of all marked turtles were estimated using a von Bertalanffy growth equation calculated from the recapture data on carapace lengths. Age estimates for S. minor were then used to determine the age distribution of the population at Rainbow Run. Young S. minor of five years or less comprised over 65% of the population while it also appears that some of these turtles reach ages of 21 or more years.
43287312|Animals in high prdation environments tend to react to predators more quickly and effectively compared to animals in low prdation environments. Because antipredator behavior can be increased by predator introductions and decreased by predator losses, we examined whether populations occurring outside of a predator's range are associated with behavioral changes. Genetic evidence indicates that Side-blotched Lizards (Uta stansburiana) radiated into the northern portions of their range relatively recently and rapidly. As such, Uta populations exist in the presence or absence of various predators. We studied four populations of Uta in Oregon and Nevada to test for behavioral differences among populations that co-occur with different predators. We measured several behavioral traits thought to be associated with predator exposure and used predation-pressure estimates for each population to show that movement and display behavior vary among sites but tend to be negatively affected by prdation environment However, an important determinant of these relationships is the estimate of prdation pressure itself. These results suggest that conspicuous behavior in lizards is reduced in the face of increased prdation pressure but that variation among populations may obscure this pattern.
10.2307/1563294|Sibon neilli sp. nov. is described from the outskirts of Belize City, Belize (formerly British Honduras). It differs from all of its congeners except S. sanniola in having a high number of supralabials and exclusion of the loreal from the orbit by two preoculars. S. neilli differs from S. sanniola in number of ventrals, number of caudals and color pattern.
1565884|Using starch gel electrophoresis, we examined proteins specified by 41 presumptive loci representing two breeding populations of Rana subaquavocalis, a recently described species of leopard frog from Arizona. Individual and population levels of heterozygosity were low. Mean number of alleles detected (1.2) and mean levels of individual heterozygosity were higher at the Barchas Ranch location (0.042) compared with those from Ramsey Canyon (0.029). Nine loci among the 41 surveyed were polymorphic. Four of these were common to both populations. Each population was polymorphic for the remaining three loci, and each possessed one unique allele. Both populations went extinct by 1996.
10.2307/1565483|A new species of frog of the genus Megaelosia is described. The new form closely resembles Megaelosia massarti and is distinguished from it by coloration pattern and number of chromosomes. Natural history notes, tadpole description, and a discussion on the conservation status of the new species are provided.
10.2307/1565142| The lizard Elgaria multicarinata exhibits extremely variable body temperatures during activity (eurythermy). I used operant conditioning to investigate whether this lack of thermoregulatory precision could be attributed to some aspect of the underlying thermoregulatory mechanism. Estimates of upper and lower set point temperatures (USP and LSP, respectively) were obtained by allowing lizards to control the activation of an overhead heat lamp for thermoregulation in an otherwise cool environment. The influence of shelter availability on thermoregulatory behavior was examined by observing lizards with and without a shelter available under the heat lamp. When a shelter was available for the lizard to hide in under the lamp while heating, USP was estimated to be 33.1 (0.46 SE) C, and LSP 26.0 (0.62) C, for a difference of 7.1 C. When no such shelter was available, USP was 31.1 (0.75) C and LSP 25.0 (0.55) C, for a difference of 6.1 C. The average standard deviation for each set point within individuals was 1.75 for USP and 2.33 for LSP with a shelter available, and 1.31 for USP and 3.15 for LSP when the shelter was not available. These values indicate minor effects of varying levels of exposure while basking, most notably slight declines in set points. The most important finding of the study was that the thermoregulatory set points for E. multicarinata are similar to those estimated for lizards having much narrower ranges of field body temperatures (stenotherms). My findings did not support the hypothesis that the variance in field body temperatures observed for E. multicarinata is largely attributable to an imprecise thermoregulatory mechanism, either due to a large difference between USP and LSP, variation between individuals in the value of either set point, or the poor definition of the set points at the individual level. Instead, the eurythermy observed for this species must be due to responses to one or more proximate environmental conditions. 
10.2307/1563826|A major drought in South Carolina provided opportunity to observe certain reproductive and emigration responses of freshwater turtle populations that have been studied for 15 years. Five species responded differentially to the drying of a major aquatic habitat. Pseudemys scripta and P. floridana emigrated in greater numbers, and fewer females laid eggs than in any previous year. Sternotherus odoratus and Deirochelys reticularia did not reproduce at the level of previous years but did not abandon the aquatic habitat. Reproduction and emigration of Kinosternon subrubrum were not appreciably different from other years. The differing responses of the species are discussed in terms of the ecological and evolutionary differences between them.
10.2307/1562812|Bradycardia occurs during death-feigning in Heterodon platyrhinos. Its onset is abrupt and is closely associated with body inversion. Recovery is gradual, and heart rate has usually risen to between 40 and 60 beats/minute before righting occurs. At room temperature (23-26 C) all but 3 of 26 death-feigning specimens had minimum instantaneous rates between 3 and 15 beats/minute. During the immediate prelude to death-feigning, bradycardia and other physiological events constitute a virtual "parasympathetic syndrome". An apparent correlation between death-feigning and toad-eating in a number of snakes suggests that resistance to toad toxins may somehow be associated with death-feigning. It is speculated that Heterodon (and perhaps other toad-eating death-feigners) may compensate for ingested sympathomimetic toxins by reducing the corresponding endogenous component of a system comprising relatively high but balanced levels of sympathetic and parasympathetic activity. Non-adaptive triggering of the compensatory mechanism by transient extra endogenous catecholamines during fright or excitement might lead to wide-spread parasympathetic effects. If suppression of catecholamine-secreting CNS centers were included in the compensatory mechanism, the neurohumoral imbalance resulting from false triggering might account for body inversion and death-feigning per se.
41415253|Bokermannohyla is one of the five genera included in the recently recognized tribe Cophomantini, of the hylid frog subfamily Hylinae. Although karyotypic diversity is relatively well known in two genera of Cophomantini, Aplastodiscus and Hypsiboas, in Bokermannohyla chromosome data are restricted to only two of its 28 species. In this paper, we describe the karyotypes of 12 species of Bokermannohyla using standard staining, Ag-NOR, C-banding, DAPI, CMA, and BrdU incorporation. The 12 species share a similar diploid karyotype with 2n = 24 biarmed chromosomes; most observed differences involved the NOR-bearing chromosomes (and the NOR position within these chromosomes) and C-banding patterns. The overall similarity of these karyotypes with those of Aplastodiscus and Hypsiboas widens the notion of remarkable morphological homogeneity among Cophomantini karyotypes. The results obtained thus far are promising for comparative studies on the genus Bokermannohyla and, in a wider sense, will allow a better understanding of karyotype differentiation and chromosomal evolution in Cophomantini.
43287310|The Western Lesser Siren, Siren intermedia nettingi, is a fully aquatic, paedomorphic salamander. The foraging ecology of S. i. nettingi is poorly understood in part because of its nocturnal, benthic nature. We examined sensory mediation of S. i. nettingi foraging behavior focusing on how chemical and visual stimuli may be used to find prey. Specifically, sirens were observed in a test chamber that gave them the option of associating with a control stimulus or either a visual or a chemical prey stimulus. Our paired Mests indicate a significant difference between the treatment and control groups for chemical stimuli but not for visual stimuli, and this is confirmed by our one-sample t-tests that indicated a significant difference from 50% for chemical but not for visual stimuli. These results suggest that Western Lesser Sirens use chemical cues over visual cues when foraging. Our results are logical considering that sirens have noticeably reduced eyes and are thought to be nocturnal foragers. This study contributes to the limited natural history knowledge of an amphibian species that is often a top predator in the aquatic systems in which it is found.
10.2307/1564483|Between 5 September and 7 November 1985, 21 samples were made for hellbenders in a 100 m section of the Niangua River, Missouri. Fifty-one adult males and 59 adult females were marked. Mean number of recaptures per individual was 3.0 for males and 4.8 for females. Heterogeneity of capture was strongly indicated, probably due to the tendency of some individuals to occupy the same cover consistently. This resulted in an average minimum estimate by the Jolly-Seber method of 25 males and 27 females on the 2600 m<sup>2</sup> site. Both immigration and emigration were observed. Five to 11% of hellbenders on the site during a three-day interval may have been transients. Mean net movement upstream or downstream of 21 males and 42 females was not significantly different from 0 m/day.
10.2307/1565540|We investigated the effects of slightly differing substrate water potentials (-60 versus -100 kPa) experienced by incubating red-eared slider eggs (Trachemys scripta elegans) on yolk use and carcass mass changes of overwintering hatchlings. Hydric conditions experienced by the incubating eggs had no significant effect on yolk use or carcass mass changes in the overwintered hatchlings. The neonates' wet residual yolk mass decreased by an average of 0.67 g during overwintering, whereas wet carcass mass increased by an average of 0.06 g over this same time. These changes were mirrored by similar alterations in dry residual yolk mass and dry carcass mass. Clutch, independent of initial egg mass, explained a significant amount of the variation in change in both carcass mass and residual yolk mass. A substantial portion of the residual yolk is apparently converted into turtle tissue during overwintering, which accounts for the majority of the change in carcass mass during this time.
1565777|We examined cytogenetic features and reproductive capacity in newly arisen tetraploid amphibians. Autotetraploids were produced by suppressing second polar body formation in haploid eggs of diploid females of Rana nigromaculata inseminated with diploid sperm of autotetraploid R. nigromaculata. Allotetraploids were also produced by suppressing second polar body formation in haploid eggs of diploid females of Rana porosa brevipoda inseminated with diploid sperm of autotetraploid R. nigromaculata. In male R. nigromaculata autotetraploid offspring, mostly quadri- and bivalents were found in Metaphase I, and 26 dyads were seen in Metaphase II. Autotetraploid males were then mated with autotetraploid females, and most of the resultant offspring were tetraploids possessing four chromosome sets of diploid R. nigromaculata. Male allotetraploid offspring showed 26 bivalents in Metaphase I and 26 dyads in Metaphase II. A large number of the offspring resulting from crosses between allotetraploid males and females were tetraploids having chromosome sets of diploid R. nigromaculata and diploid R. p. brevipoda. These results seem to indicate that, if such tetraploids develop a distinguishing premating mechanism, they should continue as a sexual fertile species in one generation and coexist with their diploid parental species.
10.2307/1565928|We describe the diet of Crotalus lepidus klauberi (Banded Rock Rattlesnake) using samples collected in the field and from museum specimens, as well as several records from unpublished reports. Most records (approximately 91%) were from the northern Sierra Madrean Archipelago. Diet consisted of 55.4% lizards, 28.3% scolopendromorph centipedes, 13.8% mammals, 1.9% birds, and 0.6% snakes. Sceloporus spp. comprised 92.4% of lizards. Extrapolation suggests that Sceloporus jarrovii represents 82.3% of lizard records. Diet was independent of geographic distribution (mountain range), sex, source of sample (stomach vs. intestine/feces), and age class. However, predator snout-vent length differed significantly among prey types; snakes that ate birds were longest, followed in turn by those that ate mammals, lizards, and centipedes. Collection date also differed significantly among prey classes; the mean date for centipede records was later than the mean date for squamate, bird, or mammal records. We found no difference in the elevation of collection sites among prey classes.
10.2307/1565663|The scalaris species group of the lizard genus Sceloporus is the only such group within the genus that includes both oviparous and viviparous species. We obtained approximately 860 base pairs of mtDNA sequence data for each of nine individual lizards in this group. A phylogenetic analysis of the data set using parsimony revealed support for the close relationship of S. chaneyi with S. scalaris, the monophyly of an S. aeneus + S. bicanthalis clade, and the monophyly of S. bicanthalis. Combined mtDNA, allozyme, and morphological data supported the monophyly of S. aeneus. The number of origins of viviparity within the aeneus + bicanthalis clade could not be resolved with confidence, though the distribution of this trait in S. bicanthalis suggests that it may be highly labile in this species. The utility of the scalaris group as a model system for study of the evolution of viviparity in squamates is discussed.
10.2307/1564100| Cnemidophorus sonorae was studied in southeastern Arizona during the summer of 1978. Daily activity was bimodal, with cessation of aboveground activity during the hottest part of the day. Hatchlings exhibited extended seasonal activity, being quite common after the adults had entered brumation in mid August. Frequency of broken tails of 193 C. sonorae was 20 percent. Snout-vent length at maturity ranged from 61 to 68 mm. The reproductive season lasted from mid May until late July, and the lizards were capable of producing 2 to 3 clutches. Average clutch size was 3.7  0.16 eggs, and showed a positive correlation to snout-vent length. Relative clutch mass was about .16, less than that reported for many lizards but consistent with that expected from actively foraging predatory lizards. 
10.2307/1564536|Follicle and embryo development in the cottonmouth Agkistrodon piscivorus were studied in adult females collected from a cypress swamp along the Savannah River in Aiken County, South Carolina. Non-polar lipids were extracted from follicles, eggs, embryos, and neonates. Egg dry mass averaged 4.70 g and was composed of 23.6% non-polar lipids. Neonate dry mass averaged 3.35 g and was composed of 18.8% non-polar lipids. The rate of decrease in the dry mass of egg components remained fairly constant in the early stages of development and then accelerated during the last third of embryo development, a period that corresponds with the most rapid phase of embryo growth. An average of 57% of the original egg non-polar lipids remained in neonates as parental investment in care (PIC). At a temperature of 30 C, stored lipids would fuel a neonate's standard metabolic rate for approximately 22 days.
10.2307/1563474|A new species of Rana (Paa) from the Hazara Division, northern Pakistan, is described. The relationships of this species within the subgenus Paa are discussed, and the occurrence of two other species of this subgenus in Pakistan is outlined.
10.2307/1565412| A new Proceratophrys from Rondnia, Brazil, is described based on adults and tadpoles. The new form represents a species with eyelids bordered by large, irregularly arranged, warts; postocular swellings absent; snout obtuse with flaring lip in profile; tympanum defined as a depression in the skin; and dorsal surfaces of body and leg bearing high elevated warts. The new species extends the known distribution of the genus to the northwest and represents the first described species of Proceratophrys from the Amazon rain forest. We discuss the species group arrangement in Proceratophrys based on morphology, geographic distribution, and habitat. /// Um novo Proceratophrys  descrito de Rondnia, Brasil, com base em adultos e girinos. A nova forma representa uma espcie com as plpebras bordeadas por verrugas irregularmente arranjadas, entumecimento ps-ocular ausente, focinho obtuso com borda projetada em perfil, tmpano definido como uma depresso na pele e superficies dorsais do corpo e pernas com verrugas altas. A nova espcie estende a distribuio conhecida do gnero para o noroeste e representa a primeira espcie de Proceratophrys da floresta pluvial amaznica. Discutimos o arranjo em grupos de espcies de Proceratophrys com base em morfologia, distribuio geogrfica e habitat. 
10.2307/1563876|The first herpetological information on the Sierra de Famatina massif (6250 m), La Rioja Province, Argentina, includes two new species of Phymaturus and Liolaemus living at altitudes from 3600 to 4200 m. Taxonomic and ecological relationships between these isolated tropidurine iguanids and nearby related species from the Cordilleran highlands are discussed. A montane species-group comprising Liolaemus ruibali, L. duellmani and L. famatinae sp. nov. is suggested by morphological affinities.
10.2307/1564829|Movement of food through digestive tracts of red-spotted newts from southern Ohio was studied to better understand seasonal changes in energy processing. To determine minimum food passage time through the gastrointestinal tract, blood-worms marked with carbon black were consecutively intubated five times to one group of newts at 25 C and twice to a second group at 5 C. Minimum food passage time at 25 C averaged 33 h, with no significant differences among the five feedings. The newts tested at 5 C required an average of 220 h for the passage of food, with significant differences between the two feedings: 157 h for the first and 284 h for the second. Other newts, intubated with worms labeled with iron powder, were X-rayed at periodic intervals to investigate passage of food through the digestive tract. Full stomachs were completely evacuated in 2 d at 25 C, with a half evacuation time of 20 h, but only after 15 d or more at 5 C, with a half evacuation time of 55 h. Maximal amounts of food in the intestines were attained by 20 h at 25 C, but were achieved only after 3 d at 5 C. Evacuation of labeled food from the intestines was completed in about 40 h at 25 C, whereas most of the food was still in the intestines after 15 d at 5 C. It appears that newts are able to process food in all seasons; however, passage time is greatly influenced by temperature.
10.2307/1563563|Communal nesting was observed in 12% of 109 nests in Michigan. Solitary brooding was the most common form of brooding in areas characterized by an abundance of nesting substrates, and all of the nests were within islets surrounded by and located above water (i.e. insular). Gravid females migrated to the nesting bogs over a period of time up to 44 days, and nest disturbance by the researcher affected nest desertion. Nest site availability is discussed as a possible factor influencing communal nesting.
41515013|Basic ecological information is lacking for most caecilian amphibian populations, especially those of the Neotropical region where only few and nonquantitative ecological data were obtained for a small number of species. The Neotropical genus Caecilia is the most diverse of Gymnophiona with 33 species, for which natural history information is restricted to the description of clutch size for just one species. We provide natural history data based on 61 specimens of Caecilia gracilis found in a riparian forest in Cerrado biome in northeastern Brazil. No sexual dimorphism was found in morphometric and meristic data analyzed, probably because of functional constraints related to subterranean life. No specimens were found in the dry season, but in the wet season they were found at soil depth ranging from 5 to 31.5 cm, suggesting that seasonal vertical migration in C. gracilis occurs. In terms of both frequency and number, earthworms were the most important prey items encountered, thus suggesting a specialized diet in C. gracilis. We found Trematoda and Nematoda parasites in low numbers and at low prevalence.
10.2307/1565051| A large species of Rhamphophryne having a very long snout is named from extreme western Departamento Antioquia, Colombia. This species appears to be most closely related to R. acrolopha. Another large species, having extensive webbing of the feet, is named on the basis of a single specimen presumably originating from southern Antioquia. It is most closely related to R. rostrata and differs from all other Rhamphophryne in having a fully developed ear. /// Se describe una nueva especies de gran tamao del gnero Rhamphophryne de Departamento Antioquia occidental, Colombia. La especie nueva tiene una nariz muy larga y parece tener parentescos con R. acrolopha. Se describe otra especie de gran tamao, con membranas muy extensivas en los pies, basada en una ejemplar probablamente del sur de Departamento Antioquia. Este especie tiene parentescos con R. rostrata pero se distingue por tener un odo completo (a diferencia de las otras especies del gnero). 
10.2307/1564622| A review and key to the Typhlopidae of Sulawesi is presented. A recently collected specimen from the southwestern peninsula is described as a new species allocated to a new genus. The pileus constellation is unique among reptiles. The large central circular head shield -- around which smaller scales radiate -- might cover what could be a parietal eye, which has never been found in snakes before. Typhlops hedraeus is shown not to be conspecific with Typhlops ater. Additional characters are presented for the diagnosis of Typhlops conradi. Two of the four Sulawesian typhlopid species now known are considered endemic. /// Nous rvisons les Serpents Typhlopidae du Sulawesi (ex Clbes) et nous en fournissons une cl de dtermination. Un spcimen collect rcemment de la pninsule sud-ouest est dcrit comme une nouvelle espce attribue  un genre nouveau. Son caillure supra-cphalique est unique parmi les reptiles. La grande plaque cphalique centrale circulaire -- autour de laquelle se placent des cailles concentriques -- recouvre une structure qui ressemble beaucoup  un oeil pinal, ce qui pourrait tre la premire mention de cet organe chez les serpents. Nous montrons que Typhlops hedraeus n'est pas conspcifique de Typhlops ater et prsentons des caractres diagnostiques complmentaires pour Typhlops conradi. Deux des quatre typhlopids actuellement connus du Sulawesi sont endmiques. 
10.2307/1563690|Cnemidophorus alpinus Maslin and Walker is the most recently described and most inadequately understood biparental species of Cnemidophorus. This species was originally described from 15 specimens collected near Lago Alchichica, 22.4 kilometers northeast of Zacatepec, Puebla. Specimens in the collections of the American Museum of Natural History, University of Kansas Museum of Natural History, and University of Illinois Museum of Natural History extend the known ranges of variation for several characters, and extend the known distribution of the species into western Veracruz and approximately 85 kilometers southwest of the type locality in Puebla. C. alpinus is distinguishable from its most similar congeners C. mexicanus Peters and C. costatus Cope by color and pattern characteristics and combinations of scutellation characters.
10.2307/1564155| A population of green iguanas (Iguana iguana) that inhabits the forests around Gatun Lake in central Panama faces an apparent scarcity of suitable nesting sites. To investigate whether the disjunct distribution of nesting sites in this area and strong nesting site fidelity by female iguanas has contributed to genetic structuring of the population, samples obtained from females captured at three main nesting sites were analyzed electrophoretically. Significant allele frequency differences existed among nesting sites at one of the two polymorphic loci inspected. The pattern of allele frequency differences was consistent with what is known of iguana movement patterns and suggests that the genetic structure of the population has been influenced by nesting site availability and distribution. Additional electrophoretic analyses were conducted on samples obtained from three iguana populations from central Panama, western Panama, and Venezuela. Low levels of heterozygosity and polymorphism were observed in each of these populations, yet significant differences at three polymorphic loci were demonstrated. The management implications of the results are discussed. /// La poblacin de iguanas verdes (Iguana iguana) que habita en los bosques alrededor al Lago Gatn en Panam central, encuentra una escasez aparente de lugares especficos para realizar la puesta anual. Muestras de sangre y de msculos fueron obtenidas de las iguanas hembras que fueron capturadas en los tres principales lugares de puesta en esta rea y fueron analizadas por electroforesis. Se encontraron diferencias significativas en las frecuencias de los alelos en uno de los dos loci variables que fueron analizados. Aparentemente la distribucin esparcida de los lugares de la puesta, y la gran fidelidad de las hembras a stos, han generado subpoblaciones cuantitativamente distintas, en las reas que estn asociadas con estos lugares de la puesta. Anlisis adicionales fueron realizados con muestras de tres poblaciones separadas en Panam central, Panam occidental, y Venezuela. La cantidad de heterocigosidad y polimrfismo gentico que fue demonstrada en cada poblacin es muy baja con respecto a otras especies de largatijas que han sido investigadas. Dado que existen diferencias poblacionales del comportamiento, de la ecologa, y de la gentica en esta especie, los proyectos de manejo de la iguana verde deben ser cuidadosos en la seleccin de los animales que van a introducirse. 
10.2307/1563245|An upper Miocene snake fauna from the Myers Farm Fauna of Webster County, Nebraska, consists of two henophidian and nine caenophidian snakes. It is believed that these snakes lived in a subtropical climate. None of the snakes represent new forms, but some previously described forms are represented by much more complete fossil material. The henophidians are two specialized erycinine boids, previously reported only from the early and middle Miocene. The caenophidians include one heterodontine, three natricine, and three colubrine colubrids; an elapid and a viperid. The dominance of caenophidian over henophidian snakes is a typical situation in North American upper Miocene faunas. Two of the natricines represent the earliest North American Natricinae with well-developed hypapophyses on the trunk vertebrae. The Micrurus is the earliest recorded North American elapid. The presence of modern natricines and elapids in the Myers Farm Fauna and the absence of these forms from the upper Miocene faunas of northcenteral Nebraska may indicate a slightly later age for the Myers Farm fauna.
10.2307/1566106| We investigated the impacts of various logging practices on habitat choice by the endemic Florida scrub lizard (Sceloporus woodi) in the Florida scrub of Ocala National Forest (ONF). We used large outdoor mesocosms as a novel means to evaluate lizard preferences for habitats with different structural features produced by standard forestry practices. Captive lizards were offered a choice between two adjoining habitats (= sides of a mesocosm) created using one of two substratum treatments [SAND = 75% open sand; WOOD = 75% coarse woody debris (CWD)] coupled with one of two insolation treatments (LIGHT = ambient sunlight; DARK = 45% ambient sunlight). The mesocosms proved to be an effective technique for evaluating lizard habitat preferences. Lizards were easily observed and remained active and healthy throughout the experiment. Sighting frequencies differed significantly among the four mesocosm sides, yielding an overall preference ranking of DARK SAND > LIGHT SAND > DARK WOOD  LIGHT WOOD. Analysis of sighting frequencies by treatment factors (substratum and insolation) and of dissimilarity matrices both indicated that habitat choice was based primarily on substratum composition and only weakly determined by insolation level. In addition, size- and gender-specific preferences suggest that social interactions may help shape patterns of habitat used in conjunction with individual preferences. We conclude that the least favored mesocosm side (LIGHT WOOD) represents a habitat type that could potentially serve as a population sink for scrub lizards and recommend several methods to reduce the accumulation of CWD or to ameliorate its potential thermal stress on lizards. In addition, the most favored mesocosm side (DARK SAND) represents a shaded sandy habitat type not currently found in ONF timber stands. We present several alternative harvesting and site preparation methods that could produce such habitats and recommend further research on their potential value for enhancing populations of scrub lizards and other open-habitat scrub endemics. 
4092887|Enteric bacterial communities from Southern Toads (Bufo terrestris) and Spring Peepers (Pseudacris crucifer) were quantified during larval development and metamorphosis to examine relationships between development and enteric microflora. Higher levels of enteric Gram-negative bacteria were observed during metamorphosis in each species' intestines. Gut content had no effect on bacterial levels in B. terrestris. Much higher bacterial levels were recorded in smaller metamorphs. The results of this research suggest that enteric microflora may play an ecological role in anuran development and metamorphosis.
4092860|Bothrops pubescens is a member of the neuwiedi complex that occurs in southern Brazil and Uruguay. We studied the ecology of B. pubescens from a field site (at Santa Maria, Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil) and based on preserved specimens from the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. In Santa Maria, individuals were collected during visual encounter surveys (VES), in pitfall traps with drift fences and during incidental encounters. Most snakes found in the field were on the ground, mainly on leaf litter, in mosaics of light and shadow or in completely shaded areas. In disturbed areas, snakes were usually associated with country houses and agricultural fields. Snakes were found much more frequently in forests and forest edges than in open habitats. The diet of B. pubescens comprised small mammals (56.2% of individual prey found), anurans (21.2%), lizards (7.5%), snakes (7.5%), birds (5.0%), and centipedes (2.5%). Prey predator mass ratios ranged from 0.002-0.627, and larger snakes tended to consume larger prey. Bothrops pubescens seems to be able to survive in disturbed areas, mainly those close to forests, and this ability may be facilitated by its generalized feeding habits.
10.2307/1562978|Data on the size, origin and insertion of the superior and inferior costocutaneous muscles are presented in 11 terrestrial, two amphibious and 11 completely aquatic species of snakes. The aquatic species differ in these muscles from the terrestrial species. Either or both the superior and inferior muscles may be inserted more dorsally. Of the species with more dorsal insertions for the inferior costocutaneous, most showed an origin proximal to the cartilaginous tip of the rib. Some of the fully aquatic forms showed a reduction in the size of the inferior costocutaneous.
10.2307/1564673| Box turtles commonly encounter graded terrain during their daily and seasonal movements. We videotaped and analyzed the voluntary locomotion of T. carolina on slopes of varying steepness. The mean (SD) locomotor velocity for all slopes combined was 0.04 (0.026) m/sec. The success (percentage of turtles completing tests) decreased at inclinations above 40. At 60 no turtles were successful, and the laterally-sequenced gait was no longer maintained. The first nontraversable inclination was estimated with regression analysis to be 60. Mean velocity decreased on extreme inclinations, and extrapolated to zero at a very similar angle of 57. The percentage of turtles completing tests also decreased as the angle of declination increased, and the minimum downslope not traversable with a normal laterally-sequenced gait was calculated to be -51. Turning and sliding replaced walking at the steepest declinations. The mean coefficient of friction, u<sub>s</sub>, was calculated as 0.48 (0.05). These box turtles surmounted steep inclines, but their ability to descend steep slopes was more limited. Definable limits, such as those reported here, document the potential effects of slope on turtle distribution. 
10.2307/1563778| Temperature-dependent sex determination was studied in eggs of snapping turtles in both the laboratory and field. It has previously been shown that warm (30C) and cold (20C) temperatures cause female development, and intermediate temperatures (22C-28C) cause male development. Here it was found in the laboratory that exposure to at least 4 h/day at 30C ensured female development, but shorter exposures resulted in some males (if a male-determining temperature was used over the remaining interval). In the field, eggs at the top of nests were significantly warmer (above 30C) than those at the bottom (below 30C), resulting in all females from top eggs, and often, all males from bottom eggs. 
40983646|We describe a new species of the rostrata species group of Bolitoglossa (Magnadigita) from a single cloud forest site on the south slope of the Sierra de las Minas in eastern Guatemala, an area of high biodiversity for many groups of organisms. This species is distinguished from other members of the subgenus on the basis of morphology and molecular analyses, and it differs from the sympatric Bolitoglossa helmrichi in ventral coloration of the tail and in foot and body morphology. Se describe una nueva especie de Bolitoglossa (Magnadigita) del grupo rostrata de un solo sitio de bosque nuboso del lado sur de la Sierra de las Minas en el oriente de Guatemala, una regin de alta diversidad biolgica para varios grupos de organismos. sta especie se distingue de los otros miembros del subgnero por su morfologa y analisis moleculares, y se distingue de la especie simptrica, Bolitoglossa helmrichi, por la coloracin del vientre y morfologa del cuerpo.
10.2307/1565509|This study investigated the effect of moonlight on the nocturnal activity patterns of prairie rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis viridis). The effect of simulated moonlight on six adults and eight juvenile prairie rattlesnakes was tested under laboratory conditions in which temperature, feeding frequency, and photoperiod were controlled. The snakes were maintained and tested under a summer photoperiod of 14L: 10D h cycle. The activity of each snake was measured using an index of tracking in the sand floor of a test chamber under simulated new, half, three-quarters, and full moon light (0.06, 0.35, 1.00, and 2.10 lux, respectively). Adult snake activity was significantly greater in new moonlight (starlight only) when compared to activity in three-quarter and full moonlight. The adults also significantly increased activity in open areas in dim moonlight. Variations in simulated moonlight had no effect on the activity of the juvenile rattlesnakes or in their use of edge and open areas. Bright moonlight avoidance by adult snakes may be a strategy that reduces detection by visually hunting predators and may also be influenced by the activity patterns of their nocturnal rodent prey. The lack of moonlight avoidance by juvenile rattlesnakes may be related to utilization of nocturnally inactive prey, such as lizards and neonatal rodents.
10.2307/1565798| Adult Triturus newts show spatial and temporal variation in sex ratio at the aquatic breeding site, to the extent that contrasting scenarios on the evolution of mating systems appear to be supported. I collected data for the five western European species (Triturus alpestris, Triturus cristatus, Triturus helveticus, Triturus marmoratus, and Triturus vulgaris) over 500 ponds and 27 yr in two areas in France, to test the hypothesis that the phenology of pond presence is independent of gender. Approximately equal numbers of males and females were found. However, in T. marmoratus males outnumbered females, which could be explained by a proportion of females skipping annual breeding opportunities. In the hybrid T. cristatus  T. marmoratus, females were twice as numerous as males, in accordance with Haldane's rule. A trend was observed for a male-biased sex ratio at the start of the aquatic season (late winter-early spring) and for a female bias toward the end of the aquatic season (early summer), suggesting that males mostly arrive and leave the breeding sites ahead of the females. The data do not support evolutionary scenarios selecting for the early breeding of female T. vulgaris. 
10.2307/1564788|The distribution of the Haitian frog Eleutherodactylus glaphycompus is larger than previously believed due to confusion of museum specimens with E. bakeri. It occurs throughout the Tiburon Peninsula in areas of exposed limestone at elevations of 576-1480 m. Widely separated populations of E. glaphycompus have a similar advertisement call (an explosive "snap") not found in other Hispaniolan species, although some geographic variation is present. However, large genetic distances and considerable differences in body size between populations of E. glaphycompus on the northern and southern slopes of the Massif de la Hotte indicate that it may comprise more than one species. The habitat preference and elevational limits of E. glaphycompus may be factors responsible for limiting gene flow in this species. Two closely related species sympatric with E. glaphycompus, E. bakeri and E. heminota, occupy a wider range of elevations and show comparatively little geographic protein variation.
10.2307/1563744|Acid tolerance limits were measured in wood frog (Rana sylvatica) embryos and larvae from a population located in New London, Connecticut. Among embroyos, relative hatching success was high and not significantly different in solutions with pH 7.2-7.6, pH 6.0, pH 5.0 and pH 4.0. However, at pH 3.75 relative hatching success dropped to 50% and less than 1% of embryos survived at pH 3.5 or below. At pH 4.0 the number of developmental abnormalities among surviving embryos increased significantly, and at pH 3.75 35% of surviving embryos appeared abnormal. Larvae were more acid tolerant than embryos, and this tolerance appeared to increase as the larvae developed. Measurements of acidity in the natural breeding habitat indicated that considerable temporal and spatial variation may occur within a single pond, but the levels of acidity measured did not exceed the species' tolerance limits.
10.2307/1564126|The morphology and reproductive biology of Eumeces fasciatus and E. inexpectatus were studied in the southeastern United States. Eumeces inexpectatus are slightly larger in body size than E. fasciatus. Males are larger than females in E. inexpectatus but not in E. fasciatus. In both species there is sexual dimorphism in head size (males larger) independent of body size among sexually mature adults, apparently as a consequence of sexual selection. Individuals of both species reach sexual maturity in their second spring at an age of 21 months. Females of E. fasciatus lay eggs in nests constructed in hardwood logs, trees, and stumps, often in proximity to nests of other females. Eggs deposited in late May and early June are brooded by females and hatch in late July or early August. Clutches brooded in the laboratory revealed that eggs increase in mass considerably during development, but offspring hatch at a size much smaller than eggs at deposition. In addition, significant differences were found in hatchling size among clutches. Brooding behavior and the potential significance of variable offspring size are discussed.
40665013|We do not know whether the availability of food plants is the primary factor enabling Angulate Tortoises to inhabit a wide variety of habitats along the southern and western coasts of South Africa. Here we used focal observations to study the diet of Angulate Tortoises over four seasons at two distinct sites in the southwestern Cape, the West Coast National Park (WCNP), and Dassen Island (DI). Seasonal fluctuations in temperature, rainfall, and food plant availability influenced the activity pattern and feeding activity of Angulate Tortoises. Tortoises were more active during the wet season, winter and spring, than during the dry season, summer and autumn. Diet differed between sites and among seasons. WCNP tortoises had a diverse diet of grasses, shrubs, herbs, and succulents, whereas DI tortoises ate mostly herbaceous plants. DI tortoises had few dietary choices available compared to choices available to WCNP tortoises. At both sites, herbs and seedlings were important diet components during the wet season. The dry season diet consisted largely of dry plant material. Angulate Tortoises on DI supplemented their intake of dry plant material with rabbit feces, which comprised more than 27% of the diet in summer and autumn. The opportunistic feeding behavior of Angulate Tortoises helps explain their distribution among a wide variety of habitats. Their persistence in disturbed areas is probably determined by the abundance of easily digestible, herbaceous plants during the wet season and the tortoises' low activity and low metabolic demands during unfavorable periods.
10.2307/1563314|Courtship behavior in Anolis carolinensis was studied to determine the behavioral patterns, their emission frequencies for each sex, and the potential dependence of acts on their immediate antecedents. Encounters between resident males and introduced nonresident females were recorded on film and analyzed later to determine the behavior patterns and sequences. As expected, there were significant sex differences in frequencies of various behaviors. Despite this difference, males and females had similar information theoretic uncertainty values. Males performed more types of behavior patterns and emitted a greater total number of acts than did females. Females' behavior was influenced by the immediately preceding male act. Previous research has tended to present anoline courtship as a rather fixed sequence of events. There is a considerable degree of predictability in courtship encounters, but the present report emphasizes that there is also a great deal of sequential variability.
10.2307/1562921|A total of 10 specimens of Lycophidion variegatum Broadley is described from South Africa, extending the known range of this species 680 km south. All known specimens of L. variegatum have been compared with L. capense capense material housed in the Transvaal and Natal museums. The usefulness of ventral counts and coloration as diagnostic characters for L. variegatum and L. c. capense is qualified, and the more consistent characters of (a) contact of the first upper labial and postnasal, and (b) hemipenal structure, are stressed. South West Africa and Botswana L. capense that were previously thought to belong to the race L. c. multimaculatum are shown to be indistinguishable from, and referable to the typical race. Data suggesting a possible ecological separation of the two sympatric species is given.
4092959|The Florida Worm Lizard (Rhineura floridana) is the only extant representative of the suborder Amphisbaenia occurring in the United States and the only living representative of the Rhineuridae. We updated the known distribution of this species from 510 records with known localities. We further examined geographic genetic structure within this species using 1360 bp of mitochondrial DNA sequence data from 18 samples of R. floridana. Our results suggest an ancient divergence between populations in the north-central Florida peninsula from populations in the south-central peninsula. High genetic distances are observed within south-central populations, whereas genetic structure within northern populations is less discrete and characterized by much shallower divergences. Our findings suggest that south-central populations may be candidates for taxonomic recognition (or recognition as distinct management units) if additional genetic and morphological data support our results.
43287340|Reptiles, supposedly, do not produce pheomelanin pigments. Because this claim is based on rather weak evidence, we measured the shell pheomelanin content in the Hermann's Tortoise (Eurotestudo boettgeri). In contrast to expectation, we detected a substantial amount of this pigment. Given the recent interest in the adaptive function of melanin-based color traits, our study opens new avenues of research in reptiles.
1565853| Temperature-dependent sex-determination has been reported for all extant crocodilians. We present information about incubation temperature effects on incubation period, sex ratio, hatching success, and hatchling survivorship during the first year of life for Caiman latirostris. Incubation period was negatively related to temperature. Sex of hatchlings were related to incubation temperature. Only females were produced at 29C and 31C, only males were produced at 33C, and both males and females hatched at 34.5C. Hatching success and survivorship were unaffected by incubation temperature. 
10.2307/1565668| Two previously described lygosomine scincid lizards known from three specimens from Southeast Asia--Larutia osellai Bhme, 1981 and Siaphos poilani Bourret, 1937--are described as a new genus, Leptoseps. The relationships of these two species and eight other species of limb-reduced lygosomine skinks from southeast Asia (genera Isopachys and Larutia) are analyzed cladistically. 
10.2307/1565271|We used radiotelemetry to determine habitat use by 11 black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta), five fox snakes (Elaphe vulpina vulpina) and four blue racers (Coluber constrictor foxii) at the Middle Fork Fish and Wildlife Area in east-central Illinois in 1997 and 1998. Black rat snakes selected forested habitats, whereas fox snakes and blue racers selected old fields and prairie restorations. No consistent association with forestfield edges was noted for any species. Fox snakes and blue racers were primarily terrestrial, whereas black rat snakes used all categories of vertical space but were primarily arboreal. Snakes were tracked to three hibernation sites, including an abandoned railroad trestle and two abandoned trash and construction-material dumps. These data provide the first comparative, quantitative descriptions of habitat use for these species in sympatry, and one of the few descriptions of hibernacula in a region dominated by row-crop agriculture.
10.2307/1565272| Movements and survivorship of eight resident and eight translocated adult Heterodon platirhinos were monitored daily with radiotelemetry during the activity seasons (15 April-15 October) of 1992 to 1994 in upland open forest habitat. Hognose snakes were diurnally active and used a variety of open and edge microhabitats with grassy or leafy groundcover. Resident snakes were active on about 57% of days but some were inactive for extended periods (up to 68 d) in midsummer. Residents confined their movements within large (x = 50 ha), well-defined home ranges which, for individuals, remained similar in size and location from year-to-year. Movements of both resident and translocated snakes averaged approximately 120 m/d, but movements of residents were confined to home ranges whereas those of translocated snakes were not so confined. Compared to residents, translocated snakes exhibited a 6 greater variance in distance of daily movements and made most of the long (>400 m/d), unidirectional movements. Resident snakes survived, on average, more than 3 longer (x = 122 d) than translocated snakes (x = 36 d) within the 184 d annual activity season. 
10.2307/1564761|Swimming speed of juvenile American alligators increased between 15 and 20 C but not between 20 and 30 C. Speed declined with time during the 4 min trials. Post-exercise lactate concentration increased with temperature and with duration of swimming. The rate of lactate formation during exercise increased with temperature and was higher in the first min of exercise than in the subsequent 3 min. Once the effects of temperature, body mass, and body length were removed, there was no relationship between the intensity of glycolysis and the distance covered in 1 min of swimming. In contrast, the alligators that swam the greatest distance in 4 min had the lowest lactate concentration. Thus, the relationship between the intensity of glycolysis and distance traveled varies with the duration of exertion in these animals during induced swimming.
25599211|It is well documented that sexual selection acts on morphological differences between individuals and can lead to sexual dimorphism in species with male combat and female choice. However, the effect of sexual selection on the evolution of morphological traits is poorly understood in species with scramble competition in which males race for access to females during a brief pulse of breeding activity. Because male access to females may be more random in scramble mating systems, male morphological traits may not strongly influence mating success. To investigate the influence of sexual selection on male morphology in a species with a scramble mating system, we collected detailed morphological measurements from male and female Columbia Spotted Frogs (Rana luteiventris), which have an extreme scramble mating system. Male Columbia Spotted Frogs have enlarged thumb (nuptial) pads and muscular forearms, which may help them grasp females. As predicted, we discovered that males found in amplexus with females had proportionately larger nuptial pads and thicker forearms than did unpaired males, but mating success was not related to overall body size. Although many single males attempted to dislodge males already in amplexus with females, no attempted takeovers were successful. Therefore, we suggest that the advantage of thick forearms and large nuptial pads occurs during the initial phase of securing a female when she first enters the breeding area. These findings suggest that sexual selection may influence morphology even in a species with scramble mating.
10.2307/1565637|An ecotone between rainforest and wet sclerophyll forest on the western side of the Paluma Range, northeastern Australia, incorporates substantial vegetational change. While the entire ecotone extends over several hundred meters, most of the structural and floristic change occurs at an abrupt vegetation discontinuity only a few meters wide. The aim of this study was to assess the influence of the ecotone on the lizard community. Pitfall traps were used to sample the lizard fauna across the ecotone. Twelve species in five families were captured: Agamidae, Gekkonidae, Pygopodidae, Scincidae, and Varanidae. The abrupt vegetation discontinuity represents a barrier to the distribution of many lizard species, and on this basis it is possible to define closed and open forest 'assemblages'. However, there appears to be no predictive relationship between variation in the habitat and lizard assemblages across the ecotone as a whole. The closed and open forest assemblages seem to be largely artificially defined, representing aggregations of species responding individualistically to different aspects of the habitat.
10.2307/1563500|Locomotor activity of Amphisbaena manni, A. gonavensis, Typhlops biminiensis, and T. pusilla was recorded by aktographs. All species were predominantly nocturnal, Typhlops more so than Amphisbaena. All species, with the exception of A. manni, showed evidence of strong endogenous circadian rhythms of activity when kept in continuous light.
10.2307/1565476|The first quantitative study of the spawning behavior of a Bufo species under natural conditions was conducted in a Japanese stream-breeding toad, Bufo torrenticola. A stereotyped sequence of spawning behavior was characterized as follows: the female stretched her body, raising her foreparts and forming her hindlimbs into a diamond shape, and extruded her egg-strings into this space. The male exhibited two kinds of ejaculatory toe-movements before and during the expulsion of the eggs. The females deposited their eggs separately in 3-4 extrusions for 75.1 min on average. After final spawning, pseudo-spawning without the expulsion of eggs, occurred in all pairs 1-5 times. The pairs mostly remained underwater and seldom surfaced; the longest dive for each pair averaged 88.8 min. As compared with other Bufo species, the fewer extrusions of eggs and the shorter spawning period in B. torrenticola, may be related not only to the smaller clutch size, but also to the diving ability of amplectant females, which is related to underwater breeding.
10.2307/1565169| A new species of Hyla is described that has large terminal discs on, and basal webbing between, the fingers; it is tentatively placed in the Hyla bistincta species group. Based on the examination of material collected subsequent to the publication of the descriptions of Hyla chryses Adler and Hyla mykter Adler and Dennis, morphological variation in these species is reviewed. Rediagnoses of each species are presented that incorporate new morphological observations and comparisons with other species that have been described more recently. /// Se describe una especie nueva que tiene discos terminales de los dedos grandes y membrana basal entre los dedos de la mano; se ubica tentativamente a esta especie en el grupo de Hyla bistincta. Basndose en el examen de ejemplares colectados despus de la publicacin de las descripciones de Hyla chryses Adler y Hyla mykter Adler y Dennis, se revisa la variacin de la morfologa en estas especies. Se presentan diagnosis nuevas que incluyen nuevas observaciones sobre la morfologa, y comparaciones con otra especies que han sido descritas ms recientemente. 
10.2307/1565960| We estimated population densities, home ranges, habitat use, and seasonal movement patterns of spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata), at two sites in central Massachusetts by radio-tracking 26 individuals between late March and December 1993 to 1995. We estimated densities of 0.2 and 1.4 adults per ha. Most turtles exhibited a seasonal pattern of emergence from overwintering sites, overland travel to seasonal pools, female nesting excursions, overland travel to estivation sites, and overland travel to overwintering sites. Mean home range area was 3.5 ha (range = 0.2-34.4 ha), home range length was 313 m (range = 115-1125 m), and maximum distance traveled from hibernacula averaged 265 m (range = 75-1025 m). Home range areas were smaller in two years with below normal precipitation levels than in a wet year. Home range characteristics did not differ between sites or sexes. Home range areas and lengths were generally larger than those reported from other studies of spotted turtles, likely because we radio-tracked turtles for longer periods and included all movements in our analysis. Use of seasonal pools was greater than availability at both sites. Twenty-five of 26 turtles spent 20-150 cumulative days per year (x = 80) foraging, basking, and mating in seasonal pools. Although use of upland habitat was less than availability, overall use was substantial: 20 of 26 turtles aestivated for periods of 2-93 days per year (x = 30) in upland habitats  412 m from permanent wetlands and 10 of 12 females nested in fields 75-312 m from permanent wetlands. Twenty-four of 26 turtles nested or estivated well outside the 30 and 60 m-wide upland buffers protected under Massachusetts' Wetlands Protection Act. Protection of complexes of seasonal pools and permanent wetlands bordered by substantially larger areas of upland habitat will be necessary if viable populations of spotted turtles are to be protected. 
10.2307/1564587|Five years of field observations suggest that amphibians inhabiting a sandhills community are able to circumvent a drift fence-pitfall trap enclosure as they move toward and away from an ephemeral pond. Trespass rates varied depending on species and showed no tendency to increase or decrease as the study progressed. Laboratory trials confirmed that frogs easily crossed the fence by walking up the side or hopping over it. Frogs crossed the fence readily regardless of sex or whether the frog was an adult or juvenile. Although striped newts did not climb over the fence in the laboratory, they may use tunnels to go under fences under field conditions. Other species may burrow directly under the fence. A priori assumptions about a species' ability to climb a fence, or that trespass rates do not vary temporally or among sites, are unwarranted and may lead to misinterpretations of the results from studies using drift fences and pitfall traps.
10.2307/1562841|The distribution and variation of the Carolina pigmy rattlesnake, Sistrurus m. miliarius, in North Carolina are described. Two color populations are recognized: an erythristic population inhabiting the northeastern periphery of the range, and a grayish population occurring in the southern portion of the state. The erythristic form is not afforded taxonomic status because of its limited range combined with an extensive area of intergradation.
10.2307/1565240|We describe and quantify the components of an unusual snake behavior used to attract fish prey: lingual-luring. Our earlier research on the foraging behavior of the Pacific Coast aquatic garter snake (Thamnophis atratus) indicated that adults are active foragers, feeding primarily on aquatic Pacific giant salamanders (Dicamptodon tenebrosus) in streambed substrates. Juvenile snakes, however, use primarily ambush tactics to capture larval anurans and juvenile salmonids along stream margins, behaviors that include the lingual-luring described here. We found that lingual-luring differed from typical chemosensory tongue-flicking by the position of the snake, contact of the tongue with the water surface, and the length of time the tongue was extended. Luring snakes are in ambush position and extend and hold their tongues out rigid, with the tongue-tips quivering on the water surface, apparently mimicking insects in order to draw young fish within striking range. This behavior is a novel adaptation of the tongue-vomeronasal system by a visually-oriented predator.
10.2307/1565998|A new species of long-necked turtle from the Chelodina longicollis group is described from northern Australia; the species Chelodina novaeguineae is restricted to southern New Guinea. The new species differs from its New Guinea counterpart in being a larger species with a broader shell and wider plastron, the skull having paired premaxillae and a narrower parietal ridge, having a single frontal bone, posteriorly partially dividing the parietals, in the form and relationship to the pterygoids of the vomer, and a narrower crista paroccipitalis.
10.2307/1565081|We studied reproduction in female pigmy rattlesnakes in a subtropical area. Twenty-six females were either captured gravid and held until parturition or found in the field with their litters. Over 92% of the snakes gave birth in August. Individuals with large clutch masses gave birth earlier in the season than individuals with small clutch masses. Mean clutch size was 5.88 (range 2-11). Litter size and clutch mass were significantly correlated with female SVL. There was significant variation in offspring size among females, but this variation was not a result of larger females having larger young, or the young being smaller in larger litters. Of 19 females whose reproductive condition was determined in the summers of both 1992 and 1993, 32% were not gravid in either year, 42% were gravid in one of the two years, and 26% were gravid in both years. We hypothesize that annual reproduction in some females is a result of the year-round activity of S. miliarius in central Florida.
10.2307/1562822|European green frogs include the phenotypically distinct, largely sympatric forms Rana lessonae Camerano 1882, R. esculenta Linnaeus 1758, and R. ridibunda Pallas 1771, the relationships of which is still unsufficiently known. Recent investigations on Polish green frog populations indicate that R. lessonae and R. ridibunda are taxa at species rank, whereas R. esculenta is a hybrid resulting from interspecific crosses between R. lessonae and R. ridibunda. All three forms of green frogs are easily crossable indicating close relationship, and lack of genetic isolation. Ecological isolating mechanisms were probably established during the Pleistocene. In spite of very frequent natural hybridization, very high number of F<sub>1</sub> hybrids (= esculanta) in nature, and successful backcrosses especially with lessonae, introgression between lessonae and ridibunda seems not to occur owing to an incompletely understood hereditary mechanism.
10.2307/1563926| A description of the neotype of Liolaemus anomalus Koslowsky is given, with comments about its relationships, geographical variation and ecology. The comparison of new samples of this poorly known tropidurine lizard with the holotype of Phrynosaura werneri Mller suggests their synonymy. 
10.2307/1564291|Perch height selection was studied in juvenile western fence lizards (Sceloporus occidentalis) and sagebrush lizards (Sceloporus graciosus) in the field and in the laboratory. In nature juvenile S. occidentalis were more arboreal than were juvenile S. graciosus. In laboratory experiments with lab-reared 3-4 wk old lizards, S. occidentalis perched off the ground more frequently. Differences between these two species in habitat preference are inferred to be at least partly innate, and emerge at an early age. Within each species, juveniles from different field populations differed in habitat use in the wild: lizards were more terrestrial at higher elevations. However, lab-reared juveniles from different populations of each species did not differ in laboratory tests of perch selection. In S. occidentalis there was evidence of individual variation in perch selection in the laboratory, but no among-family variation was detected.
10.2307/1565151| A new species of gecko, Sphaerodactylus richardi, is described from near Playa Girn in southern Matanzas Province, Cuba. It is a member of the scaber group, and is distinguished by its dorsal body pattern of 5-6 bold crossbands and large, keeled dorsal scales. The taxonomic status of S. storeyae is re-evaluated. The scaber group now includes four species, all from central Cuba, Isla de Juventud, and the Archipilago de los Canarreos: S. oliveri, S. richardi, S. scaber, and S. storeyae. /// Se describe una nueva especie de salamanquita, Sphaerodactylus richardi, que habita en la region cerca de Playa Girn, Matanzas, Cuba. Se distingue del resto de las especies del Grupo scaber por los patrones de 5-6 bandas transversales y escamas dorsales grande y aquilladas. El estado taxonmico de S. storeyae se reevaluado. El grupo scaber inclue quatro especies, todo de Cuba central, Isla de Juventud, y el Archipilago de los Canarreos: S. oliveri, S. richardi, S. scaber, and S. storeyae. 
10.2307/1563169|Comparisons of pre- and post-Hurricane Agnes size, age structures, sex and juvenile-adult ratios were made on a population of Chrysemys picta to determine the effects of hurricane flooding. Flooding of nesting sites in June, 1972 resulted in small juveniles not being incorporated into the population. This caused shifts in size and age-class percentages which favored adults. Habitat destruction forced turtles into more shallow areas and predation on adults increased.
10.2307/1564332|Five populations of common toads from different latitudes and altitudes in Europe were studied, mainly by skeletochronological annalysis of their phalanges. The toads from the populations from Germany, The Netherlands, Norway and Switzerland definitely concerned Bufo bufo bufo, those from the population from France might have concerned Bufo bufo spinosus. At metamorphosis, both sexes grow at the same rate in each population. Sexual dimorphism concerning growth becomes apparent at about the minimum age of maturation of male toads or one year before. Male toads can reach maturity at least one year before females can. Maturity can be reached when the growth rate is reduced to 21% of the growth rate at metamorphosis in males, and to 21%-28% of that in females, the latter dependent on the length of the sexual cycle. The proportion of sexually mature toads in each age class was estimated. The age at which 95% of the toads were estimated to be sexually mature corresponds with the average age at which the toads have reached 95% of their maximal size, except for toads with a biennial sexual cycle. The latter continue growth for longer. Toads from northern latitude (Norway) and high altitude (Switzerland) grow slower, may reach older ages and larger maximal sizes than those from southern latitude and low altitude (Germany and The Netherlands). The former toads also mature at older ages and at larger sizes than the latter. However, when growth is corrected for interpopulational differences in the seasonal activity of the toads, the former toads actually grow faster and the differences concerning the time at which maturity is reached no longer exist among the toads of the four populations mentioned. Male and female toads from these populations can reach maturity after having spent 1.09 (ranging from 1.07 to 1.15) and 1.55 (ranging from 1.50 to 1.59) years on growth respectively. In addition, the sexually dimorphic growth coefficient, which describes how growth proceeds, is also equal among those toads, ranging from 1.44 to 1.56 for males (average 1.48) and from 0.84 to 0.98 for females (average 0.92). The toads from France were exceptional in many ways. Among others, they grow much faster than the other toads, they can reach larger maximal sizes and mature only after having spent 1.77 (males) and 2.49 (females) years on growth. The growth coefficient found in these toads was also different, amounting to 0.80 for males and 0.54 for females.
10.2307/1563356|Daily activity of Alsophylax blanfordii, Cyrtodactylus kotschyi, Gehyra variegata, Hemidactylus turcicus, Pachydactylus laevigatus, Ptyodactylus hasselquistii guttatus, P.h. cf. hasselquistii, P.h. puiseuxi, P.h. ssp. (from Upper Volta), Stenodactylus sthenodactylus and Tarentola mauritanica was recorded by actographs during the four annual seasons, and of Ceramodactylus doriae, Cyrtodactylus amictopholis and Stenodactylus petrii during one season only. Room temperature was 30 C during the day and not less than 18 C at night. Light was put on according to the corresponding sunrise and sunset times. All individuals had been acclimated together in the vivarium for at least 6 months before experimentation. Animals were three days in the actograph without food or water. The degree of nocturnality and the distribution of activity along day and night were measured. Israeli geckos distributed in arid regions are more nocturnal than those living in more humid areas or those distributed throughout Israel and Sinai. One taxon was diurnal, seven diurno-nocturnal and six nocturnal animals. Taxa all showed ecological segregation when compared with respect to one or more of the following parameters: size, habitat topography, climate and daily activity time. In winter activity of all taxa but one was more diurnal than in summer; P.h. ssp. was nocturnal all year round. There are several patterns in changing of daily activity distribution with seasons, and this helps to separate between taxa and specify their activity times.
10.2307/1565014|Four genera of cheloniid (Caretta, Chelonia, Eretmochelys, Lepidochelys) and one genus of dermochelyid (Psephophorus) sea turtles are recorded from the Bone Valley Formation of central Florida. The fossils derive from phosphate deposits of early Pliocene (late Hemphillian) age, 4.5-5 Ma. Although similar in age to fossils from the Yorktown Formation (Lee Creek Mine) in North Carolina, the Bone Valley sea turtle fauna appears to lack two genera found at Lee Creek (Syllomus, Procolpochelys) and contains one genus that is not found at Lee Creek (Eretmochelys). The Caretta from the two areas may not be conspecific. The fossil Chelonia, Eretmochelys, and Lepidochelys cannot be distinguished confidently from modern species, but conversely only the Lepidochelys appears obviously related to a particular modern species, L. kempi. This paper provides the first report of Eretmochelys in Pliocene deposits and the first association of Psephophorus with all living cheloniid genera except the Australian Natator. We suggest that shallow seas in the Bone Valley region provided rich feeding habitat for sea turtles in the early Pliocene in the same way that shallow water habitats in Florida and the Bahamas support a similar assemblage today.
1566059|Amphibians use a range of microhabitats as retreat sites to escape adverse climatic conditions. We conducted two outdoor experiments using a brick pile and shallow trays of water containing aquatic vegetation to assess retreat site selection during winter in the endangered frog Litoria aurea. A multivariate habitat model in the first experiment indicated that frogs preferred to rest close to the edges of the brick pile that received afternoon sunlight and in small gaps between bricks, whereas in the second experiment, frogs showed no preference for terrestrial or aquatic habitats. These results suggest that L. aurea is a generalist in winter habitat choice, although resting positions in terrestrial situations are likely related to site aspect, microhabitat, and temperature.
10.2307/1563437|The evolutionary relationships among sea snakes, and between sea snakes and terrestrial elapids were examined by microcomplement fixation analyses using antisera to albumins from the genera Hydrophis, Laticauda, and Micrurus. The sea snakes comprise three distinctive groups, the Hydrophis, Aipysurus, and Laticauda groups. These data thus corroborate other molecular and morphological studies of these snakes. All available data indicate that diversification of the Hydrophis group is relatively recent, and that the genus Hydrophis is paraphyletic. The question of a single or multiple origins for the sea snake lineages from terrestrial elapids cannot be resolved with the albumin immunological data. Of the terrestrial elapids examined, the Australian forms with the exception of Demensia psammophis are close to both Hydrophis and Laticauda. Bungarus, Ophiophagus, and Demansia are close to none of the reference antisera. Micrurus seems remote from all elapids tested, despite a previous suggestion allying it with Laticauda.
10.2307/1564022|Observations were made on the egg laying behavior of captive female Triturus marmoratus pygmaeus. The females carefully wrap the eggs in leaves of aquatic plants. Mean time invested per egg deposition was 284 sec. The deposition of each egg occurred between two aspiration ascents. Interaction of oviposition and breathing activities was considered, and a modification of intervals between breaths was detected depending on whether or not an egg was to be deposited. Large females were more efficient than small females, performing fewer failed attempts of oviposition and also wasting less time in each attempt.
10.2307/1563258| Cnemidophorus inornatus paululus ssp. nov. from southeastern Durango, Mxico, and adjacent northern Zacatecas, Mxico, differs from all other members of the species in having a high number of femoral pores. In addition, paululus may be distinguished from the nominal form by the dark background between the medial light stripes (light gray in inornatus); paululus possesses eight or nine dorsal light stripes, while the two northern subspecies heptagrammus and arizonae possess six or seven. A series of specimens from several localities in southern Coahuila, Mxico, apparently represent intergrade populations between paululus, inornatus, and heptagrammus. 
41415278|Sampling methods that can be implemented efficiently while minimizing bias are central for achieving strong statistical power in field studies. We estimated site occupancy and detection probabilities for Red-Backed Salamanders, Plethodon cinereus, using natural cover object (NCO) and leaf litter surveys and tested the power of these methods to detect occupancy differences in simulated data. Both NCO and leaf litter surveys performed well in their ability to detect P. cinereus ([symbol] = 0.59  0.07 [ 1 SE]; 0.49  0.08, respectively) and produced similar site occupancy estimates ([symbol] = 0.75  0.09; 0.77  0.11, respectively); however, leaf litter searches took three times longer to complete. Our simulation study revealed the time required to complete leaf litter surveys limited the number of sampling sites, which reduced statistical power for detecting a 25% change in salamander occupancy between two groups of sites. Natural cover object searches provided greater power for detecting a similar change in occupancy, largely because of high sampling size. Although reliable salamander detection data can be collected quickly using NCO surveys, we discuss situations where this technique may not be appropriate. Our study highlights the importance of accounting for imperfect detection probability when conducting visual encounter surveys for terrestrial plethodontids.
25599273|Knowing what venomous snakes eat is relevant both to their conservation and to understanding the functional diversity of their venom proteins. We used fecal samples to quantify the diet of Eastern Massasauga Rattlesnakes (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus) in Ontario and Ohio. Small mammals comprised almost the entire diet of both populations, collectively comprising 13 species, five of which were common to both populations. Consistent with their habitat use, Ontario snakes ate both forest and field mammals. The unexpected occurrence of Eastern Chipmunks (Tamias striatus) in the Ohio samples suggested that those snakes either moved out of the fields in which they were caught to feed, or encountered chipmunks dispersing along fencerows. Large snakes did not drop small prey species from their diets and the occurrence of large prey species in diets indicates that juvenile small mammals are important prey. Limited effects of snake size on diet composition suggest that ontogenetic shifts in venom composition are unlikely to occur in the Eastern Massasauga. The similarity of diets between populations makes it unlikely that populations differ in venom composition because of local adaptation of venom proteins to different suites of prey.
10.2307/1563109|Between 1949 and 1958, two species of salamanders, six species of anurans, six species of turtles and seven species of snakes were recorded from a suburban area on the edge of Indianapolis, Indiana. Most were terrestrial or semiaquatic species of broad ecological tolerance. At least 11 species bred within the area during this period. During 1963 and 1964 only two species of anurans, one species of turtle and four species of snakes were recorded, and there was no evidence of amphibian breeding. Modification of aquatic habitat appears to have been the most important factor in reducing the number of species inhabiting the area.
10.2307/1564771|The relationship between the numbers of premaxillary, maxillary and dentary teeth and head size is examined between the sexes in one species (Ctenotus essingtoni) and among single, unsexed adult specimens of 25 species of the Australian scincid lizard genus Ctenotus. The number of premaxillary teeth is constant in all cases except in males of C. essingtoni, where it increases slightly with size. The numbers of maxillary and dentary teeth increase with size in all cases. The slopes of the regressions of the number of maxillary teeth and the number of dentary teeth on size do not differ significantly between the sexes of C. essingtoni, but males have a higher intercept for maxillary teeth. The number of dentary teeth exceeds the number of maxillary teeth in all cases; within female C. essingtoni this difference increases with size. Comparisons are made with the limited data available from other lizard species.
10.2307/1564963|Species composition, relative abundance, residency, seasonality, size classes, and growth of sea turtles at the Mansfield Channel, Texas were investigated from 1989-1992. Forty-three juvenile green turtles (Chelonia mydas) (N = 72 captures) and one juvenile hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) (N = 1 capture) were netted during 435 hours of year-round effort (1.38 turtles/km-h). Eighteen of the green turtles (42%) netted were subsequently recaptured, with a mean interval from first to last capture of 120 days (range 22-478 days). However, few of the individuals initially netted between September and February or measuring more than 35 cm straight-line carapace length at initial capture were recaptured. Collectively, green turtles were caught during all months except January. Catch-per-unit-effort was positively correlated with water temperature, air temperature, and water salinity and most green turtles were captured during early morning and late afternoon hours. The Mansfield Channel may provide foraging and resting habitat for both itinerant and seasonally resident green turtles.
1565864|We assessed relative abundance, demographic, and reproductive success data for two lizard species in a Northern Arizona ponderosa pine forest, a fire-dependent system unnaturally modified by fire suppression over the past century. During May to October 1997-1999, we employed up to 70 pitfall arrays to sample lizards over 6990 array-days. At each array, we described macro-vegetative cover, stand, and microhabitat characteristics. Sceloporus graciosus responded to habitat variation at all three spatial scales. Adult S. graciosus were widely distributed among cover and stand types. However, reproductive success and hatchling abundance were highest in the most open cover (meadow) and stand (savannah) types, and lowest in pure ponderosa cover and dense ponderosa stands. Adult females replaced themselves annually only in meadows, savannahs, and forest with a deciduous component. Eumeces skiltonianus adults and juveniles were least abundant in meadows, but females replaced themselves each year in meadow and ponderosa-pinyon-juniper vegetative cover and in savannahs. Hatchlings were least abundant in intermediate- and high-density ponderosa stands, whereas juveniles of both species were most abundant in areas containing a deciduous tree component. Both species were present in plots having lower percent duff groundcover than at plots containing no lizards. Increased tree densities, canopy closure, and litter accumulation influenced distributions of both lizards. Furthermore, abundance and reproduction in these lizards were generally optimized in habitat with features most similar to that present prior to fire suppression activities and in areas containing a deciduous tree component.
41415318|The tadpole of Plectrohyla arborescandens is described. This tadpole resembles other Plectrohyla by having labial tooth row formula 2(2)/3 and large submarginal papillae. Plectrohyla arborescandens differs from the other species of Plectrohyla with overlapping distributions and known larvae, by having uniserial marginal papillae surrounding the oral disc. We suggest that the tadpole of Plectrohyla cyclada is the one presently assigned to Plectrohyla sabrina.
10.2307/1563643|Gravid females frequently become associated with a potential nesting site well in advance of oviposition. During the reproductive season, females reduce their foraging and become generally less active. Nutritional intake is greatly reduced and results in a significant decrease in dry body weight as compared to male controls.
10.2307/1562719|The oviducts of several species of caecilians are modified for maintenance of fetal development through metamorphosis. Nutrition is provided by secretions from epithelial cells of the duct. Nutritional demands on the parent are great. It is concluded that the species-specific fetal dentition is functional in obtaining nutrition in the oviduct, in contrast to previous suggestions. This mode of viviparity is found in members of three of the four families of caecilians.
4092952| Desert Tortoise surveys and management in the Sonoran Desert typically exclude intermountain valleys, where tortoises are generally thought to be absent. Furthermore, few regional-level surveys have been conducted because of difficulties in sampling in the complex landscape of Sonoran Desert upland habitat. We used distance-sampling to document macrohabitat use and regional density of Desert Tortoises across the 76,800-ha Ironwood Forest National Monument in Arizona. We observed 42 tortoises on transects, and distance sampling produced an estimate of 17,997 tortoises  150 mm carapace length (coefficient of variation = 41.5%) on the monument. Stratification by habitat type (steep topography with boulders, incised washes, or neither of these components) improved precision slightly (37.2%). Detection probability contributed least to density variance, compared to encounter rate and tortoise detectability on the transect line, indicating that assumptions of the technique were met during sampling. We found tortoises or their sign on 92% of transects in boulder habitat, on 71% that included incised washes, and on 25% in habitat with neither of these features (up to 1.7 km away from the nearest slope). Our results indicate that Desert Tortoises in the Sonoran Desert occur at low density, but are not absent, from intermountain valleys, and the maintenance of these valleys for tortoise movement between local populations may be important for long-term population viability. With this in mind, concentrating survey effort in areas with steep topography and boulders will increase tortoise encounter rate, result in better precision of regional density and trend estimates, and may also reduce survey effort. 
1565868| Although effects of temperature on sprint performances of lizards are well documented, influences of slope are much less well known, and few studies have examined comparable effects on stamina. We monitored locomotor performance of Eastern Fence Lizards, Sceloporus undulatus, at temperatures from 15-40C and slopes from 0-45 using two types of nonmotorized tracks. Body size did not significantly affect performance, but both sprint performance and stamina were significantly affected by temperature and slope. The optimal temperature for performance is approximately 30C. As slope increased, both sprint speed and stamina progressively decreased. Mean incline speeds were significantly greater than mean decline speeds at all slopes other than 0. There was a direct relationship between sprinting ability and stamina; lizards that ran faster tended to run for longer periods of time and distances. Neither sprint speed nor stamina data support the hypothesis that running velocity of lizards is limited by mechanical power output. 
10.2307/1564734| Eleutherodactylus lasalleorum and E. satagius are described from a high elevation pramo (3700-3850 m) in the northern part of the Cordillera Occidental of western Colombia. The former may be allied with frogs of the E. leptolophus group and the latter is the northern member of the E. curtipes group. Eleutherodactylus xestus is described from Cerro Tatam (4050 m); it is another member of the E. curtipes group. /// Se describe Eleutherodactylus lasalleorum y E. satagius del pramo (3700-3859 m.s.n.m) de la parte norte de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia. Parece que E. lasalleorum es una especies del grupo E. leptolophus y que E. satagius es el miembro del grupo curtipes que se encuentra ms al norte. Se describe Eleutherodactylus xestus del Cerro Tatam (4050 m.s.n.m.), otra especie del grupo E. curtipes. 
10.2307/1562807|MCZ 29788, a sea-snake from Broome, Western Australia previously identified as Lapemis hardwickii, proves, upon re-examinations, to be a specimen of Ephalophis greyi M. Smith, previously known from 3 specimens from the Broome region. Study of this specimen shows E. greyi to be similar to E. mertoni (Roux) in skull structure, but MCZ 29788 retains a vestigial left lung, not previously observed in any true hydrophiine. In many features, Ephalophis greyi appears to be the most primitive member of the Hydrophiinae and serves to link that subfamily with the genera Rhinoplocephalus and Drepanodontis, swamp-living Australian members of the Elapinae.
41415314|We validated the diagnostic tests for the high-profile disease, chytridiomycosis, in wild amphibian populations. We compared histological samples with a Taqman real time quantitative PCR (qPCR) test in five species of frogs at different times of the year at six locations in the wet tropics of northern Queensland. The sensitivity and specificity of each test were estimated using prior estimates from previous laboratory studies and Bayesian methods. The qPCR test was almost three times as sensitive 72.9% (62.7-82.2%) than histology 26.5% (19.9-33.9%) but was less specific 94.2% (89.3-98.6%) than histology 99.5% (98.4-100%), which was likely caused by contamination. Monitoring of the negative control success rate of the qPCR test is potentially a good indicator of specificity. It is likely that using individual gloves for handling amphibians reduces cross-contamination and, therefore, improves specificity rather than cause inhibition of the qPCR. Classifying indeterminate results as positive will increase the qPCR test sensitivity but will lower specificity to a lesser degree depending on the likelihood of contamination. Although PCR is the preferred test for amphibian populations, histology is useful when wishing to confirm a diagnosis of infection and in situations where observing the severity of infection and pathology in skin is desired. In this study, we show that diagnostic test validation in wild animals is now relatively straight forward using modern computing power and can incorporate prior knowledge generated from laboratory studies using Bayesian approaches.
10.2307/1565050|Dissection of 1198 specimens of 15 species of Australian Ramphotyphlops, combined with observations in the field and in captivity, provided information on the natural history of this group of small, fossorial scolecophidians. Females consistently outnumbered males in museum collections, and were larger than males in all species. Dimorphism in adult body size was determined mainly by dimorphism at maturation, and tended to be more extreme in larger species. Clutch sizes of 1-34 eggs were recorded, and were correlated with maternal body size in interspecific (and some intraspecific) comparisons. Reproduction seems to be highly seasonal, with the eastern R. nigrescens showing mating and vitellogenesis in spring, oviposition in midsummer, and hatching in autumn. Incubation is relatively brief in this species (approx. 48 days at 25 C). Stomachs of four species contained mostly (93-97%) ant pupae and larvae, of several genera. Termites, ant eggs, and adult ants were rarely eaten. Individual blindsnakes contained up to 1400 prey items. Larger typhlopids ate larger prey items in both intraspecific and interspecific comparisons. Perhaps because of its wider mouth, R. pinguis consumed larger prey items than did R. nigrescens of similar body lengths.
40060549|Brachycephalus hermogenesi is an endemic leaf litter inhabitant of the Atlantic forest of southeastern Brazil, whose original distribution included a restricted area near the boundaries of the States of So Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. We were surprised to find out, while conducting herpetofaunal surveys at Estao Biolgica de Boracia (EBB), that the background forest insect-like sound we have been searching for corresponded to calling individuals of the species. Males call during the day at high densities, hidden under the leaf litter. Individuals do not answer playback, seem to move very infrequently, and seem to ignore nearby calling activity. We gathered data on annual and daily vocal activity of the species at EBB, observing a total of 1,549 calls given by 31 focal individuals in November 2003 and 2005. The call varies from short single note calls to calls composed of groups of two to seven similar notes emitted at regular intervals. We also extend the known distribution of the species southward to the State of So Paulo.
10.2307/1564558|I investigated habitat use, home ranges, activity patterns, thermal biology, and energetics of sympatric western diamondback (Crotalus atrox), black-tailed (C. molossus), and tiger rattlesnakes (C. tigris) in the Sonoran desert of southeastern Arizona. The three species differed significantly in their choice of habitats, and habitats used by snakes were significantly influenced by season. Crotalus atrox used mainly creosotebush flats, but switched to rocky slopes during winter. Crotalus molossus frequented rocky areas, but during late summer and fall used arroyos and creosotebush flats. Crotalus tigris was a strick rock dweller during winter and spring, but used edges of arroyos during summer. Crotalus atrox, C. molossus, and C. tigris had mean home range sizes of 5.42 ha, 3.49 ha, and 3.48 ha, respectively. Over the year, snakes traveled a mean distance of 12.94 km (C. atrox), 14.99 km (C. molossus), and 9.29 km (C. tigris) during approximately 95 h of surface activity. During their active seasons, 1 March to 15 October, rattlesnakes traveled, on average, 50.8 m/d (C. atrox), 42.9 m/d (C. molossus), and 32.9 m/d (C. tigris). All three species had mean activity temperatures near 29.5 C. The three species showed no significant differences in home range, activity distances, or body temperatures. Rattlesnakes had standard metabolic rates similar to those of other Crotalus species, but only 40% those of other squamate reptiles of similar mass. They could fulfill yearly maintenance energy requirements with a prey quantity equivalent to 93% of their body mass; these energy demands could be met with 2 to 3 large meals.
43287316|A reliable method for the confirmation of sex in Geocrinia frogs is currently unavailable. A captive colony of Geocrinia frogs was used to determine whether fecal steroid analysis could be used as a noninvasive method of sex diagnosis in mature frogs. Linear discriminate analysis, using measured concentrations of fecal hormones, also was applied to establish whether a reliable model could be developed to verify the sex of juvenile frogs. Fecal samples were collected over a 3-month period from all frogs in 2010, and again from 12 frogs in 2011. Samples were pooled for each individual and tested for testosterone metabolites (TMs) and estrone conjugate metabolites (EMs) using enzyme immunoassays. Mature male frogs had higher (P < 0.01) mean TM : EM ratios than those of mature females, with mature male and female ratio ranges being 100% distinct. Mature female frogs had higher (P < 0.01) mean EM concentrations than those of mature males, but EM concentrations overlapped between the sexes in 18.7% of cases. There was no statistical difference (P = 0.28) between mature males and females in mean or range of TM concentration, with overlap between the sexes in 75% of cases. Juveniles had hormone values similar to those recorded for mature male and female frogs. Generated discriminate rules were able to distinguish (100%) between mature males and females and correctly classified the sex of 75% of the juvenile frogs. It was concluded that fecal steroid analysis offers a promising, noninvasive approach to sex identification in Geocrinia frogs.
10.2307/1564045|Two new species of the Australian skink genus Lerista are described. Both are geographically restricted to discrete biogeographic units of the coastal and central north western regions of Western Australia. They are Lerista allochira from North West Cape, a member of the Lerista muelleri group (Storr, Smith, and Johnstone, 1981), and Lerista kennedyensis, a member of the Lerista nichollsi complex (Storr, 1984), restricted to the Kennedy Range, Western Australia.
10.2307/1563371|A new species of Atelopus from the lower Pacific slopes of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia is distinguished from its congeners by the shape of the snout, skin texture, coloration, and lack of a distinct pattern. Some specimens of the new species previously have been confused with Atelopus longirostris.
1565847| Observed clutch frequency (OCF) and estimated clutch frequency (ECF) values were determined for the Green Seaturtle (Chelonia mydas) population that nests at Colola beach, Michoacn, Mxico. Mean OCF and ECF values were 2.5 and 3.1, respectively. The use of the ECF value herein reported to estimate annual number of black turtle nesting females at this rookery decreased by approximately 20% previous population estimates based on OCF values. 
4092917|We quantified reproductive phenology for three lizard species collected in northeastern Costa Rica over a 14-month sampling period from November 1973 to December 1974. Two species, a gecko (Lepidoblepharis xanthostigma) and a skink (Sphenomorphus cherriei), reproduced continuously at this site, whereas an anole (Norops limifrons) showed a slight decline in reproduction during the dry season. The decrease in reproduction of N. limifrons may reflect a response to moisture stress during the driest part of the year. When seasonal patterns of reproduction among 32 populations of Neotropical lizards with small clutch sizes were analyzed with the effect of phylogenetic relatedness removed, we found that seasonality of reproduction was strongly related to mean annual rainfall but not to number of dry season months.
10.2307/1563480|The water economies of two species of leopard frogs, Rana pipiens and Rana blairi, were investigated. Adult R. blairi showed a higher tolerance to water loss, or critical activity point (CAP) than similar aged R. pipiens. Juvenile R. blairi lost water at a significantly lower rate than juvenile R. pipiens when subjected to the stress of sunlight dehydration trials. Although no significant differences were observed in the CAP of juvenile frogs, there was a suggestion that juvenile R. blairi might also have a higher CAP than R. pipiens of the same age class. Significant differences in the length-to-weight ratios of juvenile (but not adult) frogs were observed between R. pipiens and R. blairi. Behavioral adaptations consisting of reduced activity levels and the assumption of a water-conservative posture were also observed in R. blairi during dehydration stress. Total percent body water between R. pipiens and R. blairi did not differ significantly.
1565772| An interesting case of reproductive specialization among anurans is found in bromeligen species that have reproductive cycles associated with bromeliads. In these species, male reproductive activity might be related not only to macroclimatic patterns but also to the availability of suitable microhabitats in bromeliads. This research focuses on one bromeligen species from Southeastern Brazil, Scinax perpusillus, that is territorial and uses bromeliads as retreat and oviposition sites. Two populations were studied (Intervales State Park and Boracia Biological Station, both in the state of So Paulo, Brazil). Available bromeliads vary substantially in morphology and position in the forest. Thus, we examined whether male frogs (1) select plants with specific eco-morphological traits, (2) call at specific time periods within the reproductive season, and (3) call more actively under certain temperature and humidity conditions. Patterns of male calling activity within the reproductive season varied between years and between populations, but calling was not more intense during warmer or more humid periods. It seems, then, that subtle patterns of phenology might vary significantly between populations and across years. Bromeliad choice was non-random. Males chose bromeliads that were larger, clustered, closer to the ground, and had higher reservoir pH, features that probably reflect the quality of the plants as oviposition sites and that might confer social advantages by reducing conflict with neighboring males. 
10.2307/1563970|The skulls of five genera and 13 species of gerrhonotine lizards were examined to accumulate characters useful in elucidating phylogenetic relationships within the group; 97 characters that are variable among the major species groups were found. Ancestral and derived states were estimated through outgroup comparison, using the other extant anguid subfamilies (the Anguinae and Diploglossinae) as outgroups. Among the hypotheses of relationships that were generated, one appears to be especially robust and it is compared with those of previous workers.
10.2307/1563476|Phyllodactylus wirshingi Kerster and Smith is shown to have two Hispaniolan subspecies and one on Puerto Rico. Differences involve head and body pattern and coloration in juveniles, and arrangement and number of postmental scales. Brief comments are made upon an hypothetical history of the genus in the Greater Antilles, and it is suggested that Ph. wirshingi was originally an Hispaniolan species that has invaded southwestern Puerto Rico.
10.2307/1563137|Sampling of adults from three semi-isolated proximate populations of Pseudacris triseriata in the mountains of north-central Colorado over a five year period revealed that there were no significant fluctuations in the frequencies of dorsal color phenotypes within any of the populations, although there were consistent and significant differences between pairs of populations with respect to these frequencies. Estimates of recruitment of new individuals into the adult population due to immature frogs maturing showed that, in most cases, two out of three frogs were new from year to year, thus the possible effects of reduced recruitment on maintaining the phenotypic stability are minimal. Estimates of adult population size indicate that one population has less than 100 frogs, a second has about 200, and the third about 500 adult frogs. These small population sizes, together with the stability of phenotypic frequencies, indicate that natural selection is probably a more important force than random drift in the differentiation of these populations and the subsequent maintenance of stable phenotypic frequencies.
1566138|Recently discovered snake fossils from the Pliocene (Blancan, approximately 2.85-2.95 MYBP) Taunton local fauna, Adams County, Washington, consist of eight genera and at least nine species representing one boid, seven colubrids, and one viperid. Two of the colubrids are extinct (Elaphe pliocenica and a new genus and species). Tauntonophis morganorum is described as a new genus and species. Biogeographically the Taunton snake assemblage is most similar taxonomically to the Recent snake fauna from the Klamath Mountains Province of southwestern Oregon. From a paleoclimatic stand point, the Taunton snakes suggest that this area of the Columbia Basin had a milder, moister climate approximately 2.85-2.95 MYBP.
10.2307/1564154|Dissection of 1607 snakes provided data on natural history of nine species of small (<50 cm snout-vent length), widely-distributed Australian elapids. Males and females matured at similar sizes, with males tending to attain slightly larger maximum sizes. All species examined are viviparous, and show similar litter sizes (means of 3 to 9 offspring) and offspring sizes (10 to 18 cm SVL). Fecundity and offspring size were highly correlated with mean maternal SVL in an interspecific comparison. Ovarian follicles of adult females undergo vitellogenesis in spring, with ovulation later in spring and parturition in summer. Museum collections of all species contain approximately equal numbers of adult males and females, as is generally true of small, cryptic elapids. However, the proportion of adult females which were gravid (<3% of adult females) was surprisingly low. All eight species of Unechis feed mainly on scincid lizards (83% to 100% of all prey items recorded), whereas the single species of Suta studied consumes a broad range of skinks (37% of prey items), geckos (17%), agamids (17%) and mammals (20%). The overwhelming importance of scincid lizards in the diet of Unechis is similar to the situation in most other small Australian venomous snakes.
10.2307/1565479| The previously unknown tadpole of H. giesleri is described and illustrated based on two populations from Southeastern Brazil, one from Rio de Janeiro State and the other from Esprito Santo State. The tadpole of H. microps is redescribed and illustrated from Rio de Janeiro State and compared with that of H. giesleri. The mean length of tadpoles of H. giesleri in stage 33 varies from 17.9 (Rio de Janeiro State) to 22.5 mm (Esprito Santo State). The mean length in H. microps is 16.9 mm. Tadpoles of H. giesleri have the terminal portion of tail orange (red in H. microps). These species can also be distinguished by other details of their color patterns. Remarkable differences of size and color were found between the two studied populations of H. giesleri. 
41415320|Most lizard species feed on small arthropods, and although some are omnivorous, only a few species are strict herbivores. We studied the diet of Dicrodon guttulatum, a teiid lizard endemic to the arid coastal deserts and dry forests of northern Peru. Herbivory by this lizard has been identified as a potential limiting factor in the regeneration of plant communities in these dry ecosystems. We collected gastric and fecal samples of adult males, adult females, and juveniles of D. guttulatum in different plant communities. Based on the ontogenetic shift from insectivory to herbivory observed in other herbivorous lizards, we hypothesized that juvenile D. guttulatum would have an omnivorous or insectivorous diet. We found D. guttulatum to be almost exclusively herbivorous (78-100%) and to feed largely (12-95%) on mesquite (Prosopis pallida) leaves and flowers across all plant communities and locations. Contrary to our predictions, there was a large overlap in diet between adult males and juveniles, whereas adult females were most likely to include plant species other than P. pallida in their diet. The consistency of herbivory in both juveniles and adults makes the origin of herbivory in D. guttulatum very interesting. We discuss potential factors promoting the evolution of herbivory in this species and the importance of lizard herbivory in the dry ecosystems of northern Peru.
10.2307/1565903|Loggerhead turtles (Caretta caretta) inhabit coastal waters of the Atlantic between Virginia and Massachusetts on a seasonal basis, but the nesting populations that rely upon this foraging habitat have not been determined. In this study, we examined mitochondrial DNA control region sequences to determine the origin of 82 stranded loggerheads, comparing their haplotypes to those observed among major nesting colonies of the Atlantic and Mediterranean. Our results indicated that the stranded animals originated from three demographically independent nesting areas: northeast Florida/North Carolina (25%), southern Florida (59%), an Quintana Roo, Mexico (16%). The data provide a demographic link between nesting populations and the Atlantic coast feeding ground aggregate and indicate that strandings in the northeastern United States remove individuals from these three nesting colonies, two of which show evidence of serious decline.
4092854|Capture/recapture studies significantly increase our knowledge of the natural history of anuran amphibians. Many different methods have been employed in these studies, but a number of new techniques still require experimental validation. During two reproductive seasons in a Cerrado remnant in southeastern Brazil, we investigated the movement patterns and habitat use of the pepper frog, Leptodactylus labyrinthicus, using a spool-and-line device. This low-cost device did not appear to interfere with the activities of the frogs and allowed for constant monitoring, showing precise routes of movement and great predictability of relocations. Both sexes were active at night. During the day, males and females made use of retreat sites under vegetation or in burrows constructed by small- and medium-sized mammals. Males and females did not use standardized routes; there were no significant differences between their movements, and movements were not correlated with body size or environmental conditions. Individuals are able to move further than 100 m per day, a characteristic that may enable this species to colonize or recolonize open areas.
10.2307/1565805| We conducted a field study to evaluate whether coverboards are as effective for sampling terrestrial salamanders as searching natural cover objects such as fallen logs and branches. At each of five sites in Jenkins County, Georgia, we paired a grid of 100 wooden coverboards (30.4  30.4  2 cm) placed 10 m apart with an adjacent grid containing only natural debris. Searches under coverboards detected most of the same species (Plethodon ocmulgee, Eurycea cirrigera, Eurycea quadridigitata, and Eurycea guttolineata) as found under natural cover (same four species plus Ambystoma opacum). However, salamanders were encountered at lower average rates under coverboards (0.8 salamanders per grid search) than under natural cover (2.3 salamanders per grid search), and this pattern was consistent across seasons. The number of salamanders encountered was more variable within coverboard grids than within grids of natural cover; mean encounter rates were equally variable among grids for the two techniques. For the most commonly encountered species (P. ocmulgee), individuals from coverboards were similar in size to those found under natural cover. There was no tendency for coverboards to accumulate more salamanders through time. Temperatures were more variable under coverboards than under natural cover. 
4498611|Knowledge of mating system characteristics can elucidate forces driving sexual selection. In male pitvipers, both male movement tactics and body size are predicted to be important determinants of reproductive success. We used radio telemetry to monitor free-ranging Sistrurus catenatus (Eastern Massasauga) from 2000 through 2002 to determine whether male movement tactics and body size affect mate acquisition. Reproductive behaviors peaked in late July to early August. Females were accompanied by multiple males per season (up to seven); however, male mate acquisition varied considerably with only three of 17 (18%) males located more than one female during a single mating season. During the mating season, male mean daily distance moved (21.8 m) and movement frequency (77%) were higher than during the nonmating season (13.3 m, 63%). Male movement rate and body mass were positively related to the number of females acquired, and heavier males were observed accompanying females as the mating season progressed. Our results indicate that both movement tactics and body size are important in the mating system of S. catenatus; however, direct measures of reproductive success will be necessary before assessing the intensity of sexual selection.
25599275|The Lesser Siren (Siren intermedia) is a fully aquatic salamander with functionally limited overland dispersal. Details of the ecology of this species throughout its geographic range and diversity of habitats are limited. In this study, I investigated the ecology of a presumably isolated population of S. intermedia in eastern Texas. The conservative estimated population density was 0.33 sirens/m with a standing crop biomass of 9.66 g/m. Growth rates averaged 0.022 mm/day in total length, slightly slower than other populations. Growth rate was not significantly different between males and females, nor was it correlated with size. The diet of the study population included at least 10 different taxa, of which tadpoles and snails (Order Basommatophora) were the most important prey. Like other populations, activity was highest during late winter and early spring, which coincides with the breeding season. The abundance of siren captures was weakly influenced by water temperature but not correlated with precipitation. Bite marks are hypothesized to be a result of siren courtship behavior. The abundance of males and females captured with fresh bite marks was significantly correlated with the number of gravid females. Because sirens are predatory generalists and represent a significant proportion of biomass in many aquatic environments, it is important to understand siren ecology throughout its geographic range and broad use of habitat types.
10.2307/1563566|Abundant new fossil material from the Valentine Formation of northeastern Nebraska confirms with a new species an earlier tentative report of the sub-tropical iguanid lizard Leiocephalus in Miocene, mid-continental North America. Iguanid Sceloporus and scincid Eumeces are also represented in this material. The report of Sceloporus is the first from Barstovian rocks of the United States. Considered together, mid-continental Miocene lizard faunas may be interpreted as reflecting changing Cenozoic climatic conditions.
4092862|The positive relationship between hind-limb length and perch diameter is well established in Anolis lizards, both among populations of some species and among species. Interspecific comparisons indicate that longer legs confer an advantage for increased running speed on broad substrates, whereas shorter limbs provide greater maneuverability on narrow surfaces. In this light, phenotypic plasticity for hind-limb length previously detected in Anolis sagrei may be adaptive because hatchlings exposed to only broad substrates developed relatively longer hind limbs for their body size compared to hatchlings exposed to only narrow substrates. We tested the generality of hind-limb length plasticity in Anolis by conducting a hatchling growth experiment on Anolis carolinensis, a distant relative of A. sagrei and a different type of habitat specialist. Similar to A. sagrei, A. carolinensis grown in cages with different sized perches showed hind-limb length plasticity, but the magnitude of difference between treatments and sexes was less for A. carolinensis than for A. sagrei. This finding suggests either hind-limb plasticity is widespread within the genus Anolis or that it has evolved independently at least twice.
10.2307/1563193| Estimates of the population densities of the tadpoles of Acris gryllus, Hyla avivoca, and Hyla cinerea in a small pond (ca. 4000 m<sup>2</sup> surface area) in east-central Mississippi were made during one summer. Acris constituted about 95.7 per cent of the population, with H. cinerea (3.5 per cent), and H. avivoca (0.8 per cent) following in sequence. At the peak population level, there were ca. 26,000 tadpoles (660 g dry weight) in the pond that provided ca. 13.7  10<sup>6</sup> kcal for consumption by predators. Age structure of Acris tadpoles reflected breeding surges stimulated by rainy periods. A bomb calorimetry sample of gutted Acris tadpoles yielded 5489 kcal/g body weight. 
41415304|Clay models have been used to investigate the relative antipredator effectiveness of cryptic and of aposematic coloration in litter frogs, but such studies do not account for possible differences in prey escape behavior. We examined the escape behaviors of two litter frogs, the cryptic Craugastor bransfordii and the brightly colored and toxic Oophaga pumilio, in response to a human predator. For all individuals, we measured the distance between the frog and the observer at the instant of flight and the distance between frog's initial and final positions in the field. The cryptic C. bransfordii had a shorter flight initiation distance than did nonvocalizing individuals of the brightly colored O. pumilio. In addition, we noted that vocalizing O. pumilio males had a shorter flight initiation distance than did either nonvocalizing male or female O. pumilio. These findings demonstrate that a cryptic and an aposematic litter frog differ in their escape response to a predator. These results also suggest that, at least in male O. pumilio, a trade-off may exist between predator avoidance and reproductive success via territorial defense and mate attraction.
10.2307/1565174|Typhlops grandidieri, a Malagasy blind snake known only from two syntypes collected in 1905, is redescribed on the basis of external and internal morphology. A lectotype is designated and a description of the soft anatomy is given for the paralectotype. Certain features indicate a relationship to the Leptotyphlopidae, particularly Rhinoleptus koniagui (single anal shield, absence of tracheal lung, cranially located heart, highly vascularized right lung with type G bronchial foramina). On the basis of total evidence these characters are considered convergent; presence of maxillary teeth and a costal/vertebral ratio of 1.8 confirm membership in the Typhlopidae while other anatomical features suggest a relationship to Rhinotyphlops simoni (reduced head shields, T-0 supralabial imbrication pattern, horizontal cutting edge on rostral, attenuated body, long tail, absence of apical spine). Because of the mosaic of conflicting systematic characters, in conjuction with the unique cephalic papilla-like projections, Xenotyphlops gen. nov. is proposed to accomodate the species T. grandidieri.
10.2307/1562897|A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from rain-forest habitats of the Organ Mountains of Brazil.
10.2307/1565358| We examined variation in advertisement calls of Bufo retiformis and its relatives in Arizona, USA. Calls were recorded from three populations of B. retiformis, two populations of B. debilis, and three populations of B. punctatus. For B. retiformis, pulse rate and dominant frequency, but not call duration, were significantly related to temperature, and dominant frequency and pulse rate, but not call duration, were negatively correlated with snout-vent length. In spite of its larger size, advertisement call frequency of B. retiformis was similar to B. debilis. The relationship (i.e., slope) between snout-vent length and frequency, and the relationship between body temperature and pulse rate, were not equivalent for these three taxa. Pulse rise time was similar in B. debilis and B. retiformis, and significantly different between these taxa and B. punctatus. In contrast to the intermediate calls typical of hybrids between closely related bufonids, advertisement calls of a hybrid B. punctatus  B. retiformis were aberrant, but more similar to B. punctatus rather than intermediate to the parental forms. The call producing mechanisms of B. debilis and B. retiformis are not similar to B. punctatus, and in a phylogenetic context are probably plesiomorphic relative to those of B. punctatus. 
40664957|A new species of Stefania (Anura: Cryptobatrachidae) from northern Amazonas, Brazil, is described. Three specimens were collected in the Parque Nacional do Pico da Neblina, municipality of So Gabriel da Cachoeira, Amazonas State, northern Brazil, at 110-850 m elevation in dense closed canopy forest and in dense closed canopy montane forest. The new species is characterized by head length slightly greater than width, canthus rostralis concave, toes more than 50% webbed, dorsal skin smooth or shagreened. This is the first record of a species of Stefania endemic to Brazil.
10.2307/1565482|We compared foraging behavior of juvenile and adult Texas spotted whiptail lizards, Cnemidophorus gularis, when preying on a non-dangerous species, the lab cricket Acheta domestica, and a potentially dangerous species, the scorpion Centruroides vittatus. When presented with scorpions as prey, both naive juveniles and presumably experienced adult C. gularis executed prolonged and violent attack sequences. In contrast, when presented with crickets of similar sizes, lizards exhibited an abbreviated, less violent foraging sequence. Certain actions like head shaking with prey clutched in the jaws and throwing of prey, which were always present in the foraging repertoires of adult and juvenile lizards when foraging on scorpions, were almost never present when foraging on crickets. In addition to the effect of prey type, scorpion size also affected the attack sequence executed by adult lizards. More total attacks and more violent attacks were directed toward large scorpions than toward small scorpions. These experiments indicate that C. gularis may distinguish between different levels of risk associated with foraging on different types and sizes of prey, and that further, this ability to distinguish is present in naive individuals and is likely an innate response.
4092932| Vocalizations are important in anuran communication, especially during the breeding season. Calling affects spatial organization of males at breeding sites, promotes attraction of new individuals to the chorus, and attracts mature females for reproduction. We describe four distinct vocalizations (advertisement calls, sporadic calls, and two types of aggressive calls) emitted by adult males of Scinax fuscomarginatus. With the exception of the advertisement call, the remaining descriptions are novel. We also describe calling sites, calling season, and nightly calling activity. Fieldwork was made in a fragment of Cerrado (Estao Eclogica de Itirapina), Municipalities of Itirapina and Brotas, State of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. At this ecological station, S. fuscomarginatus exhibits a complex acoustic repertoire, social interactions and a prolonged reproductive pattern similar to observations of congeneric species at other localities. 
1566056| We undertook skin-grafting between populations to determine whether Aspidoscelis rodecki originated from single, or multiple, parthenogenetically capable hybrids. We transplanted 292 skin grafts within and between the two most geographically distant populations, considering only grafts in animals surviving more than 45 days. Two hundred fifteen grafts were analyzed. Histocompatibility within (100%) and between (97.9%) populations suggests that A. rodecki was derived from a single, parthenogenetically capable, hybrid. /// Con el objeto de establecer si Aspidoscelis rodecki se origin de uno o varios hbridos partenogenticos realizamos transplantes de piel entre individuos de diferentes poblaciones. Transplantamos 292 injertos de piel dentro y entre individuos de las poblaciones ms distantes geogrficamente. nicamente 215 injertos fueron analizados, ya que consideramos aquellos individuos que sobrevivieron ms de 45 das. La histocompatibilidad dentro (100%) y entre poblaciones (97.9%) indica que A. rodecki se origin de un solo hbrido partenogentico. 
10.2307/1565128|The responses of lymphoid and non-lymphoid tissues of Rana pipiens to a reportedly virulent strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC#27853) were assessed by intraperitoneal injections of graded doses of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (10<sup>7</sup>-10<sup>8</sup>/ml). Frogs kept for 10-14 days at 22 and 29 C were examined with respect to spleen weight, spleen cell density, and presence of viable P. aeruginosa within the spleen. Inoculation of very high doses of P. aeruginosa had no significant effect on mortality at the lower treatment temperatures, but was a significant cause of mortality at higher temperatures under high stress conditions. Spleen mass and spleen cell density were dose-dependent.
4498530|Little is known of Four-Toed Salamander (Hemidactylium scutatum) habitat use, despite the species' extensive range and elevated conservation status. We investigated species-habitat relationships that predict H. scutatum nesting presence in Maine at wetland and microhabitat scales by comparing microhabitats with and without nests. We created logistic regression models, selected models with AIC, and evaluated models with reserve data. Wetlands with nests were best predicted by shoreline microhabitat of Sphagnum spp., wood substrate, water flow, blue-joint reed grass (Calamagrostis canadensis), meadowsweet (Spiraea alba), steeplebush (Spiraea tomentosa), sensitive fern (Onoclea sensibilis), and absence of sheep laurel (Kalmia angustifolia) or deciduous forest canopy. Within occupied wetlands, shoreline microhabitat where nests occurred was best distinguished from available, unoccupied shoreline microhabitat by steeper shore, greater near-shore and basin water depth, deeper nesting vegetation, presence of moss spp. and winterberry (Ilex verticillata), and a negative association with S. alba, leatherleaf (Chamaedaphne calyculata), and K. angustifolia. These models of wetland and microhabitat use by H. scutatum may assist ecologists and managers in detecting and conserving this species.
4092957| A new species of Bolitoglossa of the Bolitoglossa dunni group is described from an isolated mountaintop in western Honduras. Color and pattern are the most distinctive features of the new species. Less than 1 ha of forest remains on the isolated mountain peak at the type locality, making the new species the most endangered salamander species known in Honduras. /// Una nueva especie de Bolitoglossa del grupo Bolitoglossa dunni se describe de una cumbre aislada en el occidente de Honduras. El color y el patrn son las caractersticas ms distintivas de la nueve especie. Menos de 1 ha de bosque queda en la cima aislada en la montaa de la localidad del tipo, haciendo a esta especie la especies de salamandra con mayor riesgo de extincin de las conocidas para Honduras. 
10.2307/1565984|A new species of Paramesotriton is described from northern Laos. This represents the first record of Caudata from the country. The species is placed in the genus Paramesotriton based on osteological characters. It differs from all other members of the genus in dorsal color pattern and reduced tongue development.
10.2307/1565232|Blood samples were collected from 386 gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) on 53 sites in Florida to determine exposure to a pathogen (Mycoplasma agassizii) that causes upper respiratory tract disease (URTD). One-hundred fourteen (30%) of the tortoises were seropositive, indicating that they had been exposed to mycoplasma and had developed a detectable immune response. Another 20 (5%) were considered suspect. The remaining 252 (65%) tortoises were seronegative. The 114 seropositive tortoises were from 14 locations, 12 of which were public lands. Thirty-nine percent of the 386 tortoises showed one or more clinical signs of URTD. Nasal lavage samples were collected from 89 tortoises on eight of the 53 sites. Four tortoises (4%) from three sites were positive, indicating presence of mycoplasma. A different mycoplasma was indicated on each of the three sites.
40060548|The developmental environment can have lasting effects on posthatching phenotype in oviparous animals. Innate immune response is one important component of fitness in vertebrates because it provides a generalized defense against infection. In addition, because male vertebrates are at a higher risk of infection than females, males may benefit more from increased innate immunity than females. We determined the effects of incubation temperature on the innate immune response of hatchling map turtles (Graptemys) by incubating eggs at a range of male and female producing-temperatures and assessing plasma complement activity in the resulting hatchlings. We found a significant effect of incubation environment on circulating complement in hatchling Graptemys ouachitensis, with male-producing temperatures yielding the highest innate immune response. Most important, these results demonstrate that immune response is affected by developmental environment in a species with environmental sex determination, potentially resulting in sex differences in the ability to fend off pathogens.
10.2307/1563973|A comparative study of reproductive processes and habitats of northern and southern populations of Batrachyla taeniata was carried out in Chile. Differences in reproductive traits are related to climatic variability, particularly amount of rainfall and water availability. The most important difference is in the reproductive mode, namely that clutch and egg sizes are modified without changes in size of females.
10.2307/1565293|We reported previously that Indian free frogs, Polypedates maculatus, periodically wipe themselves with mucus-borne lipids secreted from cutaneous mucous glands. When dried, these skin secretions decrease water loss but provide only modest resistance to cutaneous evaporation when compared with lipid barriers of so-called "waterproof" species of tree frogs. Aqueous mucous secretions also allow frogs to increase evaporative water loss when they are expelled repetitively during sweating. In P. maculatus, spontaneous sweating of mucous secretions was shown to begin at threshold body temperatures of approximately 30 C, compared with 39-40 C in the waterproof species. Here we report that Indian tree frogs voluntarily tolerate body temperatures in the range 28-38 C when they are normally hydrated and exposed to direct sunlight. In contrast, dehydrated tree frogs (approximately 16% of body mass) avoid direct sunlight when body temperatures increase above the 30 C threshold for sweating. Basking tree frogs respond to thermal stress by sweating, panting, and adopting lighter skin coloration, with the result that body temperatures are maintained 10-15 C lower than equilibrial temperatures of a dry model frog in sunlight. Both field and laboratory observations suggest that during periods of combined heat and drought, P. maculatus secludes itself in sheltered microenvironments where body temperature equilibrates below 30 C to avoid rapid losses of water to thermally induced sweating. This behavior contrasts with that of the "waterproof" anuran species which remain more exposed and tolerate considerably higher body temperatures without sweating.
10.2307/1564905|Multivariate analyses indicated that body temperatures of free-living savanna lizards (Ameiva ameiva, Cnemidophorus lemniscatus, Kentropyx striatus, and Anolis auratus) are influenced by sex, environmental temperatures, and amount of food in the stomach. Male C. lemniscatus have lower temperatures than females during the breeding season. Higher ambient temperatures were generally associated with higher body temperatures, except for C. lemniscatus whose body temperatures appear to reach a plateau (39 C) when air temperatures exceed 30 C. Cnemidophorus lemniscatus with more food in their stomachs had higher temperatures but the relationship was weak and may not be direct. The environmental and physiological factors affected different species in different ways and their effects on mean body temperatures varied seasonally in some species. Seasonal variation in body temperatures of the lizards studied was not necessarily related to reproduction or feeding success and so might not be predicted before an experiment. Seasonal variation in the body temperatures of K. striatus (4-5 C) was greater than differences among most of the species. The variability in response to environmental and physiological factors makes interspecific comparisons of "eccritic" temperatures difficult.
10.2307/1565639|Anecdotal accounts from chance encounters with overwintering anurans predominate the literature. There have been few systematic studies detailing overwintering habitats in anurans. We used radio implants to determine overwintering habitats of the green frog, Rana clamitans, in southern New York state. We report on 23 frogs tracked up to 38 weeks during 1995-1997. Green frogs made extensive movements in late fall away from summer breeding ponds primarily to areas of flowing water in streams and seeps. We suggest that these sites are chosen because they remain unfrozen and provide adequate oxygen for survival. The seasonal shifts in habitat preference we observed have important implications for amphibian and wetland conservation.
10.2307/1564766|An eight-year survey of a population of the sleepy lizard, Tiliqua rugosa, near Mt. Mary in South Australia, resulted in 10,771 random encounters of active adult lizards. Among this sample there was a significant change from a male bias in spring samples to a female bias in summer samples. This change coincided with the end of the period when males were paired with females. It appeared that the change resulted from a relatively larger decline in male than in female activity after mating. A similar trend was found in direct observations of the time active and distance moved per day of lizards in pairs at Mt. Mary, and of male and female lizards at another site near Tickera (also in South Australia). Males were more active than females in the spring before mating occurred. Females became more active than males in the summer, after mating. This asymmetry in seasonal activity patterns may be a component of the asymmetrical distribution of reproductive costs.
40060539|Some studies have described a negative effect of toe clipping on return rates of marked anurans, but the return rate is limited in that it does not account for heterogeneity of capture probabilities. We used open population mark-recapture models to estimate both apparent survival (
1565858|Previous studies have demonstrated the accumulation of arsenic, cadmium, selenium, strontium, and vanadium in livers of Southern Watersnakes fed fish from a coal-ash contaminated site. Our study is the first to investigate effects of trace element accumulation on cytology of snake liver. Snakes were born in the laboratory and raised for one or two years on diets consisting of varying proportions of contaminated fish. The majority (71%) of snakes fed contaminated prey did not exhibit any differences in liver histology when compared to control snakes fed an uncontaminated diet. In the remaining contaminant-exposed snakes, some aberrations were noted. The most prevalent pathology involved the proliferation of collagen fibers that resulted in narrowing or occlusion of sinusoids and increasing the mass of the intersinsuoidal parenychma. Fibrosis of the liver as a result of chronic injury has been reported previously in reptiles, but this is the first report that links such tissue damage to dietary contamination.
4498562|We report the earliest fossil record of a Pigmy Rattlesnake (Sistrurus) on the basis of a trunk vertebra from the Late Miocene (Clarendonian NALMA) Pratt Slide local fauna of Nebraska. Vertebral characteristics of the genus are discussed, and the fossil was diagnosed mainly by the presence of a zygosphenal spine. This record suggests Sistrurus existed as a distinct lineage prior to the Late Miocene and that the genus has been present on the central Great Plains for at least five million years.
10.2307/1562896|The sexual behaviour of the European Smooth Newt, Triturus vulgaris (L) is described and some elements of this behaviour not previously described are reported. There is a prolonged period of male display, incorporating visual, olfactory and tactile stimuli, at the end of which a spermatophore is deposited by the male and may be picked up by the female. In the course of a sexual encounter between two newts this sequence is usually repeated a number of times. Some variables that affect the success of spermatophore transfer are discussed. The behaviour is unlike that of most urodeles in that there is virtually no contact between male and female at any stage. The sexual behaviour of this species is discussed as a functional system and some factors that may have influenced its evolution are discussed.
10.2307/1565902|Many sea turtle conservation projects include hatcheries where eggs are incubated and cared for, until hatchlings emerge and are released to the sea. Unfortunately, hatchlings are often retained for prolonged periods in hatchery enclosures after emerging from the sand. During this time they continuously crawl around, burning limited energy reserves, and missing valuable hours of darkness during which they would normally distance themselves from shore. We hypothesized that these forms of interference impair hatchling swimming behavior and, in turn, reduce survival rates during offshore migrations. We used hatchlings of Chelonia mydas in laboratory experiments to determine effects of retention in hatchery enclosures on hatchling swimming speed and behavior. Our results indicate that hatchery operations have a detrimental effect on hatchling behavior. Swimming speed decreased by over 12% with six hours of retention in the hatchery. Swimming style also varied with prolonged retention. Hatchlings frequently used a dog-paddle swimming style (rather than the more efficient powerstroke) after several hours of retention. This deviation in normal swimming style, coupled with decreased swimming speeds, likely hinders hatchling offshore migrations and reduces survival rates.
10.2307/1565538| I studied the use of calling and retreat sites by Phyllodytes luteolus in an ornamental bromeliad garden where phytotelmata in bromeliad leaf axils are abundant. I investigated individual spacing and activity patterns. Among the nine bromeliad species cultivated in the garden, the frogs used Vriesia neoglutinosa and plants structurally similar to it more than expected according to their availability. Phyllodytes luteolus uses V. neoglutinosa in its natural habitat. For one bromeliad species (Sp 1), frogs used proportionally more those plants that were higher (57.7  8.4 cm above ground), had lower pH (4.94  0.88), and deeper phytotelmata (5.38  2.09 cm). Plant height, phytotelmata depth, and pH had no influence on frogs' choices in the other bromeliad species tested. Males were active all night, and calling activity was highest immediately after sunset. Some males called during the day. Males did not exibit aggressive behavior towards other males, including those intruding onto their calling sites. The high availability of phytotelmata for calling and retreat in this modified environment may have influenced the low levels of aggression observed for this population of P. luteolus. 
25599204|An innate immune defense of frogs against microbial pathogens is secretion of antimicrobial peptides from skin granular glands. This study aimed to characterize the activities of skin antimicrobial peptides against seven different opportunistic bacterial pathogens associated with bacterial dermatosepticemia, a fatal infectious disease of frogs, including Aeromonas hydrophila, Chryseobacterium meningosepticum, Citrobacter freundii, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus mirabilis, and Serratia liquefaciens and the bacterial saprophyte Lactococcus lactis. Natural peptide mixtures from African Clawed Frogs (Xenopus laevis), Green and Golden Bell Frogs (Litoria aurea), Southern Bell Frogs (Litoria raniformis), and Brown Tree Frogs (Litoria ewingii) were assayed for bacterial growth inhibition. Peptide mixtures from X. laevis, L. aurea, and L. raniformis inhibited the growth of C. freundii, K. pneumoniae, P. aerugionsa, and L. lactis with the peptide mixture of X. laevis having the strongest inhibitory effects on these pathogens and also inhibiting the growth of C. meningosepticum. Similarly, X. laevis produced more active peptides per unit surface area than did L. aurea or L. raniformis. The peptide mixture of L. ewingii was not active against any pathogen. Three pathogens abundant in skin microbiota including A. hydrophila, P. mirabilis, and S. liquefaciens were resistant to peptide mixtures of all tested species. Therefore, although the activities of skin peptides could control several different opportunistic pathogens including C. freundii, K. pneumoniae, P. aerugionsa, and C. meningosepticum and the saprophyte L. lactis, it is suggested that some opportunistic pathogens such as A. hydrophila, P. mirabilis, and S. liquefaciens may have coevolved to resist skin peptides.
41415265|Over the past three decades the Booroolong Frog (Litoria booroolongensis) has declined across the majority of its range, with prdation from introduced fish hypothesized as contributing to this decline. In this study we undertook an experiment in artificial enclosures to test the propensity for three introduced fish species (European Carp, Cyprinus carpio; Redfin Perch, fluviatilis; and Mosquito Fish, Gambusia holbrooki) to prey on L. booroolongensis tadpoles. We manipulated the presence-absence of refuge habitat and alternative prey to examine how these two factors may affect tadpole predation risk. All three fish species consumed L. booroolongensis tadpoles, with juvenile C. carpio consuming nearly all tadpoles in all treatments. The provision of rocks within enclosures did not reduce the proportion of tadpoles consumed for any of the fish species examined; however, there was a reduction in the proportion of tadpoles consumed by P. fluviatilis and G. holbrooki when alternative prey were present. Although L. booroolongensis currently persists in streams inhabited by these introduced fish, this study supports the likelihood that these species are having a negative impact on populations of this endangered frog.
10.2307/1562899|Morphological and histochemical studies were performed on mast cells of three species of lizards: Ameiva ameiva Linnaeus; Tupinambis teguixin Linnaeus; and Tropidurus torguatus Wied. The greatest amounts of mast cells were found in the tongue, stomach, small and large intestines and mesentery. Smaller amounts were observed in other organs. The cytoplasmic granules of mast cells of these animals were amphoteric. Besides being metachromatic, the granules were PAS positive; PAS positive granules and Alcian blue positive granules could be seen intermingled within the same cell. For a comparative study, Rana catesbiana Shaw and Leptodactylus labyrinthicus Spix were used. The amphoteric character was also observed here, where the cytoplasmic granules of mast cells presented acidophilia and/or basophilia. A weak positivity to PAS and a few Alcian blue positive granules could be observed. It may be assumed that the acidophilia of mast cell granules may be a normal property for lower vertebrates and the so-called "summer cells" or "Stilling cells" which have been observed in the interstitial tissue of adrenal gland of some amphibians are actually mast cells and not mast cells derivatives, as proposed by some authors.
4498553|A new species of scincid lizard of the genus Lipinia is described from isolated localities in Borneo, from Sabah, Sarawak, and Kalimantan. The species was formerly allocated to Lipinia quadrivittata (Peters, 1867), a species known from the southern Philippines and Sulawesi in eastern Indonesia. The new species is compared with congeners from Borneo and other parts of Southeast Asia and the South Pacific and is diagnosable in showing the following combination of characters: small body size (SVL to 40.6 mm); external ear opening absent; lower eyelid with a clear spectacle; midbody scale rows 20; longitudinal scale rows between parietals and base of tail 46-50; lamellae under toe IV 16-17; supralabials 6; infralabials 6-7; subcaudals 68-74; and dorsum tan brown with dark gray-brown stripes. Although morphologically similar to the arboreal L. quadrivittata, the new species from Borneo differs in coloration and its preference for terrestrial habitats. In addition, analysis of DNA sequence data from 293 base-pairs of the cytochrome b gene for the new species and four congeners (Lipinia leptosoma, Lipinia pulchella, Lipinia noctua, and L. quadrivittata) demonstrates it is a separate lineage (> 15% sequence divergence from its sister taxa L. quadrivittata) with an independent evolutionary history. 2 Corresponding Author.
10.2307/1564046|Twenty bog turtle, Clemmys muhlenbergii, colonies were studied in Carroll, Baltimore, and Harford counties, Maryland, to determine habitat characteristics, population size, and movements and home range. Thirty-six habitat variables at each colony site were used in statistical analyses to examine the relationship between indexes of population size and habitat characteristics. Based on principal components analysis, the greater the index of population size, the more likely the colony was located in a circular basin with (1) spring-fed pockets of shallow water, (2) a bottom substrate of soft mud and rock, (3) dominant vegetation of low grasses and sedges, and (4) interspersed wet and dry pockets. Of the nine sites where populations could be estimated, we found from 7 to 213 turtles/ha of wetland habitat. Bog turtles were active for six months in Maryland. Home ranges were larger in males (0.176 ha) than in females (0.066 ha) and overlapped considerably among individuals of both sexes. Home ranges rarely extended far beyond the transitional edge of the wetland. Although turtles had small activity areas, they moved extensively within those areas. Winter retreats were shallow, just below the upper surface of frozen mud and/or ice. Four of eight turtles monitored moved in and out of winter retreats from November through March. Conservation efforts should focus on protection of a wetland network that allows movement and gene flow among populations to minimize the effects of local extinctions.
10.2307/1563083|Certain selected morphological and osteological characters were examined on available samples of adults and larvae of the genus Desmognathus from different localities in eastern Texas to determine if character variations exist. Although major variations were not found throughout the different localities, lesser character differences were observed; however, the latter characters were extremely variable, often differing within one locality. Hence, diagnostic values were established only when all characters were considered together. Statistical analysis of differences vs. localities indicated that no distinct geographic pattern existed. Texas specimens were found to be different from specimens referrable to D. brimleyorum and D. fuscus from near their type localities. Based on morphology, color patterns, and habitat preference, adult and larval forms from Texas were considered closely related if not conspecific with specimens referrable to D. auriculatus from Louisiana, Mississippi, and Florida.
4498554|The southern-most nocturnal Gecko Homonota darwini from Patagonia, Argentina, exhibits a long cycle of gametogenesis, and females usually skip a year of reproduction. This annual to biennial cycle for females and a fixed clutch size of one egg results in a mean annual reproductive output of 0.75, which is one of the lowest values found in lizards. The life-history traits, summarized here for H. darwini, are closer to phylogenetically distant species from similar latitudes (Argentina, South Africa, New Zealand, and Tasmania) than with congenerics from lower latitudes in Argentina. We postulate that the affinities found among different reptile lineages living at similar latitudes in the Southern Hemisphere are the result of convergence. The short activity seasons and the low mean temperatures seem to select for prolonged reproductive cycles, low reproductive output, long lifespan, late maturity, and enhanced parental care of fewer offspring.
1566061| We examined clinal variation in body size in the Texas Horned Lizard, Phrynosoma cornutum. We used principle component analysis of 10 morphological characters taken from 230 horned lizards from localities between 100W and 105W longitude, from central Mexico to southeastern Colorado (23.75N to 38.09N latitude). Females (N = 114) and males (N = 116) were treated separately. The first principle component (size) accounted for 68.4% of the variation in males, with a significant decrease in PC1 score with increased latitude (P < 0.0001, R<sup>2</sup> = 0.243). In females, the first principle component accounted for 71.9% of the variation, with a significant decrease in PC1 score with increased latitude (P < 0.0001, R<sup>2</sup> = 0.306). There was no significant variation in PC1 with longitude (P = 0.388). 
1566168| Phylogeography of Hydromedusa maximiliani was assessed by sequencing a 416 bp fragment from the mtDNA control region. Based on this fragment, 18 haplotypes were detected among individuals from four populations throughout southeastern Brazil. Two major geographical groups could be distinguished, a western population represented by individuals from So Paulo state, and an eastern population, represented by individuals from Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais states. Divergence dates of 8-16 million years ago for eastern and western H. maximiliani populations fit orographical activities resulting in Serra do Mar and the Serra da Mantiqueira mountain uplifts during Pliocene and Miocene. 
4092939| Phylogenetic relationships of Corallus caninus phylogeny were examined with DNA samples from five geographically disparate localities from across the range of the species (Guyana, Venezuela, Brazilian states of Par and Rondnia, and Peru). The Peruvian sequence was the most divergent (16.2%) and the closest relative of a clade including Brazilian, Guyanan, and Venezuelan populations. Within the latter clade, the most basal lineage was from the state of Par, followed by the state of Rondnia, which was the closest relative of populations from the Guiana Shield. Preliminary morphological data paralleled molecular results, and it is likely that a separate species of Corallus currently included in C. caninus occurs in the upper Amazon. 
10.2307/1563918|It has been widely noted that many species of lizards extend the tongue frequently under natural conditions. Although several reasons, including chemoreception, have been hypothesized for this behavior, sufficient quantitative data have not been collected to indicate its importance. We compared baseline rates of tongue extrusions for six different families of captive lizards and found significant differences between all six families. The range of variation in frequency was from a low of 3.4 tongue extrusions/30 minutes for the Cordylidae to a high of 299.5/30 minutes for the Teiidae. The frequency of tongue extrusions was: Cordylidae < Iguanidae < Gerrhosauridae < Scincidae < Helodermatidae < Teiidae. An increase in the frequency of tongue extrusions seemed to be correlated with increased bifurcation of the tongue. Possible uses of this tongue extrusion are explored for the six different families. The differences in frequency of tongue extrusion in different families may indicate the relative importance of the tongue-Jacobson's organ system.
10.2307/1565415|We studied the foraging activities of six frog species in their natural habitat, the leaf litter of tropical rain forest in central Amazonia. To describe intraspecific ontogenetic change in general activity during foraging, we used four indices of general activity (movement frequency, velocity when moving, time spent moving, and total distance moved). The association between each of the four indices and the size of frogs varied among species. The indices of foraging activity do not represent independent information. Therefore, we reduced the dimensionality using a single ordination obtained by multidimensional scaling, and investigated its relationship to frog size and type and size of prey. There was a significant relationship between the combined index of foraging activity and frog size in three of the six species. Foraging activity predicted the intraspecific change in the type and size of prey for Eleutherodactylus fenestratus, partially for Adenomera andreae, Epipedobates femoralis, and Dendrophryniscus minutus, and not for Bufo cf. typhonius and Colostethus marchesianus.
43287397|We report on the reproductive biology of Rhacophorus vampyrus (Rhacophoridae, Anura) from the Lang Bian Plateau in southern Vietnam. Unlike most other members of the genus Rhacophorus, R. vampyrus is a phytotelm breeder and reproduces in water-filled tree hollows. The species shows a unique tadpole mouthpart morphology not reported for any other anurans: presence of a specific serrated horny arch on the upper jaw and two large, fang-like horny teeth on the lower jaw. This, together with the presence of a large extensible stomach and relatively short digestive tract length, indicates an adaptation toward macrophagous feeding. We observed two clutch types in R. vampyrus: fertilized eggs included in a typical foam nest and unfertilized eggs, apparently having a trophic function, enveloped by dense mucous. The digestive tracts of all tadpoles examined contained up to 40 trophic eggs and showed no remains of any other food. Keratinous mouthparts undergo considerable remodeling during tadpole development presuming the change of feeding mode in ontogeny. We speculate that these findings indicate that the tadpole of R. vampyrus is an obligatorily and highly specialized oophagous type with unique mouthpart structures. The advanced form of parental care, including the maternal provisioning of unfertilized eggs, is reported for the first time for the genus Rhacophorus and is the second documented record for the Rhacophoridae.
1566051|In New England, temporary pool-breeding salamanders inhabit terrestrial forested habitats for the majority of the year. Wetland regulations and forestry Best Management Practices rarely consider the upland areas surrounding breeding pools for protection. Those that do, generally establish buffer zones that are insufficient to protect salamander populations. A better understanding of the area requirements and upland habitat preferences of pool-breeding salamanders is needed to develop biologically relevant buffers for conservation. I used radiotelemetry to investigate the postbreeding emigration and terrestrial habitat use of two syntopic mole salamander species. Sixteen adult salamanders (eight Ambystoma jeffersonianum, and eight Ambystoma maculatum) were radiotracked for a mean of 164 days (SE = 5.1). Eleven individuals were tracked to overwintering sites (five A. jeffersonianum, and six A. maculatum). Emigration distances from breeding pool edge varied widely (range = 30-219 m) with a mean of 112.8 m (SE = 19.9) for both species combined. Combining data from this and other studies, a salamander "life zone" that would encompass 95% of the population was calculated, resulting in an area extending 175 m from a pool's edge. Two types of small mammal burrows (deep vertical tunnels, and highly branched horizontal tunnels) were used almost exclusively as terrestrial refuges. In general, Jefferson and Spotted Salamanders used well-shaded, deciduous forest stands with abundant logs and stumps. Their habitat use also showed a strong association with vertical mammal tunnels, suggesting that this resource may be limiting. Biologically defined salamander life zones should be identified as critical wildlife habitat and considered in forest management strategies.
10.2307/1565019|Distribution, diversity and relative abundance of snake species on roads through desert grasslands in Arizona and New Mexico were compared to data in a previously published survey conducted about 30 years ago. We found a significant shift in the relative abundance of snake species: Thamnophis marcianus and Crotalus atrox have increased in relative abundance and C. scutulatus has decreased. These changes are correlated with succession of local Semidesert Grasslands to Chihuahuan Desertscrub. Analysis of distributions of Crotalus revealed that C. atrox was more common than C. scutulatus in scrub habitat while C. scutulatus was more common in the remaining grasslands.
10.2307/1565088|Eggs of the turtle Chrysemys picta bellii from four western Nebraska populations were incubated under laboratory conditions to compare egg size and hatchling size as measures of offspring size among populations and in the context of maternal body size. Generally, hatchling size (mass and carapace length) was linearly related to egg size (mass, width, and length) and did not vary between the two years of the study or among populations after adjusting for egg size. However, hatchling carapace length adjusted for egg width was greatest in a population with the most elongate eggs indicating that linear egg measurements may not be useful for interpopulation comparisons. The smaller range of variation, but greater variability in hatchling size relative to egg size and a narrow range of maternal body sizes (carapace length and mass), seemed to preclude a correlation between maternal body size and hatchling size within two populations. In two other populations, hatchling carapace length, egg width, and egg length increased with maternal carapace length by a common slope, although egg wet mass had a steeper slope than did hatchling wet mass. It is probable that under natural incubation conditions (e.g., warmer, drier, and more variable), hatchling mass may increase only slightly or not at all with maternal body size. My results suggest that both hatchling and egg size should be considered in turtle life history studies, particularly for models that predict delayed sexual maturation when offspring size and survival increase with maternal body size and age.
10.2307/1565016| The reproductive and fat body cycle of the tropidurid lizard Liolaemus lutzae was studied in the tropical seasonal habitat of Restinga da Barra de Maric Rio de Janeiro, southeastern Brazil. Females have a marked seasonality in reproduction (September to March), possibly correlated with rainfall. Females store fat in fat bodies during drought periods, investing it in the production of the first clutch in the beginning of the reproductive season. Recruitment of juveniles began in the middle of December and ended in May-June of the following year. The minimum size at maturity for females (51.5 mm SVL) was smaller than that of males (61.1 mm SVL). Clutch size varied from one to four eggs, most frequently two. Female body size explained only a small part of the variation in clutch size. The simultaneous occurrence of yolking follicles and corpora lutea in some females together with the abdominal palping of marked females in the field suggests that at least two clutches may be produced per reproductive season. 
10.2307/1563479|Nests of Crocodylus porosus maintain warm and stable temperatures. Mean temperature levels are determined by heat generated within the nest and by seasonal variations in ambient temperatures. Daily fluctuations of nest core temperatures are caused by diel variations in heat available to the nest from external sources. Maximum nest core temperatures may occur at night due to the slow transfer of heat from the surface to the centre of the nest. No significant differences in temperature characteristics of nests of different materials were found in this study.
23327170|Habitat structure is known to influence community interactions, but its role in amphibian communities is unclear. Our objective was to examine the effect of vegetative habitat structure, in the presence or absence of a crayfish predator (Orconectes rusticus) and the herbicide atrazine, on Green Frog (Rana clamitans) tadpoles reared in 10-L microcosms in the laboratory. Crayfish predators reduced Green Frog survival and affected activity levels and microhabitat use differently depending on the presence or absence of vegetation. In treatments with vegetation, activity levels were greater when the crayfish predator was absent, but in treatments without vegetation activity levels did not differ between predation treatments. Moreover, when a crayfish predator was present, tadpoles in treatments without vegetation spent more time at the water surface than tadpoles in treatments with vegetation. This preference for the water surface may have been a compensatory behavioral change to avoid predation because it was less likely that crayfish would be able to reach the upper portion of the tank in the absence of vegetation. Atrazine exposure did not significantly influence susceptibility of Green Frog tadpoles to crayfish predators or alter the impact of vegetation. We found that vegetative habitat structure can mediate predatorprey interactions; however, contrary to previous studies we found that the presence of vegetation may benefit the crayfish predator and result in both lethal and sublethal effects on tadpole prey.
10.2307/1563651|The hemipenes of the Madagascan boas Acrantophis madagascariensis, A. dumerili, and Sanzinia madagascariensis are described in detail. All Boinae (sensu Underwood, 1976) have basically similar hemipenes. The Madagascan boas, and Candoia, however, share two variations (i, a vertical flounce with which the transverse flounces fuse, and which travels obliquely distad over and around the arms; ii, sulcal forks that do not extend to the tips of the arms) which are not found in other members of the Boinae.
41515015|Two species of Ratsnake (Elaphe bairdi and Elaphe obsoleta) inhabit different environments in Texas but come into contact with one another on the southwestern edge of the Edwards Plateau. Morphological intergrades have been described by previous studies, yet no genetic evidence of hybridization has ever been reported. We tested for evidence of hybridization and population structure using geographic data, mitochondrial DNA, and microsatellite markers. Cytochrome-b fragments were analyzed for 23 E. bairdi and 33 Elaphe obsoleta lindheimeri from Texas using maximum parsimony and Bayesian-based approaches. All individuals were subjected to Bayesian assignment probability tests based on six microsatellite loci. Overall, sequence divergence was low within E. o. lindheimeri (0.1-0.5%), and higher within E. bairdi (0.1-2.16%). Significant structuring was recovered from mitochondrial haplotypes but not from microsatellite genotypes. Phenotypic intergrades exhibited intermediate or incongruent species assignments based on their nuclear and mitochondrial genomes, suggesting admixture. However, gene flow between E. bairdi and E. o. lindheimeri remains strictly constrained to the zone of sympatry, and these separate lineages remain intact and independently evolving.
1565780|Previous molecular work on salamanders of the genus Bolitoglossa recognized the "Magnadigita" clade, which includes members of the Bolitoglossa dunni, Bolitoglossa franklini, and Bolitoglossa rostrata species groups. One well-supported clade within the B. dunni group includes Bolitoglossa celaque, Bolitoglossa synoria, and an undescribed taxon from El Salvador and Guatemala. I describe the last taxon as a new species based on published molecular evidence and morphological differences among closely related congeners. The new species is readily distinguished from B. celaque by dorsal coloration and from B. synoria by foot morphology.
10.2307/1564182|Specimens of Vipera collected in 1897 that were originally included in Vipera bornmuelleri as syntypes and later synonymized with Vipera xanthina are here classified as Vipera bulgardaghica sp. nov. The type locality is "Kar Boghaz" (snow pass), Bulgar Dagh, Cicilian Taurus in south central Turkey. The new species is related to both Vipera xanthina and V. bornmuelleri but distinguished from both in scalation and color pattern. The new taxon has fewer scales in the first and second circumocular rings, a single scale between eye and supralabials, and its upper preocular elongated, in contact with nasal or nearly so.
10.2307/1565270|Terrestrial salamanders are increasingly being used in long-term amphibian monitoring programs. Issues concerning the validity and repeatability of most relative abundance indices derived from terrestrial salamander studies are poorly resolved, however. We examined the feasibility of using area-constrained searches of natural cover objects for monitoring terrestrial salamanders by comparing repeatability and power for a monitoring design that uses yearly site averages versus single annual searches of individual plots. We also examined the validity of using surface searches as measures of population decline by comparing mean surface catch on 15 plots with a mark-recapture estimate of absolute population size. We conducted annual searches of 54 plots at 18 sites in eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina for 2-3 years. Repeatability was moderate to high for both site and individual plot values (mean r<sup>2</sup> = 0.59-0.96 for different taxonomic groupings), and average repeatability for individual plots was only slightly lower than repeatability based on site averages for three searches per year. For a given annual sampling effort, greater power is achieved by conducting a single annual search of plots rather than repeated seasonal searches (three plots per site) at fewer sites. Surface catch was strongly correlated with the estimate of absolute population size (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.66-0.84; P < 0.003) for the two numerically dominant groups (P. jordani and the D. ochrophaeus complex) and for all salamanders pooled. These relationships suggest that area-constrained searches of natural cover objects generate valid indices for use in monitoring programs.
10.2307/1563741|The relationships between foraging mode and diet were investigated for two large nocturnal anurans, Bufo marinus and Leptodactylus ocellatus. The results agree with generalizations derived from studies of diurnal leaf-litter frogs in that the bufonid forages more widely and eats more social insects than the leptodactylid. However, the morphologies of the species and sizes of prey eaten did not fit the generalizations. These relationships may be habitat specific.
10.2307/1562795|Detailed observations on the posterior courtship/pre-coital actions of a pair of Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis are presented. It is hypothesized that courting males of this species effect initial cloacal alignment with females via adjustment (after twining) of the tail tip to approximate that of the female. Final location of the female's cloaca is believed to be by means of knobbed supra-anal keels. A hypothesis on the functional value of enlarged basal hemipenial spines is presented. It is suggested that these hypotheses might apply to other natricine snakes. Some lines of investigation centering on these hypotheses are introduced.
10.2307/1564103|Advertisement calls of Bufo debilis and B. punctatus were analyzed to determine if variation in calls was correlated with body size and temperature. Advertisement call variables (frequency, pulse rate or call duration) were not significantly correlated with male snout-vent length in either species. All three call variables, as well as call rate, were significantly correlated with body temperature in B. punctatus; analysis of temperature-induced variation was not possible for B. debilis. Observations revealed that males of neither species employ satellite or active-searching strategies to locate females in choruses. To initiate amplexus a female approaches a calling male and the male continues to vocalize until the female makes physical contact. These results are discussed in relation to previous work with bufonids.
4092873|Southern Torrent Salamanders (Rhyacotriton variegatus) range widely from north coastal Oregon to northern California but are a patchily distributed inhabitant of forested seeps and headwater springs. We collected bimonthly samples of this species from managed forest sites in the Mad River watershed, Humboldt County. Larvae were measured, marked, and released, but a limited number of transformed individuals were preserved for laboratory analyses. North coastal R. variegatus breeds annually and has an extended courtship and egg-laying period. Cloacal spermatophores were present in gravid females from February through June, and oviposition likely occurs spring through fall. A prolonged larval period (hatching to metamorphosis) lasts 2-2.5 yr; transformed females require another 1.5-2 yr until first breeding, and clutch size averages 7.5 eggs. Adult sizes, size at metamorphosis, and developmental times were comparable to north coastal Oregon R. variegatus, suggesting that a simple north-south, harsh-mild environmental dine does not influence developmental time for coastal populations. Unexpectedly, clutch size and size-fecundity relationships for the California population of R. variegatus were more similar to Rhyacotriton cascadae, an inland, northern species with longer larval periods and larger sizes at metamorphosis, than to R. variegatus in north coastal Oregon. Rhyacotriton variegatus has limited rates of population increase because of long generation times and low fecundities and could be highly sensitive to frequent disturbances that impact numbers.
43287396|We describe the external morphology, buccal cavity, chondrocranium, hyobranchial skeleton, and musculature of the tadpole of Rhinella achavali (Achaval's Toad), along with its karyotype. Tadpoles were found in a small, permanent stream and were showing schooling behavior. The characterization of the proposed species groups within Rhinella cannot be currently improved using external larval morphology, as it seems to be much conserved within this genus. Buccal cavity morphology confirms the distinctiveness of the Rhinella veraguensis (Veragua Toad) group with respect to other known Rhinella. Musculoskeletal character states are similar among bufonids, although within this family the basal genus Melanophryniscus shows some distinctive states. The karyotype is composed of 22 bi-armed chromosomes, with secondary constrictions in pair 7, as found in the other species in the Rhinella marina (Marine Toad) group.
10.2307/1563994|Annual and seasonal movement patterns of map turtles were determined along 6600 m of the Raystown Branch of the Juniata River, Pennsylvania, over 5 years. Annual movement patterns included: (1) late spring and summer movement, primarily by males, upstream from a deep, slow area and return downstream to it in late summer; (2) late spring downstream movement, mainly by males, from the deep, slow area and upstream return to it in late summer; and (3) confinement to small areas along the river. High water appeared to inhibit normal upstream movement and enhance downstream movement. Movement of juveniles was mainly downstream and that of gravid females upstream; movement patterns of most females were unclear. Males, females, and juveniles showed no significant differences between distances between successive captures within years. Several long distance movements over short time spans were recorded; the highest was 1457.5 m/day. Over the years, range lengths of males were significantly greater than those of females.
10.2307/1562730|The authors studied the herpetological fauna of Somuncura and Lago Buenos Aires formations. A new genus, Vilcunia, with one species V. silvanae, is described. Other lizards belonging to the genus Liolaemus are described under the names Liolaemus archeforus, Liolaemus ruizleali and Liolaemus elongatus petrophilus.
1566054|We provide data on sexual dimorphism, reproductive biology, and mating aggregations of the Argentine Boa Constrictor (Boa constrictor occidentalis), a poorly known, threatened species. Snakes were examined by ultrasound scanning between 1998 and 2001. Adult females were 14% longer and 51% more massive than adult males. Litter size averaged 25.05 and increased significantly with maternal body size. Reproductive activity was seasonal and associated, with vitellogenesis and spermatogenesis occurring during the dry season (April to September). The ratio of reproductive to nonreproductive females was 1:1, suggesting females do not reproduce annually in this population. Reproductive females were in better body condition (mass relative to body length) than nonreproductive females, indicating that a female's initial "decision" to reproduce in any given year may be driven by her body condition (storing enough energy for a long period before expending it on reproduction: "capital breeder"). Aggregated boas were found only during the dry season. The high proportion of solitary reproductive males and the operational sex ratio (male:female, 1.53:1) suggests a system of "prolonged mate-searching polygyny."
10.2307/1563845| Sceloporus grammicus microlepidotus is a viviparous, high altitude Mexican lizard. Specimens were obtained from several locations in the Parque Nacional de Zoquiapan, Mxico, Mxico. This species exhibits a reproductive cycle in which ovulation and fertilization occur during the fall and parturition the following spring. Vitellogenesis begins in late July in female S. g. microlepidotus, whereas the onset of testicular development occurs in February. Thus, it appears that male reproductive activity is initiated in spring, whereas female reproductive activity is initiated in the fall. The adaptive significance of fall courtship and mating in lizards is discussed. 
4092907|Boa constrictor was first documented on the island of Aruba in April of 1999. By the end of December, 2003, 273 B. constrictor had been captured. These snakes ranged in size from neonates (0.30 m total length) to large adults (2.8 m total length) and included at least two gravid females. Boa constrictor is currently distributed islandwide with the highest frequency of occurrence in the southern and southeastern portions of the island. The increasing frequency of occurrence, extensive distribution, and size diversity of B. constrictor indicate that a large, reproductively successful population is established on Aruba. The diet of the B. constrictor on Aruba was determined from the examination of stomach content and scat samples (N = 47). Birds comprised 40.4%, lizards 34.6% and mammals 25.0% of 52 separate prey items identified. A correlation was found between snake total length and prey mass (
10.2307/1563090|The name Bufo simus based on juvenile toads, presumably from western Panama, cannot be applied to any known species from the region. The name has most recently been used for a single adult male from the Pacific versant in Panama: Chiriqui: above Boquete on the Almirante trail, 1500 m. This toad represents a previously unnamed species to be called Bufo peripatetes. The new form is closely allied to Bufo holdridgei of the Cordillera Central of Costa Rica and Bufo fastidiosus of the Atlantic slopes of the Cordillera de Talamanca-Chiriqui of southeastern Costa Rica and western Panama. Members of this group lack external and middle ear structures and have the hands and feet forming fleshy pads. Although superficially resembling other lower Central American bufonids lacking a tympanum (Atelopus, Bufo periglenes and Crepidophryne) osteological and myological features relate the group to lowland cognates of the valliceps group. Bufo coerulescens Cope is based upon young Bufo fastidiosus. The types of B. simus are certainly mislabeled and probably represent young stages of a Peruvian-Bolivian species, since their collector, Josef Warszewicz, visited the latter region as well as Panama.
40060520|Ground coloration is highly variable in many reptile species. In turtles, ground color may correspond well to the background coloration of the environment and can change over time to match new surroundings in the laboratory. Variable carapace and plastron coloration across three habitat types were investigated in the Black Softshell Turtle, Apalone spinifera atra, by measuring individual components of the RGB (Red, Green, Blue) color system. In general, A. s. atra carapaces were darker in turtles from lagoons than in turtles from playa lakes. Red and green values were significantly different among all pairs of habitat types, but blue values differed only between the playa lakes and lagoons. Mean color components (RG only) for each population were significantly correlated with corresponding values for the bottom substrate, indicating a positive association of carapace and habitat substrate color components. In contrast, plastron ground color RGB channels showed no significant differences between habitat types and no significant correlations with substrate RGB. These results suggest that dorsal background matching in A. s. atra may be responsible for some of the variation in this key taxonomic trait.
1566058|Stress resulting from an investigator handling or observing subjects can affect the results of field studies. However, effects of such stressors are rarely investigated. In a series of field experiments in southern Florida we examined whether display behavior of territorial male lizards (Anolis sagrei) was affected by length of time between handling and observation, length of time that an observer was present and length of time that subjects were held in bags prior to release in the field. Proportion of headbob displays that were bobbing displays did not differ between periods 1-2 h after release and one day later, nor did it differ between periods 0-1 h and 1-2 h after the first appearance of an observer. Similarly, this proportion did not differ between animals previously held in bags for one night and those held for two nights. Our results contrast with other studies that have shown strong effects of several social factors on the proportion of bobbing displays. Thus, the factors we studied appear unimportant in affecting the display behavior of A. sagrei.
10.2307/1563478|Decoy nests were placed in 3 areas within the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, N.J. and monitored daily. Contents of the nests were either dove eggs, chicken eggs, turtle eggs, or ping-pong balls. Raccoons (P. lotor) appeared to be the main predators of these nests. Mass predation of turtle nests was not restricted to the turtle nesting season. Predation occurred in the absence of visual sighting of turtles, secretions emitted during nesting, and egg scent. Decoy nests did not have to be located near shoreline habitat in order for intense predation to occur.
43287334|The Diamond-backed Terrapin (Malacletnys terrapin), endemic to the brackish marshes of the eastern and Gulf of Mexico coasts of the United States, is a threatened species in Massachusetts with populations suffering drastic declines in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. To assess the potential effects of population bottlenecks on contemporary levels of genetic variation, we analyzed 219 bp of a major histocompatibility complex class I gene region (MHCI) by direct sequencing and single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis and six microsatellite loci from three locations around Cape Cod, Massachusetts. No variation was found at the MHCI, despite finding appreciable levels of variation within and among populations at the microsatellite loci. We discuss alternative explanations for these results, and we propose that the lack of variation at the MHCI may be due to the effects of selection rather than demographic changes in terrapin populations.
41415279|Understanding the causes of population declines is difficult when the ecology of the organisms themselves is insufficiently known. The common South American toad, Rhinella arenarum, inhabits a wide variety of habitats. Their populations are abundant; however, life-history characteristics of the adult, including reproductive traits, are poorly known. We studied the reproductive ecology of R. arenarum for several populations in central Argentina during two breeding seasons (200708). Breeding activity was compared for the two seasons with respect to variation in habitat variables. Females deposited a mean of 23,226.67 eggs per clutch (N=10), and snoutvent length did not show any significant effect on the number of eggs. Spawning females lost 27% of their mass when spawning occurred, and the heavier females had greater reproductive output. We found a significantly positive relationship between amplexed male and female snoutvent lengths, indicating size-assortative mating. Females in good body and somatic condition produced larger clutches independent of snoutvent length. Because clutch hydration in ponds occurs, reproductive effort as a function of body loss mass of spawning females is a more appropriate estimate of reproductive output for R. arenarum. Trends in the number of egg strings over several breeding periods can provide information about changes in population size. Long-term studies designed to monitor populations are needed to determine the impacts and consequences of environmental changes.
40983597|Mining can result in severe physical and chemical alterations of landscapes. Tar Creek Superfund Site, located in northeastern Oklahoma, was mined extensively for lead and zinc from the early 1900s until the 1970s and remains heavily damaged. We investigated the ecology of Red-Eared Slider Turtles (Trachemys scripta) from Beaver Creek within Tar Creek Superfund Site and two reference sites, Lake Carl Blackwell and Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge. We measured parameters, including body size, sex ratios, sexual dimorphism indices, and recapture and survival rates. Sex ratios were female biased at Tar Creek Superfund Site and Lake Carl Blackwell and male biased at Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge. Degree of sexual size dimorphism differed significantly among the three sites. Male T. scripta were significantly larger at Lake Carl Blackwell than at Tar Creek Superfund Site and Sequoyah National Wildlife Refuge. Females from Tar Creek Superfund Site were significantly larger than females from Lake Carl Blackwell. Survival and recapture rates did not differ significantly among the sites. Overall, we found no significant, consistent differences in population demographics of T. scripta inhabiting mined and unmined sites.
10.2307/1563408|Year-to-year variation in clutch size and the relationship of precipitation and clutch size was compared between island and mainland populations of Holbrookia propinqua. Clutch size showed a positive correlation with SVL in both populations, but the population with the smaller mean SVL (mainland) had significantly larger clutches. Mean clutch size of island females did not vary significantly among years and there was no correlation between rainfall and clutch size. There was significant variation in clutch size between years in the mainland population and mean clutch size was largest in the year having the highest winter rainfall. Interpopulation difference in mean clutch size may primarily reflect genetic adaptations to differing selective regimes, while year-to-year variability (or lack of variability) may reflect differences in interspecific food competition.
25599238|The transition from aquatic to terrestrial habitat is thought to be a period of high mortality for amphibians. We used radio telemetry to estimate survival and study factors influencing survivorship of newly metamorphosed Gopher Frogs (Rana capito). Predation was very high and only 12.5% of frogs survived their first month in the terrestrial habitat. All documented predation occurred during the frogs' initial 12 days in the uplands, and snakes (Coluber constrictor and Thamnophis sirtalis) were the major predators. Also, frogs were preyed upon by mammals and birds and killed by vehicles along dirt roads. Survival rates varied among ponds, with the survival rate at one pond being significantly lower than survival rates at three other ponds. Survival of frogs was dependent on their use of underground refuges, particularly burrows excavated by Gopher Tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) and small mammals. Using underground refuges reduced the risk of mortality to only 4% of that faced by frogs while in the open environment; in fact, all surviving frogs located a burrow within their initial eight days in the terrestrial habitat and remained there for the duration of tracking. Our results demonstrate the dependence of Gopher Frogs on underground refuges and suggest that the availability of burrows near breeding ponds influences survival of juveniles and, thus, the recruitment of adults.
40060554|A new species of Anomochilus is described from Gunung Kinabalu Park, Sabah, Malaysia (Borneo). The new species is diagnosed from the only two other known species in the genus by the combination of the following character states: SVL to 509 mm; an azygous parietofrontal; paravertebrals 269; transverse body rows 17 : 19 : 17; midventrals 258-261; subcaudals 7-8; dorsum unpatterned dark brown, except for pale flecks, one scale wide, on paravertebral region; large pale blotches absent on dorsum; flanks without light line; and a pair of large pale blotches present on either side of venter. A dichotomous identification key to the three currently known species of Anomochilus is provided. With three species of Anomochilus known for Borneo, the island is the center of diversification of this genus of presumably fossorial and cryptozoic snakes.
4498610|Wildlife biologists and managers are concerned about the effects of forest fragmentation and habitat loss on pond-breeding amphibian populations. Most research has assessed the effects of habitat composition at multiple spatial scales on the presence or absence of amphibians at breeding ponds. We were interested in the effects of habitat characteristics on amphibian population size and used Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica) and Spotted Salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) egg mass counts as an index. Between 2001 and 2005, we monitored 65 seasonal ponds within forested landscapes in the Pawcatuck River watershed of Rhode Island. Both species were detected in at least 88% of the ponds sampled. Egg mass counts for both species were highest in ponds that usually dried between early October and late November. Wood Frog egg mass numbers were positively associated with pond hydroperiod, size, and depth; location on glacial fluvial deposits; the extent of persistent nonwoody plant cover in ponds; and the area of upland forest within 1 km of the pond edge. Egg mass numbers were negatively associated with location on alluvium or dense till deposits, percent canopy cover, the number of buildings within 1 km, and the area of residential development within 1 km. Spotted Salamander egg mass counts were positively associated with pond hydroperiod, size, and depth, and upland forest area within 1 km. They were negatively related to location on alluvium. Multivariate models developed from within-pond variables explained more variation in egg mass counts for both species than those developed from landscape-level factors, but the best combined models suggested that habitat characteristics at both scales are useful in the prediction of breeding effort at individual sites. Given the continuing urbanization of southern New England and the ineffectiveness of wetland regulations in protecting required terrestrial habitat around seasonal ponds, proactive techniques also are required to assure the maintenance of pond-breeding amphibian populations.
10.2307/1565544|We studied the distribution and habitat of larval Ascaphus truei in first and second order streams of managed forests in north coastal California from 1993-1996. Of 72 streams randomly selected to relate landscape variables to the presence of A. truei, 54 (75%) contained larvae. Geologic formation was the only landscape variable that predicted the presence of A. truei in a stepwise logistic regression (SLR) model. A second survey was conducted to determine which habitat variables of stream reaches were related to the presence of A. truei. Larvae were found in 18 (37%) of 49 stream reaches with flows >1500 cm<sup>3</sup>/sec, and percent fines (negative association with frog presence), stream gradient (positive association), and water temperature (negative association) were the only habitat variables of 21 measured that entered a SLR model to predict the presence of A. truei. Only stream gradient differed significantly between reaches with and without tailed frogs; canopy cover, temperature, and forest age were not significantly different. A final survey to further define the microhabitat used by larval A. truei showed that larvae were found more often than expected in high gradient riffles and less often than expected in pools and runs. Occurrence of larvae was positively associated with cobble, boulder, and gravel substrates with lower embeddedness, and negatively associated with fine substrates. We discuss the comparative habitat requirements and sensitivities to land management activities of the two amphibian headwater stream inhabitants, A. truei and Rhyacotriton variegatus, in our study area.
10.2307/1563997|This study establishes the feasibility of measuring sexual isolation between populations of plethodontid salamanders. Sexual isolation between Virginia and Tennessee populations of Desmognathus ochrophaeus and between D. ochrophaeus and D. fuscus was studied by staging mating trials in the laboratory. The two populations of D. ochrophaeus showed statistically significant but incomplete sexual isolation. In contrast, we found nearly complete isolation between D. ochrophaeus and D. fuscus.
10.2307/1563828|A 2-year study was undertaken to survey the distribution of the eastern indigo snake (Drymarchon corais couperi) in Georgia and to characterize and delineate its habitat in the state. Data were gathered through questionnaires, follow-up interviews, intensive snake hunting, soil maps, vegetational analyses and satellite imagery. The majority of 511 sightings occurred in the Tifton Uplands of the Georgia Coastal Plain and were associated with deep, excessively drained, sandy soils along major streams. Winter sightings occurred almost exclusively on sandhills and in association with the burrows of the gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus).
10.2307/1563904| We previously showed that mean clutch size of Holbrookia propinqua from the Texas mainland was significantly larger than that of lizards from Padre Island (x = 4.7 mainland, x = 3.2 island) and we provided indirect evidence that mainland females lay an average of four clutches each year while island females produce three clutches. Despite their greater egg production, mainland females are smaller than island females. Thus, we studied H. propinqua from Padre Island and mainland Texas to assess the correlation of their differing reproductive potentials and body size with patterns of lipid deposition and utilization. The patterns of lipid deposition and utilization were similar in island and mainland populations. There was a significant positive correlation between lipid weight and SVL in juveniles. Juveniles used stored lipid for winter maintenance and/or growth in early spring. The quantity of lipid stored was generally similar in island and mainland counterparts, but adult females had significantly more fat than adult males of the same population due to the presence of yolk lipids. We suggest that the major difference in the two populations is not in the quantity of lipid stored prior to reproduction, but in the proportion of the total energy budget that is devoted to reproduction. Mainland lizards are probably smaller in size than island lizards because food availability is less and because a larger share of ingested energy is devoted to reproduction and associated activities rather than to somatic growth. 
10.2307/1563497|Population dynamics of the American toad, Bufo americanus, were monitored in two breeding ponds throughout an entire spring reproductive period. Locations of individual toads, as well as pairs found in amplexus, were recorded. While males greatly outnumbered females (7:1), the activity patterns of the sexes were highly correlated. A positive relationship was found to exist between the amount of activity and increased ambient temperature. The nature of individual animals' movements in the pond area were examined with special attention paid to differences between the breeding and nonbreeding segments of the population. Although breeding and nonbreeding animals spent the same amount of time in the pond area, breeding males were more active and breeding females were less active than their nonbreeding counterparts.
41415245|In South Africa, particularly Gauteng Province, populations of the large, explosive-breeding Giant Bullfrog (Pyxicephalus adspersus) are suffering increasing habitat loss due to encroaching urbanization. To investigate the spatial habitat requirements of this regionally threatened species, 70 adult frogs were radio-or spool tracked during five summers around a periurban breeding site. Male and female P. adspersus moved a maximum overnight distance of 350 m when returning to their burrows postspawning. On average, animals of either sex used one long-term burrow (LTB) in a summer. Four males each used a single LTB or burrowing area for two or three consecutive summers. The LTBs of females were situated almost 4 times further (mean = 446.8 m) from the seasonal dams where spawning occurred than those of males (mean = 131.0 m). Female body condition was significantly positively correlated with distance of their burrows from the seasonal dams (r s = 0.77). Limited evidence indicated that adult P. adspersus probably forage mostly within 20 m of their burrows. To protect the LTBs of all radiotracked animals a 950-1,000-m wide buffer would be necessary around the seasonal dams. Because adult P. adspersus seem to be philopatric, juvenile dispersal is predicted to be largely responsible for gene flow among populations.
10.2307/1563590|The gross and fine structure of the subdigital scales are examined in the iguanid genera thought to most closely resemble the ancestors of anolines: the basal iguanids (Morunasaurus, Hoplocercus and Enyalioides), Polychrus and the pre-anoline genera (Diplolaemus, Leiosaurus, Aperopristis and Pristodactylus). The basal iguanid genera share a number of features not found in the anolines: a large, asymmetrical keel that creates pre- and postaxial surfaces of the toe, and a bare or "honeycomb" microarchitecture over the scale surface. The honeycomb microarchitecture may be primitive for iguanids. The pre-anoline genera exhibit a number of clear similarities with the anolines, including 1) wide subdigital scales with little intrinsic contour and 2) a spinate microarchitecture. Based on stalk diameter and density, the spines of pre-anolines are homologous and appear to be homologous with those of the anoline genera, Anolis, Chamaeleolis and Phenacosaurus. In a morphological series consisting of Diplolaemus, Pristodactylus achalensis and P. torquatus, 1) lamellar-like scales appear under the second phalanx and the proximal portion of the first phalanx (the location of the pad in most anolines), and 2) variation in fine structure models the spinule, spine, spike, prong, and perhaps even the seta-prong portion of the anoline morphotypic series in fine structure. The spine-seta morphotypic series may be an evolutionary series. Pristodactylus torquatus is the most arboreal form examined and exhibits the closest approximation to the anoline pad, but it is not clear that the initial steps in pad evolution, for example, the origin of a spinulate fine structure, represent arboreal adaptation.
10.2307/1563202| A systematic review of the anoles (formerly known as Anolis concolor) of the western Caribbean islands of San Andrs and Providencia, Colombia, indicates that each island population forms a distinct species. The two species differ from each other in size, arrangement of cephalic scales, number of subdigital lamellae, color of the dewlap and venter, and habitat utilization. The San Andrs population should be known as Anolis concolor Cope, and the Providencia species as Anolis pinchoti Cochran. Anolis concolor is typical of single-anole-island species, being sexually divergent in size and habitat occurrence. Anolis pinchoti is smaller, and the sexes share the same habitat. Hypotheses considered to explain this condition were effect of geographic position, "failed invasions", predation by other lizards, and the possibility that A. pinchoti is a very recent colonist. 
10.2307/1563036|Late summer densities of leopard lizards (Crotaphytus wislizeni), western whiptails (Cnemidophorus tigris) and side-blotched lizards (Uta stansburiana) inhabiting a shadscale-bud sage community in southern Idaho were estimated by sight census at about 10, 8.5 and 10/ha respectively. Biomass and standing crop estimates for the total lizard population were calculated as 384 g/ha and 636 kcal/ha. These lizards subsisted almost entirely upon insects, particularly grasshoppers, ants and lepidopterous larvae. Caloric content of the food ranged from 4.9 to 5.2 kcal/g. Assimilation efficiency of these lizards living in the wild on natural diets ranged from 78 to 86 per cent. Water, ash and lean fractions of carcasses varied little seasonally. Fat content and live weight caloric density increased prior to torpor.
10.2307/1563821|Direct measurements of distances to nearest neighbor indicated that small, larval Ambystoma gracile were disproportionately associated with small nearest neighbors. Median distance between small animals was significantly less than that between large, neotenic animals and small nearest neighbors; median distances between either size class and large nearest neighbors were even greater. Small salamanders were relatively less likely to be found in deeper parts of the inhabited area. The results indicate size dependent spacing behavior.
10.2307/1563668|The study of the quantitative and qualitative variations in the genome of reptiles is of particular interest because of the crucial position this class has in the phylogenesis of tetrapods. From the quantitative standpoint reptiles (114 species have been investigated) show relatively reduced genome sizes compared with those of other vertebrates. Chelonia have higher DNA values than Squamata. The studies on the DNA compositional variations (data on 28 species) show some remarkable differences between Chelonia and Squamata. In Chelonia the quantitative variations are attributable to variations in the amount of all the repetitive and non-repetitive DNA fractions (highly repetitive, middle repetitive, single-copy DNAs). This situation is similar to that found in amphibians. In Squamata, instead, the differences in genome sizes are linked almost exclusively to repetitive DNA fractions, and a correlation is also noted between the degree of divergence in the DNA composition and the phyletic distance among the species investigated. A similar trend is observed also in mammals. The causes of the differences observed in the DNA evolution of reptiles have not yet been explained and various hypotheses can be formulated. However, further researches at finer levels of analysis seem necessary to clearly elucidate the evolutionary relationships among the various reptilian lineages.
40060573|Because they possess a highly unique long and projective tongue, chameleons have been viewed as strictly insectivorous and considered to use a specific tongue projection method in every feeding event. I report behavioral observations on fruit feeding by Furcifer oustaleti in the field as the first evidence of spontaneous feeding attempts on plant material by wild chameleons. Also, I present results of a feeding experiment to examine differences in feeding on fruits and insects. When chameleons fed on small fruits, most individuals directly picked up them with the mouth at short range, whereas chameleons almost always used tongue projection from a distance to capture small aerial insects. Such alternative feeding tactics occurred within individuals exposed to both foods over a short interval. These results suggest that chameleons discriminate food types to perform the appropriate feeding tactic to efficiently consume different types of food. When chameleons used the direct pickup tactic for fruit in the experiment, the tongue contacted the food item before the jaws did, suggesting that the chameleons have retained lingual prehension, the typical motor pattern of other iguanian lizards.
10.2307/1564855|We examined whether intrapopulational variation in egg size was correlated with developmental rates and metamorphic traits of natterjack toads (Bufo calamita) grown at different experimental densities. Mean egg size of siblings was positively correlated with both mean size of hatchlings at the initiation of feeding and mean developmental rates to the feeding stage. However, size at and survival to metamorphosis were not related to ovum or hatchling size. At high densities tadpoles had slower growth rates, longer larval periods, and lower survival, and were smaller at metamorphosis. Length of larval period was inversely related to early tadpole growth rate for all densities. Mass at metamorphosis was positively correlated to tadpole growth rate, except at high densities. Size at metamorphosis was inversely related to length of larval period at low densities, but relationships were inconsistent at higher densities.
10.2307/1562815|It has been recognized in both the popular and scientific literature that ultraviolet light plays a part in the lives of lizards. It has generally been assumed that ultraviolet light helps prevent or cure rickets although there have been suggestions in the literature that light quality may influence behavior. In this study, behavioral changes induced by ultraviolet light included threats to conspecifics in Dipsosaurus dorsalis and Crotaphytus collaris as well as an increase in the frequency of assertion displays in Dipsosaurus and an increased frequency of head nods in Agama agama. One of the more important physical factors in the environment of desert lizards is light.
10.2307/1563142|The genus Telescopus is comprised of various species and subspecies. Those forms which inhabit the northeastern Mediterranean area are all related to T. fallax Fleischmann 1831 and pose a special taxonomic problem, as recent research has revealed clines connecting them zoogeographically. Evolutionary aspects are discussed and the importance of a general revision of the species group is stressed. Telescopus hoogstraali was described in 1956 from Central Sinai. Since then additional material has been collected between the southernmost limit of T. fallax syriacus and the known area of distribution of Telescopus hoogstraali. Several transitional specimens collected in the area of Beer-Sheva show a cline in the number of dorsal bands from low numbers in the north to high numbers in the south. On the basis of transitional specimens, pholidotical identity and absence of sympatry of the two forms, Telescopus hoogstraali is placed as a subspecies of Telescopus fallax.
10.2307/1565455|We studied length of the larval period of tailed frogs (Ascaphus truei) by examining length frequency distributions of larvae collected from late 1993-1996 in nine streams within the redwood zone of north coastal California. Three streams had populations with a 1 yr larval cycle, four streams with a 2 yr cycle, and two streams with populations that switched from a 2 to a 1 yr larval cycle during our study. Of 14 additional streams sampled twice in 1996, 11 had populations with a 1 yr cycle and three had a 2 yr cycle. In populations with a 1 yr larval cycle, the youngest cohort was first observed in late fall, grew during winter and spring, and completed metamorphosis by late August-early September. No larvae were found during the fall. Streams with a 2 yr larval cycle contained larvae throughout the year, were significantly higher in elevation, and had significantly greater discharge than those with a 1 yr cycle. Summer water temperatures, stream aspect, and cover type were not related to length of larval cycle. We suggest that stream surveys for presence and abundance of Ascaphus truei be completed by early August in streams of the coastal zone of northern California.
10.2307/1564760| Activity patterns, diet, resource use, and thermal biology were investigated with the use of radiotelemetry in a population of Mexican beaded lizards in a tropical dry forest in coastal Jalisco, Mxico. Fifteen H. horridum ranging in mass from 36 to 1600 g were captured and marked within a 36 ha area. Growth rates of up to 15.5 mm/yr were observed. Diet consisted of eggs of spiny-tailed iguanas and other reptiles, and bird eggs and nestlings. Shelters were used in arroyos, on hillsides, and the forest floor. Trees were often used as shelters during the wet season. Mean home range size was 21.6 ha. Beaded lizards had a primary peak of surface activity at 1800 h, and a smaller peak at 0900 h. Seasonal differences in daily activity times were noted. Peak seasonal activity (17 d/mo) occurred in May and gradually decreased through the summer to a low of 1 d/mo in January. Beaded lizards, on average, spent 67 min above ground and traveled 236 m per activity bout, resulting in approximately 120 h/yr invested in surface activity. Minimum and maximum body temperatures recorded for resting H. horridum were 17.7 C (January) and 37.2 C (June). Mean monthly body temperatures ranged from 19.9 C in December to 28.5 C in July. Activity temperature range was 22.5-36.0 (x = 29.5 C). Activity temperatures were lower during the wet (x = 27.0) than during the dry (x = 30.2) season. Heloderma horridum is a more active, semiarboreal lizard than is H. suspectum, the only other living helodermatid. /// Patrones de actividad, dieta, uso de recursos, y temperatura fueron investigados en una poblacin de escorpiones (Heloderma horridum) mediante el uso de radiotelemetra, en una selva baja caducifolia cerca de la costa de Jalisco, Mxico. Quince individuos de H. horridum (con un rango del peso de 36 a 1600 g) fueron capturados y marcados en un rea de 36 hectreas. Se observ una tasa de crecimiento de hasta 15.5 mm/ao. Los escorpiones se alimentan de huevos de la iguana negra y algunas lagartijas, y huevos y crias de pjaros. El mbito hogareo promedio fue 21.6 ha. Se encontraron refugios en arroyos, acantilados rocosos, rboles, y en el suelo. Los escorpiones escalan y se trepan a los rboles especialmente en la poca Iluviosa. Los picos de actividad diurna en H. horridum fueron a las 0900 y 1800 horas, observandose diferencias estacionales en los tiempos de actividad. El pico de actividad (17 das/mes) ocurri en mayo y gradualmente disminuy durante el verano, hasta 1 da/mes en enero. En promedio, los escorpiones estuvieron 67 minutos fuera de los refugios y se movieron 236 m en cada perodo de actividad (aproximadamente 120 horas por ao). El rango de temperatura corporal media en descanso fue de 19.9 C en diciembre a 28.5 C en julio. En actividad, la temperatura corporal media de los escorpiones fue de 29.5 C (22.5-36.0); siendo ms baja durante la poca Iluviosa que durante la poca seca. H. horridum es ms activo y ms arborcolo que H. suspectum, el nico otro miembro de la familia Helodermatidae. 
40983586|In 2003, southern California experienced several large fires that burned thousands of hectares of wildlife habitats and conserved lands. To investigate the effects of these fires on the reptile and amphibian communities, we compared the results from prefire herpetofauna and vegetation sampling to two years of postfire sampling across 38 burned and 17 unburned plots. The sampling plots were spread over four vegetation types and four open space areas within San Diego County. Our capture results indicated that burned chaparral and coastal sage scrub plots lost herpetofaunal species diversity after the fires and displayed a significant shift in overall community structure. Shrub and tree cover at the burned plots, averaged across the second and third postfire years, had decreased by 53% in chaparral and 75% in coastal sage scrub. Additionally, postfire herpetofauna community structure at burned plots was more similar to that found in unburned grasslands. In grassland and woodland/riparian vegetation plots, where shrub and tree cover was not significantly affected by fires, we found no differences in the herpetofaunal species diversity or community composition. At the individual species level, Sceloporus occidentalis was the most abundant reptile in these areas both before and after the fires. We saw increases in the net capture rates for several lizard species, including Aspidoscelis tigris, Phrynosoma coronatum, and Uta stansburiana in burned chaparral plots and Aspidoscelis hyperythra and li. stansburiana in burned coastal sage scrub plots. The toad, Bufo breas, was detected at significantly fewer burned plots in chaparral after the fires. Additionally, we documented decreases in the number of plots occupied by lizards (Elgaria multicannata), salamanders (Batrachoseps major), and snakes (Coluber constrictor, Lampropeltis getula, Pituophis catenifer, and Masticophis lateralis) in coastal sage scrub and chaparral after the fires. We discuss the individual species results as they relate to such life-history traits as the susceptibility to initial mortality, the response to the altered postfire habitat, and shifts in the availability of potential prey. We foresee that a continued unnatural fire regime will result in a simplification of the southern California reptile and amphibian communities.
10.2307/1564052|In Israel, Testudo kleinmanni is active during winter. In summer the tortoises retreat to rodent burrows and their activity decreases. Decline of populations resulting from commercial collecting has resulted in its status as an endangered species. The behavior, activity, and thermal requirements of the species are examined.
41415302|A parasitological survey was carried out to determine the relationships between the helminth fauna and biological traits of the hosts in three Algerian populations of Podareis lizards belonging to two different evolutionary lineages. Size, sex, and locality of collection, as well as the infracommunities and component communities, were analyzed. Very low values of parasite infection parameters and diversity were found in all three populations. This is in accordance with the feeding habits of these lizard hosts, which only eat animal prey and no plant matter. Spauligodon saxicolae (Nematoda: Pharyngodonidae), a specialist in lizards, is reported here for the first time in Africa. This nematode was the dominant parasite species for the three populations of lizards regardless their phylogenetic lineage, size, sex, and environmental conditions.
41415248|We studied two closely situated (6.4 km distance) coastal populations of the Gopherus berlandieri in Cameron County, Texas. The Yturria Ranch population was monitored from 1972 through 1987, and the Reed Ranch population was monitored from 1977 through 1987. Tortoises were located by searching between grid lines 18.3 m apart that encompassed 3.3 ha on the Yturria Ranch and 2.0 ha on the Reed Ranch. Nine (3.7%) of 244 tortoises marked on the Yturria Ranch and 16 (10.5%) of 151 marked on the Reed Ranch died during the study. Timing of known deaths were distinctly different for the two sites, with nine tortoises found dead on the Yturria Ranch from 1983-87, whereas all known tortoise deaths occurred on the Reed Ranch from 1977-79. Annual survivorship estimates were higher for males and females on the Yturria Ranch, but survivorships at both sites were similar. Abundance of prickly pear (Opuntia engelmannii), on which tortoises feed, on the Yturria Ranch site may have contributed to a higher survivorship by providing high water content biomass during droughts and by providing cover that reduced predation.
10.2307/1564285|Mating calls and other vocalizations emitted in breeding areas by 11 leptodactylid and rhinodermatid species of the temperate austral forest in Chile were analyzed. Assemblages of sympatric calling species were always composed of a small number of species (4 maximum), which results in a simple acoustical environment relative to anuran communities in tropical rainforests. Acoustical separation among species is assured by differences in spectral and temporal components of the calls and diverse preferences for calling sites. Dominant frequencies were related to species size. The limited number of congeneric species coexisting in sympatry and the lack of mating calls in species of three leptodactylid genera contributes to the simplicity of the acoustical environment in southern Chile. Modes of call variation within and among genera suggest that the extant vocal diversity in this batrachofauna may have arisen during the course of independent evolutionary histories and that interactions among sympatric taxa have had a restricted role in these processes.
10.2307/1564423| Upon the basis of cranial characteristics, the Neotropical snake genera Tropidodipsas and Sibon are shown to be congeneric. In addition, Tropidodipsas shares with Sibon and other dipsadine genera a similar type of hemipenis and a common diet of gastropods. Sibon Fitzinger, 1826, is the senior name, and Tropidodipsas Gnther, 1858, enters its synonymy. Two species, T. fischeri and S. carri, are not generically allied to this group and must be reallocated to another genus. Tropidodipsas is reviewed historically and it has a long history of association with species of the dipsadine genera Sibon, Dipsas, and Sibynomorphus. The genus Sibon, now inclusive of Tropidodipsas, consists of 10 species in four species groups. A dichotomous key to the species and subspecies of Sibon is provided. 
10.2307/1562902|Morethia boulengeri, Menetia greyii and Lerista bougainvillii are all oviparous. The females ovulate in spring and lay their eggs several weeks later. The males' testes grow to maximum size in winter and contain sperm from late winter to early summer. Female M. boulengeri probably breed for the first time in their second year and probably lay only one clutch a year; some males, however, come into breeding condition in their first year. Male and female M. greyii probably breed in their first year. All 3 species eat a variety of invertebrates, mostly insects.
40665003|We manipulated hatchling cohort density in the Striped Plateau Lizard (Sceloporus virgatus) to investigate density dependence within the juvenile stage of the life cycle. Large-scale field enclosures (800 m) constructed of drift fencing with pitfall traps for monitoring dispersal were established in the preferred habitat of S. virgatus and treated with high (60) and low (20) densities of hatchlings. Enclosures were monitored over a 10-month period from August 1997 to May 1998 and replicated from August 1998 to May 1999. We found that per capita survivorship, individual growth rates, yearling body lengths, and the proportion of yearlings attaining reproductive maturity were negatively affected by cohort density. Conversely, there was a positive relationship between juvenile dispersal rates and cohort density. These results indicate that density has a significant influence during the juvenile stage of the life cycle and potentially plays a key role in the life-history strategy and population dynamics of S. virgatus.
4092961| Using mark-recapture methodologies, we estimated the number of adult Wood Turtles (Glyptemys insculpta) inhabiting an agricultural site in southern Qubec, Canada. Two estimates, made seven years apart, revealed that the adult population declined by 50% during this period. Different hypotheses likely to explain this situation are discussed, and, although none seems more likely than the others, our data suggest that this decline resulted from increased adult mortality and poor recruitment. 
10.2307/1564376| The Larch Mountain salamander Plethodon larselli Burns, is a potentially threatened species endemic to a narrow corridor along the Columbia River in the states of Washington and Oregon (Herrington and Larsen, 1985). Its reproductive biology is poorly understood. Males are 39-42 mm SVL and 3-3 years of age when they reach sexual maturity; females mature a year later, and are 44 mm SVL. At the onset of markedly increased precipitation in the fall, courtship is inferred from the presence of sperm masses in female cloacae. The number of eggs in a clutch ranges from 2-12 (x = 7.33) and is not significantly correlated with the size of the female. Large females may exhibit biennial ovarian cycles; however, many females above the minimum size for sexual maturity are non-reproductive and either become reproductive after reaching age 4 or have ovarian cycles >2 years. 
4092984|We describe activity patterns, diet, reproduction, sexual dimorphism, and thermal ecology of the semiaquatic teiids Crocodilurus amazonicus and Dracaena guianensis, from two localities in the Brazilian Amazon. Most C. amazonicus were first sighted in water or on open ground, were active during the hottest hours of the day, and usually had low body temperatures associated with substrate temperatures. Dracaena guianensis were found mainly perching on shrubs and used higher perches located closer to the center of lakes compared to C. amazonicus. Both species appear to rely primarily on crypsis to escape detection by predators but will dive into water as a final means of escape. Crocodilurus amazonicus has a broad diet which includes terrestrial and aquatic prey, particularly spiders and hemipterans, whereas D. guianensis feeds primarily on aquatic snails. No association between body dimensions and prey dimensions was evident. Sexual size dimorphism was not significant in either species, contrary to results reported for other teiids elsewhere, but males of C. amazonicus had relatively longer bodies and tails than females. Clutch size of both species was small relative to their body size and relative to other Amazon teiids, apparently influenced by their semiaquatic habits and by locomotor constraints. We found reproductive females during March (wet season) and July (dry season), suggesting an extended reproductive season.
10.2307/1563616|Cyrtodactylus himalayanus n.sp. is described from district Doda of Jammu Province (J & K State), India. The species is distinguishable from its nearest known relative C. angularis by the presence of reduced number of infralabials, feebly keeled rounded tubercles on dorsal body surface, well developed transverse subdigital lamellae, shorter hind limb, different color pattern and geographic distribution.
41515033|We examined the combined effects of sublethal concentrations of the pesticide diazinon and a nonnative predatory fish on the behavior and survival of amphibian prey. A 48-h experiment was performed in tubs containing predatory Western Mosquitofish and diazinon treatments (0, 0.5, 1.0 mg/L, and a solvent control). In "no-pesticide" treatments, the presence of fish reduced tadpole survival significantly. In the absence of fish, pesticide presence altered tadpole behavior (reduced refuge use) significantly but did not impact tadpole survival. In the combined presence of both fish and pesticide, tadpoles altered their behavior to become more active, and to hide less. Although these behavioral changes should expose tadpoles to an even higher predation risk, because diazinon also reduced both activity and attack rates by the predatory fish, tadpoles experienced significantly greater survival in treatments with pesticides. Despite the negative impact of diazinon on amphibian antipredator behavior, the stronger impact of diazinon on predator behavior allowed a greater survival rate for the prey. These results demonstrate the importance of studying specific species interactions in understanding the impacts of chemical contaminants on any given species.
10.2307/1564217|Male and female Hynobius nigrescens show pronounced changes in body shape associated with aquatic reproduction. Soon after entering the breeding pond there is a large increase in body mass, head width, and tail height in males, caused by changes in connective tissue under the skin and by storage of seminal fluid in the vasa deferentia. These features decline gradually in postbreeding males prior to leaving the pond. Females show little seasonal variation in head width or tail height, but exhibit a large increase in body mass after ovulation. This is the result of absorption of water during the formation of egg sacs.
4498537|The Coastal Tailed Frog is one of the best studied headwater amphibians in the Pacific Northwest, yet we know very little about either its seasonal movements or its distribution within and among headwater basins. During August through October 2000-2002, we studied Coastal Tailed Frogs in 81 headwater basins from managed forests in the Stillman Creek watershed in southwestern Washington State. We found a significant association between tailed frog life stage and their locations along the stream axis: older life stages were located higher in the basin than younger life stages. Data from eight streams sampled in early and late summer 2002 support the hypothesis that adult Ascaphus truei move upstream several hundred meters during the low-flow period probably after having moved downstream to breed. We also found little evidence of tailed frog reproduction in small non-fish-bearing basins, which supports the hypothesis that breeding habitat in those basins may be limiting. To test these two hypotheses, we examined A. truei occupancy in 65 non-fish-bearing headwater basins ranging in size from first to fourth order in 2003 and 2005. Occupancy increased with basin order, and we found no evidence of reproduction (eggs, larvae, or metamorphs) in first-order non-fish-bearing basins. The length of the dominant stream thread in nearly all first-order basins was shorter than the distance adult A. truei moved between early and late summer. We suggest that a headwater stream must remain watered for several hundred meters during the dry season to meet tailed frog breeding requirements. Tailed frogs probably do not reproduce in most first-order non-fishbearing basins in the Stillman Creek watershed because those basins are too small to reliably provide habitat suitable for oviposition and rearing of their early life stages.
10.2307/1563823|The ontogeny of stimulus parameter preferences in Salamandra salamandra was studied in larval and in juvenile salamanders. The animals were tested immediately after birth, just prior to metamorphosis, shortly after metamorphosis (prior to the first feeding), and at an age of 4 to 5 months after metamorphosis after selective feeding on different prey animals. The effectiveness of different prey dummies (square, horizontal bar, vertical bar) moving at different velocities was investigated. In all animals, the slowly moving horizontal bar was very effective. This preference is presumably not experience-dependent. In addition, the salamanders preferred stimuli which were similar to the prey animals upon which the salamanders fed. The experience-dependent preferences were established during the first two months after metamorphosis and were not reversed by subsequent changes of feeding conditions.
43287347|The Prehensile-Tailed Skink (Corucia zebrata) (Scincidae) is endemic to the Solomon Archipelago, where it inhabits all major islands. The species is evolutionarily distinct and diverged from its nearest relatives during the Oligocene. To expand on the limited information available with respect to the life history and ecology of C. zebrata in the wild, we explored the species' prevalence to group living and the fine-scale genetic structure of a large and isolated population. Fifty-one lizards were sampled in a 900-ha study plot within a larger area of continuous rain forest on Ugi Island in the Solomon Islands, an area that represents approximately 20% of the C. zebrata habitat on the island. Using information from eight polymorphic DNA microsatellite loci, we conducted Bayesian assignment analysis and pairwise kinship estimates between individual lizards. No geographically induced subpopulation structure was detected. The majority of lizards were not found in immediate proximity of other individuals; however, pairwise kinship analysis showed that lizards located less than 150 m from each other were likely to share aleles identical by descent and, thus, were more related than by chance. Additionally, we found indications that individual lizards have moved several kilometers within the study area. We have uncovered information on dispersal and genetic structure in a large population of C. zebrata, a species whose natural habitat across the Solomon Archipelago is increasingly fragmented and degraded because of unsustainable logging.
25599212|We examined morphological variation in tooth structure in four populations of garter snakes (genus Thamnophis) with diverse feeding habits and tested the hypothesis that morphological homoplasy evolved in the malacophagous predators Thamnophis ordinoides and Thamnophis elegans terrestris. Although long, slender teeth are typical in Neotropical colubrid snake species that prey on slugs and snails, this morphological feature did not occur in T. ordinoides and T. e. terrestris relative to closely related garter snakes (the diet generalist Thamnophis elegans elegans and piscivore Thamnophis couchii). However, we did find pronounced posterior ridges located on the posterior maxillary teeth in the two slug predators but not in the generalist feeders. The evolutionary origin and functional advantage of these ridges has yet to be identified. The fish specialist T. couchii has many morphological features characteristic of adaptations for piscivory, such as long, sharper teeth and elongated mandible bones.
10.2307/1565395|Lizards with invariant clutch sizes offer an ideal opportunity to examine the effects of "fixed" clutch size on other reproductive traits. Because females with invariant clutch sizes are unable to increase offspring number even when sufficient space and energy are available, females may compensate by laying larger eggs or increasing reproductive frequency. I studied the reproductive biology of Oedura lesueurii, a diplodactyline gekkonid lizard that lays two parchment-shelled eggs per clutch once per year. Eggs of gravid O. lesueurii females occupied most of the available space in the lower abdomen, and relative clutch masses were moderately large and similar to those of other diplodactyline geckos for which data are available. Measures of female body size (snout-vent length, mass) were correlated with several measures of egg and hatchling size, but not with energetic content on a per-gram basis. Pelvic constraints on maximum egg size and body volume constraints on reproductive output (females can only increase egg size) may account for positive female-offspring size correlations in O. lesueurii and some other species of lizards with invariant clutch sizes, but more experimental and comparative work on such species is needed. It is possible that more realistic and predictive life-history models of the evolution of propagule size can be achieved by explicitly incorporating specific life-history features of organisms, such as the positive correlations between female size and propagule size in O. lesueurii and other species of lizards with invariant clutch sizes.
43287326|We collected plasma samples from adult males in a natural population of Plains Gartersnakes (Thamnophis radix) to characterize seasonal variation in testosterone. As in other New World temperate zone natricines, testosterone was high during spring emergence, declined as courtship and mating progressed, and then increased in late summer and fall. Based on patterns seen in this and other studies, we suggest that the rapidity with which testosterone decreases following spring emergence may be associated with the length of the mating season; and that it decreases rapidly in species and populations in which the mating season is brief and more slowly in species and populations in which mating occurs over an extended period. Testosterone showed a clear, positive association with body condition in adult male Plains Gartersnakes. Whether this association translates into greater reproductive success warrants further investigation. Because we collected blood samples multiple times from individual males within years, we were also able to demonstrate significant individual variation in seasonal testosterone profiles, although how this might relate to individual variation in reproductive behavior is unknown. Given their phylogenetic, ecological, and geographic diversity, New World natricine snakes represent a rich resource for studying hormonal associations with reproductive patterns.
10.2307/1564675|We studied the mating system of a population of western spadefoot toads Pelobates cultripes for a single season. The breeding season lasted 35 days, during which there were four periods of arrival at the breeding pond. Only males arrived at the breeding site in the first peak; additional males and females arrived in subsequent peaks. Minimum temperature and rainfall influenced activity, and maximum temperature was correlated with recruitment and total number of toads that remained in the pond. The breeding sex ratio was slightly male-biased (1.15:1), whereas average operational sex ratio was more strongly male-biased (average 2.97:1). Males migrating early to the breeding pond were larger than males that migrated late. Males remained in the pond longer than females, and fighting between males was observed. Low-intensity, low-frequency vocalizations were emitted under water by both males and females in amplexus. Powerful, high-frequency distress calls were emitted out of the water. Neither a large male mating advantage nor size-assortative mating was found. Amplexus averaged 72 hours; clutch size averaged 2318. Tadpoles reached metamorphosis after approximately three months of development.
1565745|Pedioplanis burchelli is a small oviparous lacertid lizard that inhabits rocky montane areas in the highveld grassland biome of South Africa. We studied its reproductive cycle by monthly monitoring of gravimetric, morphometric, and histological changes of the reproductive system of males and females throughout 1999. Reproduction took place in spring/summer, and gonadal activity of males and females was well synchronized and prenuptial. Photoperiod was the best predictor of seasonal fluctuations in testes mass and rainfall in the case of ovarian seasonality. Neither vitellogenic follicle count nor oviducal egg count were correlated with snout-vent length. Sexual size dimorphism with respect to certain body parts is explained either in terms of sexual selection, differential growth, or intraspecific food niche segregation. The absence of a significant difference in incidence in damaged tails between males and females may be indicative of similar levels of predation pressure.
41415289|Optimizing conservation efforts requires distinguishing between rare and potentially endangered species (few extant individuals, functionally rare) and species that are difficult to find (operationally rare). Certain suites of life-history parameters such as slow growth, late maturity, low fecundity, and long interbreeding intervals are thought to be associated with functional rarity and with intrinsic vulnerability to population declines. We estimated life-history parameters by using capture-recapture data of one such elusive species, the Sharp-tailed Snake (Contia tennis), from 1997 to 2005 in northern portions of its range in British Columbia, Canada. Body size ranged from 84 mm (smallest juvenile) to 323 mm (largest female). Mean snout-vent lengths were 212  14 mm (mean  SD) for adult males and 251  28 mm for females. They were slow growing (adult growth rate, 4.3  3.8 mm/yr), had extended time-to-sexual maturity (5-6 yr), and had small clutch size (3.6  1.1 eggs). Estimated adult survival was 0.71 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.590.81). Estimated population growth rate for one population over the 8-yr study period was 0.89 (95% CI = 0.791.1). Compared with populations farther south and other similarly sized colubrid snakes, Sharp-tailed Snakes at our study site exhibited many "slow" life-history traits that could increase their vulnerability to population declines. Our analysis validated Sharp-tailed Snakes as a species of conservation concern in British Columbia with traits that could lead to functional rarity and highlighted research into mortality, migration, and recruitment patterns as key needs for conservation planning.
10.2307/1563262| Twenty snakes representing four species (genera Elaphe, Coluber, Agkistrodon) were observed undisturbed in a small cave in Missouri during the winter of 1964-65. Some snakes moved about in the cave while others retreated back into crevices where temperatures were higher. Only one snake remained in the same location throughout the winter. Juveniles were found at greater depths in the cave than adults. The snakes' activity varied; Agkistrodon was the most active, Coluber the least active. Temperatures within the cave proper ranged generally from 48 F to 58 F (8.9 C to 10.4 C). Observations indicate that a temperature increase did not signal the end of hibernation. 
43287322|A deep understanding of the processes affecting the population dynamics of living organisms requires fine-scale analyses of basic demographic parameters such as stage-specific survival and growth rates. In this study we estimated survival, detection, and transition rates (growth) for different stages of the life cycle of a Knob-scaled Lizard of the genus Xenosaurus. We also examined potential sources of variation for these parameters by means of a multiple-model inference framework. Our capture-mark-recapture data revealed that survival rates were homogeneous among stage classes but markedly different between the rainy and dry seasons. Contrary to our expectation, survival probability was higher during dry months. Detection probability varied considerably among stage classes and through time. Consistent with theoretical predictions, the rate at which lizards moved from a particular stage class to the following (transition rates) varied among stage classes, with the fastest rates observed in yearlings and the slowest in adults. Also consistent with our predictions, we found a tendency toward faster transition rates during rainy months. We discuss the potential causes and implications of the patterns of variation observed in these key demographic parameters.
10.2307/1563076|The Typhlopidae of New Guinea, the Bismarck Archipelago, and Solomon Islands are assigned to two genera, Typhlops and Typhlina (senior synonym of Ramphotyphlops in sense of Robb) on the basis of male genital structure, as outlined previously by Robb (1966b). One species, "Typhlops" braminus, cannot be so assigned with certainty, since it is an all-female, presumably parthenogenetic, species; although evidence is not conclusive, there is reason to believe "T." braminus is an all-female derivative of Typhlina. Typhlops is represented in the New Guinea-Solomons region by: T. diardi (including T. kapaladua Annandale, T. labialis Waite, T. fusconotus Brongersma as synonyms; record for New Guinea uncertain); T. kraali Doria; T. ater (perhaps including T. hedraea Savage); T. inornatus; and T. depressiceps (including T. monochrus Vogt). Typhlina is represented by T. flaviventer (including Typhlops depressus W. Peters, T. aluensis Boulenger, T. philococos Werner, T. buehleri Hediger, T. supranasalis Brongersma, T. similis Brongersma); T. leucoprocta; T. affinis (including Typhlops cumingii mansuetus Barbour, T. kenti Boulenger); T. polygrammica (including Typhlops torresianus Boulenger, T. soensis de Jong); T. erycina (including Typhlops iridescens de Jong); T. multilineata; T. olivacea (including Typhlops suluensis Taylor, T. ligorostris Smith and Procter); T. angusticeps (including Typhlops olivaceus reduncus Barbour); T. willeyi (including Typhlops becki Tanner); and T. subocularis (including Typhlops infralabialis Waite, T. solomonis Parker, T. bergi J. A. Peters, T. keasti Kinghorn, T. adamsi Tanner). In addition, some notes are given on typhlopids from other regions, particularly the Philippines and Australia. Characters used extensively are: form and ornamentation of the hemipenis; form of the retrocloacal sacs (in Typhlina); presence or absence of a rectal caecum; pattern of imbrication of the supralabials with other head scutes; distribution of cutaneous glands on head; development of lateral papillae on the tongue.
40664968|We used capture-recapture techniques and skeletochronological analysis to investigate body size, population size, and age structure of a population of Palmate Newts (Lissotnton helveticus) living in two adjacent lakes at 2,300 m in Andorra (Eastern Pyrenees). Females were larger (minimum-maximum, 31.0-47.0 mm vs. 32.0-42.0 mm) and heavier (0.8-2.1 g vs. 0.5-1.8 g) than males. The total adult population of the two lakes is estimated at 338-245 individuals. Both sexes mature in three years; males live for nine years and females up to eight years. Interpopulational differences in demographic traits between this population and low-altitude populations of L. helveticus do not include the predicted pattern of delayed sexual maturity and larger longevity that would be expected to exist in higher altitude populations.
10.2307/1564149| A new cluster census method was used to examine the intra- and interspecific micro-distributions of two syntopic lizards, Anolis cybotes and Anolis caudalis, across seasons (November, June). Numbers of A. caudalis were very stable across seasons; males slightly outnumbered females (1.2 sex ratio). In contrast A. cybotes had a 1:1 sex ratio in November, then numbers of male A. cybotes dramatically declined by June, resulting in a 2:3 ratio. We speculate that this was related to pronounced territorial behavior. Female A. cybotes were more closely associated with males in June (breeding season) than in November, resulting in multiple females per male in the breeding season. There was some partitioning of the structural habitat by species and sex classes which, for the most part, was stable between seasons. In general, the smaller A. caudalis preferred high perches (> 2 m) on large trees, while A. cybotes perched under 2 m. Male A. cybotes also had a preference for large trees. Female A. cybotes, on the other hand, used all available vegetative structures without preference, and tended to perch below conspecific males (x = 1 m). Quantification of habitat partitioning, however, indicated much overlap among species-sex classes. Most habitat overlap coefficients were high (.90-.99). Discriminant analysis produced few significant differences between lizard classes, with poor discrimination of niche uniqueness. Anolis cybotes males had the least discrete habitat niche (10% discrimination). The expectation of male A. cybotes (large and aggressive) dominating the smaller A. caudalis did not materialize. Data did not indicate any obvious interspecific competition as niche overlap values did not vary much with season and population density. In June when male A. cybotes are territorial, the habitat niches of other classes of lizards did not change significantly from November values, or they shifted toward that of A. cybotes. 
10.2307/1563402|Extensive collecting of leopard frogs (Rana blairi and R. pipiens) in Nebraska reveals that the large zone of sympatry heretofore recognized in central and eastern Nebraska is fragmented. Rana pipiens occurs as disjunct populations on the isolated Sandhills formations in south-central Nebraska. Within the largest zone of sympatry (in northeast Nebraska) hybridization is infrequent (hybrids comprise usually less than 5% of the pooled populations). Ecologic isolation is in part effected by selection of different substrates by the two species. Rana blairi occurs in loess soil areas whereas R. pipiens predominates in areas of sandy soils.
10.2307/1563077|Calls of 3 forms of Ptyodactylus were recorded and analyzed. Each call was a series of clicks, similar in frequency. Calls of a male to a female differed in the 3 forms. P. hasselquistii guttatus had 5-8 clicks in the call, each of nearly 0.25 sec with equal intervals and dominant frequency ranges of 1300-2150 and 3000-5600 Hz. P.h. puiseuxi had fewer clicks in the call with dominant frequency ranges of 2400-2800 and 4800-6000 Hz, preceded by some weaker and shorter clicks of 0.14 sec with dominant frequency ranges of 2575-2900 and 5175-5650 Hz. P.h. cf. hasselquistii had a mixture of long and short clicks in its call with dominant frequency ranges of 1325-2575 and 3900-5625 Hz. Male to male calls of P.h. guttatus differed from male to female calls and had more clicks and longer intervals. Calls of P.h. puiseuxi recorded at various temperatures showed no difference in frequency or call structure but click structure changed.
40983648|The turtle genus Graptemys consists of 15 recognized taxa, distinguished largely on the basis of pigmentation pattern (i. e., soft tissue and shell), head size, and shell morphology. However, phylogenetic studies have shown limited sequence divergence within the genus and between Graptemys oculifera and Graptemys flavimaculata relative to most other members of the Emydidae. Graptemys oculifera of the Pearl River drainage and G. flavimaculata of the Pascagoula River drainage have been recognized as species since 1890 and 1954, respectively. However, the description of G. flavimaculata was based on a limited number of morphological characters. Several of these characters overlap between G. flavimaculata and G. oculifera, and no attempt was made to test for significant morphological differentiation. In this study, we reevaluated the morphological and genetic distinctiveness of G. flavimaculata and G. oculifera with (1) multivariate statistical analyses of 44 morphological characters and (2) 1,560 bp of sequence data from two mitochondrial genes (control region and ND4). The morphological and molecular analyses produced incongruent results. The principal components analysis ordinations separated the two species along a pigmentation gradient with G. flavimaculata having more yellow pigmentation than G. oculifera. Likewise, clustering analyses separated the specimens into two distinct groups with little overlap between the species. Our mitochondrial data supported previous findings of limited genetic differentiation between the two species. However, the results of our morphological analyses, in conjunction with recently published nuclear gene sequence data, support the continued recognition of the two species.
10.2307/1564315| The oxygen consumption and total body lactate concentration of specimens of the terrestrial salamander Plethodon jordani were measured at rest and after 5 min of forced locomotion, at full hydration (100% of standard body mass) and after dehydration to 85% of standard mass, at 15 and 25C. In addition, we measured standard and activity oxygen consumption of specimens of newts, Notophthalmus viridescens, in their terrestrial stage (efts), at 100% and 80% of standard mass, at 15C. Dehydration had no effect on the oxygen consumption of these salamanders at rest or during induced activity. Furthermore, dehydration elicited no change in the resting or post-activity lactate concentration. The reduction in voluntary foraging activity by terrestrial salamanders during dry periods cannot be attributed to a dehydration induced loss in the capacity to power locomotion by aerobic or anaerobic means. 
10.2307/1564556|A phenetic analysis of eight North American subspecies of Pituophis was conducted to assess the taxonomic status of the Louisiana pine snake, P. melanoleucus ruthveni, which has been reported as a species-level taxon under the evolutionary species definition. The status of a disjunct population of the nominate subspecies was also examined. Eighty-nine specimens representing nine operational taxonomic units (OTU) were described using 14 geographically varying, but sexually invariant morphometric features. Cluster analysis defined two distinct groupings based on character correlations, corresponding to P. catenifer and P. melanoleucus. Principal component and discriminant-function analyses indicated that P. m. ruthveni has diverged from other eastern congeners, suggesting an independent evolutionary pathway. Little character divergence was detected in the isolated population of P. m. melanoleucus. Pituophis m. sayi is closely allied with the pine snakes, and its similarity to P. m. ruthveni suggests recent parapatry. Pituophis m. ruthveni is a valid evolutionary species, being both geographically isolated and phenetically distinct, which supports its current conservation status as a managed taxon.
1566148| A number of undescribed species of the iguanian lizard genus Liolaemus, formerly referred to Liolaemus rothi and Liolaemus boulengeri, have been identified in the northern Patagonian region of Argentina. Descriptions of two of the species are presented, along with their distributions and natural history. Liolaemus rothi is redescribed, a lectotype is designated, its likely provenience is discussed, and its distribution and natural history are given. /// Un nmero de especies de lagartijas del gnero iguanido Liolaemus no descriptas, previamente referidas a Liolaemus rothi y Liolaemus boulengeri, se han identificado en la regin norte de la Patagonia Argentina. Se presentan las descripciones de dos de estas especies, junto con sus distribuciones y datos de su biologa. Se redescribe a L. rothi, se disigna un lectotipo, se discute su proveniencia probable, y se aportan datos de su distribucin y biologa. 
41415322|Wide-ranging snake species are particularly sensitive to landscape fragmentation, and understanding area requirements is important for their conservation. We used radiotelemetry to quantify how Eastern Indigo Snake home-range sizes were influenced by sex, land cover, and the length of time (weeks) individuals were radio tracked. We found that Eastern Indigo Snakes had the largest home ranges among other snake species studied. Female home ranges averaged 44 and 76 ha, respectively, for kernel and minimum convex polygon estimators. Male home ranges averaged 156 and 202 ha, respectively, for kernel and minimum convex polygon estimators. Many animal species respond to habitat fragmentation by using larger areas than in unfragmented landscapes, but we found that Indigo Snakes in fragmented landscapes used much smaller areas. The length of time that snakes were tracked had almost no influence on home-range size compared to sex and land cover type. Our results suggest that maintaining populations of this large wide-ranging predator will require large conservation areas with minimum fragmentation.
43287333|Complex and ritualized displays require an assemblage of structural, neuronal, and muscular adaptations, and habitat structure may affect the effectiveness of signals to convey information. Therefore, ornament exaggeration through sexual selection may be severely constrained by the costs imposed by natural selection. We investigated this compromise in the courtship behavior of Mediterranean Tortoises by assessing the variability of the acoustic and behavioral signals used among species, and the relationship between courtship and species body size. Marginated, Greek, and Hermann's Tortoises base their courtship on the same kinds of displays, and differences among species rely mainly on the relative importance of aggressive displays with respect to acoustic signals. We found that the divergence of courtship patterns among species was also related to body size. Greek Tortoises, intermediate in size between the other two species, showed an intermediate courtship aggression. Body size in Mediterranean Tortoises relates to different vegetation structure of their preferred habitat, smaller species being advantaged in denser vegetation. Therefore, the divergence of courtship patterns in the three species of European tortoises might have been promoted by the progressive adaptation of incipient species to habitats with different vegetation structures. Because courtship signals play a central role in species isolation, a link between morphology and courtship is of particular interest and might be one of the central mechanisms of tortoise diversification.
4092955| Gastrotheca piperata is described from Andean cloud forest in Bolivia. The new species is similar to Gastrotheca marsupiata but differs in coloration and advertisement call. Upon release from the maternal brood pouch, the tadpoles are in Gosner developmental stages 36 or 37, in contrast to the less developed (stages 30 or 31) tadpoles released by G. marsupiata, a species that inhabits higher and drier nonforested areas. /// Gastrotheca piperata se describe de un bosque nublado en los Andes de Bolivia. La nueva especie es similar a Gastrotheca marsupiata, pero se diferencia de esta por su patrn de coloracin y canto de anuncio. Al salir de la bolsa dorsal o marsupio, los renacuajos de G. piperata estn en el estadio 36  37 de Gosner, a diferencia de los renacuajos de G. marsupiata que al salir del marsupio estn menos desarrollados (estado 30  31). Adems, G. marsupiata habita reas sin bosque que se encuantran a una mayor altitud y son ms secas comparadas con las localidades de G. piperata. 
10.2307/1563568|Tropidechis carinatus is a medium-sized, highly venomous snake found along the eastern coast of Australia. Dissections of 127 museum specimens were combined with field observations to document the basic natural history of T. carinatus. Adult males and females attain similar body lengths. The diet is diverse, with mammals and frogs being the major prey items. Female reproduction is seasonal, with ovulation in spring and parturition in late summer. Adult females may reproduce only in alternate years, or less often. Fecundity is low, with litters ranging from 5 to 18 offspring, each about 15 to 20 cm SVL. Both in the field and in captivity, T. carinatus is more arboreal than any other Australian elapid except for the genus Hoplocephalus. Many similarities between Tropidechis and Notechis (tigersnakes) suggest a close phylogenetic relationship between these two genera.
41415261|Typhlops tasymicris was known previously from only two specimens, both immature females collected on Grenada in 1968. In June 2010, we rediscovered the species on Union Island, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, where we encountered five individuals (and captured four) on the forested slopes above Chatham Bay. The new specimens agree closely with the two previously reported individuals for all scale characters and coloration, but they differ in sizes and proportions. At least two of the new specimens are adults, but all seem to be females. This first record of a typhlopid snake in the Grenadines suggests a greater range than indicated by the earlier specimens. Although suitable habitat occurs nowhere else on Union Island, the species could occur elsewhere in the Grenadines where relatively mature forests persist. DNA sequence data clearly show a closer affinity with South American species than with any West Indian congeners.
4498547| Estrogens and estrogen mimics can affect offspring sex ratios in a wide variety of animal species including Leopard Geckos, Eublepharis macularius, a species with temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD). Estrogens can disrupt effects of temperature on sex determination by feminizing or sex-reversing embryos incubated at male-producing temperatures. Estrogens may have paradoxical effects at different incubation temperatures and in different concentrations. In this study, E. macularius eggs were exposed to ethanol, estradiol benzoate, or estradiol 17 at the beginning of the thermosensitive period when sex determination occurs. Eggs were treated and incubated at each of three incubation temperatures known to produce varying primary sex ratios. At a male-producing incubation temperature, estrogen-treated groups produced more females than negative control groups. This result has been reported in other TSD reptiles. In our study, we showed that at a female-producing incubation temperature, estrogen-treated groups produced significantly more males than negative control groups. This is the first report of its kind in which a TSD reptile was shown to produce significantly more males at a female-producing temperature. Our results suggest a complex feedback relationship between aromatase and cofactors during the thermosensitive period of egg incubation in E. macularius. Expected effects of exogenous estrogens on contaminant-exposed wildlife populations may differ depending on nest-site temperatures. 
10.2307/1565478|We used pitfall traps and time-constrained searches to sample amphibians and reptiles and to describe their habitats in oak woodlands at three areas in California. We captured 766 individuals representing 15 species during pitfall trapping and 333 animals representing 15 species during the time-constrained searches. A total of 19 species were sampled. Across all study areas, several positive relationships were found between animal abundance and the cover of specific tree species. At Tejon Ranch, two salamanders--Batrachoseps nigriventris and Ensatina eschscholtzii croceater--were associated with canyon live oak (Quercus chrysolepis) and two lizards--Sceloporus occidentalis and Eumeces gilberti--were associated with California black oak (Q. kelloggii). At San Joaquin, B. nigriventris was associated with foothill pine (Pinus sabiniana), as was B. attenuatus at Sierra Foothill. Generally, salamanders were found in live oak woodlands on north-facing slopes at Tejon Ranch, or on north-facing woodlands dominated by foothill pine and interior live oak (Q. wislizenii) at Sierra Foothill and San Joaquin. In contrast, lizards used more xeric and open habitats dominated by California black oak, blue oak (Q. douglasii), and valley oak (Q. lobata). As would be expected for terrestrial and fossorial animals, litter depth, the development of grasses and forbs, and cover by downed woody debris and rocks were important in the habitat models. At Sierra Foothill and San Joaquin, these latter variables, in addition to slope, were of primary importance in the habitat models.
10.2307/1562824|Bufo americanus was collected from 19 localities in Quebec and Ontario, Canada. Although only 5 of these localities were within the presently recognized range of B. a. copei, a comparison of the morphology and coloration of all toads collected indicates that the range of B. a. copei should be extended southward. Notes on the breeding behavior and sites utilized for breeding are also present.
40664959|The herpetofauna of the Tuscan Islands (Central Italy) is well known and represents an ideal subject to understand the role of current and historical factors responsible for biogeographical patterns in a complex archipelago. Multidimensional Scaling, cluster analyses, species-area relationships, Mantel tests and co-occurrence statistics were used to investigate the influence of current geography and Pleistocene connections with the mainland on the structure of insular communities. Although reptile colonization likely occurred via land bridges for islands that were connected to the mainland in the Pleistocene, a long time relaxation (species extinction by island habitat loss after disconnection and new colonization by over sea dispersal or human-assisted introductions) equilibrated the faunas according to island area. Biogeographical similarities among islands increased for islands located farther from Corsica and Tuscany, thus suggesting that, for remote islands, interisland faunal exchanges occurred more frequently than mainland-island colonization. Also, a possible influence of Pleistocene geography emerged more clearly when populations suspected to be introduced by man were removed. Co-occurrence analyses indicated a nonrandom distribution influenced by island area and distance, suggesting that the time elapsed since post-Pleistocene disconnection may have reshaped biogeographical similarities by an increase in competition resulting from reduction in island areas and introduction of certain species. From a conservation viewpoint, the land-bridge distribution of organisms with poor mobility should be carefully considered in conservation biogeography, because depletion of island populations cannot be balanced by new immigrations from the mainland, whereas introduction of nonnative species may have a negative impact on the original fauna.
10.2307/1562951|Four timber rattlesnakes were observed in 66 feeding sequences using white mice as prey. Prey was usually struck in the chest or lumbar region. Massive hemorrhages usually marked the site of venom inoculation. Fangs often penetrated the pleural and peritoneal cavities. The interval from strike to incapacitation of prey varied from a few seconds to an hour or more; in almost half the instances it was less than 2 minutes. The interval from strike to death was similarly variable but was less than 7 minutes in approximately half the observations. Venom was detected by precipitin test in the fluids and tissues of 60 mice at autopsy. Two of the snakes suffered an illness that appeared to have an adverse effect upon venom secretion.
23326915|Pattern of mating, spawning behavior, and sexual size dimorphism were studied in the Indian Common Toad, Bufo melanostictus. Male and female B. melanostictus are sexually dimorphic in size. Adult males are significantly smaller than adult females, and the ratio of body size of females to males was 1:19. For breeding, the majority of males and females segregated on the basis of their size; larger males paired with larger females leaving smaller males to pair with smaller females. A positive correlation between the body sizes of mating partners provided evidence of size-assortative mating. Successful males were larger in length than their unsuccessful competitors. Operational sex ratio was skewed in the favor of males. A stereotypical spawning behavior was observed: At the initiation of spawning by the female, the male juxtaposed his cloaca with that of the female's followed by a few seconds of rigorous toe movements. Spawning was completed within 25 h. Subsequently, the female exhibited pseudo-spawning behavior once or twice. In the absence of more eggs, the male quickly released his clasp, and the pair separated.
10.2307/1565508|We examined the distribution and habitat of Rhyacotriton variegatus in streams of managed forests in north coastal California. We found 1475 salamanders from 220 streams from 1990-1994 through surveys of randomly selected first and second order streams and incidental searches. Of 71 headwater streams randomly selected to relate landscape variables to the presence/absence of R. variegatus, 57 (80.3%) contained salamanders. Geological formation was the only landscape variable that predicted the presence of R. variegatus in a stepwise logistic regression model. A second survey was conducted to determine which habitat variables of stream reaches were related to the presence/absence of R. variegatus. Thirty-one of 64 stream reaches contained salamanders and stream slope (gradient) was the only variable of 20 measured that entered a stepwise logistic regression model to predict the presence of R. variegatus. Pairwise comparisons indicated that reaches with salamanders had significantly higher slope, more small boulders, and less sand. No other variables, including canopy closure and water temperatures, were significant. An additional survey to further define the microhabitat for R. variegatus showed that abundance was positively related to stream slope and that this species was found more often than expected in high gradient riffles. The preferred substrate was gravel with smaller amounts of silt/clay, sand, and cobble. We discuss the past and future impacts of timber harvest on this species in north coastal California.
10.2307/1563782|The taipan, Oxyuranus scutellatus, is a large slender elapid of coastal tropical Australia. The small-scaled snake, O. microlepidotus, is a similar snake from the arid zone. These are among the most highly venomous snakes in Australia, and probably in the world. We present information on body sizes, sexual size dimorphism, feeding habits, reproductive cycles, fecundity and inferred growth rates, based on dissection of museum specimens and observation of captive snakes. Adult snakes average approximately 1.5 m SVL in both Oxyuranus species, and males and females attain similar body sizes. Oxyuranus species are unique among Australian elapids in feeding exclusively upon endothermic prey. A wide variety of marsupials and rodents is taken: especially Rattus villosissimus and Antechinomys laniger by O. microlepidotus, and Melomys sp., Mus musculus, Perameles nasuta and Rattus spp. by O. scutellatus. The large body size, highly toxic venom and "snap and release" bite of Oxyuranus species may be adaptations to feeding on mammalian prey. Over recent decades, taipans have become more common relative to other large elapid species: we suggest that this may be due to the introduction of the toxic cane toad (Bufo marinus) as well as habitat modification by agriculture. Both Oxyuranus species are oviparous, with mating and oviposition from August to December. Fecundity (7-20 eggs), incubation period (60-80 days), and size at hatching (300-340 mm SVL) are similar in both species. Captive taipans show rapid growth, with sexual maturation as early as 16 months of age in males, and 28 months in females. In several aspects of morphology, ecology and behavior, O. scutellatus is strongly convergent with an African elapid, Dendroaspis polylepis (the black mamba).
1566065|We compared behavioral responses of larvae of three Pacific Northwest anurans from different hydroperiods to water borne cues of native and introduced predators. Two native anurans (Pacific Treefrog, Pseudacris regilla, and Northern Red-Legged Frog, Rana aurora aurora) and introduced Bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) responded to water conditioned by native Redside Shiners (Richardsonius balteatus) by increasing refuge use. The larvae of the two native anurans differed in their response to introduced predator cues. Rana aurora aurora, which occur in temporary and permanent waters, responded to both introduced Bluegill Sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus) and introduced Crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). Pseudacris regilla, which occur primarily in temporary ponds, did not respond to water borne cues from either introduced predator. The broader responses of R. a. aurora may indicate greater behavioral plasticity or more exposure to novel predators than experienced by P. regilla. Larvae of introduced R. catesbeiana responded strongly to cues from two fish native to the Pacific northwest but did not alter behavior in response to any of five potential predators with which they coexist in their native range. Fish that occur with R. catesbeiana in their native range generally find Bullfrog larvae unpalatable. This pattern suggests that Bullfrog larvae can recognize cues of novel predators that may find them palatable, which could contribute to their success as an invasive species in the region.
10.2307/1563013|Three macroteiids occur on Aruba Island, Netherlands Antilles. Cnemidophorus arubensis is endemic, whereas Cnemidophorus lemniscatus and Ameiva bifrontata have been introduced. Food, habitat, and temperature preferences were determined. Reproductive information on each species was obtained. Competition and niche overlap is minor. C. arubensis is primarily a herbivore, Ameiva feeds on large arthropods, and C. lemniscatus eats small insects. Microhabitat and thermal relationships of the 3 species also varied. C. arubensis is sympatric with C. lemniscatus in a semi-isolated grassy field. Reproductive barriers between the 2 are described and C. arubensis, currently considered to be conspecific with C. lemniscatus, is raised to full specific status.
10.2307/1564987|Length of the larval period is a component of fitness for most amphibians. Some theoretical models predict that length of the larval period is a function of growth history; however, these models have been tested using species that inhabit temporary, productive habitats. I tested the hypothesis that length of the larval period in permanent, low productivity habitats is also a function of growth history. I exposed larvae of the stream-dwelling salamander Desmognathus ochrophaeus to different temperature, food, and water change regimes. Profile analysis of growth demonstrated significant effects of food and temperature on larval growth rates. Larvae that experienced high temperature and/or high food regimes grew faster than larvae on low temperature and low food regimes. Food and temperature interacted in a complex way, with food regimes affecting growth more at high temperature. Larvae at high temperatures metamorphosed earlier. Larvae at low temperature metamorphosed later at a larger size. High food regimes increased the metamorphic size of larvae at both temperatures. However, variation in food regimes did not affect length of the larval period.
1566228|Animals in territorial neighborhoods often show differential behavior toward different classes of conspecifics. We tested whether males of the lizard Anolis sagrei outside of their territorial neighborhoods differed in visual display behavior when matched with neighbors versus with nonneighbors. We captured nine dyads of neighbors and nine dyads of nonneighbors, placed each dyad on an artificial habitat patch in the field, and then observed display behavior for one hour. Dyads of neighbors exhibited a smaller proportion of bobbing headbob displays than did dyads of nonneighbors. The direction of this display difference is consistent with the hypothesis that neighbors were treated less aggressively than nonneighbors.
10.2307/1565301|A new species of Rana is described from the terai region of Nepal on the basis of three specimens. The new species is diagnosable from known congeners in possessing the following characteristics: head longer than wide; tympanum rounded, smaller than orbit diameter; supratympanic fold absent; finger I longer than finger II; a series of large, flat glands on lateral aspect of body; broad webbing on toe IV to penultimate subarticular tubercle, reaching tip of toes as a narrow sheath; tips of digits flattened to form disks with distinct circummarginal grooves separating dorsum of disks from ventrum; tibia length/snout-vent length ratio 47.23-54.15; and absence of humeral gland on forelimb of males. The snout-vent length range shown by the type series is 30.4-32.5 mm.
10.2307/1565365|The value of skeletal cyclic growth marks, or SGMs, for age estimation in the Nile monitor, Varanus niloticus, a species highly exploited for food and leather, was checked by a mark-recapture experiment including in vivo labelling of bone grwoth. The basic histological features of the SGMs are described, as well as the variability in the structure of these marks with regard to the skeletal elements considered, the technique for processing the sections, and differences between populations or individuals. Ground sections from the shaft of the fibula, observed under transmitted polarized light, are best suited for counting growth marks. Bone labelling indicates that SGMs have an annual periodicity and can thus be reliable age indicators as long as somatic growth proceeds. The formation of SGMs is interpreted with reference to the ecology of the Nile monitors. The practical value of skeletochronology for population surveys is discussed.
43287393|The importance of plethodontid salamanders in forested ecosystems has been recognized for decades, and studies aimed at quantifying salamander biomass and determining habitat requirements have become more common. However, there is a lack of knowledge on the use and contribution of vertical structures (e.g., wet rock faces) to total salamander biomass within a forested ecosystem. The purpose of our study was to characterize the population density, biomass, and habitat use of a wet rock face by a stream-salamander assemblage. We estimated the population density to be 14.69 salamanders m and the total biomass estimate to be 27.16 g m, which is more than two times greater than any salamander biomass reported previously in the eastern United States. We also found significant habitat partitioning of the vertical gradient by the three species of salamanders in the assemblage. The stable microclimate and increased protection from other predators (e.g., mammals, snakes, and ground-foraging birds) provided by wet rock faces likely leads to the increased amount of biomass we found in this study. Although the salamanders are likely protected from most noncaudate predators, the spatial structuring in the assemblage still follows an intraguild prdation gradient found in horizontal habitats.
10.2307/1563434|A large species of Neusticurus, allied to the bicarinatus group by having a strongly compressed tail, tympanum deeply recessed, high number of femoral/preanal pores in males, but unique in having a combination of high number of prefrontal/frontal head scales and scales around the body, large snout-vent size in males (to 121 mm), and absence of dorsal tubercles. It has been collected at two localities in the Vaupes region of Colombia. Its closest relative appears to be N. racenisi, from which it differs by having 58-64 preanal/femoral pores, 84-89 scales around body, 3 lateral caudal scales per two ventral caudals, 29-31 fourth toe lamellae, and complete absence of dorsal tubercles. Adults of both sexes are chocolate brown dorsally with an alternating series of paired paravertebral square spots of three shades of brown, sides are ash gray with bluish white ocelli, and venter bluish white. Fecal samples suggest it feeds on spiders, leaf beetles, scarabeid beetles; weevils, ants and grasshoppers from its arboreal perches. Reptilian streamside associates included Uranoscodon, Mabuya, Kentropyx, and Anolis.
1566053| We studied the ecology of the lizard Cnemidophorus ocellifer Spix 1825 in the central Brazilian Cerrado. Cnemidophorus ocellifer was active on open ground, in sandy soils and rocky fields, during the hottest hours of the day. Mean body temperatures (37.5C) were high, relative to sympatric lizard species, and more associated with substrate temperatures than with air temperatures. The thermal ecology of C. ocellifer seems to be tightly associated with an active mode of foraging. Termites were the most important prey, and there was no significant association between head dimensions and prey dimensions. Cnemidophorus ocellifer showed strong sexual dimorphism in body size and shape, with males having larger bodies and head dimensions, and females having longer and thicker bodies. Clutch size averaged 2.1 and was positively correlated with female SVL. Females were reproductively active during the dry season (May to September) and recruitment occurred from July to November. Males were reproductively active throughout the year, peaking from March to August, coinciding with the period of female reproduction. The reproductive cycle in C. ocellifer may be determined by the greater availability of direct sunlight and its physiological effects upon breeding activities, such as courtship and mating, during the dry season. 
4498592|We investigated effects of observers and stream flow on Northern Two-Lined Salamander (Eurycea bislineata bislineata) counts in streams in Acadia (ANP) and Shenandoah National Parks (SNP). We counted salamanders in 22 ANP streams during high flow (May to June 2002) and during low flow (July 2002). We also counted salamanders in SNP in nine streams during high flow (summer 2003) and 11 streams during low flow (summers 2001-02, 2004). In 2002, we used a modified cover-controlled active search method with a first and second observer. In succession, observers turned over 100 rocks along five 1-m belt transects across the streambed. The difference between observers in total salamander counts was not significant. We counted fewer E. b. bislineata during high flow conditions, confirming that detection of this species is reduced during high flow periods and that assessment of stream salamander relative abundance is likely more reliable during low or base flow conditions.
41415250|A recent study demonstrated marked variation in cranial shape between a population of Brachycephalus ephippium from Jundiai in So Paulo state and populations from Atibaia and So Francisco Xavier (So Paulo) and Maca de Cima in the state of Rio de Janeiro in southeastern Brazil. This result contrasts with earlier work describing differences in cranial shape between the population from Rio de Janeiro and those from So Paulo. Here, we investigate the nature and extent of variation between populations of B. ephippium using two lines of evidence. First, we reevaluate patterns of morphological variation by incorporating semi-landmarks into the quantitative description of cranial shape and by using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to describe qualitative skeletal features. Second, we assess molecular variation in the mitochondrial genes cytochrome b, 12S rRNA, and 16S rRNA, and the nuclear Rag-1 gene, totaling 3,697 base pairs. Geometric analyses of cranial shape and SEM images of skeletal traits show that the population from Maca de Cima and the populations from So Paulo differ markedly in morphology and diverge in the cytochrome b, 12S, and 16S rRNA genes by 9.7%, 2.8%, and 4.4%, respectively. Divergence in the nuclear gene Rag-1 is, as expected, much lower (0.6%). These results clearly demonstrate heterogeneity between populations that are all currently diagnosed as B. ephippium and point to the need for further research to ascertain the true diversity currently hidden under the name of B. ephippium.
10.2307/1563227|A study of the courtship of Ambystoma laterale provided several new observations not previously reported. These observations are important in interpreting the activities of the salamanders during courtship and, in some instances, in understanding the observations of earlier workers (Kumpf and Yeaton 1932). Evidence is provided that suggests that interspecific breeding isolation and sexual recognition are based on chemical and, possibly, tactile clues. The interspecific breeding isolation mechanism is discussed with particular reference to A. jeffersonianum, a species with which A. laterale has hybridized in the past. A possible sequence of events is proposed leading to the present breeding isolation between these two species. An intraspecific isolating mechanism is proposed based on the observation of males competing for a female. The competitive response of the males may tend to isolate breeding pairs from other members of the species, with the result that the female involved may be fertilized by only one male in any breeding season. Since fertilization by one male, as opposed to fertilization by several males, results in reduced zygote variability, an explanation of the evolution of such an intraspecific mechanism is needed. My observations suggest that the responsible selective force was the success of the courtship.
10.2307/1562801|The affinities of Gastrophryne, based on osteology, adaptations for myrmecophagy, secondary sexual characteristics, tadpole morphology, mating call, and karyotype, lie with Hypopachus, and not with Microhyla. Gastrophryne contains 5 species: G. usta, G. elegans, G. pictiventris, G. carolinensis, and G. olivacea. Although the latter 2 species occasionally hybridize, consistent differences in morphology and premating isolating mechanisms (especially call) are maintained in sympatric populations. The species are similar in diet, (predominantly ants), adult and larval feeding specializations, and body size. Details of anatomy, call, and terrestrial chorusing set G. usta apart. Foot morphology suggests that G. elegans and G. pictiventris are more closely related to each other than to G. carolinensis and G. olivacea.
10.2307/1563684| The relationships between Kinosternon scorpioides and K. integrum are discussed. A new allopatric species, Kinosternon oaxacae, is described from coastal Oaxaca, Mexico. K. oaxacae is a member of the scorpioides species complex (with integrum), but differs from these two species in its reduced plastron, narrower carapace, and axillary and inguinal scutes in broad contact. A dichotomous key for the identification of the adult Kinosternon of Oaxaca is presented. /// Las relaciones entre Kinosternon scorpioides y K. integrum se discuten brevemente. Una nueva especie alopatrica, Kinosternon oaxacae, se describe de la costa de Mxico. K. oaxacae es miembro del complejo de especies de scorpioides (con integrum), pero se difiere de estas dos especies en el plastrn reducido, el carapacho mas estrecho, y escudos axillares y inguinales en contacto extenso. Una Ilave dictoma para los Kinosternon adultos de Oaxaca se presenta. 
10.2307/1564685|Color change in newly metamorphosed toads was analyzed as a function of background color, temperature, and desiccation. Toads showed no tendency to change color as a function of desiccation or temperature. Toads kept on light or dark substrates could darken or lighten (measured by comparison to Munsell Soil Color Charts), respectively, an average of 2 Munsell Color Values over a 2 h period. About half of the color change occurred within the first 15 min, and the rate of color change was low after one-half hour. Actively-hunting garter snakes caught more dark-matched than light-matched toads on a light-colored background (sand), but there was no difference in capture rates between dark- and light-matched toads on a dark-colored background (top soil). Both dark- and light-matched toads preferred the dark background, and toads moved less frequently on the dark background. Dark-matched toads tended to move more frequently than did light-matched toads on the light background. The ground color of animals caught in the wild on sunny afternoons showed a positive relationship with the background color of the substrate on which they were first observed.
10.2307/1563801| Advertisement calls of a population of Bufo woodhousei australis were recorded in the field to determine possible effects of size and temperature on call attributes. Analysis of dominant frequency, pulse rate and duration of advertisement calls revealed that only frequency was correlated (negatively) with size. Observations of the same individuals on successive nights showed there was substantial variation in call attributes independent of temperature. Only pulse rate was correlated (positively) with body temperature; frequency and call duration were independent of body temperature over a 5C range. It is concluded that females might distinguish males of different sizes on the basis of frequency, but temperature has no effect on this possible size indicator. These results are discussed in relation to the work of Fairchild (1981) on Bufo woodhousei fowleri. 
10.2307/1563842|Responses of five-lined skinks (Eumeces fasciatus) and ground skinks (Scincella lateralis) to conspecific and interspecific chemical cues were examined in a small animal olfactometer. In the first experiment, five-lined skinks significantly approached odors of conspecifics. Males also exhibited significantly higher snout-dip and tongue-flick rates than females. Ground skinks also responded to conspecific odors, but in a more complex fashion. Male odors were avoided by both male and female ground skinks. Males, but not females, significantly approached female odors. Females responded randomly to female odors (i.e., they were neither approached nor avoided). Although male and female ground skinks were equivalent with respect to tongue-flick rates, females exhibited greater snout-dip rates. In the second experiment skinks of both species responded randomly when presented with odors of the other species. The results demonstrate that five-lined and ground skinks utilize and respond to conspecific chemical signals, or pheromones. Potential roles of these pheromone-mediated responses in nature are discussed.
10.2307/1564260|The first sizeable collection of Centrolenella from the poorly-known Provincia de Cotopaxi, Ecuador, revealed a new species of Centrolenella, C. gemmata. This species is distinguished by a snout that is round in dorsal view and slightly anteroventrally sloping in profile, a light and dark spotted dorsal coloration, spinuled dorsal skin in males, nuptial pads in males, and prepollical spines. The occurrence of nuptial pads and prepollical spines in Centrolenella has been overlooked, and is commented upon. Two types of nuptial pads are reported in the genus Centrolenella, as well as a concealed prepollical spine in both sexes of certain species. C. gemmata appears to be closely related to C. lynchi, both sharing a distinctive type of nuptial pad, prepollical spines, and several other features.
10.2307/1563614|Multiple regression analyses of the number of synonyms and of total name variants for the currently valid names of the 98 salamander and 202 anuran species and subspecies known from Mexico revealed that (1) subjective ratings of complexity and inconspicuousness of taxa are significantly correlated with accretion of synonyms and total name variants, and (2) the length of time taxa have been known is also a major factor associated with rate of accretion of synonyms and total name variants. A strong inverse relation exists between inconspicuousness and both synonyms and total name variants: the more conspicuous a taxon is, the more frequently synonyms and name variants are created. Possible applicability of these results to taxonomic work in general is worthy of consideration.
1566226| We studied the reproductive cycle of the teiid lizard, Cnemidophorus nativo, at the restinga of Guaratiba, in Prado municipality, Bahia State, northeastern Brazil. The population was all female. For each female, we recorded total number of follicles, number of vitellogenic follicles in each ovary, size and color of the largest follicle, presence and size of corpora lutea, and number and size of oviductal eggs. The smallest reproductive female measured 48.8 mm (SVL). Clutch size varied from one to four eggs (mean = 2.21.0; N = 37) and was significantly affected by female size (F<sub>1,35</sub> = 80437; R<sup>2</sup> = 0.194; P = 0.006). Fifty percent or more of sexually mature females were reproductive each month, containing either oviductal eggs or vitellogenic ovarian follicles and juveniles (30-48.3 mm SVL) occurred in nearly all months studied, indicating an extended period of reproduction by the species. The number of reproductive females was not significantly related to monthly rainfall or to temperature in the area. We conclude that the population of C. nativo at Guaratiba is unisexual, oviparous and that reproduction occurs throughout the year, independent of habitat seasonality. 
10.2307/1564822| The assertion display of male Orinoco crocodiles consisted of a stereotyped series of headslaps and roars. It was principally an early morning activity, and coincided seasonally with courtship during the end of the rainy season and the beginning of the dry season. Courtship and mating activity involved visual, acoustic, and tactile elements similar to those of other crocodilians. Mating took place about two months prior to nesting. Nesting in captivity and nest opening behaviors are described. Among wild crocodiles in the Capanaparo River, similar nest opening behaviors were inferred from tracks at nest site. Neonates form cohesive groups that are attended by an adult. In the Capanaparo, dry-season adult breeding groups averaged one male per 2.2 females and were centered on deep pools in the otherwise shallow river. /// El displiegue de ascercin de los machos del caimn del Orinoco consiste de una serie estereotipado de 1-3 golpes mediante la cabeza contra el agua, y 2-5 bramidos fuertes. Este displiegue se produce principalmente cerca al amanacer, y a travs del ao entero pero con mayor frecuencia durante el poca de celo (final de la estacin lluviosa y principio de la estacin seca). El cortejo y apareamiento consistne de elementos visuales, acsticos, y tactiles parecidos a los previamente reportados para otras especies de crocodrilidos. Apareamiento sucede principalmente en diciembre, dos meses antes de nidificacin. Se describe los comportamientos de nidificacin y eclosin en cautiverio. Basado en los rastros dejados en los nidos en el ro Capanaparo, se infer comportamiento semejante. Cras recin nacidas forman grupos atendidos por un adulto. En el ro Capanaparo durante la estacin seca, grupos adultos de reproduccin consisten de un macho y un promedio de 2.2 hembras, ubicados cerca a los pocos pozos profundos. 
10.2307/1564791|We studied diet composition of Lacerta lepida in a sample of 325 specimens from central Spain. This large lacertid lizard feeds predominantly on Coleoptera, but also consumes other arthropods, snails, small vertebrates, and some plant material. Composition of the animal fraction of the diet and trophic diversity were virtually identical in adult males and females. Juveniles fed upon a restricted number of prey types which were small in size, whereas adults consumed a large number of prey taxa, covering a wider range of prey sizes. Trophic segregation among individual lizards was highest in the smaller size classes. The incidence of plant material increased with lizard size and was highest in males, but it never represented a substantial fraction of the total diet. The contribution of small vertebrates to total prey numbers also increased with lizard body size. Our results indicate that vertebrates are of marginal numerical importance to the diet of L. lepida.
41415260|We describe a new species of marsupial frog (genus Gastrotheca) from an isolated patch of cloud forest in the upper reaches of the Pachachaca River, a tributary of the Apurmac River in southern Peru (Apurmac Region). The new species is small with males less than 30 mm and a single female 35.3 mm in snout-vent length. A juvenile was collected from inside an epiphytic bromeliad at ~3 m, suggesting that this species is arboreal or uses bromeliad tanks as microhabitats. We describe the advertisement call, which has a dominant frequency above 2.2 kHz. Based on morphology and advertisement call, the new species is most similar to Gastrotheca piperata described from the Yungas of Bolivia. The new species differs from G. piperata by having smaller size, no dermal fold on the tarsus, a bluntly rounded to vertical snout in profile, gray coloration on dorsal surfaces of Fingers I and II and by producing advertisement calls that have a higher dominant frequency and a smaller number of pulses. Describimos una nueva especie de rana marsupial (gnero Gastrotheca) de un parche aislado de bosque nublado en las nacientes del ro Pachachaca, un anuente del ro Apurimac en el sur de Per (Regin Apurimac). La nueva especie es pequea, con machos que miden menos de 30 mm y una hembra 35.3 mm en longitud hocicocloaca. Un juvenil fue capturado dentro de una bromelia epfita a una altura de ~3 m, lo cual sugiere que esta rana es arbrea o usa las bromelias como microhabitats. Describimos el canto nupcial, cuya frecuencia dominante es de ms de 2.2 kHz. En base a morfologa y canto nupcial, la nueva especie se asemeja ms a Gastrotheca piperata descrita de las Yungas de Bolivia. La nueva especie se diferencia de G. piperata por su menor tamao, ausencia de pliegue tarsal, hocico redondeado o vertical en vista lateral, coloracin gris en la superfice dorsal de los dedos I y II y por producir un canto nupcial con frecuencia dominante ms alta y menor nmero de pulsos.
10.2307/1563715|Cladistic analyses of 26 selected cranial characters of Geochelone did not support the implications of previous classifications. Most subgenera do not share derived features and, thus, are not considered monophyletic. The subgenus Manouria (G. emys and G. impressa), although not monophyletic, is the most primitive group of Geochelone, because its members lack most derived features. Indotestudo (G. elongata and G. travancorica) may be monophyletic; all members possess a ridge extending from the base of the inferior processes of the parietals anterolaterally over the dorsal surfaces of the pterygoids and palatines to the external pterygoid processes. Possession of a short trachea suggests that the subgenus Indotestudo should not be allocated to the genus Geochelone. Aldabrachelys is certainly monophyletic by virtue of a shared derived vertically elongated external narial opening. Other subgenera (Chelonoidis, Geochelone, Asterochelys) have no shared derived characters. Possible relationships between G. (Geochelone) pardalis and G. (Asterochelys) yniphora and G. (Geochelone) elegans, G. (Aldabrachelys) gigantea and G. (Asterochelys) radiata are suggested by cladistic analyses, but must await examination of additional anatomical systems, inclusion and analyses of other tortoise genera, and consideration of functional hypotheses. Until such analyses are completed, the subgenera of living Geochelone should be abandoned.
41415264|Vocalizations are critical advertisement signals used during anuran courtship. In most species, acoustic signals have primacy, but visual cues also have been shown to play an important role in anuran mate attraction. Male Tngara Frogs, Physalaetnus pustulosus, produce advertisement calls, and males that are successful in attracting a mate build conspicuous white foam nests in which fertilized eggs are deposited. Foam nests persist for several days and on subsequent nights, male frogs are often observed calling adjacent to these foam nests. We tested the hypothesis that females approach the vocalization of a male adjacent to a foam nest preferentially. We conducted choice tests allowing females to choose between two speakers broadcasting a male vocalizationone speaker adjacent to a foam nest and the other speaker lacking a foam nest. Females expressed a significant preference for a speaker with a foam nest when the nest was visible. These results indicate that males may increase their probability of attracting a mate when calling adjacent to a foam nest relative to males located farther from a foam nest.
1566171|A six-year capture-recapture study allowed us to assess site-tenacity and spatial distribution of site-tenacious individuals in a population of the terrestrial, ovoviviparous Salamandra salamandra from Sintra-Cascais Natural Park, Portugal. The study area, an abandoned orchard, maintained large numbers of S. salamandra (about 400/ha). Most site-tenacious individuals were associated with tunnels in old stone walls that supported former agricultural terraces. Age was the only trait that explained site-tenacity in both sexes. The number of residents in each wall was positively related with wall length, and the sex-ratio of the residents was approximately 1:1 in every wall. Several animals spent all of the study period in the same area.
10.2307/1564183|Mate choice by female Anolis carolinensis was evaluated under conditions simulating the normal long-term association between males and females of territorial lizards. One-third of the females tested exhibited a significant preference for one of two males and two-thirds of the females associated with males randomly. Preference or non-preference by females was not related to their body size or to the rate at which they laid eggs. Females associated with males more frequently than necessary for the fertilization of eggs. Significant preferences by females were independent of the relative size of the two males. Because male body size is strongly correlated with dominance in interactions between males, females thus did not prefer to associate with dominant males.
10.2307/1564425|Numerous investigations, citing occurrences of cannibalism and/or oophagy in over 100 species of reptiles and amphibians, were reviewed with particular emphasis on predator/prey characteristics, environmental determinants, and evolutionary significance. In most species of reptiles cannibalism appears to occur opportunistically as a by-product of normal predatory behavior. Among amphibians, cannibalism is also opportunistic. However, many authors speculate that cannibalism implements particular strategies. In some cases, it is directly associated with specific behavioral, and even morphological characteristics. There is evidence that the development of cannibalistic morphotypes may be genetically and environmentally controlled.
10.2307/1565930|During four consecutive years, I used a mark-recapture method to study the relationship between breeding cycle and changes in male body condition in an Andean population of Hyla labialis. The annual weather pattern consisted of a long unimodal rainy season from February to November and a short dry season in December and January. A pronounced unimodal annual pattern in body condition was positively correlated with the amount of local rainfall. The annual reproductive cycle began during the rainy season in August or September, when males had high body energy reserves. Breeding activity ended in April or May of the following year, when males were in poor body condition. Reproductive activity was divided into two breeding periods by a short reproductive recess during the dry season. The annual cycle ended with a recovery period during the wettest months, when males regained their body condition while breeding activity ceased. Abundance of males and mated pairs was bimodal, with a high peak in October during the first breeding period and a lower peak in February during the second breeding period. Abundance was low during the driest and wettest months of the year. Individually marked males participated in up to seven consecutive breeding periods. Males found repeatedly in the same breeding period had the lowest body condition. A male's body condition declined as his time at the breeding aggregation increased and improved during recovery periods. Although rainfall pattern seemed to influence the amount of breeding activity, body condition seemed to determine the onset and end of the annual breeding cycle.
4498523|Hatchling American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) produced from artificially incubated wild eggs were returned to their natal areas (repatriated). We compared artificially in and repatriated hatchlings released within and outside the maternal alligator's home range with naturally incubated hatchlings captured and released within the maternal alligator's home range on Lake Apopka, Lake Griffin, and Orange Lake in Florida. We used probability of recapture and total length at approximately nine months after hatching as indices of survival and growth rates. Artificially incubated hatchlings released outside of the maternal alligator's home range had lower recapture probabilities than either naturally incubated hatchlings or artificially incubated hatchlings released near the original nest site. Recapture probabilities of other treatments did not differ significantly. Artificially incubated hatchlings were approximately 6% shorter than naturally incubated hatchlings at approximately nine months after hatching. We concluded that repatriation of hatchlings probably would not have long-term effects on populations because of the resiliency of alligator populations to alterations of early age-class survival and growth rates of the magnitude that we observed. Repatriation of hatchlings may be an economical alternative to repatriation of older juveniles for population restoration. However, the location of release may affect subsequent survival and growth.
1565753|Microhabitat use beneath the canopy of perennial woody plants by the heliothermic sleepy lizard (Tiliqua rugosa) was examined at a site near Mt. Mary in South Australia by testing whether the position adopted by lizards under bushes was influenced by their state of activity, time of day, or month. Thirty radio-tagged lizards were followed in 2000 during their spring period of activity (September-November). Lizard position beneath a plant canopy (one of nine sectors) and behavior were recorded for each observation (radio-tagged or random encounter). Active and inactive lizards showed nonrandom use of sectors beneath plant canopies: using mainly the center and north, northeast, and east sectors (northeast quadrant), but this changed with season. Temperature changes beneath plant canopies were measured, these resulted from diurnal and seasonal shifts in the sun's position. Temperature gradients in the north-south and east-west axes of bush canopies were shown to shift with time of day and season. Sector use by lizards reflected changing thermal conditions beneath plant canopies. When ambient conditions were cooler, lizards used the warmest northeast quadrant in the morning and the northwest quadrant in the afternoon. During hotter periods of the year lizards were found most often in plant centers. Proportion of records in the center and the southwest increased from September to November, whereas those in the north and northeast decreased over that period. Microhabitat use changed with lizard activity. Active lizards were found less often than inactive lizards in the center of bushes. Inactive lizards tended to avoid southern and western facing sectors. We suggest that, during the extended daily periods of inactivity, sleepy lizards are either selecting a position that has preferred microclimatic conditions within temperature gradients of canopies, or they may have evolved a preference for north and east facing sectors because of a consistent thermal advantage over the course of the changing daily thermal regime in a heat stressed environment.
10.2307/1564371|A new genus, Sylvacaecilia, is proposed for the species Geotrypetes grandisonae. The species is distinctly different in a number of features of osteology, soft tissue morphology, and life history, thus warranting generic status.
23327176|Rhinella atacamensis and Rhinella arunco are sister species which, together, are distributed from 25S to 38S in Chile. Until recently they were considered to be allopatric, with the dividing line around 32S, but in 2007 a possible zone of secondary contact was found in the Estero Pupo (32S). We investigated the species status of adult individuals of three localities along this creek using AFLP markers. Data were analyzed with a Bayesian method that allowed the identification of different types of hybrids in a population. In two of the localities in the lower part of the watershed, the majority of the individuals were identified as backcrosses of hybrids with R. arunco or first generation hybrids, although a few individuals were classified as pure R. arunco. This information, supplemented by mitochondrial sequences and reproductive observations in both the laboratory and in the field, shows that hybridization has been a recurrent phenomenon at these two localities. By contrast, in the third locality, higher in the watershed, we detected a certain amount of nuclear introgression of R. arunco in a population where only individuals with phenotypes and mitochondrial genotypes of R. atacamensis were found. Taken together, the genetic data of the three localities suggest that the hybrid zone is a hybrid swarm which is relatively extensive in the watershed of the creek. Identifying the causes of the apparent spatial segregation of the two species in the Estero Pupo will require additional information.
10.2307/1563452|A new species of gecko in the genus Lepidodactylus is described from Port Moresby, and a key to the members of the genus from the island of New Guinea presented. Variation in the little known species Lepidodactylus orientalis is outlined and observations on the ecology of geckoes from the Port Moresby region are discussed.
10.2307/1563249|A new species of Telmatobius from the Gualcamayo Valley, at 3050 meters, San Juan mountains, Central Argentina, is described and analysed.
10.2307/1565472|The development of the brain of Typhlonectes compressicaudus (Amphibia, Gymnophiona) has not been described. Brain development of Typhlonectes compressicaudus includes three phases: a phase of proliferation (the volume of neural epithelium increases), a phase of differentiation (neurons develop extensions), and a phase of maturation. These three phases are similar to other vertebrates. In this study, the embryonic stages of the brain are described and compared with brain development of other amphibians and some reptiles.
10.2307/1565303| We assessed mortality causes and survival rates for 59 free ranging Testudo graeca hatchlings. Individuals were followed for varying lengths of time from emergence from the nest in August-September to April using thread-trailing. Hatchlings died from unknown causes, mainly soon after emergence and belonged mainly to clutches which contained also unhatched eggs. Other causes of mortality were predation, car traffic, and trampling by large ungulates during the activity season (autumn and spring). Predation was low, and available data on potential predator diets also indicate low predation upon hatchlings. We found seasonal differences in survival; highest survival was in winter and lowest in spring. The overall survival rate for the 8 mo period was 0.39. Mortality causes registered during continuous monitoring were similar to anecdotal observations recorded over an 11 yr period. /// Se estimaron las causas de mortalidad y las tasas de supervivencia de 59 individuos recin nacidos de Testudo graeca en condiciones naturales. Las tortugas se sometieron a seguimiento continuado desde su emergencia del nido hasta abril de la primavera siguiente, mediante el empleo de pequeas bobinas de hilo. La principal mortalidad se registr en la semana siguiente a la emergencia del nido, debindose a causas no identificadas, y resultando adems asociada a puestas que tambin contenan huevos que no eclosionaron. Durante las pocas de actividad de las cras se detectaron otras causas de mortalidad: predacin, atropello y pisoteo por ungulados de gran porte. La tasa de predacin registrada fu baja y los datos disponibles sobre las dietas de varias especies de predadores potenciales indican igualmente un bajo impacto de la predacin sobre las tortugas recin nacidas. Estacionalmente, la supervivencia se estim ms alta en invierno y ms baja en primavera. La tasa de supervivencia calculada para los 8 meses siguientes a la emergencia de las tortugas fu 0.39. Los registros puntuales de mortalidad de recin nacidos, registrados a lo largo de varios aos, indican causas de mortalidad similares a las detectadas durante el seguimiento continuo. 
10.2307/1565421|In contrast to many other species examined in Wallacea, the patterns of genetic (allozyme) and morphological variation of two skink species revealed only moderate concordance with their geographical arrangements. Initial analyses of genetic and morphometric variation in Lamprolepis smaragdina revealed the taxonomic separateness of islands in the northeast (Bandaneira, Kai Besar, and Ambon) from those in the south and southwest. The relationship between these two taxa and L. smaragdina, sensu stricto has yet to be determined. Genetic variation in the southern species revealed two clusters of populations, corresponding, with one exception, to the Inner and Outer Banda Arcs. No such arrangement is seen in morphological variation, with poor discrimination of islands evidenced by substantial overlap of island ranges in canonical space. Nonetheless, there are three associations between canonical variates and island location (latitude and longitude) revealing the existence of some underlying, but weak, geographic patterning. In Mabuya multifasciata, genetic variation within islands tends to decline from west to east, a trend seen in several other species in this region. Ordination of a genetic distance matrix revealed an association between the third axis and longitude. There was little morphological differentiation, with large overlaps in island ranges in canonical space and no geographic-associated patterning. There is no evidence of concordance between genetic and morphometric patterning within either Lamprolepis or M. multifasciata over their extensive ranges.
10.2307/1564959|We studied the reproductive ecology and characterized the spawning habitat of northern leopard frogs (Rana pipiens) during the spring of 1986 on a floodplain of the Richelieu River, Quebec, Canada. Egg deposition began after the water temperature reached 8 C and lasted approximately 10 d in April. Habitats with the highest number of egg masses, in decreasing order of importance, were a wet meadow (Phalaris arundinacea/Cornus stolonifera), a shallow marsh (Lythrum salicaria/Scirpus fluviatilis), and an abandoned meadow (Ambrosia artemissifolia/Poa sp.). Egg masses were deposited at depths less than 65 cm. The number of female spawners present in this area in 1986 was estimated at 271. The number of eggs per egg mass varied between 982 and 5230. Fecundity varied between 1319 and 5270 ovarian eggs and correlated with female body size (length). Females reached sexual maturity at 2 yr and at lengths greater than 60 mm. In males, 55% of age 1 individuals were mature at a length greater than 51 mm.
41515026|Functional nephrons of the kidney with secondary sexual function are rare in vertebrates and descriptions of these structures do not unequivocally conclude that they aid in reproduction. This statement holds true for the collecting ducts of the pelvic kidneys in male salamanders, which appear to synthesize abundant secretory material during times of reproductive activity. To indirectly test the hypothesis that collecting ducts of the pelvic kidneys in salamanders are indeed secondary sexual structures, we investigated the correlation of collecting duct secretory activity with that of the seasonal secretory and growth cycles of three known secondary sexual structures: genial glands, dorsal glands of the cloaca, and tail. Male Red-spotted Newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) were captured every month and their urogenital organs were processed for general histological examination. To quantify the seasonal activity of the pelvic kidney collecting ducts, we measured the epithelial height of the collecting ducts, by month, and compared these data with the epithelial heights of the genial glands and dorsal glands and tail depth. The data indicate that there is a significant correlation between the seasonal secretory activity of the collecting duct epithelium and the seasonal activity of previously identified secondary sexual structures. Previously identified secondary sexual structures increase in epithelial height and tail height during the fall, winter, and spring and the collecting duct epithelium mirrors these increases directly. The strength of this correlation provides novel evidence that the salamander kidney collecting ducts may function as secondary sexual structures. However, the actual function of the secretions remains unknown.
4092958|A new species of Dibamus from Pulau Nias, located off the southwest coast of Sumatra, Indonesia, is described based on a single specimen previously referred to as Dibamus novaeguineae and Dibamus alfredi. The new species differs from all congeners in the following combination of characters: snout-vent length (SVL) 123.1 mm; body relatively slender, 3.0% SVL, postoculars two; midbody scale rows 22; ventrals 178; subcaudals 37; frontonasal entire; incomplete rostral suture; labial and nasal sutures complete; preanal pores absent; nuchal collar and body band absent; presacral vertebrae 126; postsacral vertebrae 23; and a relatively short tail (12.75% SVL). The new species from Nias further adds to the endemicity of the vertebrate fauna of these islands and calls for more intensive inventories of the isolated islands to the southwest of Sumatra.
10.2307/1563605|The general histology and scanning electron microscopy of the tongue of an aquatic (diamondback water snake, Natrix rhombifera) and a terrestrial (black rat snake, Elaphe obsoleta) snake were compared. The tongue of both species was composed of a mucosa and a muscularis. The mucosa contained a covering of non-keratinized stratified squamous epithelium and a tunica propria which consisted of dense fibrous connective tissue. The muscularis was composed of striated muscle fibers arranged longitudinally, transversely and sagitally. The tongue was enclosed by a sheath containing mucous glandular tissue and striated muscle fibers. No chemo-sensory structures were discerned. Differences between the species included distribution of melanin, number of dorso-lateral ridges and amount of glandular material. The SEM study showed modified epithelial cells in the forked region of the tongue. These cells were covered by numerous projections called microfacets which in the black rat snake were circumscribed by regularly spaced pores. These structures are thought to be responsible for transport of chemical molecules to Jacobson's organ.
40983605|Little is known about the diet of many amphisbaenians and even less about their prey preferences in part because of their fossorial habits. We used the tongue-flicking behavior of an amphisbaenian, Amphisbaena heterozonata, an apparently opportunistic feeder, to investigate its ability to discriminate among three prey items: termites (fed in captivity), tenebrionid larvae, and earthworms. We tested 16 individuals, placing each one in a glass tube, in a room lighted only with a red light to simulate fossorial conditions. Stimuli were presented on cotton swabs impregnated with the smell of a prey, using distilled water as control. Two experiments were conducted: in the first, the amphisbaenians had not eaten one week prior to starting the experiment; and in the second, they had not eaten two weeks prior to it. The number of tongue flicks per minute and latencies to the first tongue flick were recorded. The amphisbaenians made significantly more tongue flicks to termites than to the water control in both experiments. In addition, latencies were significantly shorter toward termites than toward water. The results show that A. heterozonata could clearly discriminate, based on chemical stimuli, between termites, one of the prey items they feed on in the field and on which they were fed in captivity, and water. Other comparisons among prey items and the water control were nonsignificant except in two cases during the second experiment. Considering that this species is most likely a generalist-opportunistic feeder, the results may indicate that the response was learned based on its year-long termite-exclusive diet.
10.2307/1564422|Previously it has been hypothesized that male anurans in breeding aggregations vocalize asynchronously to reduce acoustic overlap with neighbors. The prediction was tested that in Bufo woodhousei and B. punctatus a male will lower his call rate in response to playback of conspecific advertisement calls. Male B. woodhousei reduced their call rates in response to playback of both high and low rate recordings, although call rates were lowered to a significantly greater degree during playback of high rate recordings. Contrastingly, male B. punctatus did not reduce their call rates in response to playback of conspecific calls. Male B. woodhousei reduced their rate of calling, apparently to avoid acoustic overlap with playback recordings. Male B. punctatus, however, usually initiated a call during each call broadcast during playback, resulting in extensive acoustic overlap. In B. woodhousei, mean call rate of males in a chorus was negatively correlated with chorus size. None of the current hypotheses concerning the significance of call alternation in anurans explains these results satisfactorily.
41415309|Resistance to cutaneous evaporative water loss has been examined in anuran amphibians that occupy a variety of habitats, except for the ocean. We measured evaporative water loss rate and cutaneous resistance to evaporation in the Crab-eating Frog, Fejervarya cancnvora, a euryhaline species that enters the sea. Studies were conducted on Hoga Island, southeastern Sulawesi, Indonesia. Area-specific evaporative water loss rate was significantly lower in living F. cancrivora than in agar replicas of the frogs and total water loss rate was dependent on body mass. Cutaneous resistance to evaporative water loss was 0.27 sec cm, which is the lowest significant resistance known for frogs. Cutaneous resistance may have evolved as a way for F. cancrivora to reduce water loss while on land, thereby offsetting high osmotic losses to seawater before frogs have fully acclimated to higher salinities.
10.2307/1564679|If calling male Eleutherodactylus coqui are intolerant of other calling males nearby, then the sound level of advertisement calls can function as a nocturnal spacing mechanism for calling frogs. To investigate this hypothesis, we played advertisement calls to 23 individual calling males in the forest at El Verde, Puerto Rico. We played calls at six sound pressure levels from 75 to 102 decibels. The mean number of aggressive calls increased and advertisement calls decreased as sound pressure level increased. The ratio of advertisement to aggressive calls at each level decreased as sound level increased. Both behavioral responses and call types varied among individuals. Most frogs became silent or moved away as sound pressure level increased beyond 89-94 decibels. Calling males apparently space themselves by mutual avoidance and fight only in defense of retreats or nests. We propose that short multinote calls are the primary aggressive cells (encounter calls), and that the "co" call serves in establishing vocal interactions with neighboring males, and possibly in signal interference.
10.2307/1564355|A population study using mark-recapture techniques was carried out from 1978 to 1980 in Sri Lanka. Three species of the genus Calotes (Sauria, Agamidae), viz. Calotes calotes, C. versicolor and the endemic species C. nigrilabris were studied. Four areas were selected, in two of them C. versicolor and C. calotes occurred sympatrically, in the other two C. calotes and C. nigrilabris were allopatric. In cases of sympatry C. calotes populations showed lesser density (<16 animals per hectare) than in allopatry (56). Densities of C. versicolor were 49 and 48. The highest values (220) were obtained for C. nigrilabris. Temporal fluctuations in population sizes in all cases were positively correlated with averages of monthly precipitation in the study areas. Turnover rates of juveniles were markedly higher when compared to adults. There is evidence that turnover was mainly due to migration; natality and mortality seemed to be much less important.
1565883| We assessed the reproductive characteristics of the type population of Colostethus marchesianus on the banks of the Uaups River (upper Rio Negro basin, Amazonas, Brazil). Colostethus marchesianus occupied floodplain forest areas on the river margin, and the peak of the reproductive season coincided with the peak of the rainy season. Sexual size dimorphism was not detected and adult size ranged from 15.0-17.0 mm snout-vent length. Males were territorial and employed three types of vocalization, two high-intensity advertisement calls and a lower intensity courtship call. Duration of courtship and mating behavior was less than 30 min and involved 2-3 sequential cephalic amplexi. From 1-5 egg clutches were found within each of several oviposition sites within male territories. Number of eggs in 63 clutches ranged from 10-29. Only males were observed to carry tadpoles (stage 25) to water on their backs. The mean number of transported tadpoles was similar to the mean clutch size. Additional descriptive information on reproduction and general behavior, which is highly variable among Colostethus species, is needed to confirm the specific status of other populations identified as C. marchesianus throughout the Amazonian basin. 
10.2307/1564333|The morphology and cytochemistry of the blood basophil of Bufo marinus are characterized, and compared and contrasted to the basophil from several other amphibians and with the mammalian basophil. The basophil of B. marinus contains at least one type of mucopolysaccharide and an acid mucopolysaccharide, possibly heparin, within the cytoplasmic granules. Several amino acids, but no histidine, and no lipid, occur in B. marinus basophils. Furthermore, these basophils appear devoid of hydrolytic enzymes, excepting nonspecific esterase. They do possess numerous oxidative enzymes, however, in the intergranular cytoplasm. The basophil of B. marinus is more similar cytochemically to the mammalian basophil than to the basophil of several previously studied amphibians.
25599247|Of the threats facing amphibian populations today, habitat transformation resulting from land use is among the most pressing. Although conservation of pond-breeding salamanders clearly requires protection of breeding ponds and their surrounding habitat, little is known about the effects of land use and other factors on the occurrence of salamanders in the dispersal/terrestrial phase of their life cycle. To determine these effects, we surveyed populations of Eastern Newts (Notophthalmus viridescens) at 551 stations across Vermont and modeled salamander distribution as a function of environmental variables hypothesized to influence site occupancy. We developed a set of 12 models based on seven a priori hypotheses of site occupancy. We hypothesized that occupancy was influenced by (1) amounts of available habitat types, (2) arrangement of these habitat types, (3) geographic position, (4) housing density, (5) road density, (6) short-term changes in habitat distribution, or (7) habitat structure at the stand level. We used a single-season occupancy model to rank and compare the 12 models. A total of 232 Eastern Newts was detected at 82 of 551 stations. Of the 12 models, amount of habitat within 0.5 km of the survey station best represented the field data. Strong effects were indicated for developed land (-), open water (+), and forest (+) cover. Given a survey station with average forest and open water characteristics, stations with >5% developed land classes within a 0.5-km buffer had a very low probability of occupancy. Further research is needed to determine the direct role of development on occupancy patterns.
10.2307/1565231|In some mammals the development of embryos is affected by the sex of adjacent fetuses through increased or decreased levels of sex steroids present in the uterus. The effects of masculinization and de-feminization can be observed in behavior as well as in morphology. In this study we examined whether similar effects occur in a viviparous reptile, the garter snake Thamnophis elegans. We tested two populations of T. elegans for the effect of prenatal sex ratio on the development of a sexually dimorphic tail scale count, in which males have significantly more subcaudal scales than females. The results show that females from one population have significantly fewer subcaudal scales in litters with a higher proportion of males. No such trend was observed in males. The other population shows a significant difference in regression slopes comparing females to males, but the slopes cannot be shown to differ from zero in either sex. Unlike in mammals where testosterone is the organizing hormone for sexual differentiation, the results in T. elegans suggest that estrogen, after having been aromatized from testosterone, may influence the development of the subcaudal scale count in female garter snakes.
40060465|Typhlonectes compressicauda is a viviparous gymnophionan in which metamorphosis occurs during gestation. The development of the hypophysis and thyroid gland, both implicated in metamorphosis of other amphibians, has been poorly studied in gymnophionans. In this species, the adenohypophysis blastema, equivalent to Rathke's pouch, appears at stage 23. At stage 24, the anlage extends toward the diencephalon floor, forming a flat lens. At stage 26-27, at or just after hatching, the nerve fibers develop from the diencephalon, constituting the future pars nervosa. At the beginning of metamorphosis (stages 30-31), the differentiation of five endocrine cell types, resembling those of adult animals, is observed, suggesting the beginning of endocrine activity. The development of the thyroid gland from the pharyngeal endoderm, equivalent to the thyreoglosse canal, is first observed at stage 22. At stage 24, the anlage is divided into two lobes extending to the sinus venosus. At stages 26-27, a central lumen appears in the follicles. At stage 28, the morphology of the thyroid gland is that of an adult. Colloids fill the follicles at stages 29-30, before the threshold of metamorphosis. These observations suggest the association of development and activity of the thyroid gland with the metamorphic process, as in other Amphibia. A relative independence of thyroid endocrine activity with hypophyseal hormonal control (and consequently hypothalamus control) is suggested as in aquatic urodeles, at least at the beginning of metamorphosis.
4092861|We examined diet of introduced Bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) and three native frog species (Rana limnocharis, Rana nigromaculata, and Bufo bufo gargarizans) co-occurring at a group of ponds on Daishan Island, east of China, to gain insight into the nature of potential interactions between Bullfrogs and native frog species. For postmetamorphic Bullfrogs, aquatic prey items dominated volumetrically. Prey size, diet volume and volumetric percentage of native frogs in diet increased with Bullfrog body size. The number and volumetric percentage of native frogs in the diet were not different for female and male Bullfrogs, and both were higher for adults than for juveniles. Diet overlap between males and juveniles was higher than that between males and females and between females and juveniles. Diet overlap with each native frog species of male Bullfrogs was lower than that of female Bullfrogs and juvenile Bullfrogs. We did not exam effects of Bullfrogs on native frogs but our results suggest that the primary threat posed by juvenile Bullfrogs to native frogs on Daishan Island is competition for food, whereas the primary threat posed by male Bullfrogs is direct predation. Female Bullfrogs may threaten native frogs by both competition and predation. These differences among Bullfrog groups may be attributed to differences in body size and microhabitat use.
4092859|Reptilian eggshells are a potential source of nutrients for developing embryos. Embryonic Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina) used calcium and magnesium from the eggshell during development This supplemental source of calcium provided more than twice the amount of calcium present in freshly laid egg yolk to developing embryos. Calcium was preferentially mobilized from the sides and bottom of the eggshell. Scanning electron micrographs of eggshells indicated that this preferential use affected the structural integrity of the eggshell, which presumably facilitates pipping. The mass and concentration of calcium in the chorioallantoic membrane increased significantly during later development, suggesting that this membrane plays a critical role in mobilization of calcium during development. This is the first study to demonstrate mobilization of eggshell magnesium by embryonic turtles.
40060504|We analyzed 621 lizard fecal pellets to assess the diet of the endemic lizard Gallotia galloti (Lacertidae) throughout one year in the thermophilous scrubland, the most threatened habitat in the Canary Islands. Indicating the importance of frugivory, 98.1% of pellets contained seeds from fleshy-fruited plant species (8,028 seeds in total), and the fruit volume reached 47.5%. The Canarian endemic plants Rhamnus crenulata and Canarina canariensis were most important in frequency of occurrence and number of seeds found in pellets, respectively. Lizards were more frugivorous during the summer (63.0% of volume), and seasonal variation was associated with temporal changes in availability of ripe fleshy fruits. We detected microspatial differences in the consumption of fruits and plant material. Significant correlations were found between plant cover of each species and their respective consumption by lizards. Lizards consumed invertebrates throughout the year; Formicidae, Hemiptera, Coleoptera, and Hymenoptera were the most frequently consumed prey (76.5% of the animal prey items). Our results indicate that G. galloti is one of the most frugivorous lacertids studied. The high number of undamaged seeds removed by these lizards also implies an important role in the seed dispersal processes of many fleshy-fruited plant species from this threatened habitat.
40060519|We investigated habitat selection and movement patterns of female Grass Snakes (Natrix natrix helvetica) in an agricultural landscape where cropping is the dominant farming practice. The aims were to estimate the relative importance of monoculture as habitat for these snakes and to assess its functional relevance to the snakes. Radiotelemetry was used to measure movements by snakes, and the locations of animals were used as sampling points to examine patterns of habitat use. In the course of the tracking period, all females used monocultures. Because of a combination of suitable basking sites, favorable foraging opportunities, and low pressure from avian predators, monocultures may provide at least temporary advantages over more natural habitats, with a seasonal shift in functional relevance induced by the time of oviposition. Overall, the snakes showed a marked preference for edge habitats, which make up only 7% of the study area. At the microhabitat level, a snakes' probability of occurrence was positively correlated with either percentage cover of perennial layer or distance to cereal crop or with both. Our results clearly demonstrate that monocultures are a component of the habitat of female Grass Snakes during their summer activity period in the study area. However, the marked preference for edge habitats, and the response to particular microhabitat features, emphasizes the importance of a mosaic of habitats and structural heterogeneity of edge habitats for the conservation of this snake population.
10.2307/1564205|Precipitation patterns in agar-double-diffusion plates have suggested taxonomic distinctness of Carettochelys. Lissemys (of the Cyclanorbinae) was found to be distinct from Carettochelys rather than intermediate between Carettochelys and the Trionychinae. In decreasing order of reactions from Carettochelys are members of the Trionychidae: Pelochelys, Trionyx and Lissemys; Kinosterninae; Cheloniidae; Platysternon; Batagurinae and Emydinae (Emys orbicularis strongest); Testudininae; Chelidae; and Pelomedusa.
41515008|Chiasmocleis mantiqueira is a small microhylid frog recently described from an Atlantic rain forest fragment found in the state of Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil, whose biology is poorly know. Here, the tadpole and the vocalizations of this species are described from the type locality, along with some information about its natural history. Characteristics of larval external morphology of C. mantiqueira are similar to other described tadpoles of the genus: oral disc without keratinized mouthparts, spiracle single, posterior ventral, and medial vent tube. The body is depressed, rectangular in dorsal view and oval in lateral view, and the tail has a flagellum. The species exhibits an explosive breeding behavior, like other Neotropical microhylids. However, unlike other species in this genus, males of C. mantiqueira do not have a vocal sac, and its call is composed of a single harmonic, not a pulsed, note. Thus, the characteristics of the call of C. mantiqueira contradict the hypothesis that call structure can support the monophyly of Chiasmocleis, and further data are required to clarify the relationship of the species in this genus.
40060546|Historically, Gopher Tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) occurred in fire-maintained habitats; however, many of these areas have been fire-suppressed. Herein, we examine the spatial distribution of Gopher Tortoises 17-18 years after fire reintroduction to a fire-suppressed area. Our study took place at Archbold Biological Station (ABS) in south-central Florida. Fires were suppressed at ABS from 1927 until 1985, at which time fire was reintroduced to this area. During 2002 and 2003, we surveyed Gopher Tortoise burrows in 17 burn units of sandhill and scrubby flatwoods with varied fire histories. Using density of active burrows as an indicator of Gopher Tortoise density, Gopher Tortoise burrow densities were highest in recently and frequently burned areas. Because fire influences habitat structure, we also gathered information on the amount of canopy cover and bare ground at each study site. Density of active Gopher Tortoise burrows increased with bare ground and decreased (but not significantly so) with canopy cover. Backward stepwise ridge regression analyses showed that number of fires was a more important predictor of active Gopher Tortoise burrow density than habitat structure (amount of bare ground). In sum, our study demonstrates that reintroducing fire to fire-suppressed areas is beneficial to Gopher Tortoises, and this response is not solely caused by changes in habitat structure.
10.2307/1565477|The homalopsine species, Enhydris plumbea, Cerberus rynchops, and Homalopsis buccata, are aquatic snakes with well developed Duvernoy's glands and grooved posterior maxillary teeth. General features of the feeding behavior of these species were described based on the laboratory observations. Effects of prey size and type on prey-handling behavior and ontogenetic change were investigated using neonate and young snakes. All feeding occurred under water. After seizing prey, snakes remained motionless for periods related to prey size and type. In some cases, snakes anchored the posterior part of the body on submerged stones during handling. Neonate E. plumbea occasionally dropped fish during positioning. In some cases, snakes showed a unique release-and-regrip maneuver for preingestion positioning of prey instead of typical lateral jaw walking maneuver. Ontogenetic change was observed only as the reduction of swallowing duration. Most fish were swallowed head first irrespective of size, whereas direction of ingestion of frogs and tadpoles depended largely on initial bite position. Although some prey animals were killed before swallowing, most were only weakened and swallowed alive. I suggest that characteristics of prey-handling behavior of E. plumbea, C. rynchops, and H. buccata are related to their aquatic and piscivorous habits. Particularly, obligatory head first ingestion of fish seems to be an adaptation for piscivory. I also suggest that the primary biological role of Duvernoy's secretions of these snakes is to incapacitate prey animals to aid prey-handling.
10.2307/1563065|Mean prey size increased linearly and mean number of items per stomach apparently declined with increasing Acris crepitans size. Rank analysis comparing foods consumed to availability of ground and above ground invertebrates showed significant positive correlations, indicating that prey selection was not as important as prey availability. Acris crepitans fed on both ground (45.6% of prey, 20.7% of volume) and above ground (33.0% of prey, 38.7% of volume) invertebrate communities, but little from the aquatic community (3.2% of prey, 5.0% of volume). The remaining prey (18.1% of prey, 23.8% of volume) could not be reliably classified as to ground or above ground prey. Remaining volume comprised unidentified and non-prey items.
1566072|We estimated survivorship, recapture probabilities and recovery rates in a threatened population of Flattened Musk Turtles (Sternotherus depressus) through a disease outbreak in Alabama in 1985. We evaluated a set of models for the demographic effects of disease by analyzing recaptures and recoveries simultaneously. Multiple-model inference suggested survival was temporally dynamic, whereas recapture probability was sex- and age-specifc. Biweekly survivorship declined from 98-99% before to 82-88% during the outbreak. Live recapture was twice as likely for male turtles relative to juveniles or females, whereas dead recoveries varied only slightly by sex and age. Our results suggest modest reduction in survival over a relatively short time period may severely affect population status.
10.2307/1564707| The scincids Mabuya macrorhyncha and M. agilis occur sympatrically and syntopically at the Barra de Maric restinga, in Rio de Janeiro State, Southeastern Brazil. The use of three different niche dimensions (space, food, and time) by the two species was compared and certain morphometric differences between them were analyzed. The two species differed considerably in microhabitat use both horizontally and vertically. Mabuya macrorhyncha was strongly associated with bromeliads, while M. agilis was found mainly on the leaf-litter and had a low degree of arboreality. Both species had a unimodal activity pattern with a peak between 0900 and 1200 h. The two species also differed in diet composition by volume and by number of prey ingested (although spiders and cockroaches are important items in the diets of both), but did not differ in mean prey size. We also observed morphological differences between the two species, which are presumably associated with their differential microhabitat preference: Mabuya macrorhyncha had greater mean values of hand plus finger length than M. agilis, which had greater values of head height and body height. The longer fingers and more flattened body plan of M. macrorhyncha probably allow, respectively, a greater degree of arboreality and more efficient movements between tough bromeliad leaves compared to the ground-dwelling M. agilis. We concluded that the two species of Mabuya at Barra de Maric differ mostly in microhabitat use (compared to other ecological aspects we studied) and that such differences in the horizontal and vertical use of the spatial niche are closely related to some morphological differences. 
10.2307/1563166|Palaeotaricha van Frank apparently differs from Taricha primarily in the possession of higher neural spines provided with a dermal cap. Generic status is probably not warranted on this basis, but Palaeotaricha does constitute a recognizable subgenus of Taricha existing at least from the upper Oligocene to the lower Miocene. It may be directly ancestral to the nominate subgenus. Taricha (Palaeotaricha) miocenica, sp. nov., is described herein from the lower Miocene of Montana, as is also a new species of Notophthalmus, N. crassus, from the middle Miocene of southwestern South Dakota.
25599244|Individual differences may affect risk taking (boldness) in antipredatory behavior. I examined individual differences of the lizard Sceloporus virgatus in flight initiation distance (predator-prey distance when escape begins), distance fled, and hiding time (refuge entry until emergence). Positive correlations between repeated measures of flight initiation distance and distance fled showed that individuals differed reliably in each variable, demonstrating individual differences in boldness over intervals of a few minutes to a day or longer, but correlations of hiding times between trials were context-specific. Hiding times were correlated for different speeds and directnesses of approach and predator proximity but not for identical approaches or trials differing in presence of food outside refuge. Independence of repeated hiding times might indicate that assessed risk varied between trials because of uncontrolled differences in approaches that elicited immergence or costs of hiding. Independence of hiding times with food present or absent suggests that differences in nutritional state affected hiding differently when food was present or that boldness is context-specific. Contrary to previous findings for S. virgatus, distance fled and flight initiation distance were unrelated, presumably because the relationship is weak, and possibly because sample sizes were small and uncontrolled distance to refuge and direction fled obscured a relationship.
10.2307/1565126|As a preliminary investigation into intra-population variation in venom proteins in the prairie rattlesnake, Crotalus v. viridis, we analyzed a small number (11) of venom samples from extreme western Texas and adjoining New Mexico by electrophoresis and Western blotting methods. A monoclonal antibody raised against hemorrhagic toxin in C. atrox venom (CA-P-8) recognized all the venoms, but none was recognized by a monoclonal antibody raised against a hemorrhagic toxin in C. m. molossus venom (CMM-1). All the venoms were recognized by an anti-L-amino acid oxidase (CSS20) monoclonal antibody, but none was recognized by an anti-Mojave toxin antibody (CSS12). An antibody (AF5) against a protease in C. s. scutulatus venom that inactivates complement recognized all the venoms except the venom from one young snake. The principal individual venom differences were in the amounts of various venom components, although qualitative differences were noted. The principal similarities lie in the molecular weights of most of the venom proteins. Intrapopulational mobility differences were more pronounced in venom proteins separated by isoelectric focusing and PAGE without SDS and 2-mercaptoethanol.
10.2307/1563404|Green iguanas (Iguana iguana) are eaten by crocodiles, basilisk lizards, snakes, birds, and mammals. Among a variety of known or suspected antipredator tactics, cryptic coloration and behavior enhanced by group responses are especially important. This strategy is consistent with the physiological capabilities and unusual ecological role of iguanas.
10.2307/1563531|Many studies indicate that chemical cues activate garter snake feeding behavior whereas visual and/or thermal stimuli do so for rattlesnakes. However, no experiments have factorially combined chemical and visual cues for either of these taxa. The present work explored possible interactive effects of these stimuli on rate of tongue flicking (RTF) in garter snakes (Thamnophis radix haydeni) and rattlesnakes (Crotalus e. enyo, C. v. viridis, and Sistrurus catenatus tergeminus). In Experiments 1 and 2 snakes were exposed to four conditions representing an orthogonal combination of presence vs. absence of visual and chemical stimuli arising from prey. RTF was recorded for 5 min under each condition. Garter snakes exhibited a significant elevation in RTF in the presence of chemical cues whether or not visual cues were present. There was also an effect of visual cues but no interaction between visual and chemical cues. Rattlesnakes did not respond to chemical cues; these snakes showed only an effect of visual cues. In Experiment 3, rattlesnakes were again observed as above, with the exception that test sessions were of 10 min duration. Behavior during the first 5 min was identical to that seen in Experiment 2, but during min 6-10 the snakes responded more in the condition containing visual plus chemical cues than in any other condition. Visual stimuli alerted rattlesnakes to the presence of potential prey and gave rise to elevated RTF which subsequently allowed these predators to utilize chemical cues that happened to be available. Hence, garter snakes and rattlesnakes use both chemical and visual information but differ in the sequence in which these stimuli are used.
40060482|Demographic studies on long-lived organisms are uncommon, largely because of the long time periods necessary to collect even the most basic data. We report results of the first long-term growth study of a non-Amazonian Neotropical freshwater turtle, the chelid Hydromedusa maximiliani. Differences were detected among males, females, and juveniles. Juveniles had higher growth rates (body size and mass) than adult males and females. A significant negative relationship existed between growth rate and mean body size of males and females, which was best defined by linear equations. Growth constants (k) estimated from the von Bertallanfy model were 0.094 for females and 0.073 for males, and the parameter b was 0.75 for females and 0.77 for males. Based on the von Bertallanfy equation, estimated age at sexual maturity was 14 yr (11.6-16.6 yr) for males and 9 yr (5.7-11.9 yr) for females, whereas longevity was estimated at about 100 yr for both sexes. This represents the greatest expected life span reported for a chelid turtle. Because the geographical distribution of H. maximiliani is restricted to mountainous regions of the Atlantic rain forest, one of the world's biodiversity hotspots, and because the species is long-lived and late maturing and appears to have a set of life-history traits unique among chelid turtles, a conservation program that extends beyond existing conservation units may be necessary to ensure its survival.
10.2307/1563903|Anarbylus switaki, a species previously known only from Baja California Sur, Mexico, occurs in eastern San Diego and southwestern Imperial Counties in California. In California, specimens tend to have continuous transverse bars on the body, are lighter in color, and more slender in body form than in southern Baja California. California populations appear to be confined to extremely rocky habitats in desert foothill situations between 200 and 600 m. The species appears to be secretive, and occurs in low densities within rock crevices and subterranean cavities. The morphological gap between Anarbylus and Coleonyx species may not warrant generic recognition. Anarbylus is part of a diverse lizard fauna in southern California and occurs in sympatry with 15 lizard species in a small area of southern California.
4092863| Temporal patterns of embryonic metabolism integrate ontogenetic changes in the energetic costs of growth and maintenance. Unlike most other chelonians, which show a peaked pattern of embryonic metabolic rate (MR) over time, turtles of the family Emydidae have been depicted with unimodally increasing patterns. We incubated eggs of the emydid Chrysemys picta picta under standard conditions at 30C and serially measured rates of oxygen consumption. Five eggs showed clear decreases in MR before hatching; two others that hatched during MR measurements showed increases in MR associated with muscular activity. MRs of hatchling turtles were lower than those of prehatching embryos for at least 60 days, suggesting persistent costs of biosynthesis in yolk-dependent late-stage embryos and early hatchlings. 
10.2307/1564375| Analyses of morphometrics, structural characters, and coloration resulted in the restriction of Gastrotheca argenteovirens (Boettger) to the western slopes of the Cordillera Central in central and southern Colombia. The population on the Pacific slopes of the Cordillera Occidental in southern Colombia is recognized as a new species, G. trachyceps. Gastrotheca argenteovirens dunni Lutz from the northern part of the Cordillera Central is accorded specific status. /// Se realizo un anlisis de los caracteres morfomtricos, estructurales, y de coloracin de los anuros marsupiales pertenecientes al complejo Gastrotheca argenteovirens que habitan en Colombia. Las poblaciones del sur de la Cordillera Central y de las pendientes Pacificas de la Cordillera Occidental son similares en coloracin y tamao, pero las poblaciones de la Cordillera Occidental se caracterizan por poseer la piel de la regin ceflica coosificada con los huesos drmicos craniales. Los especmenes de la parte norte de la Cordillera Central se diferencian de los demas en su coloracin, desarrollo de la membrana interdigital en el quinto dedo y especialmente por su menor tamao. Las poblaciones de la Cordillera Central en el centro y sur de Colombia son reconocidas como G. argenteovirens (Boettger), mientras que las poblaciones de la parte norte de la Cordillera Central son referidas como G. dunni Lutz. Los especimenes del sur de la Cordillera Occidental son descritos como una nueva especies, G. trachyceps, la cual se conoce solamente en el bosque hmedo de las pendientes Pacificas del Cerro Munchique, Departamento de Cauca. 
10.2307/1565965|The effectiveness of pitfall versus funnel traps was examined using drift fence data from five studies that employed different array designs, fencing materials, and numbers of traps in diverse Florida habitats. In general, salamanders, anurans, lizards, and snakes were captured more frequently than expected in funnel traps than in pitfall traps. In most studies, hylid frogs (Hyla, Acris, and Pseudacris) were captured significantly more often in funnel traps, but other anuran groups were captured either more often in funnel traps or equally as often in both types of traps. Most lizards and medium-sized and large snake species were captured more often in funnel traps, but semifossorial lizard (i.e., Eumeces egregius) and snake (e.g., Tantilla relicta) species were usually captured in pitfall traps. Too few turtle and small snake species were trapped to draw conclusions. Other studies that found funnel traps to be less effective than pitfall traps for some herpetofauna used funnel traps that were smaller or that might have been poorly constructed or installed. Reptiles had similar mortality rates in both types of traps, but in drier habitats, anurans were more prone to dying in funnel than in pitfall traps, despite the presence of shade covers and sponges. Overall herpetofaunal mortality rates were higher in funnel traps than pitfall traps, but this difference was significant only for the study with the longest interval between checking traps in terrestrial habitats. Traps should be checked at least every three days to minimize mortality. In the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States, most species can be effectively sampled by using only funnel traps, but pitfall traps should be added in xeric upland habitats to increase the chance of capturing semifossorial or fossorial reptiles.
4092975|There is a close link between the habitat of an organism and its behavior, performance, and morphology. Many urban parks and gardens are modified such that the ground layer is more open and less complex than the ground layer of a natural bushland habitat. Garden Skinks (Lampropholis guichenoti) are widespread and common throughout the Sydney region, in both modified and more natural habitats. Garden Skinks might, therefore, exhibit differences in behavior, performance, and morphology between these two habitats. We studied behavior (habitat use and response to a predator), performance (sprint speed), and morphology of Garden Skinks in three modified urban garden habitats and three more natural bushland habitats. Lizards in modified habitats spent significantly more time on bare, flat surfaces farther from refuge than lizards in natural habitats. The distance to which an observer could approach a lizard before it fled (approach distance) was generally greater in modified habitats, and lizards in modified habitats had significantly faster sprint speeds than lizards in natural habitats. Lizard morphology (leg length) did not correlate with lizard performance. Apart from lizards at Modified Site 1 and Natural Site 1, lizards exhibited a similar, generalized body shape that was suited to various sprint speeds. However, the ability of Garden Skinks to exhibit different behaviors and performance levels (given similar body shapes) in structurally different habitats in part may explain why Garden Skinks are referred to as a successful "generalist" species.
1566209|A new species of toad is described from small streams in the hills of Cuchilla de Haedo and Cuchilla Grande in northeastern Uruguay. Specimens of the new species were previously mistaken for Bufo arenarum; they differ from B. arenarum by having elongated parotoid glands and reddish-brown parotoid and cephalic crests. A discriminant analysis resulted in three groups corresponding to B. arenarum, Bufo rufus, and the specimens herein described as a new species.
10.2307/1564834|I examined the use of saline habitats by the common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) in a Long Island estuary, where salinities range from fresh water (0 ppt) to approximately 70% seawater (100% seawater = 35 ppt). Movements, blood osmotic concentration, feeding habits, and leech infestation were monitored. Salinity data and field observations of distribution offer circumstantial evidence that snapping turtles are restricted to salinities hypoosmotic to the blood plasma (308 milliosmolal). Turtles were placed in enclosures at capture sites in a saline tidal creek in an attempt to test the possibility that other factors might be important in determining range extension into saline waters. These experiments showed that the turtles are unable to osmoregulate when forced to remain in relatively saline water (mean salinity = 13.9 ppt) over periods ranging from 11 to 27 d and offer conclusive evidence that water salinity is a dominant factor limiting snapping turtle distribution in estuaries.
10.2307/1564742| We used canonical variate analysis (CVA) to determine the pattern of meristic variation among Cnemidophorus cozumela, C. maslini, and C. rodecki, parthenogenetic species from the Yucatn Peninsula, and C. angusticeps and C. deppei, gonochoristic species implicated in their origin. Cnemidophorus maslini from Campeche, Mxico had the least meristic resemblance to the progenitor species. Cnemidophorus cozumela was most similar to C. maslini from Guatemala, and C. rodecki was distinguished by its displacement from both C. cozumela and C. maslini and its close resemblance to C. deppei, the paternal progenitor species. A second CVA examined the meristic variation among the three parthenogenetic species, with C. maslini partitioned into three statistically distinguishable (subsidiary) groups. There were significant differences among C. cozumela, C. rodecki, and each subsidiary group of C. maslini. However, specimens of all three subsidiary groups are diagnosable to C. maslini by color pattern, and we consider them to be components of one parthenospecies. 
10.2307/1562701|Painted turtles were examined from Kentucky and Tennessee. Two zones of intergradation were established on the basis of several characters. These characters were the degree of disalignment of the carapacial seams, the presence of a dark plastral mark, the width of the light borders of the seam of the second lateral lamina, and the width of the dorsal stripe. A zone of intergradation occurs in eastern Tennessee between the subspecies Chrysemys picta picta and C. p. marginata. A second zone occurs in western Kentucky and northwestern Tennessee between C. p. marginata and C. p. dorsalis. The zoogeography of these zones is discussed.
10.2307/1563671|Ontogenetic shifts in diet and diurnal patterns of feeding and movement were examined in larvae of the two-lined salamander, Eurycea bislineata. Larvae appear to be opportunistic generalists. As they grow, they incorporate larger prey into their diets but continue to consume large numbers of small prey. Larvae of all sizes feed continuously and show similar diurnal patterns of movement to and from cover in streams. Comparisons of the relative numbers, relative volumes, and the mean sizes of dietary items revealed very high dietary overlap between coexisting larvae of different sizes. Differences in body size and ontogenetic shifts in temporal and spatial patterns of feeding are not effective in partitioning food resources between conspecifics.
43287344|Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), the fungus responsible for chytridiomycosis, grows on the keratinized parts of the body (i.e., the entire skin of juveniles and adults, and the oral disk of tadpoles). The fungus affects epidermal structures, generating an imbalance of the osmotic equilibrium through the skin that ultimately leads to death. Therefore, larvae are likely to be much more resistant compared with juveniles and adults, which may suffer high mortality. However, nothing is known about how susceptibility varies during the juvenile life stages (from the end of metamorphosis to sexual maturity). The coexistence of tolerant hosts (either tolerant species or unaffected developmental stages) with susceptible hosts is a major reason why chytridiomycosis has become an epidemic disease. The aim of this study was to analyze the interspecific and developmental variation in susceptibility to Bd in juveniles of three North American anurans. Leopard Frog (Lithobates pipiens) incurred no lethal effects at 10 4 Bd zoospores ml-, regardless of the age at which they were exposed to the fungus. On the contrary, Bd infection was more severe for newly metamorphosed juveniles of American toads (Anaxyrus atnericanus) than for 4-week-old juveniles. When exposed to 10 Bd zoospores ml-, newly metamorphosed juveniles of this species experienced mortality rates above 70%, whereas 4-week-old juveniles had mortality rates below 30%. Variations in structural characteristics of the skin or the antifungal efficiency of skin peptides are proposed as potential reasons to explain the observed developmental differences in susceptibility to Bd. Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), el hongo responsable de la quitridiomicosis, crece sobre las partes queratinizadas del cuerpo (i.e. la piel de juveniles y adultos y el disco oral de las larvas). El hongo afecta a las estructuras epidrmicas generando una alteracin del equilibrio osmtico en la piel que termina produciendo la muerte. De este modo, las larvas suelen ser mucho ms resistentes que los juveniles o los adultos, los cuales pueden sufrir elevadas mortalidades. Sin embargo, se desconoce cmo vara la susceptibilidad a lo largo de la etapa juvenil (desde el final de la metamorfosis hasta la adquisicin de la madurez sexual). La coexistencia de hospedadores tolerantes (ya sean especies tolerantes o estadios de desarrollo que no se vean afectados) con hospedadores susceptibles es una de las principales razones por las que la quitridiomicosis se ha convertido en una epidemia. El objeto de este estudio fue analizar las variaciones interespecficas y a lo largo del desarrollo en la susceptibilidad de tres especies de anuros de Norteamrica a Bd. Los juveniles de rana leopardo (Lithobates pipiens) no sufrieron efectos letales a 10 zoosporas de Bd mL-, independientemente de la edad a la que fueron expuestos al hongo. Por el contrario, la infeccin por Bd result ms severa para individuos recin metamorfoseados de sapo americano (Anaxyrus americanus) que para juveniles con cuatro semanas de vida. Al exponerlos a 10 zoosporas de Bd mL- , los juveniles recin metamorfoseados experimentaron tasas de mortalidad por encima del 70%, mientras que los juveniles con cuatro semanas de edad sufrieron tasas de mortalidad inferiores al 30%. Las variaciones en las caractersticas estructurales de la piel y/o en la eficacia antifngica de los pptidos cutneos se proponen como razones potenciales para explicar las diferencias en la susceptibilidad a Bd observadas a lo largo del desarrollo.
10.2307/1564645|Rana muscosa is one of several high-elevation amphibians that have recently disappeared from seemingly pristine sites. The present study documents an event of mass mortality among larval and metamorphosed R. muscosa in a lake in Kings Canyon National Park, California, and the ultimate extinction of the population. In 1979 metamorphosed individuals declined from ca. 800 individuals in early summer to nearly zero in late summer. During this time many carcasses were collected, individuals showed symptoms of red-leg disease, and blood from an affected individual contained the bacterial pathogen characteristic of this disease, Aeromonas hydrophila. Also during the summer of 1979, nearly all of the approximately 1100 tadpoles began metamorphosis, but all metamorphosing individuals were consumed by Brewer's blackbirds (Euphagus cyanocephalus). This population of R. muscosa continued to exist until at least 1983, but was extinct by 1989. Recolonization of the site will probably never occur because streams connecting to extant populations of R. muscosa now contain introduced fishes.
10.2307/1565510|We conducted an incubation and rearing experiment to test the effects of incubation temperature and egg size on hatchling size and growth of the emydid turtle, Malaclemys terrapin. Eggs from four clutches were assigned randomly to two incubation temperatures, 26 C and 32 C. Half of the hatchlings were sacrificed and sexed after five months and the remainder were raised for three years in a common environment. Similar to other studies of emydid turtles, low and high temperature treatments produced exclusively males and females, respectively. Egg size was more variable among the four clutches than within each clutch. Egg mass accounted for 96% and 97% of the variance in hatchling mass for females and males, respectively. Both clutch and incubation temperature influenced post-hatching growth. The clutch effect was due to both differences in egg mass among clutches and the effects of egg size on hatchling size. Egg mass explained 59% of the variation in size among 3 year old females, but did not explain size variation among 3 year old males. Differences in female growth attributable to egg size could result in as much as a three year difference in age at first reproduction based on the growth trajectories of terrapins from a natural population.
10.2307/1563072|A study of growth and morphometrics of Kinosternon sonoriense was conducted in Arizona. Specimens used in the morphometrical analysis were collected from several central and southern Arizona streams and ponds. Those used in the growth analysis were collected from only two localities. Differences in growth rates were noted between the two populations and between sexes in a given population. Males grow at a slower rate and achieve a smaller maximum size than the females. In both sexes growth rates abruptly slow at onset of sexual maturity. Of nine bi-variate plastral and carapacial relationships analyzed for sexual dimorphism, two were significantly different. Coloration is discussed. Ventral melanism is more common in males than in females; no correlation was noted between size and amount of plastral melanism. Twenty-one percent of the turtles had scute abnormalities, most occurring on the plastron.
43287377|Many amphibian populations are declining, and increased understanding of the drivers of amphibian presence and abundance will help in their conservation. In 2005 and 2006 we estimated relative abundance of larvae of two common amphibian taxa, Tiger Salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinutn) and ranid tadpoles (Northern Leopard Frog Lithobates pipiens and Wood Frog Lithobates sylvaticus), in 75 shallow lakes in prairie and parkland areas in Minnesota. We used a two-step procedure in which we first modeled presence-absence with data from all lakes and then modeled abundance only in lakes where the amphibian taxa were present For the two amphibian taxa, a generalized linear mixed effects model was used to examine the effects of dynamic factors like fish abundance and static (timeframe of study) variables like fish community type, depth, and adjacent land cover. Fish variables had the greatest influence but differed for the presence and abundance models. Salamander and tadpole presence was inversely correlated to the abundance of benthivorous fish, while salamander abundance was best explained by total fish abundance and tadpole abundance by fish community type. We did not detect influences of land cover types on the amphibian taxa we surveyed. Our findings are important because they complement previous studies documenting that negative correlations with fish extend beyond piscivores to include both planktivores and benthivores. Hydrological changes in our study landscape (e.g., installation of drainage networks, wetland consolidation) associated with agriculture and other land uses have likely increased the distribution and abundance of fish populations, thus dampening amphibian breeding success.
1565749| The nomenclatural status of the synonyms of Hyla pardalis Spix, 1824, is reevaluated, the synonymy of Hyla (Lophopus) corticalis Burmeister, 1856, is supported, and Hyla rubropunctata Lutz, 1973 (nomen nudum), is synonymized with H. pardalis. Hyla lundii Burmeister, 1856, previously in the synonymy of H. pardalis, is revalidated. Hyla pustulosa Reinhardt and Ltken, 1862, and Hyllela punctatissima Reinhardt and Ltken, 1862, previously synonyms of H. pardalis, are transferred to the synonymy of H. lundii. Hyla biobeba Bokermann and Sazima, 1974, is synonymized with H. lundii. Diagnoses and comparisons with the members of the Hyla boans species group are provided for H. pardalis and H. lundii, and their geographical distributions are described. The type locality of H. pardalis is discussed and reallocated. 
41515031|Understanding the processes shaping responses of native species to environmental perturbations, such as the introduction of nonnative species, will allow us to better manage such impacts. The imported Red Fire Ant, Solenopsis invicta, invaded the United States ~70 years ago and co-occurs with Fence Lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) in portions of their range. Lizards from fire ant-invaded populations have longer hind limbs which more effectively remove ants and increase survival following fire ant attack. Prior research on this system suggests that this difference in relative hind limb length (RHL) is fixed at birth; however, RHL is a plastic trait in other lizard species and could help Fence Lizards survive. Lizards from invaded sites are more likely to climb when attacked by fire ants or when stressed (i.e., have elevated levels of corticosterone) than are lizards from uninvaded sites. We tested for climbing-induced plasticity in RHL by manipulating whether or not Fence Lizards had to climb raised platforms to bask. This testing revealed that increased climbing did not affect RHL at maturity (34 weeks of age) or hind limb growth rates. This result was unaffected by initial limb length, differential survival, source population, or ambient or body temperature of the lizards, suggesting that the amount of climbing does not plastically affect the RHL of S. undulatus.
40665018|We determined annual survivorship and causes of mortality at two Desert Tortoise, Gopherus agassizii, study sites in the Sonoran Desert, Arizona, based on radio-telemetry data. Annual survivorship was high (89-97%), did not differ between sexes, and was comparable to previous studies using markrecapture methods. Survivorship between sexes differed seasonally at one site, based on differences in seasonal activity patterns and differential exposure to prdation by mountain lions, Puma concolor. In the absence of mammalian prdation, seasonal survivorship did not differ between sexes. The next leading cause of mortality was failure to right oneself after a fall or after being flipped during reproductive or combat events.
10.2307/1564495|Techniques and terminology used in a survey of African snake hemipenial morphology are introduced. Descriptions are given of the hemipenes of a number of scolecophidians, including Leptotyphlops scutifrons, L. conjunctus, L. nigricans, Typhlops bibroni, T. fornasini, T. schlegeli dinga and T. lalandei. The typhlopid hemipenes are robust, simple structures, with nude bases, varied flounced ornamentation, and a terminal cup into which the undivided sulcus drains. No hemipenial features support the recognition of Rhinotyphlops. Unlike the relatively complicated hemipenes of Neotropical leptotyphlopids, the hemipenes of the African species are simple, unornamented, elongate structures, with undivided sulci and swollen basal regions. The hemipenes of African Phython and Eryx are described. The smaller African pythons (P. regius and P. anchietae) have undivided organs, similar to those of the Asian blood python (P. curtus). P. regius and P. curtus have an unusual oblique terminal capitulum. Terminal awns are found only in P. regius and P. sebae. The hemipenis of P. anchietae is intermediate between that of the smaller and larger species of the P. molurus group (sensu McDowell). The python hemipenis, like most boid hemipenes, has a prominent fleshy papilla on the asulcal surface of the proximal flounce. This is not found in Eryx hemipenes, or in those of Lichanura rosefusca. Erycine hemipenes are simple, or at most shallowly-forked, clavate in shape, with a divided sulcus, the forks of which drain into lateral cups. They are similar to the hemipenes of Xenopeltis (which is illustrated) and Loxocemus.
10.2307/1565604|Counts of lines on carapacial and plastral scutes are widely used to age turtles because the technique is convenient and non-destructive. However, the procedure has rarely been tested for accuracy or precision against known-aged turtles because verification of age is difficult in such long-lived animals. We tested the accuracy and precision of counts of scute lines using juvenile painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) of known age (1-7 yr), and juvenile and adult snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) whose ages were not known. Lines on plastral scutes of C. picta were counted from a marked population in the field, and underestimated known age as early as age 4 yr. The accuracy of these counts decreased with known age and by age 6 and 7 yr, only 11% of turtles were aged correctly. In C. serpentina, we used plaster casts and black and white photographs to make permanent records of the fourth vertebral scutes of a set of marked individuals. Counts were made by both naive and experienced observers from casts made between 1-10 yr apart and were compared with one another and with counts made from enlarged black and white photographs of the same individual. We tested whether counts of scute lines were affected by the age of the turtle, the experience of the observer, observer expectancy bias, and the method of recording data. We concluded that all these factors influenced both the accuracy and precision of counts, and that estimates became increasingly unreliable with age. We suggest that counts of scute lines must be tested carefully against known-aged turtles and conducted so as to eliminate expectancy bias. Even then, variability among and within observers and among methodologies may produce age estimates that are at best approximations and at worst misleading, except in the youngest specimens.
10.2307/1563610|Gambelia silus and G. wislizenii from the San Joaquin Valley and Mojave desert respectively, hybridize in the upper Cuyama River Valley, California. Data from 50 specimens from the contact zone were subjected to multivariate discriminant analysis employing 11 meristic and 6 morphometric characters. Color pattern information was assessed separately by coding character states of 6 color characters. Histograms of color index scores reveal a paucity of phenetically intermediate lizards in both male and female samples. First canonical variable scores for morphological data show females skewed toward parental silus, with relatively few intermediates. In males, the modal classes are situated between the silus and wislizenii reference samples. The greatest heterogeneity in color pattern and morphology seems to be concentrated near Ballinger Canyon, with most of the silus-like lizards occurring to the north and wislizenii-like lizards to the south. The data largely suggest that selective factors are favoring phenotypes approaching the adaptive modes of the parental species. The hybrid zone is associated with an ecotone between grassland (Stipa-Atriplex) and Great Basin shrub desert (Pinus-Juniperus-Artemisia).
10.2307/1563484|Terrestrial movements of a population of striped mud turtles, Kinosternon baurii, were monitored from March 1975 through April 1976 using trailing devices and terrestrial and aquatic traps. Studies were centered at a riverine forest pond and adjacent seasonal swamps in west-central Florida. A total of 67 turtles were marked and captured 157 times. The male to female ratio was 1:2 in the pond and 1:1 in the swamps. The results indicate that annual terrestrial activity is bimodal. During the first phase (Feb-July) the population disperses from the drying pond to aestivation sites in the forest. Turtles return as summer rains begin to fill the pond but soon thereafter migrate to newly formed shallow swamps. During the second phase (Sept-Dec) turtles return to the pond as the swamps dry. Terrestrial activity is correlated with water depth and the incidence of rainfall. Heavy rainfall apparently initiates mass migrations and extreme temperature inhibits terrestrial movements. It is suggested that social interactions are responsible for the disproportionate number of males which occupy the pond.
4498561|Varanid lizards are difficult to sex in the field because commonly used techniques are not completely reliable and definitive techniques are not logistically or economically feasible for many fieldbased applications. Previous work has shown that variation in morphometric variables can be used to determine sex in some species of varanid. Here we build on these previous exploratory analyses by developing a set of a priori models (containing morphometric variables) to predict the sex of six species of Australian varanid, and then examining their relative support under the information-theoretic framework. We then use cross-validation procedures to determine the reliability of the best-supported models' predictive ability. Our analysis suggests that a large sample size is required for building models to predict sex in many species. The most important sexually diagnostic features for many species were a number of head variables and (to a lesser extent) scaling of limb proportions. This analysis provides some useful statistical tools for the field-sexing of adult and juvenile Varanus gouldii with a known level of reliability and also serves to highlight the danger of extrapolating from potentially spurious results when using exploratory methods or null hypothesis testing.
10.2307/1564287|In a blind laboratory study using spatial affinity as a recognition assay, tadpoles of Rana sylvatica associated preferentially with familiar sibs over unfamiliar, unrelated conspecifics. However, in concurrent observations, larval R. pipiens and Pseudacris crucifer failed to display a significant preference for familiar siblings. Thus, larval P. crucifer and R. pipiens failed to display sib recognition at similar ages and stages of development, and in the same context, as did tadpoles of R. sylvatica. Differences in the larval ecologies of the three species may explain the disparate results. The relative sensitivites of two slightly different assays of spatial affinity in anuran larvae are compared.
40060450|Snakes are often highly selective in the choice of sites for hibernation, and suitable sites can potentially be a limiting resource. Hibernating Louisiana Pine Snakes (Pituophis ruthveni; N = 7) in eastern Texas and Black Pine Snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus lodingi; N = 5) in Mississippi were excavated to characterize their hibernacula. Pituophis ruthveni hibernated exclusively in burrows of Baird's Pocket Gophers (Geomys breviceps), whereas P. m. lodingi hibernated exclusively in chambers formed by the decay and burning of pine stumps and roots. All snakes hibernated singly at shallow depths (P. ruthveni mean = 19 cm, max. = 25 cm; P. m. lodingi mean = 25 cm, max. = 35 cm). Pituophis taxa at higher latitudes and elevations hibernate communally and at greater depths. In contrast to Northern Pine Snakes (Pituophis melanoleucus melanoleucus), none of the pine snakes in our study excavated hibernacula beyond minimal enlargement of the preexisting chambers. These differences are presumably the result of mild winters, an abundance of suitable sites offering sufficient thermal insulation, and reduced predation risk caused by absence of communal hibernation in traditional sites. It is increasingly apparent that, throughout their annual cycle, pine snakes are dependent upon fire-maintained pine ecosystems.
25599191|Lizards of the viviparous genus Phymaturus inhabit regions in which a significant proportion of the year is unsuitable for growth and reproduction. All Phymaturus studied have shown biennial female reproductive cycles. We studied the reproductive biology of Phymaturus zapalensis, which lives on rocky outcrops in cold and arid environments of Patagonia, Argentina. Male and female reproductive cycles, mean annual reproductive output, and sexual dimorphism were analyzed. Additionally, new dimorphic traits of Phymaturus antofagastensis and Phymaturus tenebrosus were compared with published data. The female reproductive cycle of P. zapalensis is annual-biennial (because of skipping a year of reproduction), and synchronous with the annual male reproductive cycle. In midspring, males show spermatozoa in epididymis, and females have enlarged follicles, characteristic of imminent ovulation. The presence of 45% of the adult females with oocytes smaller than 4 mm, in all months of capture except October, suggests a year of skipped reproduction. Female P. zapalensis had greater SVL and a relative larger interlimb length than males. Males exhibited relatively greater head width, neck width, and diameter of front and hind legs. Our data indicate that the potential for annual reproduction exists in this biennial breeding genus. The capability of P. zapalensis to perform either an annual or biennial reproductive cycle, instead of the characteristic biennial cycle of the genus, could be the result of a longer activity season, higher temperatures during spring, summer, and autumn months, together with a high-energy omnivorous diet. /// Las lagartijas vivparas del gnero Phymaturus habitan regiones en las cuales durante gran parte del ao las condiciones climticas no son favorables para el crecimiento y la reproduccin. Todas las especies de Phymaturus estudiadas han presentado ciclos reproductivos femeninos bianuales. Estudiamos la biologa reproductiva del lagarto saxcola Phymaturus zapalensis que habita en ambientes fros y ridos de la Patagonia Argentina. Los ciclos reproductivos femeninos y masculinos, el potencial reproductivo medio anual y el dimorfismo sexual fueron analizados. Adicionalmente, nuevos datos del dimorfismo sexual de Phymaturus antofagastensis y Phymaturus tenebrosus son comparados con los datos ya publicados. El ciclo reproductivo femenino de Phymaturus zapalensis es anual-bianual (como consecuencia de la ausencia de actividad reproductiva durante un ao) y sincrnico con el ciclo reproductivo masculino anual. A mediados de la primavera los machos presentan espermatozoides en el epiddimo y las hembras exhiben folculos caractersticos de una inminente ovulacin. La presencia de un 45% de hembras con oocitos menores a 4 mm en todos los meses estudiados, excepto en Octubre, indica la existencia de un ciclo femenino discontinuo en el cual una proporcin de las hembras adultas pasan una temporada de actividad sin reproducirse. Las hembras de P. zapalensis presentan un largo hocico-cloaca y un largo axila-ingle proporcionalmente mayor que los machos. Los machos exhiben cabezas y cuellos ms anchos y mayores dimetros de brazos y piernas. Nuestros datos indican que existe el potencial para realizar ciclos femeninos anuales en las especies bianuales del gnero Phymaturus. La capacidad de P. zapalensis de realizar ciclos reproductivos femeninos anuales o bianuales, a pesar de pertenecer a un gnero caractersticamente bianual, podra ser el resultado de habitar en regiones con temporadas de actividad ms largas, altas temperaturas durante la primavera, verano y otoo, sumado a una dieta omnvora alta en energa.
25599194|In lizards, chemical senses play important roles in ecology and behavior. Previous studies have shown that food chemical discrimination, phylogeny, and foraging modes are associated in squamates. The two major clades, Iguania and Scleroglossa, display marked differences in foraging behavior. A large majority of iguanians are primarily ambush foragers and lack prey chemical discrimination, whereas scleroglossans, mainly active foragers, are capable of prey chemical discrimination. However, evidence for prey chemical discrimination in tuatara (Sphenodon), the only living representative of the order Rhynchocephalia (the sister group of Squamata) is not clear. Here, we compare responses to food chemical stimuli between Tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) and a gekkotan lizard, the Common Gecko (Hoplodactylus maculatus). We found that tuatara showed the same responses as Common Geckos when presented simultaneously with a series of stimuli: they spent more time in the prey zone (odor of mealworms) than the pungency or control zones; they bit only the prey stimulus; and they showed similar latency to bite and give-up time as geckos. However, unlike Tuatara, geckos showed lingual sampling (tongue flicking) toward the prey stimulus. We showed that Tuatara could use chemosensory cues to detect prey in the absence of stimulus movement. Consequently, the coding of traits used to characterized tuatara as an outgroup in chemoreception studies should be revised.
10.2307/1563032|The snakes of the genus Ficimia are distributed from the southern United States to northern Central America. Characteristics, other than those usually used in snake systematics, are defined in Hardy (1972). Ficimia consists of 6 monotypic species: F. publia, F. olivacea, F. streckeri, F. ramirezi, F. variegata, and F. ruspator. Ficimia olivacea lacks dorsal markings, F. streckeri has very narrow dorsal bands, and F. ramirezi has very long dorsal interspaces between the blotches. The species F. publia, F. variegata, and F. ruspator are similar in general appearance, but F. publia has fewer than 42 dorsal body blotches, F. variegata lacks internasals, and F. ruspator has internasals. Ficimia variegata is sympatric with F. publia in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Ficimia olivacea and F. streckeri are sympatric over a distance of 300 kilometers and in the area of sympatry demonstrate several differences. The species F. ruspator and F. ramirezi are known only from the holotypes; the type-localities are in Guerrero and Oaxaca, respectively. Females of Ficimia olivacea and F. publia have hemipenes. Hemipenial muscles without hemipenes are present in females of F. streckeri.
1565848|At Conchas Lake State Park, San Miguel County, New Mexico, four allozymic variants of parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus tesselatus pattern class C and three allozymic variants of C. tesselatus D are syntopic with one gonochoristic and two parthenogenetic congeners. Our study of 14 individuals revealed that C. tesselatus C and D from this site are histoincompatible with both their maternal, Cnemidophorus tigris marmoratus, and paternal, Cnemidophorus gularis septemvittatus, progenitors. Evidence of skin histocompatibility between these combinations of C. tesselatus pattern class C and D lizards supports the hypothesis of a single hybrid origin for representatives of this species at the study site.
41415240|Toe clipping is widely used in studies of amphibian ecology and behavior, but its impact on return rates and survival remains controversial. We evaluated the effect of toe clipping on apparent survival, using four comprehensive mark-recapture data sets of four anuran species covering four different time scales and varying life histories. The effect of toe clipping was evaluated by comparing frogs with different numbers of toes removed. Two species, Eleutherodactylus coqui and Hemisus marmoratus, showed minimal effects of toe clipping on apparent survival with seasonal and annual apparent survival decreasing by 0.1% and 1.5% with toe removal, respectively. In Hyperolius nitidulus, daily apparent survival increased on average by 4.1% with toe removal, an effect than can be attributed to disproportionate emigration of the lowest toe-removal group. Finally, in Phrynobatrachus guineensis, individuals with three toes clipped showed an additional 5.0-19.7% decreased apparent survival between weeks when compared to individuals with only one toe clipped. However, the data set was characterized by an interaction between the number of toes clipped and week of marking, thus confounding interpretation. To minimize any effects of toe clipping, we recommend that not more than four toes should be clipped and at most a single toe removed on each leg. In addition, functionally important toes such as the proximal toes of front feet and fourth toes of hind feet should be spared. Furthermore, toe-removal groups should be equally distributed over time to facilitate the analysis of potential toe-clipping effects.
4498588| We studied the diet, niche breadth and overlap, and feeding behavior of two sympatric species of Aromobatidae, Allobates marchesianus and Anamaloglossus stepheni, from the Central Amazon. We studied the diet composition based on type and size of prey items and compared the diet between species (1987-88) and with prey availability in the habitat for A. stepheni (1997). We studied the distribution of feeding activities throughout the day and movement frequency, foraging speed (distance covered while foraging), and foraging frequency (number of feeding attempts per time) for both species. Activity peaks occurred from 0600-1200 h. Both species showed similar diets and feeding behavior, consuming Formicidae and Collembola as well as small food items (1.0-1.9 mm) in higher proportions. Movement frequency, foraging frequency, and speed were also similar for both species. Diptera, Collembola, Araneae, and Acari were preferred by Anomaloglossus stepheni, whereas Coleoptera and Formicidae were avoided. Anomaloglossus stepheni selected prey items measuring 1.0-1.9 mm, whereas they appeared to avoid items measuring 2.0-2.9 mm and  mm. Allobates marchesianus and Anomaloglossus stepheni had very similar feeding ecology at the study site in regard to foraging behavior and diet composition. Diet composition was also very similar between populations of A. stepheni studied in different time periods at the site, suggesting some stability either in prey availability or food selection. Our results suggest that, even being related and using the same habitat, these species do not diverge in their feeding habits. 
10.2307/1564081|Vietnamese geckos of the genus Hemidactylus, previously considered to belong to the triploid all-female species H. garnotii Dumeril and Bibron (n = 23; 3n = 70), prove instead to belong to the new triploid all-female species H. vietnamensis (n = 20; 3n = 60). It is suggested that H. karenorum Theobald from Vietnam and Burma, seemingly closely related to H. vietnamensis, is also an all-female species. The new species is markedly different in morphology. Neither karyological nor electrophoretic analyses support the origin of H. vietnamensis by hybridization among the sympatric bisexual species H. bowringii Dumeril and Bibron, H. frenatus Dumeril and Bibron and Cosymbotus platyurus (Schneider). H. frenatus from Vietnam has a diploid number of 2n = 40. The number obtained is the same as the 2n number of H. frenatus from Australia, but distinct from the number in this species from Taiwan (2n = 46).
41515022|A recent study of Ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) in Texas found that adult mortality was higher for females than males, consistent with the cost of reproduction in snakes being higher for females. To determine whether the same pattern prevailed in a northern population of Ratsnakes, we used data collected using radio-telemetry to test several predictions of the cost-of-reproduction hypothesis. Contrary to there being a cost to reproduction, mortality rates did not differ between juvenile and adult snakes and, contrary to females having a higher cost of reproduction, mortality rates among adults did not differ between males and females. The only evidence consistent with reproduction increasing mortality risk was higher winter mortality for females in poor condition following egg laying. Mortality did not vary with activity but increased with time spent basking, although group differences in basking were not sufficient to produce differences in mortality. High risk of winter mortality in this population may require all Ratsnakes to behave in ways that mask mortality costs associated with reproduction. To determine whether our results for Ratsnakes in Ontario are anomalous or reflect something more substantial about the cost of reproduction in snakes, details of mortality patterns from more species, ideally with diverse ecologies, are needed.
40983651|Solar ultraviolet radiation (UV) has received much attention as a factor that could play a role in amphibian population declines. UV can be hazardous to some amphibians, but the resultant effects depend on a variety of environmental and behavioral factors. In this study, the potential effects of UV on the Northwestern Salamander, Atnbystoma gracile, from three lakes were assessed in the laboratory using a solar simulator. We measured the survival of embryos and the survival and growth of larvae exposed to four UV treatments in controlled laboratory studies, the UV absorbance of egg jelly, oviposition depths in the lakes, and UV absorbance in water samples from the three lakes. Hatching success of embryos decreased in the higher UV treatments as compared to the control treatments, and growth of surviving larvae was significantly reduced in the higher UVB irradiance treatments. The egg jelly exhibited a small peak of absorbance within the UVB range (290-320 nm). The magnitude of UV absorbance differed among egg jellies from the three lakes. Oviposition depths at the three sites averaged 1.10 m below the water surface. Approximately 66% of surface UVB radiation was attenuated at 10-cm depth in all three lakes. Results of this study indicate that larvae may be sensitive to UVB exposure under laboratory conditions; however, in field conditions the depths of egg deposition in the lakes, absorbance of UV radiation by the water column, and the potential for behavioral adjustments may mitigate severe effects of UV radiation.
10.2307/1563374|Several behavioral characteristics that seemingly function during schooling of the tadpoles of Rana hecksheri were examined. Even with excess food available, the addition of new food or food-scented water adjacent to a quiescent tadpole stimulated feeding. Feeding activity of one individual stimulated others to feed even if the odor of the food was not available to subsequent individuals. The tadpoles were photonegative, which contrast with behavior in nature, positively rheotactic, and showed an optomotor reflex. The skin did not appear to contain toxic or noxious material, but a fright reaction in response to human odor and odor of a mutilated tadpole did occur.
1566150|Although rare, some anurans show multimale spawning. Herein we present data on testes mass relative to body mass for 11 leptodactylids and report multimale spawning in Leptodactylus chaquensis and Leptodactylus podicipinus. Testes mass averaged 4.13% of body mass for L. chaquensis and 0.75% for L. podicipinus. Testes size of both leptodactylid species with multimale spawning show that they are large and close to values recorded for rhacophorid frogs with multimale breeding (0.71-7.79%). Large testes size in frogs with multimale spawning supports the sperm competition hypothesis.
10.2307/1563645|Larvae of two species of rhacophorids are reported from tree holes in Thailand. One, referred to Theloderma stellatum, has a body nearly as wide as long and a denticle formula of I:3+3/1+1:II. Internally, it has large branchial baskets with many rows of dense gill filters, but only two filter cavities. It has secretory cells in its branchial food traps, but they are not arranged in ridges. Its buccal musculature is slight. The larva of the second species, referred to Philautus (cf. carinensis) has a truncated snout, anteriorly directed mouth, denticle formula I/O, and unusually shaped beaks with the upper portion concave but serrations confined to the lower. It has huge buccal musculature. In this form all branchial structures associated with suspension feeding, and respiratory gill filaments, are absent. Both larvae have large, anteriorly placed glotta, which are evidently adaptations for aerial respiration. The Theloderma has a peculiar mosaic of feeding structures associated with dietary extremes of microphagy and macrophagy. Its gut contents consist of both large and small food items. The Philautus larva has features of an obligate macrophagous larva. From its gut contents it appears to eat only frog eggs. Certain arboreal tadpoles for the New World tropics, e.g., Hyla zetecki and others, resemble these Philautus tadpoles in form and diet. No analog of larval Theloderma stellatum is yet known from the American tropics.
1565832| Many larval amphibians respond to predators by developing broad tail fins that increase maneuverability and reduce predation risk. Recent evidence also indicates that amphibian embryos may adaptively alter their time at hatching in the presence of a predator, but the generality of this phenomenon is unknown. We examined whether embryos of the Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica) and Spotted Salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) would alter hatching time, hatching synchrony, or body morphology in the presence of a larval predator. Using a 2  2 factorial design, we exposed developing embryos to four experimental treatments that varied in predation risk: unfed Anax junius (an odonate predator), fed A. junius, conspecific larvae, or water. Response variables were central tendency (mean or median) and variation (CV or range) for hatch time and developmental stage and four linear body dimensions that were used to detect changes in morphology. Effect sizes were small (< 0.36), and none of the response variables differed significantly among treatments, suggesting that embryos of these species do not respond strongly to the presence of a predator. This and other studies indicate that the response of amphibian embryos to predators varies both within and between taxa, although the adaptive significance of such variation is poorly resolved. We discuss the possible roles of developmental constraints and natural selection in explaining the lack of strong responses of Rana and Ambystoma embryos to a dangerous larval predator. 
4092846|Effective monitoring of population size is critically important for endemic species with specialized habitat requirements so that timely remedial steps can be taken when declines are detected. We initiated a monitoring study of the endemic plethodontid salamander, Plethodon punctatus, which is generally found in talus habitats over 1000 m in elevation in a narrow range on Shenandoah Mountain on the border of Virginia and West Virginia. We tested congruence of nighttime visual encounter surveys (VES) and mark- recapture estimates of population size. VES was a valid index of the abundances of P. punctatus in the two habitats we surveyed. Sites on the eastern and western sides of Shenandoah Mountain were surveyed, and both methods estimated that population size on the west was approximately twice as high as that on the east. Individuals of this species exhibited a high degree of site fidelity. Cover object searches for species in talus habitats are expected to be of limited value, and we conclude that nighttime visual encounter surveys are most effective for population size monitoring of P. punctatus and other species that live in talus.
4092843| A new species of Leposoma is described from Ilha do Lago do Prato and Ilha do Aa, Arquiplago das Anavilhanas, in the lower Rio Negro, state of Amazonas, Brazil. Like all members of the parietale group, it differs from all species of the scincoides group by having wider and shorter dorsal scales and ventrals arranged in regular longitudinal rows. It is further characterized by having conic granules on the sides of neck, three enlarged pairs of chin shields, absence of granules between superciliaries and supraoculars, a longer than wide interparietal with lateral margins almost parallel, 42-44 transverse dorsal rows (the highest number in Leposoma), gular scales small in 13-15 rows (less than 11 in other Leposoma), 30- 33 scales around body, 26-27 ventrals, two preanal and four femoral pores on each side in males, one preanal and no femoral pores in females, 13-14 and 19-21 lamellae under finger IV and toe IV, respectively. The new species is sympatric with Leposoma guianense and Leposoma percarinatum and is more similar to the latter. 
10.2307/1563619|The feeding ecology of the plethodontid salamander Desmognathus fuscus was investigated within the framework specified by theoretical foraging strategy models. This salamander was used as a model predator to test the prediction that a predator will be increasingly selective of the prey it ingests with increased prey density and/or decreased environmental resistance to movement. Salamanders were collected under two different moisture regimes, and it was assumed that increased moisture facilitated movement. Techniques are described for estimating densities of macroinvertebrates in the salamander habitats. Results for selectivity of prey by taxon were inconclusive and did not support or refute the prediction tested. Results for prey size selectivity support the prediction tested and a correlation between increased precipitation and greater size selectivity of prey items by the salamanders is shown.
4498613|Amphibian declines have been documented worldwide; however the vast majority are species associated with aquatic habitats. Information on the status and trends of terrestrial amphibians is almost entirely lacking. Here we use data collected across a 12-yr period (sampling from 1984-86 and from 1993-95) to address the question of whether evidence exists for declines among terrestrial amphibians in northwestern California forests. The majority of amphibians, both species and relative numbers, in these forests are direct-developing salamanders of the family Plethodontidae. We examined amphibian richness and evenness, and the relative abundances of the four most common species of plethodontid salamanders. We examined evidence of differences between years in two ecological provinces (coastal and interior) and across young, mature, and late seral forests and with reference to a moisture gradient from xeric to hydric within late seral forests. We found evidence of declines in species richness across years on late seral mesic stands and in the coastal ecological province, but these differences appeared to be caused by differences in the detection of rarer species, rather than evidence of an overall pattern. We also found differences among specific years in numbers of individuals of the most abundant species, Ensatina eschscholtzii, but these differences also failed to reflect a consistent pattern of declines between the two decadal sample periods. Results showing differences in richness, evenness, and relative abundances along both the seral and moisture continua were consistent with previous research. Overall, we found no compelling evidence of a downward trend in terrestrial plethodontid salamanders. We believe that continued monitoring of terrestrial salamander populations is important to understanding mechanisms of population declines in amphibian species.
10.2307/1565123|Venom neutralization properties and protein content of serum from 11 taxa of Lampropeltis were studied. Most serum samples contained 6.5% to 9.5% protein. Lampropeltis g. getulus and L. g. floridana serum showed the broadest spectrum of effective neutralization of venoms from 10 crotaline taxa. Lampropeltis t. triangulum, L. t. hondurensis, L. mexicana greeri, and L. alterna effectively neutralized many of the venoms assayed, but were less efficacious than the other Lampropeltis species tested. Most of the serum samples investigated had variably effective neutralization capacities for venoms with strong hemorrhagic activities (Crotalus atrox, C. adamanteus, C. v. viridis). Sera from L. g. holbrooki and L. g. floridana were particularly effective in neutralizing venoms of Agkistrodon piscivorus conanti and A. contortrix mokasen. Only L. g. getulus, L. g. floridana, and L. ruthveni sera neutralized over 100 LD<sub>50</sub> of C. v. helleri venom per ml. Only four serum samples (L. g. getulus, L. g. floridana, L. calligaster, and L. t. triangulum) were effective against type A C. s. scutulatus venom (contained high concentrations of the potent neurotoxin, Mojave toxin). All Lampropeltis sera assayed had effective neutralization potential for type B C. s. scutulatus venom, which has strong hemorrhagic and proteolytic activities and lacks Mojave toxin. All serum samples assayed were ineffective against venom of the elapid Micrurus f. fulvius. Serum from Elaphe g. guttata effectively neutralized several crotaline venoms, while Rhinocheilus lecontei antonii serum had only marginal neutralization capacity for several venoms. Serum from Pituophis melanoleucus sayi and the natricine Thamnophis s. sirtalis had no neutralization capacity for any venom tested. Venom-neutralizing serum proteins of Lampropeltis appear to be most effective against hemorrhagic and proteolytic venoms, with little or no neutralization capacities against venoms containing high concentrations of hypotensive peptides, post- or presynaptically acting neurotoxins, and/or myolytic phospholipases A<sub>2</sub>.
10.2307/1563827|Three new species in the sand swimming genus Lerista are described from northern Queensland: L. cinerea, L. storri and L. vittata. They and four other species--ameles, apoda, stylis and wilkinsi--are members of the wilkinsi species group, a lineage diagnosed in part by the fusion of the first and second supraciliaries and the loss of the first supraocular. A key to the species of the wilkinsi group is provided.
1566166|Tadpoles of many species develop enlarged tail fins in the presence of insect predators, but the function of this response is not known. Because large tails do not improve swimming performance, we tested the hypothesis that the tail attracts predator strikes away from the more vulnerable head and body region. We first confirmed the assumption that attacks to the tail are less dangerous: Living tadpoles escaped from dragonfly larvae only 10% of the time when the strike landed on the head and body but 29.4% of the time when struck on the tail. We then constructed model tadpoles having four tail shapes: normal, predator-induced, and 50% shallower and 50% deeper than normal. The models were presented to dragonflies and the location at which the insect's labium struck the model was noted. Models having the predator-induced tail sustained 16% fewer strikes to the head and body than did models with the noninduced tail, lending credibility to the hypothesis that the tail acts as a lure. Models with an unnaturally large tail were attacked more often on the body than was the predator-induced model, which may create stabilizing selection on tail shape.
10.2307/1564377|Captive Gilbert's skinks (Eumeces gilberti) almost always swallowed prey that were relatively difficult to ingest (crickets) headfirst, regardless of whether they initially grasped the anterior or posterior half of the prey. Skinks took longer to handle (subdue and swallow) crickets attacked posteriorly than those attacked anteriorly. The skinks tended to swallow prey that were relatively easy to ingest (mealworms) headfirst also. However, for these prey, site of attack influenced direction of ingestion: mealworms attacked anteriorly were more likely to be swallowed headfirst than those attacked posteriorly. Nevertheless, the tendency to ingest mealworms headfirst was not completely dependent on site of attack. Neither site of attack nor direction of ingestion influenced handling time of mealworms. Failure to find an advantage for the headfirst ingestion of easily-swallowed prey may represent true lack of such an advantage, the behavior being maintained through phylogenetic inertia or generalization of a response to prey that are more difficult to swallow.
10.2307/1565570|After surfacing to breathe air, most tadpoles descend by turning sharply to the left or right. We have used this behavior to examine whether tadpoles of two anuran species have innate turning biases, i.e., a handedness. Rana catesbeiana (bullfrog) tadpoles showed an overall bias to turn to the left, although there was variation in the intensity of this handedness among populations. This is the first documentation of behavioral laterality in an anuran larva. Xenopus laevis (clawed frog) larvae, on the other hand, showed no bias, turning equally often to the right and the left. This phylogenetic difference is consistent with the fact that ranid tadpoles, including R. catesbeiana, are externally asymmetric, whereas pipid tadpoles, including X. laevis, are not. Ranid tadpoles have a single sinistral spiracle through which water that enters the mouth is expelled from the body. Pipid tadpoles, in contrast, have dual symmetrical spiracles, one on each side of their body. A functional/adaptive explanation is offered for why Rana tadpoles, with their left-sided spiracle, should turn to the left after surfacing to breathe air. However, it is also possible that the handedness in spiracle position and turning are not functionally linked. This issue can be resolved by examining tadpole turning bias in anuran families whose larvae have a single, midline spiracle.
10.2307/1564080|A new species of Cyrtodactylus, C. voraginosus is described from the Helmand Basin of Afghanistan. The new species, closely related to C. longipes from eastern Iran, belongs to the caspius-fedtschenkoi section of the genus Cyrtodactylus. A vicariance model, based upon Neogene compressional deformation of Southwestern Asia, is proposed to account for the present-day distribution of those species of Cyrtodactylus allied to C. caspius.
25599227|The previously unreported tadpole of Leptopelis karissimbensis, an endangered treefrog from Rwanda, is described. Tadpoles were collected, photographed, measured, and examined for standard metrics of tadpole morphology. Larvae of L. karissimbensis resemble other tadpoles in the genus Leptopelis in being muscular, elongate, and eel-like. The lateral tooth row formula for L. karissimbensis is 4/3. In late stage larvae, tadpoles of L. karissimbensis exhibit a prominent white spot below the eye. Larvae of this species were often abundant in suitable habitat at approximately 2,800 m in elevation. Larval habitat for L. karissimbensis includes seasonally flooded marshes, forest pools, and permanent ponds in the Virunga Mountains, the only known range of this species.
10.2307/1563008|The movements of Pseudacris triseriata triseriata tagged with Co<sup>60</sup> are reported. A total of 324 recaptures involving 62 specimens was made from 25 March to 4 August 1970. Dispersal from the breeding pools was gradual. Most specimens remained within 100 m of the breeding pools where they were tagged but 15 moved farther and two moved away over 200 m. The mean daily rate of movement was 3.5 m/day but the greatest rate of movement observed was 42 m/day. The frogs tended to remain hidden among leaf litter during the daylight hours and their daily period of activity appeared to occur between dusk and dawn.
10.2307/1564527|Costs of feeding were investigated in Anolis carolinensis to determine whether differences in feeding energetics related to sexual dimorphism in head size could explain differences in average prey size taken by male and female lizards in the field. The amount of time required to subdue and swallow prey, as well as the oxygen consumed and lactate produced during feeling, were measured for lizards feeding on a range of prey sizes. There was no difference between the sexes in the amount of lactate produced during feeding. There were however, differences in the amount of time required to subdue and swallow prey and in the amount of oxygen consumed during feeding. Female lizards required more time and more oxygen to consume prey than did males. Energetic considerations, however, are probably not responsible for prey size differentiation as net energy gains are likely to be high and similar for the sexes. While females do spend more time swallowing prey than males, the total amount of time to consume prey is a trivial part of a day. It is probable that the amount of time available to females for activities other than feeding is a less important determinant of fitness than it is for males. However, the longer prey handling times may deter females from selecting large prey because of a probable increase in the risk of predation.
10.2307/1563165|Species of sea snakes collected in the Gulf of Thailand on 3 field trips during the summers of 1967, 1969, and 1972 are described. In all, 14,282 sea snakes were collected. Only one species of non-poisonous, aquatic snake, Acrochordus granulatus (false sea snake), was collected. The most common sea snake in the Gulf of Thailand was Lapemis hardwickii, which accounts for 81 per cent of all the catch in 1969 and 1972. Other sea snakes captured were Hydrophis cyanocinctus, H. torquatus diadema, H. ornatus, Enhydrina schistosa (Disteira schistosa), Kerilia jerdonii siamensis, Praescutata viperina (Thalassophina viperina, Lapemis viperinus), Microcephalophis gracilis (Hydrophis gracilis), Thalassophis anomalus, Pelamis platurus, Acalyptophis peronii, and Aipysurus eydouxii. Acalyptophis peronii previously thought to be found mainly in Australian waters was found in the Gulf of Thailand where four specimens were obtained. Venoms were extracted from the venomous glands of some of the species, venom yield and toxicity are reported.
10.2307/1563747|Enlarged, molariform dentition associated with eating hard foods is known to occur in numerous lizards such as Varanus niloticus (Varanidae) and Dracaena guianensis (Teiidae), but heretofore has never been reported in an amphisbaenid. Blunt, crushing teeth similar to those of molluscivorous lizards are present in Amphisbaena ridleyi, a poorly known species endemic to the oceanic island of Fernando de Noronha in the western North Atlantic. The large coronoid process of the mandible is also modified to accommodate insertion of massive adductors. Both juveniles and adults feed on small snails but their diet also includes other invertebrates. The feeding specializations of A. ridleyi are superimposed on those that all amphisbaenids share as a result of a subterranean existence. Yet A. ridleyi has evolved in an environment essentially free from competitors and predators that, with its morphological specializations, have allowed its diet to expand. These observations encourage the idea that structural innovations in teeth and jaws need not always result in a narrower feeding repertoire for an organism.
43287304|The harvest and incubation of American Alligator {Alligator mississippiensis) eggs is an important component to the commercial alligator harvest industry in the southeastern United States. As a result, various methodologies have been used to monitor alligator populations including abundance counts, stress quantification, and nesting surveys. Past studies have dismissed the importance of egg shape in crocodilians, Squamates, and turtles and deemed egg shape in birds and other amniotes as similar, in relation to functionality. The complexity of crocodilian eggs has been examined, and both turtle and Squamate eggs have been regarded recently as physiologically more intricate than bird eggs. This study introduces a physiological approach to monitor alligator populations in freshwater and low salinity environments by quantifying egg shape in correlation with varying salinity. We introduce a fractional semilandmark-shape template method to quantify egg shape within a geometric morphometric framework. This approach is beneficial because it allows for the quantification of shape for curved structures, such as eggs, which lack homologous landmarks. The results from this study suggest that alligator egg shape is correlated with varying salinity levels, such that variation in alligator egg shape at low salinities changes in gradient-like fashion, whereas salinities high enough to be deemed stressful result in reversion back to a low salinity egg shape or desiccation. This study elucidates a correlation that can be implemented in management and breeding techniques and opens the door to in-depth physiological examination of the system.
10.2307/1565568|Individual species' phenologies can play an important role in the structure of lizard assemblages over short time scales. Data from a pitfall study carried out in the dry Chaco of Argentina were used to address the question of how species are distributed in their assemblage through time. Lizard activity and species richness were highest in the spring breeding season and declined in the cool months of the year. Variations in seasonal activity patterns and reproductive chronology resulted in significantly different distributions of species in every sample month. Not only did the species composition of the assemblage change through time, but the mean size of lizards and the proportions of males, females, and juveniles varied significantly for several species. Large lizards, regardless of species, disappeared from the assemblage during the cool, dry winter, while juveniles of the large species remained active year round. Adults of the smallest species were also active throughout the year. We propose an hypothesis based on thermoregulatory constraints of lizard body size to account for these patterns. An approach focusing on the energetics and physiological ecology of individual species would be fruitful in understanding the dynamics of fluctuating lizard communities.
10.2307/1565922|The ability to regenerate lost or amputated limbs varies greatly among amphibians. To gain a better understanding of phylogenetic and ontogenetic factors influencing regenerative ability, regeneration in tadpoles of Hymenochirus boettgeri is described for the first time, then compared to data from closely related Xenopus laevis. Hind limbs of tadpoles of H. boettgeri were amputated at two different levels along the proximo-distal axis of the limb (at the knee and ankle joints), at stages ranging from 52 to 59. Tadpoles were allowed to recover for 15 or 20 days, at which times the amount of regeneration was examined. Observations were made through external morphology and whole-mount histological staining. Hymenochirus, like X. laevis and indeed like most anurans, gradually loses the ability to regenerate hind-limb structures as it progresses through metamorphosis, and this loss occurs in a proximo-distal direction; the ability to regenerate is retained longer, distally. Hymenochirus and Xenopus show similar patterns of limb and digit regeneration. In both pipid species, loss of regenerative ability appears to be correlated with the onset of ossification in the hind limb, although timing of this event differs between the two species.
40983644|Telmatobius carrillae Morales, 1988, is a riparian frog inhabiting an altitudinal range of 3,680-4,718 m asi in the Central Peruvian Andes. Snout-vent length at metamorphosis is 21.6 mm; minimum size at maturity is 35.3 mm in males and 40.0 mm in females; and maximum size recorded 53.5 mm and 60 mm, respectively. Variation in size is accounted for by pronounced sexual size dimorphism and sex-independent increase in size along an altitudinal gradient (Bergmann cline). Dorsal and ventral color pattern varies considerably from locality to locality rendering this character unreliable for species diagnosis. Most skin features (e.g., width of skin layers, gland size and frequency) showed a considerable range of covariation with ontogenetic stage, sex, and SVL. The absence of serous glands with large granules, a character state shared with Batrachophrynus spp., is confirmed for T. carrillae. However, analysis of the altitudinal ranges of telmatobiine frogs with and without serous glands with large granules suggests that the apparent synapomorphy of Batrachophrynus spp., and T. carrillae may alternatively constitute a response to the ecological demands of high-altitude habitats rather than a phylogenetic signal.
1566052|Leptodactylus dantasi Bokermann is redescribed from adult specimens collected in Parque Nacional da Serra do Divisor, State of Acre, Brazil, near the border between the Brazilian state of Acre and Peru. We propose the inclusion of this species in the genus Hydrolaetare. A new diagnostic character observed for the genus is the presence of fringes of fingers, and fringes and webbing of toes, finely serrate; the serrate edge of the fringe and webbing can be keratinized in males, females, and subadults. Hydrolaetare dantasi (Bokermann) is characterized by robust body and limbs, a broad and depressed head, slightly shorter than wide, and long, pointed and basally webbed toes. Hydrolaetare dantasi differs from the only other species in this genus, Hydrolaetare schmidti (Cochran and Goin), mainly by having toes webbed basally (fully webbed in H. schmidti). The advertisement call of H. dantasi is composed of two components; an initial note produced by the impact of the vocal sac against the ground and a second note corresponding to a long whistle of ascending frequency. The initial note is a percussive sound and represents an unusual form of sound emission in anurans; the second note is a vocalization.
10.2307/1564244|Juvenile Kinosternon flavescens flavescens (yellow mud turtles) were tested in the laboratory for substrate preference. Activity of the turtles was also noted. In pool experiments, turtles preferred a tan-colored loess "mud" substrate to a dark brown sandy-loam bottom. Addition of aquatic plants to sandy-loam portion shifted their preference to the vegetated side of the pool. Turtles did not discriminate between a substrate of dark or light contact paper, but preferred a dark loess substrate to a light-colored one. According to the literature, K. f. flavescens may inhabit ephemeral ponds with sandy or muddy bottoms. These experiments tested individuals from a mud-bottomed farm pond, and their preferred substrate was similar to that present in their home pond.
25599213|The increased encroachment of humans into natural areas is typically viewed as stressful for many wildlife species. A common stress response of many animals, including snakes, is the elevated release of the adrenal hormone, corticosterone. To test whether human encounters elicited a stress response in snakes, we monitored the levels of circulating corticosterone in free-ranging Cottonmouths (Agkistrodon piscivorus) during staged interactions. When exposed to a high-level disturbance (i.e., capture and confinement in a bag) for 30 min, Cottonmouths exhibited a significant corticosterone stress response as predicted. This response was four times that of the control treatment (i.e., immediately bled snakes) and shows that Cottonmouths exhibit strong corticosterone responses to confinement. Conversely, blood corticosterone values for low-level disturbance (i.e., nearby human presence for 30 min) did not differ significantly from the control treatment. The lack of a strong stress response to low-level disturbance indicates that Cottonmouths possess a seemingly adaptive mechanism of not being overly alarmed by the mere presence of a potential predator. This suggests that the occasional foot-path encounters humans commonly have with snakes may not be stressful for some snake species.
10.2307/1564616|The diet of the Concho water snake Nerodia harteri paucimaculata was investigated from 1987 to 1990 by palpation of stomach contents. Prey remains representing 304 prey items were recovered from 192 individual snakes. Concho water snakes were almost completely piscivorous, feeding on 19 species of fish from nine families with minnows (Cyprinidae) dominating numerically. Cricket frogs (Acris crepitans) represented the only non-piscine prey. Diet diversity increased ontogenetically according to snake body size. Observations of foraging snakes suggest an ontogenetic change in foraging sites concurrent with a change in diet composition. Prey size was positively correlated with snake body size although some snakes occasionally ingested numerous small prey, possibly due to opportunistic feeding on small prey aggregations. Snakes occasionally attempted to handle prey too large to be ingested. Feeding occurred from mid-March to early November. Gravid females fed throughout the spring into mid-July and resumed feeding after parturition. Neonate and juvenile riverine snakes ingested prey in proportion to apparent availability while adults consumed a disproportionate amount of larger prey species. Lacustrine snakes primarily consumed prey associated with benthic or shallow water habitats. However, few individuals of open water and top water species were ingested, suggesting that prey habitat preference strongly influences catchability in lake systems.
25599220|To construct an ethogram of Sacalia quadriocellata and introduce coding system into chelonian behavior research for quantitative comparison, 15 captive S. quadriocellata (eight females and seven males) were observed for one year using a digital surveillance system, and an ethogram constructed. Fourteen types of states and 84 types of events were recorded. Seventy-five behaviors were defined and described, and these were classified into eight categories of behavior: Feeding, Elimination, Conflict, Alert, Rest, Locomotion, Courtship, and Other. Feeding, Elimination, and Locomotion are frequent behaviors, whereas Conflict and Other behaviors are seldom observed. Mainly, this may be caused by environmental conditions that eliminate these plastic behaviors (e.g., Conflict and Other behaviors) and keep the nonplastic behaviors (e.g., Feeding, Elimination, and Locomotion). Finally, the comparison between S. quadriocellata and other chelonian species indicate that the behavioral patterns are similar on the whole, but the Conflict behaviors of S. quadriocellata are milder than other species.
10.2307/1564427|This paper deals with three problems: the relationships of Anelytropsis and Dibamus, their relationships to other squamates, and their species taxonomy. The external morphology, osteology, soft anatomy, reproduction, ecology and behavior of both genera are described. The polarity of character states is determined by comparison with kuehneosaurids, sphenodontids and "eosuchians." The similarity between Anelytropsis and Dibamus in derived character states is so extensive and detailed that it is obvious they are each other's closest living relatives and warrant grouping in one family, the Dibamidae. Other squamates are surveyed to determine the proportion of dibamid derived character states each possesses. The most similar taxa are amphisbaenians (64%), snakes (58%), anniellids (53%) and feylinine scincids (49%). If dibamids share an exclusive common ancestor with any one group of living squamates, it is likely to be with one of these. Alternatively, one unique and five unusual primitive character states suggest that dibamids may have arisen early in the radiation of squamates. This latter interpretation, however, is very tentative in the absence of an overall analysis of major squamate lineages. The species taxonomy of dibamids is reviewed and one species of Anelytropsis and nine of Dibamus (three of which are new) are recognized. There is a brief account of each species and a key to all.
4092882|A largely unresolved ecological issue concerns why normally rare parasites become common within reptile and amphibian populations. We gathered demographic data on incidence of infection and demographic consequences of a normally rare sarcophagid fly parasite (Lepidodexia blakeae) on a population of Green Anole Lizards (Anolis carolinensis). These sarcophagid flies primarily larviposit on adult male Green Anoles during the winter. Sampling by age and sex classes during two years (2003 and 2004) revealed that adult male anoles were infected at an unusually high rate (up to 16%) compared to other populations (only a few documented cases over the past 60 years) and relative to conspecific juveniles and females. Male anoles at Tulane exhibited high mortality compared to other nonparasitized populations, suggesting that parasitism negatively affects survivorship. Although the underlying cause of the high parasitism in the Tulane population remains unclear, several lines of evidence suggest that high and stressful levels of male competition may be a key factor.
1565829|We describe a new species of Acanthixalus from southwestern Ivory Coast. Acanthixalus sonjae sp. nov. differs from the Central African Acanthixalus spinosus genetically by 4.6% in the investigated 16S rRNA. Morphologically adult frogs are very similar to A. spinosus. Male A. sonjae have wider heads and probably smaller gular glands than A. spinosus. Tadpoles of A. sonjae differ by much longer tails. Acanthixalus sonjae males are apparently mute. The new species is semiaquatic and lives in large waterfilled cavities of trees in secondary and primary rain forest. Tadpoles complete metamorphosis in three months. They are at least partly carnivorous.
10.2307/1564824| A new species of Norops of the schiedei group is described from cloud forest in the western portion of the Cordillera Nombre de Dios of northern Honduras. Its combination of relatively large body size, relatively large middorsal scales, unicarinate scales on the forelegs, enlarged postanals in males, well-developed parietal depression, and purple dewlap readily distinguish it from the remaining species in the schiedei group. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Norops perteneciente al grupo schiedei procedente de los bosques nublados del oeste de la Cordillera Nombre de Dios en el norte de Honduras. Se distingue fcilmente de los otros miembros del grupo schiedei por su tamao relativamente grande, escamas mediodorsales relativamente grandes, escamas unicarinadas en el brazo, machos con postanales agrandadas, depresin parietal definido y papera de color morada. 
40983591|This study combines three experiments that identify how Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica) tadpoles assess risk from chemical cues produced by larval dragonflies (Anax junius) preying on conspecifics. I also compare the results to previous studies using Green Frog (Rana clamitans) tadpoles. The results suggest that Wood Frog tadpoles largely assess prdation risk through Anax chemical cues similarly to Green Frog tadpoles. This is to be expected because the tadpoles are congeneric and both face prdation from Anax in the field. However, their behavioral response to a particular level of perceived risk differs. Wood Frog tadpoles reduced their total activity (swimming and feeding) for a shorter time than Green Frog tadpoles. Wood Frog tadpoles also reduced their feeding activity more strongly than their swimming activity during cue exposure. I relate the differences between the behavioral responses of Wood Frog and Green Frog tadpoles to differences in their life-history strategies.
10.2307/1565233|Few intensive studies have been conducted on reptile populations of the tallgrass prairie. In addition, the effects of fire on these populations are also largely unknown. I established drift fence arrays connected to funnel traps to study the community composition and seasonal activity of reptiles found on the Konza Prairie Research Natural Area located near Manhattan, Kansas. This design also gave me the opportunity to examine the response of reptile populations to a spring wildfire. A total of 657 individuals representing 12 species were captured from 1994-1996. The results suggest that one species, Coluber constrictor, may respond negatively to recent fire.
4092934| A new species of Stenocercus is described from the eastern slopes of the Andes in central Peru, Departamentos Ayacucho and Huancavelica. It differs from other Stenocercus by the combination of the following characters: scales on posterior surface of thighs granular, lateral body scales imbricate and keeled, vertebral row of enlarged scales present, gular scales unnotched, neck folds present, three caudal whorls per autotomic segment, postfemoral mite pocket absent, dorsal ground color gray or brown, without a black shoulder patch in males. Specimens of the new species have been misidentified as Stenocercus variabilis, which occurs allopatrically in Departamento Junn. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Stenocercus de las estribaciones orientales de los Andes centrales de Per, Departamentos de Ayacucho y Huancavelica. Esta especie se distingue de otras especies de Stenocercus por la combinacin de los siguientes caracteres: escamas granulares en la superficie posterior de los muslos, escamas laterales del cuerpo quilladas e imbricadas, hilera vertebral de escamas agrandada (cresta vertebral), escamas gulares sin muesca, pliegues nucales presentes, tres anillos caudales por segmento autotmico, bolsillo postfemoral ausente, coloracin dorsal caf o gris, parche negro en el hombro de los machos ausente. Los especmenes de la nueva especie haban sido errneamente identificados como Stenocercus variabilis, una especie distribuida alop tricamente en el Departamento Junn. 
10.2307/1562923|The 3 species of Kassina in southern Africa appear to depend primarily on differences between mating calls and calling sites of the males for pre-mating reproductive isolation.
10.2307/1565987| We examined the activity patterns of angulate tortoises, Chersina angulata, on Dassen Island, South Africa, during spring, summer and winter. During typical spring and summer days, C. angulata exhibited a bimodal pattern of activity, with activity being suspended around midday. However, during winter, and on cool and wet summer days, activity was unimodal, peaking around midday. Temporal patterns of activity appeared strongly influenced by environmental factors, particularly temperature. Chersina angulata were never observed to be active at air temperatures below 14.0C or above 28.7C. Activity levels were lowest during summer, when animals were active only 1.75% of the time. Brief appearances of available water (usually from condensing fog) during summer, however, resulted in a dramatic increase in activity levels. Males were significantly more active than females during summer and spring, but no significant difference was found between the sexes in winter. Results of this study are principally contrasted with those from a study conducted near the easternmost range of C. angulata, an area that experiences a markedly different climate. 
40060493|Reproductive patterns are highly variable among Neotropical colubrids. Snakes of the Tribe Xenodontini are widely distributed in South America and show continuous reproductive cycles in many areas. We report interspecific and intraspecific variation in reproductive traits among these snakes and also show that seasonal cycles occur mainly in cooler areas. Clutch size relative to body size is similar among species, but Erythrolamprus spp. seem to lay fewer eggs than other species, and Waglerophis merremiii from southeastern and southern Brazil lay more eggs than other species. Newborn Erythrolamprus are larger than all other Xenodontini, which may be related to ophiophagy. As in many other snakes, adult females are larger than males, but both sexes attain maturity with a proportionally similar body size. The sexual size dimorphism index is generally lower in smaller bodied species, and combat may be absent in the tribe. Male reproductive cycles are less well studied but seem to be more conservative, being continuous in all species studied (W. merremii, Xenodon neuwiedii, and Liophis miliaris). Phylogeny has an important role in reproductive patterns but climate and life-history traits can also influence tropical and subptropical species.
10.2307/1563208|Three new taxa are described from Mexico: Lepidophyma (Lepidophyma) alvarezi, L. (L.) flavimaculatum lineri, and L. (L.) sawini. The subgenera L. (Gaigeia) and L. (Lepidophyma) are revived, L. sylvaticum reallocated to the latter subgenus, and both are redefined; the desirability of reexamination of L. (Gaigeia) as a valid genus is suggested. A key to all recognized taxa of the genus is provided, and notes on variation in L. (G.) gaigeae and L. (G.) dontomasi, the latter based upon 19 specimens previously unrecorded. A review of known distribution of sexes in various species of the genus indicates that parthenogenesis is limited to L. (L.) obscurum, which is elevated to full specific rank.
10.2307/1565424|Anolis carolinensis is sexually dimorphic in behavior and morphology in adults, primarily due to intrasexual selection acting to produce large, conspicuous, and aggressive males. However, the extent to which selection pressures acting on adults might also produce sex differences during ontogeny, but before sexual maturity, has not been considered. During June-August 1995 and 1996, I recorded the behavior of 20 juvenile male and 17 juvenile female A. carolinensis for 30-60 min each at a field site near Augusta, Georgia, USA: (1) to determine if, as groups, juvenile males and females behaviorally differ, thereby suggesting the presence of sex differences from hatching; and (2) to determine if juvenile males or females show sex-specific, size-related behavioral changes, in order to describe the ontogenetic schedule by which sex differences in behavior arise. I examined potential indicators of sex differences in space use (perch height and diameter, home range volume), social behavior patterns (body color and shift rate, nearest neighbor distance, headbobbing display rate, and display context), and behavior patterns affecting growth (feeding rate and foraging mode, proportion of time spent moving). Based on potential tradeoffs between behavior relevant to the immediate life history of juveniles and behavior that will lead to future reproductive success, I hypothesized that juveniles would show no sex differences in space use or social behavior patterns, but would differ in behavior patterns affecting growth. As expected, juvenile males ate and foraged actively more often than juvenile females. Furthermore, overall comparisons between juvenile males and females revealed no sex differences in space use or social interaction. However, contrary to my hypotheses, juvenile males did not decrease amounts of time spent moving with respect to juvenile females, and larger males occupied larger home ranges and spent more time green while females showed no ontogenetic shifts in these variables. My results suggest that juvenile A. carolinensis show both sex differences present from hatching and arising through ontogeny leading up to the adult endpoints, and that these differences may arise through the effects of sexual selection on ontogeny.
10.2307/1562735|An ecological study was conducted on the Western Chorus Frog, Pseudacris triseriata, at Terre Haute, Vigo County, Indiana, between 1963 and 1969. Descriptions of adults are given with comparisons between sexes and ponds. Descriptive information is included on the development of tadpoles, froglets, and young individuals. Data on breeding congresses, incubation periods and food habits are presented. The relation of P. triseriata to Hyla crucifer, Natrix sipedon and Thamnophis sauritus is discussed. P. triseriata contained trematodes and nematodes. Eggs were generally laid in March or April at Terre Haute (12 March-22 April) and usually coincided with major rainstorms. In any one year most egg laying occurred over a relatively short period or periods. The number of eggs ranged from 12 to 245 in 96 masses (mean of 79.8). The total complement of eggs varied in 10 females from 440 to 752 (mean of 597.33). Water temperature affects the incubation period. In 1965, eggs in the field hatched in 8 to 13 days, while in 1969, during a colder period, eggs hatched in 15 to 27 days. In temperature control chambers at 44 degrees, eggs hatched between the 25th and 46th days, while nearly all eggs at 73 F hatched on the fourth and fifth days. The time from egg laying to metamorphosis, in one group of eggs in the field in 1965, took 52 days and in 1969, about 70 days. Metamorphosis at Terre Haute occurred in late May or early June. P. triseriata and Hyla crucifer occupied the same breeding ponds at the same time. Pseudacris would often sing both day and night, Hyla only at night. The two species were often segregated in individual breeding ponds. P. triseriata tadpoles were most abundant in water 11 to 22 cm deep and where emergent vegetation was less dense. There was no relation between tadpoles and distance to shore or presence or absence of Hyla crucifer tadpoles. P. triseriata tadpoles fed mostly on filamentous and non-filamentous algae. Metamorphosing individuals did not feed. Recently transformed froglets fed on Collembola, mites, small insects, and possibly shed skin. Individuals collected in summer and fall from terrestrial habitats fed on various invertebrates with ants and spiders being the most important. Adults of P. triseriata in the breeding ponds, unlike those of Hyla crucifer, fed, with lepidopterous larvae, spiders, curculionids, and chironomids being some of the important items utilized. Vegetation was also important. P. triseriata is a terrestrial rather than an aquatic feeder. Natrix sipedon was listed as a predator and Thamnophis sauritus as a probable predator on Pseudacris. A total of 291 (40.9%) of the male frogs, and 46 (28.3%) of the females yielded trematode parasites, a new species in the genus Glypthelmins currently being described by Robert E. Geyer. Of male frogs, 48.6% contained nematodes (Oswaldocruzia sp. and Aplectana sp.), as did 44.0% of the females. The average number of trematodes per frog was 7.2 in males and 3.9 in females, and for nematodes similar figures were 1.7 in males and 1.5 in females.
10.2307/1565324|Japalura brevipes is an oviparous lizard native to high elevations of Taiwan, Republic of China. A total of 105 lizards (72 males; 33 females) were collected from March, 1992 to September, 1993. Males exhibited testicular recrudescence in spring; maximum spermiogenesis occurred in March-April. Testis somatic indices declined to a minimum in June and July. Fat body somatic indices were smallest in spring. Females lay eggs in late spring and summer. The average clutch size is 5.4. There was no correlation between maternal SVL and clutch size. Female fat body somatic indices declined to a minimum during March and July. Rainfall and temperature are considered the most important environmental factors that regulate J. brevipes reproductive cycles.
10.2307/1563112|Two new species of the leptodactylid frog genus Eleutherodactylus (E. croceoinguinis and E. variabilis) are named from the upper Amazon lowlands of Ecuador. Both are small species whose relationships are obscure; they do not appear to be closely related to one another. Eleutherodactylus variabilis exhibits extensive pattern polymorphism whereas E. croceoinguinis is uniform in coloration.
10.2307/1565891|Habitat selection of 50 bog turtles (Clemmys muhlenbergii) was studied at two sites in Harford County, Maryland, from April 1996 to August 1997. These sites differ in size, amount of grazing, and stage of vegetative succession. In addition, one of the sites was studied intensively 20 years ago. Turtle movements were monitored using radiotelemetry: Individuals were located twice a week during the active season and once a month during hibernation to assess habitat selection and seasonal changes in habitat use. Vegetative, soil, and water characteristics were recorded in 0.25-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats placed at turtle locations and stratified random locations throughout the study areas. Turtles selected sedges and rushes and other low-lying herbaceous plants. They avoided some woody plants (alders, grapes, and berries) and an exotic plant (Japanese honeysuckle, Lonicera japonica) that may gradually eliminate typical wetland vegetation and produce a closed canopy. Management practices, such as moderate animal grazing and winter burns, will help retard plant succession and provide more open habitat.
10.2307/1562772| The effect of temperature and dissolved oxygen concentration on the rate of metamorphosis in Ambystoma tigrinum was studied. Larvae given a single intramuscular injection of 1 g/g 1-thyroxine were maintained in a constant flow of water at 15 C, 20 C and 25 C, and at dissolved oxygen concentrations of 3, 5, 7, 9 ppm and saturation. All animals had access to atmospheric air. Urea production, tail width, gill length, weight and oxygen consumption were measured at regular intervals. The rate of metamorphosis was directly correlated with temperature. The oxygen concentration of the water had no apparent affect on the rate of metamorphosis. Thyroxine-injected Ambystoma tigrinum larvae maintained at 5 C and shifted to 25 C at 30, 60 and 90 days after injection completed metamorphosis at 25 C. Injected larvae maintained at 25 C and shifted to 5 C at 1, 3 and 5 days after injection continued to metamorphose at 5 C. No metamorphosis was observed in control larvae shifted from 25 C to 5 C and from 5 C to 25 C at the same time as each group of thyroxine-injected larvae. 
10.2307/1563287|A new species of brush lizard is described from a boulder region in north central Baja California. Superficially similar to Urosaurus nigricaudus, it differs in having a longer tail, fewer dorsal scale rows and a less distinct dorsal pattern. Although Urosaurus microscutatus has been taken in surrounding areas, known localities of the two species are separated by approximately 29 kilometers. The nearest record for U. nigricaudus is approximately 550 kilometers to the south at San Jorge.
10.2307/1564042| The relationships of the three living groups of crocodilians (crocodylids, alligatorids and gavialids) are poorly understood. Recent molecular results favor a sister group relationship between the crocodylid genus Tomistoma and Gavialis, with this as the sister group to the crocodylids (Densmore, 1983). Buffetaut (1985) has reinterpreted some morphologic evidence as supportive of this viewpoint. This morphologic evidence is examined here using outgroup analysis; it fails to support this hypothesis. Few if any morphological features unambiguously support a Gavialis + crocodylid or Gavialis + Tomistoma relationship. Instead the classic pre-Darwinian phylogeny of Dumril (1806) is corroborated by anatomical evidence. This phylogeny supports a monophyletic crocodylid + alligatorid clade as a monophyletic sister group to Gavialis. 
10.2307/1564113| Se describe una nueva especie de Colostethus proveniente de las laderas de Chorrillos, Lima, Per. Colostethus littoralis n. sp. se caracteriza por ser de tamao mediano, de tener una corta palmadura entre los dedos de los pies, dejando el quinto dedo libre, y por tener ribetes laterales en los dedos podales que alcanzan hasta los discos de los extremos, de color marrn oscuro brillante con una banda blancocremosa poco notoria a los lados del dorso, y el vientre de color blanquecino con innumerables puntos marrones que forman un diluido collar en la regin pectoral. 
1566229|We document temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in the Pancake Tortoise (Malacochersus tornieri). The nesting season is biased toward a fall-winter pattern and the embryos have a postovipositional developmental arrest. Males initially grow faster than females, but females are the larger sex. The species does not readily conform to a hypothesis that TSD is adaptively maintained through a direct association of juvenile growth with adult sexual size dimorphism.
10.2307/1564887|The behavior of a population of wood turtles was observed visually and by radio-tracking from 1984-1989. Their activity was centered around a creek that flowed through a mosaic of hemlock forest, hemlock swamp, deciduous forest, alder thickets, open grassy areas, and a cornfield. From November through March, the turtles hibernated in the creek. In April and October, when air temperatures were usually below 10 C at night and 20 C during the day, they usually remained in the creek. During other months they spent more time on land, mostly in the alder thickets, open areas, and cornfield. Males spent significantly more time in the creek and less time in open areas than did females. Within each sex there was considerable variation in the use of the different plant associations. The turtles spent each night in the creek or in shallow forms on land. Turtles on land, especially males, often returned to the creek at night, probably because of dehydration, cool temperatures, or social attraction. Some agricultural operations may locally benefit wood turtles by providing a mixture of different food and cover types near wooded creeks.
10.2307/1563745| The reproductive cycle of a population of Sceloporus grammicus in the Michilia Biosphere Reserve, Durango, Mexico, was determined through the autopsy of 117  and 125 . Vitellogenesis starts in mid August and ends in early November. Ovulation occurs in December and parturition during mid May. Males are reproductively active from early November to early December, exhibiting a marked decline in gonadal activity from January to May. Maximum testicular and ovarian activities occur at the same time. Reproductive characteristics of this population are compared with another poulation of the same species from a similar elevation but from a southern locality previously studied by other authors. We have found profound differences for both sexes between the two populations. Studies of reproductive patterns for intermediate populations are needed. 
10.2307/1564181| The thermal properties of terrestrial foam nests of Physalaemus pustulosus (Anura, Leptodactylidae) were investigated in Trinidad, West Indies. Diurnal temperature variation within foam nests resulted from the interaction of several factors: duration of direct solar radiation received by a nest, time of day, cloud cover, and extent of shading provided by surrounding vegetation. Absorption of solar radiation by nests resulted in temperatures up to 8.2C above ambient air temperatures. Terrestrial foam nests of anurans function to retard desiccation of eggs and larvae while apparently providing a thermally advantageous environment for rapid larval development. 
41515014|We quantified the effects of different auditory stimuli on the locomotor performance during the escape responses of two species of arboreal lizard, Anolis sagrei and Anolis carolinensis, with two different groups per each species, that were either long-term captives or recently caught. Other than the presence or absence of a loud sound, we used conventional methods for handling the lizards and eliciting an escape. For both species and times in captivity, the addition of a loud sound significantly increased the escape running speed, in part by decreasing the amount of pausing. Although the trends were similar for the recently caught individuals and the long-term captives, the magnitude of the effect of the loud sounds was less for the recently caught individuals. Anolis sagrei was faster than A. carolinensis regardless of the stimulus, and the rank order of individuals based on performance within each experimental group and species did not change significantly with different auditory stimuli. Our results suggest the auditory system may be important for detecting and evading threats despite the lack of vocalization in these lizards.
10.2307/1564288|In T-mazes and complicated mazes, the oriental fire-bellied toad, Bombina orientalis, learned quite rapidly when slightly dehydrated and using water as reinforcement. In the T-maze, 80% of the toads reached criterion (70% correct of 10 trials/day) in learning to go to the right in three days, and 100% reached criterion by day four. Switching to "then learn to go left" was slower: 80% reached criterion by day three, but it took eight days for all to reach criterion. In a complicated maze with many possible errors, 7 of 9 toads took 14 days to achieve a criterion of 70% (3 successive trials with 5 or fewer errors). All reached a criterion of 5 or fewer errors by day 18 and all reached a criterion of 4 or fewer errors by 22 days.
10.2307/1565473|The larval life history of Eurycea junaluska was studied in three southwestern North Carolina populations. Populations were sampled quarterly over a 13 mo period and size-class analyses were used to evaluate the pattern of larval growth and metamorphosis. Young of the year appeared in the late spring and experienced rapid growth through the first summer. Growth slowed in the second year and metamorphosis usually occured in the summer at about 25.5 mo post-hatching, although some data suggest that either 1 yr or 3 yr larval periods may be possible. The overall larval growth rate of E. junaluska is estimated at 1.27 mm/mo, much higher than in other stream-dwelling plethodontids. This species typically represents only about 10% of the larval Eurycea community, with adults even less common. The relative scarcity of individuals and the significant distance between documented populations raises concern about long term population viability in the face of declines due to either natural or anthropogenic causes, or both.
1566067|The external stimuli that trigger ovulation and oviposition in anuran amphibians are poorly understood. We determined experimentally when during the mating process female Barking Treefrogs (Hyla gratiosa) become irrevocably committed to oviposition. We captured females at different points during the mating process, held them overnight without mates, and determined the following morning whether females had oviposited. Females arriving at the chorus and captured before entering amplexus did not oviposit, whereas 22% of females captured immediately after entering amplexus did. Ninety percent of females allowed to remain in amplexus for 1 h oviposited, and all females allowed to remain in amplexus for 1.5 h oviposited. Females that remained in amplexus for 1 h released significantly fewer eggs than did females that remained in amplexus for 1.5 h. These results indicate that amplexus, or a cue correlated with amplexus, triggers oviposition and that the number of eggs oviposited increases with time spent in amplexus.
10.2307/1564764|I report on population structure, growth, reproduction, and use of retreats by an abundant but poorly-known terrestrial frog, Eleutherodactylus johnstonei, in two contrasting habitats in Barbados, West Indies. A population inhabiting a forest site exhibited early maturity, small adult body size, short residency time, high juvenile to adult ratio, and low density, when compared to a population inhabiting an untended flower bed. At both sites, reproduction peaked in the early part of the wet season (June-August), but males called about a month later in the flower bed site. Most growth took place during the wet season, and growth rates did not differ between sites. I suggest that both quality and quantity of retreat sites and the length of time available for activity are key factors in shaping life history characteristics of E. johnstonei at these sites.
4092946| The metabolic cost of growth in reptiles has been difficult to detect in many previous studies. We designed experiments to detect and quantify added costs of growth by comparing daily energy expenditures of young, growing Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) with similar-sized, but adult, Parrot-Beaked Tortoises (Homopus areolatus). We measured both field (outdoors, semicaptive) and standard (20, 25, and 30C) metabolic rates of each species in groups matched for body size to minimize body size effects. Mass-adjusted field metabolic rates of the juvenile tortoises were not higher but were, in fact, significantly lower (by 29%) than in adult tortoises. Standard metabolic rates did not differ between species at any temperature, thus failing to support the hypothesized higher energetic costs of growth in the juvenile tortoises. These results, although contrary to expectations, support a growing body of evidence, suggesting that the cost of growth in juvenile reptiles does not increase their field energy expenditures above those expected for adults. 
10.2307/1564615|We review the history of the California tiger salamander (Ambystoma californiense) population at Lagunita, a 114-year old reservoir at Stanford University, Santa Clara County, California. The animals apparently colonized the reservoir during the late 19th century, reached a population peak during the first half of the 20th century, and have declined since to near extinction. The apparent causes of this decline are habitat loss due to urbanization, adult salamander mortality from automobiles, loss of larvae during the annual reservoir drainage, and possibly predation by transient fish populations. Recommendations to preserve the population and to allow its size to increase include: (1) construction of a drift fence and tunnel system to divert migrating adults and juveniles underneath the highway, (2) maintenance of water levels through mid-summer to allow most larvae to complete metamorphosis, and (3) excavation of sumps in the lake bed to entrap larvae and keep them from being swept down the lake drain.
10.2307/1563205|A new leopard frog characterized by a pattern of linear dorsum spots is described from Campeche and southern Mexico. Three races of leopard frogs encompass the Mexican central plateau: Rana berlandieri berlandieri Baird on the east, Rana b. forreri Boulenger on the west, and the new race, Rana b. brownorum on the south. Differences between the 3 races are summarized in a table.
10.2307/1564984|We measured and dissected filesnakes (Acrochordus javanicus) collected for the commercial skin trade in southern Sumatra, to provide information on morphology and reproductive biology. In combination with published and original data on the other two living acrochordid species, this information enables us to compare these three taxa and to examine whether or not the existing commercial harvest of A. javanicus is likely to be sustainable in the long term. Acrochordus javanicus is superficially similar to the Australian A. arafurae, but is more heavy-bodied (almost twice the mass at the same SVL), with a larger head and a longer tail. All three acrochordid species show significant sexual dimorphism in bodily proportions (mass/SVL, head length/SVL, tail length/SVL), but sexual size dimorphism is less pronounced in A. granulatus than in the two larger species. Reproduction is seasonal in all three acrochordids, with ovulation around July and parturition five or six months later. Larger female A. javanicus produce larger litters, and about two-thirds of the adult females in our sample were reproductive in the year they were collected. Litter masses relative to maternal body mass (=RCMs) are higher in A. arafurae and A. javanicus than in A. granulatus. The similarity in RCM in A. arafurae and A. javanicus, despite a twofold difference in mean maternal mass, results primarily from the much larger litter size of A. javanicus (29.3, versus 16.9 in A. arafurae). Our data on the biology of A. javanicus, and on the ways in which this species is collected for the commercial skin industry, suggest that the current harvest is unlikely to seriously reduce wild populations. The relatively aseasonal precipitation regime in this area, the extensive (and largely inaccessible) habitat, the lack of specific and efficient techniques to capture snakes, the high reproductive output of the snakes and the low economic value of their skins, are some of the factors contributing to this continued sustainability. In contrast, the biology of Australian A. arafurae suggests that this species is poorly suited to commercial harvesting. /// Kami telah mengukur dan membedah ular-ular karung Acrochordus javanicus yang kami kumpulkan dari kulit-kulit yang diperdagangkan di Sumatera selatan guna mendapatkan informasi tentang morfologi dan kehidupan perkembangbiakannya. Dengan mengacu pada data yang telah ditulis dan diterbitkan serta menggabungkannya dengan data primer mengenai dua rumpun acrochordid lainnya yang masih hidup, informasi ini telah memungkinkan kami untuk mengadakan perbandingan pada bangkai (taksa) ke tiga rumpun ular tersebut, serta menyelidiki apakah A. javanicus ini dapat dituai secara komersial untuk jangka waktu yang panjang. Dari luarnya A. javanicus ini mirip dengan A. arafurae Australia, tapi lebih berat (isi tubuhnya hampir dua kali lipat dengan SVL yang sama), dengan kepala lebih besar dan ekor lebih panjang. Ke tiga rumpun acrochordid memperlihatkan dimorfisme (dua bentuk dengan struktur yang berbeda) kelamin dengan proporsi tubuh (isi/SVL, panjang kepala/SVL, panjang ekor/SVL), namun pada A. granulatus dimorfismenya tidak sejelas ke dua rumpun lainnya. Reproduksi pada ke tiga acrochordid ini musiman sifatnya, dengan ovulasi sekitar bulan Juli dan penetasan lima atau enam bulan kemudian. Betina A. javanicus yang besar, melahirkan ular-ular yang berukuran lebih besar, dan sekitar dua pertiga betina dewasa dari sampei kami reproduktif dalam setahun masa penangkapannya. Besar keturunan ular yang relatif dengan isi tubuh induknya (=RCM) lebih tinggi jumlahnya pada rumpun A. arafurae dan A. javanicus daripada rumpun A. granulatus. Persamaan RCM pada rumpun A. arafurae dan A. javanicus terutama akibat anak-anak A. javanicus yang lebih besar (29.3 berbanding 16.9 pada A. arafurae), meskipun besar A. arafurae dua kali lipat dari A. javanicus. Data kami mengenai biologi A. javanicus dan cara-cara rumpun ular tersebut dikumpulkan dari industri kulit komersial, menunjukkan besar kemungkinan bahwa tuaian saat ini tidak akan mengurangi populasi ular liar. Jutuh hujan yang kurang menentu, habitat yang amat luas (dan kebanyakan tidak depat dicapai), kurangnya teknik khusus yang efisien untuk penangkapan ular perkembangbiakan ular yang amat subur, serta nilai ekonomis kulitnya yang rendah, merupakan beberapa faktor yang mendukung kelestariannya. Sebaliknya, biologi A. arafurae memperlihatkan bahwa rumpun ular ini sangat tidak cocok untuk tuaian komersial.
1565845|Survival of adult Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) appears related to site-specific variation in precipitation and productivity of annual plants. We studied adult tortoise survival rates at two closely situated, but physiographically different, sites in the eastern Mojave Desert over a nine-year period (spring 1992 to spring 2001). Survival rates were initially derived from population surveys conducted over a three-year period and by radio-telemetry monitoring over a seven-year period beginning in 1994. After a period of initial stability, survival rates on the two sites diverged over the study period, and seven-year survival rates estimated from radio-telemetry monitoring were 0.900 and 0.269, respectively. A die-off in 1996 on the latter site appears to have been triggered by a period of drought, which began in the summer of 1995, coupled with a failure of annual vegetation production in 1996. Depressed survival rates on this site were associated with drought conditions during three of four years. Although the decline had the appearance of an epizootic, there were no clinical signs of disease. Relatively short-term drought, combined with little or no annual biomass, appears to have caused severe reductions in tortoise survival. If periods of drought-induced low survival are common over relatively small areas, then source-sink population dynamics may be an important factor determining tortoise population densities.
1565857|In 1993, the amphibian fauna of Las Tablas, Costa Rica, began to decline, and by 1998 approximately 50% of the species formerly present could no longer be found. Three years later, at the Reserva Forestal Fortuna, in western Panama, a site approximately 75 km east southeast of Las Tablas, KRL encountered a mass die-off of amphibians and a subsequent decline in abundance and species richness. The epidemiological features of the anuran population declines and die-offs at both sites were similar, suggesting a similar cause. Herein we document the presence of the fungus, Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, in dead and dying wild frogs collected at Las Tablas just prior to population declines of several anuran species.
4092996| A new species of Oedipina (subgenus Oedopinola) is described from a cloud forest locality in northwestern Honduras. The new species appears most closely related to Oedopinola gephyra, a cloud forest species from north-central Honduras. It differs from O. gephyra in having a larger size, a jet-black coloration, a row of white flecks ventrolaterally on the body in life, and less interdigital webbing on the hind limbs. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Oedipina (Oedopinola) de un bosque nublado en el noroste de Honduras. La nueva especie parece estar ms relacionada con Oedopinola gephyra, una especie del bosque nublado del norte-central de Honduras. La nueva especie se diferencia de O. gephyra por ser de mayor tamao, de color negro brillante, por tener una fila de peque os manchas blancas ventro-lateralmente en el cuerpo en vida y menos membrana interdigital en las extremidades posteriores. 
10.2307/1564624|Two gecko species, Hemidactylus turcicus and Cyrtopodion scabrum, have been introduced into the Port of Galveston, Texas. While H. turcicus has been established for a longer period of time, the relatively recent introduction of C. scabrum near the entrance of the Port has apparently led to the displacement of H. turcicus in that area. This has resulted in a distribution in which the two populations are largely allopatric except for a narrow band of sympatry at the periphery of each of their ranges. We examined stomach contents of both species in allopatry and sympatry in order to determine if dietary overlap in sympatry is less than that in allopatry. We calculated Pianka's (1973) symmetric overlap for geckos occupying sympatric areas (0.55) and allopatric areas (0.81). We found significant differences between the resource utilization distributions of the two species in sympatry but not in allopatry. In addition, we compared overlap between allopatric and sympatric populations within each species and found that the differences in resource utilization between the two species in sympatry was due to a dietary shift exhibited in H. turcicus but not C. scabrum. Observed differences in resource utilization may be a response to competition between these two species in sympatry which may have led to the exclusion of H. turcicus on areas of the docks occupied by this species prior to the introduction of C. scabrum.
4092985|Basin building, a rare reproductive strategy used by frogs, consists of constructing a depression in the substrate (a basin) and depositing eggs within the basin. The stream breeding Neotropical hylid frog, Smilisca sordida, constructs several types of basins; specifically, eggs deposited in a circular depression either with eggs floating on the surface of the water or with eggs attached to the substrate (open basins) or eggs buried beneath the substrate (a buried basin). Two hypotheses were tested to explain the selective forces maintaining the basin construction reproductive mode in S. sordida. The microenvironment modification hypothesis proposes that basins modify the environment in ways beneficial to developing young. The predator avoidance hypothesis proposes that basins separate and therefore protect embryos and larvae from predators. The thermal prediction of the microenvironment modification hypothesis is supported but only for open basins: buried basins do not modify the thermal environment relative to streams. Fish consume eggs of S. sordida, suggesting that basins provide refuge from fish predation. Field data on predation rates show that, although basin building may reduce predation by fish, planarians, other invertebrate species, and conspecific tadpoles, all colonize basins and consume eggs of S. sordida. Of 230 clutches, 37.4% experienced total mortality and of clutches that failed, 74.4% were solely caused by predators that colonized basins. The distribution of predators along the stream was nonrandom and the distribution of predators strongly influenced the fate of clutches. Basin desiccation, as well as flooding, caused additional mortality to young and are additional consequences of depositing eggs in basins for S. sordida.
10.2307/1563087| A new species of treefrog, Hyla juanitae, is described on the basis of 5 adult males collected from the Pacific slopes of the Sierra Madre del Sur of Guerrero, Mxico. A series of tadpoles from Guerrero, and juveniles and adults from Oaxaca are referred to this new species, and variation within the species is described. Additional notes on the sympatric H. pinorum are included, and the relationships of these two closely related species are discussed. /// Una nueva especie de rana arborcola, Hyla juanitae, es descrita en base a cinco machos adultos colectados en la vertiente del Pacfico de la Sierra Madre del Sur del Estado de Guerrero, Mxico. Los adultos son predominantemete grises, sin pigmentacin roscea o anaranjada a los lados o en las patas; longitud total: 25-40 mm; tmpano no evidente; orificio del saco vocal presente. Una serie de larvas proceddentes de Guerrero, asi como juveniles y adultos de Oaxaca son asignados igualmente en esta nueva especie. La variacin intraespecfica es discutida. Notas adicionales sobre H. pinorum Taylor, especie simptrica a H. juanitae, son includas y las afinidades entre estas dos especies relacionadas son discutidas. 
10.2307/1564084|Analyses of coloration and morphological characters of Brazilian frogs of the genus Gastrotheca reveal the presence of two species. Gastrotheca fissipes (Boulenger, 1888) is a large species with a casqued, co-ossified skull; G. microdisca (Andersson, 1910) is a smaller species lacking casquing and co-ossification and having a highly variable color pattern. The nominal taxa Gastrotheca ernestoi Miranda-Ribeiro, 1920, and Gastrotheca viridis A. Lutz and B. Lutz, 1939, are placed in the synonymy of Gastrotheca microdisca.
10.2307/1563966|A new species of whiptail lizard is described from the Llanos of Colombia and Venezuela. Cnemidophorus gramivagus is a member of the lemniscatus species group. It is most similar to C. lemniscatus, but differs in color and pattern in all age classes of both sexes, and attains a much larger size than C. lemniscatus. Additionally, female C. gramivagus become reproductively mature at a larger size than C. lemniscatus. A description of both juvenile and adult color patterns is provided along with an analysis of ontogenetic color pattern change. Comparative meristic data are provided for both taxa.
10.2307/1563504|A variant of Taricha granulosa, identifiable by dark blotching on the dorsum, is known from 13 lakes in the Siskiyou Mountains of northwestern California. The percentage of blotched individuals in these populations varies from 5 to 85. Preliminary evidence suggests that populations of this Siskiyou variant are being invaded by normally pigmented Taricha granulosa from the surrounding lowlands, and that current temporal and spatial isolating mechanisms are insufficient to maintain natural variation. The taxonomic status of this newt requires additional investigation.
10.2307/1564981|The phylogenetic relationships of 18 species of New World coral snakes (Elapidae: Leptomicrurus, Micruroides, and Micrurus) were examined with morphological and allozymic characters analyzed by parsimony. Two species of kraits (Elapidae: Bungarus) were included as outgroups. Coral snake morphology was found to be very conservative and few informative morphological characters were found. The general relationships of all coral snakes are discussed in light of the morphological synapomorphies identified in this study. The results indicate that Micrurus is paraphyletic because of the exclusion of Leptomicrurus. This is rectified by placing Leptomicrurus into the synonymy of Micrurus.
10.2307/1564930|Adult red-spotted newts, Notophthalmus viridescens, tend to be site tenacious within ponds and philopatric to their native ponds. We conducted laboratory experiments to determine the ability of these newts to distinguish between familiar and unfamiliar individuals from the same pond and between individuals from the same versus foreign ponds. We also observed social behavior among newts in a montane pond. In laboratory chambers, newts spent significantly more time moving away from familiar versus unfamiliar individuals from the same pond. They also exhibited significantly more "avoidance" or "escape" behavior when paired with individuals from a foreign pond than when paired with individuals from the same pond. These results demonstrate that red-spotted newts identify individuals with which they are closely associated and distinguish individuals from a foreign pond.
41415274|The oldest paleontological record of the Stinkpot Musk Turtle, Stemotherus odoratus, from the WaKeeney local fauna (approximately 10 million years ago, Mya) is refuted here. Kinostemids from this fauna are represented only by the genus Kinostemon. Kinosternon sp. probably represents a new taxon, but lack of sufficient material hinders a proper description. A gap of between 9 and 12.5 million years now exists between the first occurrences of Sternotherus (at approximately 4.57 Mya) and sister group Kinosternon (between 16 and 17 Mya).
4092865|Thin sections through the dentary of two specimens of the Late Cretaceous mosasaur Clidastes propython document the upright (vertical) position of developing replacement teeth. Snakes are the only squamates with replacement teeth that develop in a nearly horizontal, posteriorly inclined position. The thin sections also corroborate the finding in 2003 by M. L. Caldwell, L. A. Bundy, and D. O. Lamourex that interdental ridges fully separate successive teeth at their base in mosasaurs, at least on the dentary. This feature is also seen in alethinophidian snakes among squamates, but it remains unknown for more basal members of the mosasauroid clade, and it is absent in scolecophidian snakes.
10.2307/1563431|The data provided in the original description of Hylopsis platycephala allow association of the name with the frog genus known as Centrolenella. A centrolenid species occurring on the northwestern slopes of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Colombia is distinctive from all other centrolenid species and exhibits no trait at variance with the description of H. platycephala except the reported character-state of the outer metatarsals. Werner is presumed to have erred in his report of that trait. A neotype is herein designated for H. platycephala which is redescribed based on eight adult specimens. Centrolenella Noble becomes a subjective synonym of Hylopsis Werner.
4092876|The Flint Hills region of Kansas is the largest contiguous area of tallgrass prairie remaining today. Historically, the tallgrass prairie burned every 2-3 yr on average, but current land managers have altered burn regimes, resulting in a range of habitats from annually burned to long-term unbumed. We used drift fence/funnel trap arrays and coverboards to estimate species richness, evenness, and diversity of herpetofauna within three different burn regimes: annual, 4-yr, and long-term unbumed at Konza Prairie Biological Station, Riley County, Kansas. During the spring and fall of 2003-2004, 315 individuals from 20 species were captured across all burn regimes. Herpetofaunal species richness, evenness, and diversity estimates were not different between the three bum treatments. However, because of species-specific responses to individual bum regimes, community composition was significantly different between the habitats (
10.2307/1563455| Eumeces copei is a viviparous, high elevation Mexican lizard. Specimens examined were obtained from several locations within the Parque Nacional de Zoquiapan, Mxico, Mxico and from museum collections. This species mates in the fall. Males exhibit maximum testicular volume and activity during the fall. Likewise, females exhibit the onset of vitellogenesis in September, ovulation during late fall and embryonic development throughout the remaining winter months with parturition occurring in late spring. This reproductive activity pattern appears common in high elevation, viviparous reptiles and its adaptive significance is discussed. 
10.2307/1563266|Aquatic Red-spotted Newts, Notophthalmus v. viridescens, were marked, released, and recaptured on 21 days between 28 June and 24 August along the edge of a small pond divided into 33 ten-foot shoreline segments. Male captures outnumbered female captures, 3.43:1. Most newts appeared to occupy a small home area; 60.4% of the captures were within one segment of the marking segment and 74.8% within two segments. Most were seen and captured within five feet of the shore. Few newts were captured directly across the pond from the segment of marking. Males moved more than females. Excessive shifts in position of some newts were associated with recession of the pond level by one foot, but with refilling of the pond they tended to return to the original capture segment, suggesting homing.
10.2307/1563113|A new Syrrhophus (S. laplacai, new species) is described from the Bolivian Plateau, 100 km east of La Paz, in the Unduaviregion (3400 m), on the borders of the tropical rain belt or "yungas." This genus of frog has not previously been reported from the Bolivian region. The affinities of the new species with S. montium Shreve are discussed. This latter Andean form has been recently placed by Lynch in the South American genus Niceforonia, leaving only Mexican and Central American forms in the genus Syrrhophus.
4498536|Exotic species colonize new areas through the processes of jump dispersal, population establishment, and diffusion dispersal. From 1962 to 1997, Mediterranean Geckos, Hemidactylus turcicus, were intentionally introduced multiple times into a science building on the campus of the University of Central Oklahoma, Edmond, Oklahoma. In 2005, we recorded 365 captures of 305 individuals. The population size was estimated to be 1005 individuals with a density of 478 geckos/ha. The population has dispersed a maximum distance of 200 m from the point of introduction which translates to a maximum rate of diffusion dispersal of 20 m/yr. These results support the hypothesis that range expansion of introduced Mediterranean Geckos has occurred because of multiple jump dispersal events, despite slow diffusion dispersal.
10.2307/1565806|We studied the reproductive cycle of Tropidurus torquatus in the Cerrado biome of central Brazil from October 1997 to September 1998. Females reached sexual maturity at about 65 mm snout-vent length (SVL), whereas males became sexually mature at 70 mm SVL. Females were reproductively active between August and February, although males contained spermatozoa in the epididymides year-round. Frequency of reproductive females was inversely correlated with precipitation and air humidity and positively correlated with day length. Reproductive activity of males was inversely correlated with air humidity and positively correlated with day length. Females laid six eggs on average and may have produced up to three clutches per reproductive season. With the advancement of the reproductive season, clutches tended to be smaller, whereas egg size remained constant. Fat body mass varied inversely with reproductive activity in both sexes, but females had significantly larger values than males. After an incubation period of approximately 5 months, young emerged at a SVL around 31 mm. Juveniles began to accumulate energy in fat bodies after reaching 47 mm SVL. The fat body cycle and the recruitment pattern of T. torquatus suggest that food resources are not limiting and that the length of the reproductive season is most likely constrained by the availability of microhabitats suitable for egg development.
10.2307/1563191|Amphibian eggs and larvae were offered as food to adult Notophthalmus viridescens and to larval Ambystoma opacum, A. maculatum, and A. jeffersonianum. Maximum feeding rates in the laboratory were estimated for some predators. Relative palatability of small larval prey was determined through sequential choices. Prey palatability was relatively uniform for all predators: eggs and larvae of Hyla versicolor, Pseudacris triseriata, Rana pipiens and R. sylvatica, Ambystoma maculatum, A. jeffersonianum and A. opacum were readily eaten; R. clamitans and R. catesbeiana were frequently rejected; and Bufo americanus and N. viridescens (larvae) were intermediate in palatability. Limited tests with other predators (Sternotherus odoratus, Chrysemys picta and Lepomis gibbosus) confirmed these relative palatibilities. Field observations included intense predation on some prey and negative correlation between predator presence and prey abundances. Conditions at one pond varied between years: a species sometimes reproduced successfully one year and failed completely the next. In some cases field evidence is compatible with an interpretation of total failure due to predation. Synchronized breeding by palatible species may increase survival through predator satiation. Some protection from predators is also achieved by unpalatible eggs, tough outer jellies on egg clumps, and singly laid eggs. The field observations on predation and the laboratory data on palatability are compatible with theoretical analyses of predator behavior.
10.2307/1563549|Starch gel electrophoresis was employed to study the relationships among populations of Anolis cristatellus, and among species assigned to the A. cristatellus species group. A. cristatellus and A. scriptus are very similar and readily separable from A. monensis and A. cooki, which, in turn, are a very closely related pair.
40665008|Pesticides can be important conservation tool, but they could have unintended impacts on amphibians. The commercial glyphosate-based herbicide Accord is approved for use in wetlands and ponds because it is designed to be safer to aquatic wildlife than other herbicide formulations (e. g., Roundup or Atrazine); however, field experiments are needed to determine whether there are direct, indirect, or sublethal effects on amphibians or effects on wetland community structure. We conducted a replicated field experiment in constructed ponds to test for both the effects of Accord and predator (Tiger Salamanders, Atnbystoma tigrinum) density on amphibians and aquatic invertebrates. Herbicide treatment had significant density-dependent effects on Tiger Salamander growth, development, and survival. The survival of anurans and aquatic invertebrates was also affected by herbicide treatment and predator density. At certain Tiger Salamander densities, the community structure was altered such that some species became more common with herbicide treatment, whereas others became less common. Behavior assays of salamander larvae suggest that herbicide treatment alters predator-prey relationships in the experimental pond communities. These results suggest that competition and prdation may mediate indirect effects of this herbicide on the aquatic fauna. We conclude that exposure to Accord poses less of a risk to the ecology of amphibians than do other formulations of glyphosate-based herbicides.
10.2307/1563502|Electrophoretic techniques were used to study genetic variability (polymorphism and heterozygosity) in seven populations of introduced Anolis lizards and in their source populations. In each case the introduced population has fewer polymorphic loci than the source population. Six of seven introduced samples also have lower heterozygosity estimates.
10.2307/1564830|Common eastern froglets (Crinia signifera) breeding in a pond at Darkes Forest, New South Wales, were studied from June 1987 to May 1989. All frogs entering and leaving the pond were caught by a pit-fall and drift-fence system in order to measure rates of reproduction, loss of body mass due to reproduction and mortality of frogs in the pond area. Clutch mass varied greatly among females, with reproductive frequencies and RCMs (=relative clutch masses) increasing with female body length. Females with high RCMs experienced significantly higher post-reproductive mortality than did other reproducing females. Most male frogs lost body mass during breeding periods in the pond area, spending a mean period of 68 days there. Most males entered the pond area only once per year. Male frogs suffered higher mortality when in the pond area than did females, presumably due to greater exposure to predators as a result of their calling activity. The reproductive strategy of Crinia signifera is characterized by high levels of reproductive expenditure, despite high consequent mortality rates for both sexes. We infer that the low annual survival rates of frogs in this population have favored the evolution of (i) high levels of reproductive effort in both sexes, and (ii) variable clutch sizes and RCMs in females, because of the advantages of reproducing as soon as environmental conditions are suitable.
40060551|We monitored Spiny Softshell Turtles (Apalone spinifera) using mark-recapture during 1994- 2005 in Gin Creek, Searcy, Arkansas. In 1997-2000 the creek bed and riparian zone were bulldozed in an effort to remove debris and improve water flow. This disturbance appeared to reduce the quantity and quality of turtle habitat. We tested for the potential effect of this habitat disturbance on the survival rates of marked turtles. We estimated annual survival rates for the population using models that allowed for variation in survival by state of maturation, year, and effects of the disturbance; we evaluated two different models of the disturbance impact. The first disturbance model incorporated a single change in survival rates, following the disturbance, whereas the second disturbance model incorporated three survival rates: pre- and postdisturbance, as well as a short-term decline during the disturbance. We used a state-transition model for our mark-recapture analysis, as softshells transition from juveniles to adults in a variable period of time. Our analysis indicated that survival varied by maturation state and was independent of a time trend or the disturbance. Annual survival rates were lower for juveniles ( = 0.717, SE = 0.039) than for adults (=0.836, SE = 0.025). Despite the dramatic habitat disturbance, we found no negative effects on survival rates. Our results demonstrate that, like a few other freshwater turtle species known to thrive in urban environments, populations of A. spinifera are resilient and can persist in urban environments despite periodic habitat disturbances.
10.2307/1562867|Aneides lugubris, A. ferreus, Ensatina eschscholtzi, and Batrachoseps attenuatus in an area of sympatry markedly differ in their local distributions. Logging of redwood forests appears to alter the species composition of salamanders. Stomach content data indicates that the 4 species are euryphagic, but differ in the number, size, and frequency of prey. Ecological and morphological specializations apparently result in little or no interspecific competition between adults of these species.
41515044|The threatened Bluetail Mole Skink (Plestiodon egregius lividus) is limited to the xeric habitats of the southern Lake Wales Ridge in central Florida. To generate important data for conserving this species, we characterized genetic variation at the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene and seven microsatellite loci among multiple populations. We compared the Bluetail Mole Skink's pattern of genetic diversity and differentiation to those of two other lizards with similar geographic and habitat distributionsthe Florida Sand Skink (Plestiodon reynoldsi) and the Florida Scrub Lizard (Sceloporus woodi). The Bluetail Mole Skink was highly variable at the genetic markers, and significant genetic differentiation occurred among scrub patches. Patches can be divided into central and southern Lake Wales Ridge groups. Our results also suggest that each sampled habitat patch should be treated as a population and reintroductions should minimize the distance between recipient and source locations to limit altering the potential long-term pattern of genetic differentiation among Bluetail Mole Skinks on the Lake Wales Ridge. The Bluetail Mole Skink and the Florida Sand Skink had similar genetic diversity, and all three lizards had comparable patterns of genetic differentiation. The concordance of genetic differentiation among these species is further evidence suggesting that similar conservation issues face the three species, namely, preserving the remaining xeric habitat. It is likely, therefore, that conservation efforts directed at the more common Florida Sand Skink and Florida Scrub Lizard would benefit the Bluetail Mole Skink.
10.2307/1565112| We evaluated the risk of habitat acidification to the six species of amphibians that occur in the mountains of Colorado and Wyoming. Our evaluation included extrinsic environmental factors (habitat sensitivity and amount of acidic atmospheric deposition) and species-specific intrinsic factors (sensitivity to acid conditions, habitat preferences, and timing of breeding). Only one of 57 surveyed localities had both acid neutralizing capacity <200 eq/L and sulfate deposition >10 kg/ha/yr, extrinsic conditions with a possible risk of acidification. Amphibian breeding habitats in the Rocky Mountains do not appear to be sufficiently acidic to kill amphibian embryos. Some species breed in high-elevation vernal pools during snowmelt, and an acidic pulse during snowmelt may pose a risk to embryos of these species. However, the acidic pulse, if present, probably occurs before open water appears and before breeding begins. Although inherent variability of amphibian population size may make detection of declines from anthropogenic effects difficult, acidic deposition is unlikely to have caused the observed declines of Bufo boreas and Rana pipiens in Colorado and Wyoming. Amphibians in the Rocky Mountains are not likely to be at risk with acidification inputs at present levels. 
10.2307/1564201|Approach responses of the skinks E. fasciatus and E. laticeps to sources of airborne conspecific chemical cues were studied in a y-maze olfactometer. At an air speed of 10 km/h, neither postreproductive males, postreproductive females, nor testosterone-treated males approached or avoided conspecific odors significantly more often than a control odor (air). These results differ radically from those obtained in an earlier study at much higher air speed (180 km/h). The apparently contradictory results may reflect the induction of alternative motivational states by differences in experimental conditions. At the combination of low temperature and high wind speed in the earlier study, skinks may have responded to an aggregation pheromone. Aggressively or sexually motivated skinks may respond primarily to contact pheromones rather than airborne conspecific chemical cues. This hypothesis is suggested by the failure of reproductively active skinks either to approach or avoid airstreams bearing conspecific odors and by direct touching of the bodies and odor trails of conspecifics by the tongue.
23327186|The analysis of mass and energy budgets provides critical insight for the modeling of both individual organisms and populations. Ectotherms in particular are closely tied to environmental variation because of thermal dependence of most physiological functions. We studied the effects of temperature on digestion and growth in 28 Timber Rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus) from Arkansas, Mississippi, and Virginia. We conducted feeding trials in environmental chambers in a repeated-measures design to analyze the effects of three trial temperatures (20, 25, and 30C) on digestion and growth. We found no significant temperature effect on passage times (average 12.36 days), apparent digestibility (average 87.5%), or metabolizable energy (average 80.6%) across the 10C temperature range. There was an apparent temperature-dependent tradeoff in the allocation of mass and energy to growth in girth versus growth in length. Snakes allocated similarly to body mass at all three temperatures; however, growth in SVL increased significantly from 20C to 30C. These observations suggest that snakes at 20C allocated to increases in girth, whereas snakes at 25C and 30C allocated increasingly to increases in body length. We estimated the metabolic cost of growth to be approximately 10.5 kJ g -1 dry mass (95 % CI: 6.814.1 kJ g -1 dry mass), which corresponds well with previous estimates in ectotherms.
10.2307/1565635|Two new continental species of Goniurosaurus, G. luii from the Guangxi Province and the Island of Hainan, China, and G. araneus from northern Vietnam, are described herein. An evolutionary classification consistent with the phylogenetic pattern (luii + araneus) + ((lichtenfelderi + hainanensis) + (yamashinae + ((orientalis + kuroiwae) + (toyamai + splendens))) is proposed, elevating the endemic insular subspecies of G. kuriowae and G. lichtenfelderi to full species. A historical biogeographical scenario is presented invoking extinction of a continental ancestor of the kuroiwae and lichtenfelderi groups. Conservation efforts are needed to ensure the safety of the decreasing wild populations of G. luii and G. araneus which are being exported out of their respective countries for the international pet trade at an alarming rate.
4498584|A new species of hylid frog, from the genus Scinax, is described from Ilha de Porcos Pequena at the southern coast of Sdo Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. The new species belongs to the Scinax perpusillus species group and is diagnosed by the following set of characters: moderate-size (males 16.218.8 mm SVL, female -20.6 mm SVL); canthus rostralis distinct and well defined; V-shaped depression between nostrils; eyes protruding and prominent, glandular skin surface of legs. This new species is found only on Ilha de Porcos Pequena, an island of approximately 24 ha and, therefore, is threatened because of restricted range size and susceptibility to habitat modification.
10.2307/1563041|Courtship and mating behavior were observed in captive Kinosternon flavescens flavescens. Members of this species have, in part, a specialized and unique pattern that otherwise conforms with previous descriptions of such behavior in kinosternid turtles. The same courtship and mating procedure was also observed in Kinosternon baurii palmarum. Courtship and mating were divided into 3 general phases: tactile; initial mounting; and copulatory. Observations suggest that species of Sternotherus and Kinosternon have each developed their own specialized courtship and mating pattern that may have been derived from a single common origin.
1565783|The taxonomic status of Bufo simus Schmidt, 1857, is reviewed. Comparisons of the lectotype with members of different species groups of South American Bufo, reveal that B. simus is a junior synonym of Bufo spinulosus Wiegmann.
40060569|We conducted a comparative study of the cephalic scales in xantusiid lizards. We describe the observed scutellation patterns, compare these to patterns observed in other squamates, and present a revised nomenclature for scincomorph cephalic scales that corrects some previous inconsistencies. Based on anatomical details and topographic relations in xantusiids and other scincomorphs, we suggest the following revisions. In xantusiids, we consider the paired scales previously called "frontals" to be "frontoparietals," the single scale previously called the "median" to be the frontal, the paired scales previously called "nasals" to be "supranasals," the paired scales previously called "postparietals" to be "occipitals," and the single scale previously called the "occipital" to be the "interoccipital." The paired scales previously called "pretemporals" in Cricosaura typica are considered "parietals," whereas the pretemporals in Lepidophyma and most Xantusia are considered "supraoculars." Based on these and other revisions, we propose primary homologies among scincomorph cephalic scales as a framework for future phylogenetic analyses, identify diagnostic characters for Xantusiidae and some of its subclades, and consider some costs of mistaken primary homology estimates to phylogenetic inference.
23327177|The boid genus Epicrates contains 10 species in the West Indies, several of which are listed as threatened or endangered, whereas the status of the others remains unknown. Little is known about Turks Island Boas (Epicrates chrysogaster chrysogaster), a subspecies of the Southern Bahamas Boa endemic to the Turks and Caicos Islands, and no published ecological studies exist for this subspecies. A long history of human habitation, greatly exacerbated by exponentially increasing development in the last several decades, appears to be threatening the remaining populations of these boas. However, a lack of basic ecological information is holding back conservation efforts. Here we report on the first multiyear ecological study of Turks Island Boas, focusing on an important population located on the small island of Big Ambergris Cay in the southeastern margin of the Caicos Bank. Encounter rates of up to 3.5 snakes per person-hour make this population especially easy to study. We captured 249 snakes, 11 of which were recaptures. We provide basic natural history information including size, color pattern, girth, body temperature, abundance, diet, activity, diurnal refuge selection, and population size. We also clarify the known distribution and discuss the conservation concerns of this species. This study fills a gap in our ecological knowledge of Bahamian boas and will provide important baseline data for the Big Ambergris Cay population of Turks Island Boas as this small island undergoes extensive development over the next several decades.
10.2307/1564157|The first descriptions of food habits and activity patterns of two clonal complexes of Cnemidophorus 'laredoensis', designated LAR-A and LAR-B, are presented from a site of syntopy near Los Ebanos, Hidalgo Co., Texas. Termites were the numerically dominant prey for both clonal complexes in April, May and July 1986. However, LAR-A consumed a greater volume of orthopterans than termites, with insect larvae and spiders also being important. LAR-B consumed a greater volume of termites than other prey though orthopterans, insect larvae, spiders and beetles were also important. Both clonal complexes showed a significant increase in the volume consumption of termites from April to July and peak consumption of orthopterans and insect larvae in May suggesting shifts in diet with seasonal changes in prey availability. On the year LAR-B consumed larger numbers of small prey (especially termites), whereas LAR-A consumed smaller numbers of larger prey (especially orthopterans). LAR-A was active all day in May but LAR-B was active primarily before 1300; the activity of both clones peaked during morning hours in July. Overall the data support two hypotheses concerning clonal ecology: both LAR-A and LAR-B show phenotypic flexibility predicted by the general-purpose genotype hypothesis; and the niche characteristics of the two clonal complexes differ (at least as much as niche characteristics of other syntopic Cnemidophorus) as predicted by the frozen niche variation model. We suggest that LAR-A has the potential for competitive superiority to LAR-B at Los Ebanos because diet overlap is high, LAR-A has a broader diet and activity breadth than LAR-B and preliminary data indicate that the LAR-A complex comprises two cryptic clones, whereas LAR-B is uniclonal. The high population densities of both clones suggest super-abundant resources and/or niche differences alleviate competition.
43287366|Northern Watersnakes, Nerodia sipedon, have been introduced into California's Central Valley and pose an important new challenge for the management of biodiversity in the state's already greatly distressed freshwater ecosystems. Nonnative watersnakes will likely compete with federally threatened Giant Gartersnakes, Thamnophis gigas, and prey on native amphibians and fish, including young salmonids, many of which are imperiled. We used three types of aquatic funnel traps and three different methods to estimate the abundance and density of N sipedon in a small wetland in Roseville, California. Capture rates did not differ significantly among the three trap types but snakes captured in large box funnel traps were nearly 300 mm longer on average than those captured in minnow traps. Our estimates of the abundance of N. sipedon in our 2-ha trapping area were similar for the mark-recapture model, Leslie depletion curve, and the actual number of snakes removed over 57 days (112.4-119 individuals; approximately 56.2 snakes/ha). Extrapolating to the entire 6.2-ha aquatic area, the population likely numbered approximately 348 individuals. Several females were gravid, demonstrating successful reproduction by this species outside its native range. We caught more small N. sipedon compared with studies in its native range. This may be due to a sampling bias in our trapping methods but more likely reflects a population growing rapidly from a few initial founders with relatively fewer large adults. We recommend immediate action to prevent the spread and broader establishment of N. sipedon across the Central Valley of California.
10.2307/1563564|The female reproduction of Chrysemys scripta elegans was compared in natural lakes and a lake receiving thermal effluent from a coal-fired power plant. Upon maturation turtles from the heated lake were younger and larger than those from the natural lake. The nesting season began earlier with mean clutch size being larger for the females in the heated lake. Reproductive potential was much greater in the heated lake, giving that population a much larger rate of natural increase.
10.2307/1563649|The role of tongue extrusions in the chemical detection of conspecifics was examined in juvenile Yarrow's spiny lizard (Sceloporus jarrovi). A comparison was made between the number of tongue-touches performed under three different experimental conditions: home cage, unfamiliar clean cage and an unfamiliar cage previously occupied by conspecifics of the same sex. Both males and females exhibited the same number of tongue-touches in each condition. As a result data were combined before analysis of the differences between the three experimental conditions. The rate of tongue-touching in the home cage was significantly less than the rate in the clean unfamiliar cage, which in turn was less than the rate in the unfamiliar marked cage. This indicates that juvenile S. jarrovi deposit chemicals that are detected by conspecifics.
10.2307/1564618|Morphometric variation in populations of East Asian Mauremys was evaluated with discriminant function and cluster analysis. M. iversoni is the most distinctive member of the group, although specimens from Guizhou Prov., China originally assigned to that taxon may represent an undescribed species. Mauremys (formerly Annamemys) annamensis is a morphometrically distinct species. Annamemys grochovskiae is a synonym of M. mutica (not M. annamensis). Mauremys guangxiensis is apparently a composite species; the holotype is apparently M. iversoni and the paratype is M. mutica.
4092965|The tadpole of Atelopus franciscus from French Guyana is described. It resembles other larvae of the genus, especially those displaying a color pattern of symmetrical light marks. Among them, A. franciscus is most similar to those tadpoles having submarginal papillae (i.e., Atelopus balios, Atelopus flavescens, Atelopus nanay, Atelopus tricolor). The tadpole of A. franciscus shares several similarities with the larva of A. flavescens from French Guyana but differs from it by being smaller in size and in certain measurement. The phylogenetic relevance of tadpole characters in Atelopus is discussed, including body proportions, submarginal papillae, length of upper beak.
4092877|We evaluated ages of larvae in southern Appalachian populations of the salamanders Gyrinophilus porphyriticus and Pseudotriton ruber by the method of skeletochronology applied to femurs. In P. ruber, the method yielded a strong correlation between snout-vent length and age and provided estimates in agreement with earlier studies of larval growth and age that were based on size-frequency data. However, in G. porphyriticus, the correlation between snout-vent length and age was weak and nonsignificant. This result was in accordance with previous studies that showed that larvae of this species do not sort by size into discrete age classes. The failure of skeletochronology in G. porphyriticus was attributed to either extreme variation in growth rate or to some deficiency of the methodology itself when applied to this species. We suggest that larvae of G. porphyriticus may not develop well-defined annual bone layers because of their adaptation to relatively aseasonal, subterranean microhabitats in headwater springs. In contrast, larvae of P. ruber, although overlapping in macrohabitat with G. porphyriticus, are essentially surface-dwellers that are exposed to the seasonal climatic fluctuations of the region.
4092979|Knowledge of the long-term dynamics of freshwater turtle communities is important if we are to understand fully the impacts of human-induced changes in their aquatic and terrestrial habitats. We present data on a turtle community that has been monitored intermittently for more than 20 years and regularly for more than 10 years (1992-2003). The composition of the community has shifted with a decrease in the dominance of Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta). This shift reflects a decline in the number of C. picta over the past decade, whereas numbers of other species have remained relatively constant. Adult survivorship of C. picta has declined in the past decade. The proportion of C. picta with watercraft propeller damage has increased, whereas propeller damage has remained constant for the two other species for which we have data, the Northern Map Turtle (Graptemys geographica) and the Red-Eared Slider (Trachemys scripta). Our study suggests that the turtle community in Dewart Lake has shifted from 1992-2003. It seems likely that this shift has occurred because of a decline in C. picta, possibly as a result of increased use of the lake by humans.
4092986| Most studies on orientation of movements of pond-breeding salamanders have considered only a single local population (or breeding pond) during 1 yr, or multiple populations during a single year. We quantified migratory patterns of Marbled Salamanders at nine breeding ponds during 5 yr in western Massachusetts. Based on captures at drift fences, movements were nonuniform at all breeding ponds. In addition, the direction of orientation differed among breeding ponds and changed slightly across years. Within ponds, orientation of adults and juveniles differed significantly in 52% of comparisons, and adult movements were more directionally concentrated than those of juveniles. In addition, migrating salamanders shifted slightly the orientation of their movements as they traveled into uplands, suggesting that migration routes are spatially complex and that determination of migration "corridors" based on concentrated captures at the pond periphery may be misleading. Although salamanders used migration routes with higher canopy cover, our models did not explain a large portion of the variation in orientation, and protecting areas of high canopy cover alone may not be sufficient as a protection strategy. Our results suggest that movement routes, though perhaps concentrated in the short term, are unpredictable in the long term. Thus, we can offer little evidence that distinct corridors can be identified and protected that would be used consistently over time by migrating or dispersing Marbled Salamanders. Consequently, until we better understand mechanisms governing movements in this species, a conservative conservation strategy would require protecting broad terrestrial areas around breeding sites. 
10.2307/1563688|Twenty-one protein loci of Aneides hardii from three isolated mountain ranges of New Mexico were analyzed electrophoretically. Genetic divergence is very small (D less than .03) and the three populations probably had a common ancestor during the latter portion of the Pleistocene Epoch.
4092921|Eleutherodactylus heterodactylus was rediscovered in Cerrado montane forest of eastern Bolivia, 250-300 km airline from its type locality in Brazil, in similar habitat. The advertisement call is described for the first time. This species shares morphological features with species of the Eleutherodactylus binotatus and Eleutherodactylus discoidalis groups but is not assigned to either group pending further study. We confirm that Eleutherodactylus crepitans and Eleutherodactylus dundeei are valid species easily distinguishable from Eleutherodactylus fenestratus. Bolivian populations of the Andes previously assigned to E. dundeei correspond to an undescribed species allied to Eleutherodactylus peruvianus.
10.2307/1563380|The four islands of the Coronados group are located near the Pacific coast of Baja California del Norte. South Coronado, the largest of these islands, is inhabited by a distinctive undescribed form of the desert whiptail which is herein named Cnemidophorus tigris vividus. The new form is well differentiated from C. tigris multiscutatus Cope, type locality Isla Cedros, with which it has been confused, and from all other subspecies by numerous characters of scutellation and/or features of color and pattern.
4092855|Costs and benefits of territorial defense may vary with the number of intruders that a resident simultaneously encounters. Our study examined whether or not aggressive or escape behavior of female Plethodon cinereus would increase as the number of intruders simultaneously entering her territory increased from zero to one to two. We allowed 30 focal female P. cinereus to establish territories in laboratory chambers and tested each female in five randomly sequenced treatments: (1) one female intruder; (2) two female intruders; (3) one male intruder (4) two male intruders; and (5) a surrogate control (no live intruders). We recorded the behavior of the focal salamanders in response to the intruders. Across the five treatments, females differed significantly in amount of time in threat and escape behaviors and in total number of bites. Post hoc comparisons found that relative to the control females displayed significantly more time in threat behavior toward one male intruder and significantly more time in escape behavior in the presence of two male intruders, but they exhibited no significant differences toward one or two female intrudes. The post hoc comparisons for bites found no significant differences. We infer that for female P. cinereus the benefit of guarding prey in a territory outweighed the cost of defense (possible injury) when a single male was introduced into her territory, but the cost of defense exceeded the benefit when two male intruders were simultaneously introduced into her territory.
40060461|If community structure is influenced by habitat structure at a local level, then it should be possible to tie species occurrence to key habitat variables. We used a pitfall-trap system to determine the relationship of species composition, species diversity (relative abundance), and community structure to habitat structure along a transect through a habitat gradient in the Brazilian Cerrado. A total of 531 individuals of 12 lizard species were sampled. A species accumulation curve based on EstimateS and a curvefitting protocol predicted 12 species at day 22 and all species by about day 40. We registered 12 species at day 11. Trapping success declined through time, likely because of a combination of removal along the transect and seasonal environmental change (wet to dry). The more open end of our transect experienced higher temperatures in all microhabitats sampled, suggesting thermal structure associated with vegetative structure. A Canonical Correspondence Analysis showed that lizard species composition and relative abundance respond to variation in vegetative and physical structure of the habitat at small scales. Consequently, maintenance of habitat gradients should be considered in programs aimed at maintaining local biodiversity.
10.2307/1564152| The relative importance of environmental and endogenous factors controlling the ovarian cycle was studied in juvenile female toads kept at constant temperature (21C) and a light regime of 12L: 12D or daylight. In experiments that began in October, none out of 22 toads had matured at autopsy in December, whereas 10 out of 13 toads had matured in February. In the experiment that began in April, all 16 toads had matured sexually at autopsy in June, as evidenced by the presence of complements of vitellogenic oocytes in the ovaries. In this experiment ovarian cycles were initiated within a short interval of time independently of the body size attained. The adaptation of ovarian cycles in temperate zone toads to the annual climatic cycle probably is based on the establishment of endogenous control of seasonal gonadotropic activity. 
10.2307/1563830|Reproductive strategies of snakes are complicated by the fact that these animals have indeterminate growth. Larger females can produce more offspring, but whether female size affects the size of individual offspring has not been carefully examined. In the viviparous garter snake, Thamnophis butleri, measures of neonate size (snout-vent length, mass or mass/SVL) were positively correlated with measures of female size (length, mass, or mass/SVL) and negatively correlated to clutch size. Relative clutch mass (RCM: total clutch mass/female mass, an operational measure of reproductive effort) did not change with increase in female size. However, RCM per progeny decreased with female size, which would allow larger females to produce clutches of larger numbers with less effect on neonate size.
1566143|Intraspecific variation in acoustic signals may reflect local variation in the intensity of natural and sexual selection and random drift. We examined intraspecific variation in the advertisement call of Spicospina flammocaerulea, a southwestern Australian frog species with a limited distribution, fragmented range, small population sizes, and specific breeding habitat requirements. Of the six populations examined, one in particular differed significantly in dominant frequency and body size. There was no relationship between among-population geographic distance and among-population divergence in call structure suggesting that the divergence is not caused by random drift. A correlation analysis detected a positive relationship between the size of males and females found in amplexus. However, there was no evidence of mated males differing in size from unmated males indicating that the differences in dominant frequency are unrelated sexual selection. Call structure variation may reflect differences in recruitment and resultant age structure of local populations.
10.2307/1565086|The age of specimens of the plethodontid salamander Batrachoseps attenuatus was estimated using skeletochronology. This species differs from other urodeles in that it develops directly within the egg capsule, with no larval period, and it is active in the winter rather than in the summer. Although lines of arrested growth are somewhat irregular and more difficult to interpret than in other species of salamanders studied, age of most individuals was estimated with a high degree of confidence. Maximum adult size in the population studied was about 50 mm snout-vent length. Specimens larger than 40 mm in length ranged in age from four to eight years. Once sexual maturity is achieved, size is a poor estimator of age in this species.
25599262|A new species of Heterodactylus is described based on two specimens obtained in the highlands of Chapada Diamantina, state of Bahia, Brazil. The new lizard is characterized by very elongate body and tail, absence of external ear opening, presence of moveable eyelids, absence of prefrontals and frontoparietals, a vestigial interparietal, 37-39 dorsal and 27-29 ventral transverse scale rows, 23-25 scales around midbody, six gular scale rows, and 10-11 and 14-15 fourth finger and fourth toe infradigital lamellae, respectively. The new species is most similar to Heterodactylus lundii from which it differs by the absence of contact between frontal and interparietal, by having wider than long parietals, smooth posterior dorsal scales, posterior ventral scales almost twice longer than wide, a lower number of scales around midbody, last supralabial in contact with the granules of the ear depression, and a more elongate body. The new species occurs about 1,100 km north of the northernmost known record of H. lundii. Species of Heterodactylus seem to be restricted to areas of cold climates associated with high latitudes and mountainous areas of eastern Brasil. /// Uma nova espcie de Heterodactylus  descrita com base em dois exemplares obtidos nas terras altas da Chapada Diamantina, estado da Bahia, Brazil. O novo lagarto, caracterizado por apresentar corpo e cauda extremamente alongados, ausncia de ouvido externo, plpebra presente, ausncia de prefrontais e frontoparietais, interparietal vestigial, 37-39 fileiras transversais de escamas dorsais, 27-29 fileiras transversais de escamas ventrais, 23-25 escamas ao redor do meio do corpo, 10-11 e 14-15 lamelas infradigitais, respectivamente, no quarto dedo e artelho, e seis fileiras de escamas gulares, assemelha-se mais a Heterodactylus lundii, do qual difere pela ausncia de contato entre frontal e interparietal, por ter parietais mais largas que longas, dorsais posteriores lisas, ventrais posteriores quase duas vezes mais longas que largas, menor nmero de escamas  volta do meio do corpo, ltima supralabial em contato com os grnulos da depresso tica, e um corpo mais alongado. A nova espcie ocorre cerca de 1100 km ao norte do registro mais ao norte conhecido para H. lundii. As espcies de Heterodactylus parecem estar restritas a reas de climas frios associados com altas latitudes e reas montanhosas no leste do Brasil.
4093004|We studied sexual dimorphism and female reproduction in Many-Lined Sun Skinks (Mabuya multifasciata) from a population in Hainan (southern China). The smallest reproductive female was 90 mm snout-vent length (SVL). The largest male was 117 mm SVL and the largest female was 116 mm SVL. To measure the potential influence of gestation temperature on female reproduction, pregnant females were maintained under five thermal conditions until they gave birth. Parturition began in early May, and females produced up to two litters per breeding season. Litter size, litter mass, and offspring size (mass) were all positively correlated with female SVL. Litter size ranged from 2-7, and it was independent of relative fecundity (litter size relative female SVL). We did not detect a trade-off between body size and offspring number. Gestation temperature affected parturition date but not litter size, litter mass, neonate mass, or relative litter mass. Females at higher (average) gestation temperatures gave birth to young earlier than did those at lower temperatures. The detrimental effects of extreme ambient temperatures on offspring body size could be buffered through maternal thermoregulation.
10.2307/1563967|The morphology, taxonomy, venom, distribution, and ecology of the sea krait, Laticauda crockeri Slevin 1934, are discussed. On the basis of morphology and neurotoxins we conclude that Laticauda crockeri is a dwarf, melanotic species recently derived from L. laticaudata, but now genetically and geographically isolated from it. Relegation of L. laticaudata wolffi to the synonymy of L. crockeri is endorsed. Laticauda crockeri is restricted to a brackish lake in the interior of Rennell Island, Solomon Islands, where it is sympatric with a population of L. colubrina. Although both species occur together in many regions of the lake, Laticauda crockeri, unlike L. colubrina, was never seen on land. Consistent differences in diet were observed in a small sample of the two species. Limited evidence suggests that L. crockeri may have a strongly seasonal pattern of reproduction.
10.2307/1565988|We provide ecological information on Bothrops neuwiedi pauloensis (Amaral, 1925) regarding geographical distribution, habitat use, biometry, feeding habits, and reproduction, based on field studies and analysis of 175 preserved specimens. Bothrops n. pauloensis is endemic to the Brazilian Cerrado, where it occurs in open, seasonally dry savannas. Sexes are dimorphic in body length, relative tail length and relative body mass, but not in relative head length or diet. A wide array of prey, from centipedes to rodents, is consumed, and there is an ontogenetic dietary shift from ectotherms to endotherms. Prey-predator mass ratios ranged from 0.006-0.571. Although prey mass increased with snake mass, large snakes also ate many small prey. There was no difference in relative prey mass between sexes. Reproduction was highly seasonal, with a long vitellogenic period. Embryos were found only from October to December (rainy season). Litter size ranged from 4-20, and was dependent on female size. Although B. n. pauloensis occupies seasonally dry savannas, its ecological characteristics are similar to those described for Bothrops species inhabiting forested habitats.
10.2307/1564787|An intensive ecological study of the wood turtle, Clemmys insculpta, was conducted in northwestern New Jersey from 1978-1981. Population density averaged 10.7 turtles/ha over all years. Nearly half (45.5%) of the population consisted of adults > 140 mm in plastron length. The adult female-to-male ratio was not significantly different from 1:1. Secondary sexual differences became apparent in the ninth year, but maturity was not attained until the 14th year. While there was little difference in plastron length of adult males and females, males had longer carapaces than females of the same age. Plastral growth decreased from 84% in the first year to 2.3% in the sixth year, but showed an increase to 9.2 and 10.3% in years eight and nine. Since the ratio of abdominal scute to plastron length varied between captures, the use of abdominal scute length to estimate plastron length in Clemmys insculpta seems inappropriate. Courtship and mating occurred in the spring and fall. Females nested in June on elevated, well-drained, fully exposed sites near the stream. Clutch size averaged 8.5 and emergence of hatchlings occurred 70-71 days after nesting. Wood turtles were primarily diurnal throughout the year, but some courtship and nesting activity continued after dark. Estivation did not occur in the field; aquatic hibernation lasted from late November through early March. From May to October wood turtles assumed a solitary, terrestrial life style. Cloacal temperature was more closely correlated with substrate and water temperature than with air temperature. Comparison of temperatures among all activities showed that cloacal temperatures of turtles basking or moving on land were significantly higher than those of turtles found in water. Basking turtles accounted for 45.8% of all captures. Over the four year study period 16.8% of all turtles were found with injuries attributed primarily to raccoons (Procyon lotor). Almost 90% of all animals captured in early spring and late fall carried leeches (Placobdella parasitica).
10.2307/1564472|Parophisaurus pawneensis, gen. nov., a primitive, and fully limbed fossil anguid lizard is known only from the middle Oligocene (Orellan) deposits of North America. Based principally on tooth morphology, P. pawneensis is distinct from the middle Paleocene Machaerosaurus torrejonensis and is related and thought to be near the ancestry of Ophisaurus (sensu stricto) from the New World. Re-evaluation of the diagnostic characters of the subfamily "Anguinae" suggests that they are plesiomorphic and thus the subfamily "Anguinae" is polyphyletic. Limb reduction and loss along with loss of pectoral and pelvic girdles, is heteromorphic and heterochronic in "ophisaurs" indicating that this strategy occurred independently among Old and New World "anguines." The Old World limbless anguines (Pseudopus, Ophisauriscus, Asian "ophisaurs," and Anguis species groups) are inferred to be endemic and evolved limblessness prior to Ophisaurus. Paleobiogeographic data, and osteological characters of the "Anguinae," suggest that Ophisaurus did not disperse into Europe and Asia after it became limbless. The Old World and New World "anguines" may have shared a common limbed ancestor far back in pre-Eocene times in a common contiguous Holarctic geographic province.
4092881|Amphibians that breed in early spring may encounter considerable variation in ambient temperature. In this study, I investigated how the metabolic rate of male and female Small-Mouthed Salamanders (Ambystoma texanum) is influenced by variation in temperature
10.2307/1565632|Squamate prey capture evolved in two general directions; one toward an emphasis upon lingual prehension and the other toward an emphasis upon jaw prehension. In basal squamates (Iguania), lingual prehension characterizes prey capture. All other squamates (Scleroglossa) tend to use their jaws for prey prehension and the role of the tongue as a prehensile organ is reduced. However, within some scleroglossan lizards, lingual and jaw modes of prehension are present. Selection of a distinct prehension mode during a feeding bout in these lizards has been hypothesized to be related to prey size. To test for the presence of lingual prehension and correlation with prey size, we examined feeding behavior in the blue-tongued skink, Tiliqua scincoides using two prey types (mealworm and cricket). We confirmed that this skink uses both lingual and jaw modes of prehension with accompanying characteristic jaw kinematic profiles. With crickets, only jaw prehension was exhibited, but both modes were used when feeding on equivalently sized prey, mealworms. Consequently, prehension mode is not exclusively elicited by prey size. We, therefore, hypothesize that selection of prehension modes, lingual or jaws, in these basal scleroglossans also includes proximate factors related to prey behavior.
4498601| Oviposition site choice, which is one of the most important forms of parental care in oviparous reptiles, has major effects on incubation duration, reproductive success, and offspring phenotype. We determined the thermal characteristics of nest-sites selected by females of the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus in laboratory thermal gradients, and we linked results with information on the effects of temperature on incubation times and hatchling phenotypes. Temperatures at oviposition sites (mean  SD = 26.0  1.9C) were on average lower and had a lower variance than those at available sites (32.0  6.2C). The duration of incubation decreased dramatically as temperature increased. In fact, the hatching dates predicted by the temperatures selected in the thermogradients were delayed with respect to the mean emergence dates observed in the field. Such disparity might occur because (1) natural incubation temperatures are variable rather than constant, (2) they are expected to rise later in the season, and (3) temperatures that are too high can severely compromise embryonic survival. In addition, females might select relatively low nest-site temperatures because hatching too early can force juveniles to face limited growth opportunities caused by food shortage in the Mediterranean environments in which they live. 
10.2307/1564956|The phylogenetic relationships among the species of the elapid genus Bungarus were examined using morphological characters. One of the 13 species listed by Golay (1985), B. javanicus, is synonymized with B. candidus. Six characters were found to be informative for kraits and an analysis of these characters using parsimony resulted in the following relationships: (B. flaviceps, B. bungaroides (B. fasciatus (B. andamanensis, B. caeruleus, b. candidus, B. ceylonicus, B. magnimaculatus, B. multicinctus, B. sindanus (B. lividus, B. niger)))).
41415300|Understanding the spatial ecology of species at risk is essential for conservation because this information forms the base from which management and recovery plans are delineated. We studied microhabitat selection and evaluated the effect of reproductive class on daily movement patterns, home ranges, and seasonal activity of Blanding's Turtles in the St. Lawrence Islands National Park, Ontario, Canada. We also consider the potential conservation/management ramifications of differences in habitat use between the reproductive classes. We monitored 38 Blanding's Turtles (20 males, 13 gravid females, and 5 nongravid females) from April 2008 to August 2009 via radiotelemetry. Reproductive class did not have a significant effect on the mean daily movement of turtles in May, July, and August. In June, however, gravid females moved significantly more (mean = 400  49 m per day) than males (mean = 194  22 m per day). Reproductive class also had a significant effect on turtle home-range size, although high individual variation was observed (range = 1.640.6 ha). Gravid females had significantly larger home ranges (mean = 20.3  3.5 ha) did than both males (mean = 8.2  1.8 ha) and nongravid females (mean = 7.3  3.2 ha). At the microhabitat scale, Blanding's Turtles selected colder water with more submerged and floating vegetation and avoided open water. Our results highlight the importance of stratifying field observations and spatial data by reproductive class and time and including terrestrial habitat in home-range analyses of Blanding's Turtles.
4498621|Although there is increasing recognition of the importance of terrestrial habitat to aquatic fauna, little is known about the specific habitat requirements of these species at a fine scale within the terrestrial landscape. Our knowledge of subadult life stages of many species, specifically aquatic turtles, is particularly depauperate. We used radio-telemetry to determine the timing and extent of terrestrial movements of 11 subadult Eastern Mud Turtles, Kinosternon subrubrum, during the winter. We also quantified microhabitat variables (ground cover composition, shrub cover, and canopy cover) of temporary refugia and overwintering sites (hibemacula) of radio-tagged turtles. On average, hibemacula sites were 72 m from the wetland (defined as the water's edge). Turtles remained at hibernacula a mean of 107 days before emerging in the spring. Radio-tagged turtles selected winter hibernacula with a large component of leaf and pine litter and less tree cover than temporary refugia. The leaf litter may provide stable temperature and soil moisture at hibernacula for overwintering turtles, whereas the open canopy may expose turtles to relatively higher temperatures in the spring prior to emergence.
4092997| Aspidoscelis neotesselata (Squamata: Teiidae), the triploid, parthenogenetic lizard endemic to southeastern Colorado, originated from a hybridization event involving normally parthenogenetic Aspidoscelis tesselata and bisexual Aspidoscelis sexlineata. A previous study of a sympatric assemblage of these taxa in the Higbee vicinity, Otero County, Colorado, found that A. neotesselata resembled A. tesselata in snout-vent length (SVL) and the much smaller A. sexlineata in clutch size, a pronounced departure from the clutch size predicted from the mean SVL of gravid females. The phylogenetic constraint hypothesis, that clutch size in A. neotesselata is influenced disproportionately by the genome acquired from A. sexlineata, was proposed to explain this enigma. Use of new characters in recently acquired samples of A. tesselata Pattern Class C (N = 44), A. neotesselata Pattern Classes A, B, and C (N = 132), and A. sexlineata (N = 31), revealed that clutch size in A. neotesselata is genetically constrained by both progenitors-a nonadditive component from A. tesselata (large egg volume) and an additive component from A. sexlineata (reduced body volume). Although mean oviductal egg volume, mean SVL for hatchlings of the year, and maximum observed body size were similar in A. neotesselata and A. tesselata, representatives of A. neotesselata attained reproductive maturity at smaller body sizes, and their oviductal eggs were proportionately longer and narrower than those of both progenitor species. Gravid individuals of A. neotesselata were intermediate to those of A. tesselata and A. sexlineata in body volume (BV) and SVL, but, as previously reported, the mean clutch sizes of A. neotesselata and A. sexlineata were similar and significantly smaller than that of A. tesselata. Statistically, egg volume was the least variable of the four primary reproductive attributes investigated. This would presumably ensure the production of hatchlings of adaptive size by each species, a factor that likely supersedes clutch size and body volume in maximizing individual fitness. Hybrid-derived polyploidy (i.e., the addition of an A. sexlineata genome to the diploid genome of A. tesselata) in A. neotesselata and the postformational origin of geographic Pattern Classes A, B, and C, have resulted in a constellation of adaptations that extend well beyond reproductive characteristics. These adaptations have permitted each of the three triploid pattern classes to exploit mutually exclusive habitats, some at a distance of 173 linear kilometers west-northwest of the northern range boundary of A. tesselata in southeastern Colorado. /// La lagartija Aspidoscelis neotesselata (Squamata: Teiidae), triploide, partenogentica y endmica del sureste de Colorado, se origin de un evento de hibridacin involucrando normalmente a la lagartija partenogentica Aspidoscelis tesselata y a la bisexual Aspidoscelis sexlineata. Un estudio previo de un ensamble simpatrico de estos taxa en los alrededores de Higbee, Condado de Otero, Colorado, encontr que A. neotesselata se pareci a A. tesselata en la longitud hocico cloaca (LHC) y a la mucho ms pequea A. sexlineata en el tamao de camada, una partida pronunciada del tamao de camada predicha por el promedio de LHC de las hembras gravidas. La hiptesis de limitante filogentico, que el tamao de camada en A. neotesselata est influenciado desproporcionadamente por el genoma adquirido a partir de A. sexlineata, fue propuesta para explicar este enigma. El uso de caracteres nuevos en muestras adquiridas recientemente de la clase de patrn C de A. tesselata (N = 44), clases de patrn A, B, y C de A. neotesselata (N = 132), y A. sexlineata (N = 31) revel que el tamao de camada en A. neotesselata est genticamente limitado por ambos progenitores-un componente no aditivo de A. tesselata (volumen grande de huevo) y un componente aditivo de A. sexlineata (volumen reducido de cuerpo). Aunque el promedio del volumen de huevos oviductuales, promedio de la LHC de las cras del ao y tamao corporal m ximo observado fueron similares en A. neotesselata y A. tesselata, ejemplares de A. neotesselata alcanzaron la madurez reproductiva a tamaos corporales menores, y su huevos oviductuales fueron proporcionalmente ms largos y angostos que los de ambas especies progenitoras. Individuos grvidos de A. neotesselata fueron intermedios a aquellos de A. tesselata y A. sexlineata en volumen corporal (VC) y LHC, pero, como se report previamente, el promedio de los tamaos de camada de A. neotesselata y A. sexlineata fue similar y significativamente menor que el de A. tesselata. Estadsticamente, el volumen del huevo fue el menos variable de los cuatro atributos reproductivos principales investigados. Esto podra presumiblemente asegurar la produccin de cras de un tamao adaptativo pra cada especie, un factor que probablemente impide la expresin del tamao de camada y volumen corporal en la maximizacin de la adecuacin individual. La poliploidia derivada de hbridos (esto es, la adicin de un genoma de A. sexlineata al genoma diploide de A. tesselata) en A. neotesselata y el origen posterior a la formacin de las clases geogrficas de patrones A, B, y C, han resultado en una constelacin de adaptaciones que se extiende mucho ms all de las caractersticas reproductivas. Estas adaptaciones han permitido a cada una de las tres clases de patrones triploides utilizar hbitats mutuamente excluyentes, algunos a una distancia de 173 kilmetres lineales al oeste-noroeste del lmite norte del intervalo de distribucin de A. tesselata en el sureste de Colorado. 
10.2307/1565549|Variation in 28 quantitative characters and one qualitative character in the endemic Ryukyu skink Ateuchosaurus pellopleurus was analyzed. Multivariate analysis of the quantitative characters revealed extensive variation among the insular populations. Branching topology in the neighbor-joining phenogram deriving from Mahalanobis distances among island samples coincides well with their geographic arrangement, suggesting a great contribution of geohistory to the branching pattern. By contrast, branch length in the phenogram does not seem to reflect the paleogeography well, presumably due to noise from rapid morphological changes in small island populations. None of our analyses demonstrated distinct divergence between populations on islands northeast and southwest of the Tokara Tectonic Strait. Accepting the current paleogeographical hypothesis that this strait has consistently existed since its initial formation in the Pliocene, we interpret this result as indicative of recent oversea dispersal across the strait. Results of the analyses also suggested that in A. pellopleurus primary divergence occurred between populations of the Okinawa Group and the remainder. Nevertheless, because of the absence of even a single discriminant character between these two groups, we reject taxonomic subdivision of the species proposed by a few previous authors.
10.2307/1565892|The Chinese alligator is one of the world's most critically endangered reptiles. Although there is a relatively large captive population, in the wild small groups of alligators are limited to a few small ponds in an agricultural landscape in southeastern Anhui Province. As part of an effort to develop plans for the conservation of Chinese alligators in the wild, we investigated aspects of the reproductive ecology of wild alligators during a survey of the last remaining groups. We also compiled published and unpublished information on the reproduction of alligators in captivity and in the wild. Nesting was only reported from four sites in 1999, and we describe two of these areas. Because of the intense human use of the landscape, alligators seek small patches of relatively undisturbed vegetation for nesting, and these fall into two main categories: vegetated hillsides, usually covered with pine trees, and small islands in agricultural ponds. Our observations of one nest on a pine hillside suggest that pine needles may make a poor nest substrate leading to lethally low temperatures for developing embryos. The selection of sites for the reintroduction of alligators should take the nature of potential nesting habitat into consideration.
43287354|We evaluated the hypothesis that adjustments in call duration made by male Gray Treefrogs render their calls less easily masked in noise and so facilitate communication with females in choruses. We also tested whether shifts in male call duration and rate can be elicited through changes in the level of filtered background noise. We found that males increased the number of pulses in their calls while lowering call rate with elevations in noise level in a fashion similar to that reported during broadcasts of calls. In phonotaxis tests with females using unmodulated or modulated background noise and calls (10,20, 30, or 40 pulses long) presented at either unequal or equal rates, we failed to find significant differences in noise levels at call recognition thresholds for calls of different duration. However, calls were detected more easily (i.e., noise levels at recognition thresholds were higher) when the noise background was modulated as compared to unmodulated. Our results and those of an earlier study by our laboratory indicate that changes in vocal behavior made by males of Hyla versicolor in response to changes in the calling of other males and background noise within choruses likely do not function to lessen the problems of signal detection or degradation due to interference. Accordingly, a small advantage accruing to males because of an inherent, albeit context-dependent, female preference for long calls (even at low call rates) may account for the dynamic calling behavior of male Gray Treefrogs.
1566215| The Flatwoods Salamander (Ambystoma cingulatum) was listed as a federally threatened species because loss and alteration of adult and larval habitats caused population declines. Current management plans for this species must include maintenance of appropriate larval habitat. However, much of the natural history of this species is poorly known. Our objective was to evaluate the diet of A. cingulatum larvae. We examined stomach contents of 122 larvae collected from Florida and South Carolina. We identified and measured invertebrate prey and estimated biomass using length-mass relationships. Crustaceans, mostly isopods (Caecidotea), amphipods (Crangonyx), cyclopoid copepods, and cladocerans (primarily Simocephalus and other daphnids) were the most abundant prey. Isopods and amphipods also dominated stomach content biomass because of their relatively large size. Stomachs of small A. cingulatum larvae had significantly higher numbers and proportions of cladocerans and smaller numbers and proportions of isopods compared to larger larvae (P < 0.05). Smaller larvae also had significantly lower amounts and proportions of isopod biomass in their guts compared to large larvae (P < 0.05). We found Hedruris siredonis, a parasitic nematode, in 11% of stomachs examined; this is a new host record for this parasite. Our results indicate that larvae feed primarily on freshwater crustaceans, particularly isopods, copepods, cladocerans, and amphipods. Management activities that adversely impact freshwater crustacean communities in breeding habitats, such as pesticide use or introductions of predatory fish, could adversely impact remaining populations of this salamander. 
41415262|During courtship, adult male plethodontid salamanders transfer protein pheromones that augment female receptivity. The majority of plethodontid species apply pheromones transdermally (to the female's dorsal skin). These pheromones apparently diffuse through the skin and enter into circulation, a unique type of pheromone delivery in vertebrates. In contrast, a behavioral and physiological transition occurred in the Plethodontinae, resulting in one clade of species (Plethodon glutinosus group) that uses a different pheromone delivery mode. Males within this clade apply pheromones directly to the nares of a female, and the pheromones subsequently are detected by the vomeronasal organ. We tested whether female Red-Legged Salamanders (Plethodon sherntani), despite normally detecting pheromones via the vomeronasal organ, have retained the ancestral ability to respond to pheromones delivered transdermally. We staged courtship encounters and recorded the behavior of females given either pheromones or control solutions on the dorsal skin. Female receptivity (as inferred from courtship duration) in P. sherntani was not affected by dermal application. Also, we used immunocytochemistry on female vomeronasal neurons to show that (1) females responded normally to pheromones delivered to the nares and (2) dermal application of pheromones did not activate vomeronasal neurons. We conclude that female P. sherntani are not stimulated by pheromones delivered dermally and infer that this condition may characterize all the members of the P. glutinosus group, which use olfactory pheromone delivery.
23327195|Japanese Mamushi (Gloydius blomhoffii) has long been exploited for its medicinal value. We studied this snake's reproductive ecology on Hokkaido and assessed its vulnerability. We marked 299 individuals from 19992002 and kept 29 pregnant females in captivity until parturition. Pregnant females aggregated at gestation sites during summer and fall until just before parturition. Behavior suggestive of mating seasons was evident mostly in August and September. As expected, there was an apparent sex difference in body size in adults but not in neonates: females were larger than males. Consistent with previous reports, both neonates and adults were larger in Hokkaido than in southern Japan. The smallest pregnant female measured 44.8 cm in SVL, which was larger than values reported from southern regions. Offspring sex ratio was statistically equal: 88 males to 105 females. Litter size averaged 6.6 offspring. Longer females tended to produce larger litters and longer neonates. The proportion of pregnant to non-pregnant females, coupled with markrecapture data, suggested that Mamushi females skip one or more years between reproductive bouts. Relative litter mass (RCM) was large (83% on average), and postpartum body condition was lower, especially so in females with larger RCM. Direct human-caused mortality was highest for pregnant females (70.2%), followed by nonpregnant females and then males. High adult mortality, particularly of pregnant females, raises a concern about population persistence, because Mamushi exhibit a slow life history. The tendency of pregnant females to aggregate at predictable locations further makes Mamushi populations vulnerable to human killing and exploitation.
25599272|We tested tongue-flicking responses to food chemicals and control stimuli in the Texas Horned Lizard (Phrynosoma cornutum) by presenting chemical stimuli on cotton swabs. No evidence of discrimination between prey chemicals (from the ant Pogonomyrmex rugosus), plant chemicals (romaine lettuce), cologne, and distilled water via the lingual-vomeronasal system was detected despite extremely high statistical power. We conclude that P. cornutum does not use tongue flicking to sample chemicals to permit detection and identification of food. Horned lizards forage by moving between ant colonies, capturing numerous ants at each colony by lingual prehension. Because ants are abundant above ground and mobile, visual search may suffice. Despite the absence of evidence for prey chemical discrimination, the lizards tongue flicked up to 15 times in a 60-sec trial. Because horned lizards do not usually enter crevices likely to contain predators and because they rely on crypsis to avoid detection, they are presumably less likely than lizards such as skinks, lacertids, and geckos to use vomerolfaction to detect predators' chemicals. However, horned lizards tongue flick each other during courtship. Therefore, the primary adaptive use of tongue flicking may be for pheromonal communication.
10.2307/1564883|A new species of Sphaerodactylus is described from xeric limestone scrub of the Barahona Peninsula of Hispaniola. Its combination of small body size and very large, flattened, keeled dorsal scales distinguish it from other species in the genus.
10.2307/1564879|We examined subterranean predation rates in the hibernacula (1986-1991) and nesting burrows (1976-1991) of pine snakes (Pituophus melanoleucus) in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. We examined 40 hibernacula with 412 snakes. Snakes were killed by red fox (Vulpes fulva, n = 1), striped skunk (Mephitis mephitis, n = 2) and short-tailed shrew (Blarina brevicauda, n = 5). We examined 201 snake nests: 42 were dug up by foxes, 7 were dug up by skunks, and in one a scarlet snake (Cemophora coccinea) was eating an egg. Over three years we found that humans illegally removed the eggs in 23 of 80 pine snake nests.
10.2307/1564646|Seasonal and daily activity of a population of Blanding's turtle (Emydoidea blandingi) inhabiting a marsh-fen ecosystem in northeastern Illinois were investigated by capture-recapture and radiotelemetric techniques. Turtles emerged from dormancy by late March and were observed active at water temperatures of 10 C and feeding at 14 C. Trapping success peaked in June at water temperatures of 18-29 C, then declined in July when water temperatures exceeded 30 C. Nesting occurred in late May and June. Turtles entered winter dormancy between 19 October and 22 November. Emydoidea were primarily aquatic in this study. Terrestrial activity occurred chiefly in the spring, including brief daily sojourns from a single pond, long and short treks between ponds, and long distance treks by females for nesting. Activity centers of individuals were relatively uniform, seldom exceeding two hectares, and were occasionally interrupted by sojourns of both long and short duration. Emydoidea were active diurnally between 0530 and 2230 h. Trapping data suggested a bimodal feeding pattern with peaks in the morning and evening, although telemetry information indicated greater morning activity. For all months combined, females were equally active throughout the day while males were active more in the morning than in afternoon or evening. Daily aquatic movements within activity centers ranged from 1 to 230 m/day and males moved significantly greater distances per day than females.
43287343|Amphibians are the most threatened vertebrate group in the world. One of the conservation strategies most used to preserve threatened species is the establishment of protected areas. We used gap analysis to evaluate whether or not the protected area network of northeastern Brazil safeguards populations of threatened amphibians that occur in this region. Data on species geographical ranges were obtained from the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and were overlapped on the northeastern Brazilian protected area network using ArcGIS 9.3. The threatened amphibians found in northeastern Brazil were represented by remnant populations of Adelophryne baturitensis, Adelophryne maranguapensis, Allobates olfersioides, and Agalychnis granulosa. There are 174 protected areas in the protected area network in northeastern Brazil. The network is made up of 65 strict protection areas (IUCN categories I II) and 109 sustainable use areas (IUCN categories III-VI). The network corresponds to more than 15 million ha, which equates to about 10% of the region's total area. However, the size of the protected areas along the geographical range of these species doesn't necessarily guarantee their persistence in the future. The main threat to these species is loss of habitat due to deforestation and agricultural expansion. Therefore, the viability of new reserves with a diversity of representative ecosystems in northeastern Brazil may be the best solution to avoid extinction processes in this region.
25599270|This study examined the jumping pattern and its relationship with various body traits in semiterrestrial tadpoles, Indirana beddomii. The tadpoles were separated into four groups based on the absence (Group I) or presence (Group II) of functional hind limbs, presence of forelimbs (Group III), and at metamorphic climax (Group IV). During early developmental stages, tadpoles are able to move by flipping and jumping not only forward but also sideways and backward. Prior to takeoff, they usually wag the tail, possibly providing thrust to takeoff. However, in later developmental stages, hind limbs are used for take off. In Group I tadpoles, the tail was three times longer than SVL and contributed to jumping performance. In Groups II and III, both SVL and hind-limb length were positively correlated to jumping performance. In the Group III, forelimb length was also correlated with jumping performance. However, stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that, in Group II, hind limbs and, in Group III, forelimbs contributed to jumping performance. Thus I. beddomii tadpoles use their tails for jumping at early stages and limbs at later stages. Upon reaching metamorphic climax and thereafter, the correlations between jumping performance and SVL and hind- or forelimb length was lost. Lack of correlation between the body traits and jumping performance during metamorphic climax may be attributed to physiological and anatomical changes occurring during this phase.
10.2307/1564497|The recognition of two subspecies of Centrolenella orientalis Rivero is shown to be untenable. Also, C. orocostalis is considered a junior subjective synonym of Centrolenella orientalis Rivero. The holotype of C. orientalis is redescribed, and the range of the species is expanded to include western Venezuela and eastern Colombia. Data on the life history and morphology of the species ally it to the C. fleischmanni group.
10.2307/1565170|In order to elucidate the extent to which the reproductive isolating mechanism is established during the intraspecific differentiation of Rana japonica, hybridization experiments were carried out in 101 combinations using 161 frogs collected from 20 populations throughout the Honshu and Kyushu Islands of Japan. Although neither gametic isolation nor hybrid inviability existed among these populations, a remarkable preponderance of males occurred in the reciprocal hybrids among the eastern, western, and northwestern groups. In crosses within each group, 52.7-55.7% of frogs were males, whereas 93.0 and 88.0% of frogs were males in the hybrid crosses between the eastern and western groups and between the northwestern and western groups, respectively. Spermatogenesis in male progeny from crosses within each of the three groups was almost always normal, whereas most of the male reciprocal hybrids among the three groups were more or less abnormal in spermatogenesis. The abnormality in spermatogenesis was largest in the hybrids between the western and eastern groups and smallest in the hybrids between the northwestern and eastern groups. These results suggest that the eastern and western groups had come into contact in the northwestern region before they were reproductively isolated from each other through hybrid sterility. It is thus not unreasonable to label the western and eastern groups as the Hiroshima and Ichinoseki races, respectively, and the northwestern region as the hybrid zone.
4092974|Females of most of New Zealand's endemic reptiles show low rates of annual reproductive output, involving extended gestation and small clutch size. The main purpose of the present study was to investigate the female reproductive cycle and patterns of clutch size in McCann's Skink (Oligosoma maccanni) from a subalpine site in southern New Zealand (Macraes Flat). The results were then compared with those available for the Common Gecko (Hoplodactylus maculatus) from the same site, where females have biennial reproduction with a gestation of up to 14 months. Palpation was used to assess reproductive condition of O. maccanni noninvasively. A subset of females was then dissected to confirm reproductive condition, determine patterns of change in yolk and embryo mass with pregnancy, and determine plasma progesterone profiles. Both species are lecithotrophic with autumn-spring vitellogenesis; however, in contrast to H. maculatus, female O. maccanni are annual breeders with a spring-summer gestation of 4-5 months. Clutch size in O. maccanni decreases (relative to snout-vent length, SVL) between vitellogenesis (mean 3.33, range 2-5) and pregnancy/birth (mean 2.83, range 1-6). Plasma progesterone concentration is elevated during mid-pregnancy, and lowest during early vitellogenesis. More frequent reproduction at Macraes Flat in the diurnal skink O. maccanni than in the primarily nocturnal gecko H. maculatus in part may be a consequence of different thermoregulatory behavior.
10.2307/1564589|A new species of Hyla from the eastern slope of the Andes of Northern Colombia is described. This species cannot be placed in any of the recognized species groups of Hyla using morphological characters. /// Es descrita una nueva especie de Hyla de la vertiente Oriental de la Cordillera Oriental de los Andes en al Norte de Colombia. Esta especie no puede ser asignada a ninguno de los grupos de especies reconocidos actualmente usando caracteres morfologicos.
10.2307/1564312|Experiments were conducted on maternal care in two species of skinks, Eumeces fasciatus and E. laticeps. Brooding females of both species retrieved their own eggs after eggs were removed from the nest and continued brooding them. They also retrieved and brooded conspecific and congeneric eggs. Neither species retrieved eggs of Scincella laterale or Anolis carolinensis. There was no tendency for maternal females or their offspring to remain in microhabitats containing nest material when offered a choice. Likewise, there were no apparent associations between maternal females and their offspring following hatching. Although female E. fasciatus remained under shelter boards during brooding, they avoided shelter boards in the experiments following hatching, and buried themselves in the sand substrate. These results suggest that there may be a high cost to remaining with or near the nest post-hatching.
10.2307/1565516|We report the effects of incubation temperature on the duration of incubation and hatchling size in the insular lizard Podarcis hispanica atrata. Freshly-laid eggs were placed in artificial nests that were exposed to a natural cyclical variation of microclimate. We monitored substrate temperatures and egg size throughout the incubation period, and measured hatchling size at birth. The mean incubation period was 54 days at average incubation (substrate) temperatures that ranged from 23.5 to 26.5 C. We found a negative relation between the duration of incubation and mean incubation temperature. Overall survival of eggs to hatching was high (83%), even though eggs were frequently exposed for short periods (1-5 h) to high substrate temperatures (>35 C). We found no effect of duration of incubation or incubation temperature on the size of hatchlings.
10.2307/1565420| Evidence increasingly suggests that some environmental pollutants are able to permanently affect development of the endocrine system in wildlife. Embryonic and neonatal exposure to these "endocrine-disrupting contaminants" can cause structural and functional abnormalities of the reproductive system. It has recently been hypothesized that demasculinization of a population of male juvenile American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) from Lake Apopka, Florida, could result from exposure to antiandrogenic contaminants. The persistent pesticide contaminant p.p-DDE interacts with the mammalian androgen receptor and antagonizes androgen action in vivo. Wildlife from Lake Apopka, which has been contaminated through agriculture and an industrial accident, exhibit elevated levels of p.p.-DDE, among other pesticide residues. This study provides further evidence of reproductive dysfunction in Lake Apopka juvenile alligators by comparison with a "reference" population from a relatively uncontaminated lake nearby, Lake Woodruff National Wildlife Refuge. Phallus size correlated strongly with plasma dihydrotestosterone (DHT) concentrations or body size in juvenile males from Lake Woodruff. In contrast, males from Lake Apopka had significantly smaller phalli (adjusted for body size) than those from Lake Woodruff, and correlations with body size or plasma DHT concentrations were weak or absent. Plasma DHT concentrations did not differ significantly between juvenile males from the two lakes. In contrast, plasma DHT concentrations were significantly higher in females from Lake Apopka compared to those from Lake Woodruff. This is the first report of masculinized female juvenile alligators from Lake Apopka and suggests that juveniles of both sexes exhibit altered endocrine and reproductive parameters. 
10.2307/1563617|Geographic variation in three species of the hendersoni complex anoles (A. hendersoni, A. bahorucoensis, A. dolichocephalus) indicates that in each case there are northern and southern slope subspecies, separated from each other by the interior high uplands of the montane massifs of the Hispaniolan Tiburon Peninsula and the Peninsula de Barahona. In addition, there is a third subspecies of A. dolichocephalus on the Presque'ile de Port-Salut in extreme southwestern Haiti. Differences between the subspecies are primarily ones of coloration and pattern. A discussion of the evolution of the different populations in each species is presented, and ecological data are incorporated in an effort to explain the divergence of the northern and southern subspecies in each case.
10.2307/1563503|Preferences of small snapping turtles were determined by the relative number of locations in each of several experimental habitats. Nine juvenile turtles in one test showed some preference for a sand rather than a gravel substrate, but these results were not replicable in a second test with 8 of these turtles. There was no significant relationship between substrate preference and water temperature. Juvenile turtles preferred obstructed pool areas to open areas during darkness, whereas recently hatched turtles preferred obstructed pool areas to open areas during light and darkness. These experimental habitat preferences resemble field observations of snapping turtles. Mud substrates likely provide advantages similar to those provided in obstructed areas: concealment, enhanced protection, and locations from which to obtain food. The snapping turtle may be opportunistic in selecting aquatic habitats, provided that some cover is available.
1565862|We describe a new microhylid frog of the endemic Malagasy subfamily Cophylinae and designate a lectotype for Plethodontohyla notosticta. Plethodontohyla mihanika sp. n. has enlarged terminal disks on all fingers and toes, a distinct border between its dorsal and lateral coloration, and a pointed snout. The new species is recognized by its longer hind limbs, smaller body size (SVL 26-31 mm), and advertisement call. Together with P. notosticta and possibly Plethodontohyla inguinalis, the new species forms a partially arboreal subgroup within the otherwise terrestrial Plethodontohyla. The eggs of the new species are most likely laid in strings, which may be a preadaptation to egg transport by the parents. Males cohabit with eggs, tadpoles, and recently metamorphosed juveniles, suggesting parental care as known from other cophylines.
10.2307/1565539|The chondrocranium of Rhinophrynus dorsalis is described and illustrated. Autapomorphies of R. dorsalis are the presence of the symplectic cartilage and a cartilaginous process on the ascending process of the palatoquadrate. Synapomorphies of Rhinophrynus shared with the Pipidae are: (1) early formation of the lower jaw and (2) presence of a suprarostral plate. Alternative developmental pathways for the formation of the suprarostral plate are considered. Histological data indicates that the suprarostral plate forms from: (1) the early fusion of the cornua trabeculae with the suprarostral cartilages, (2) an anterior growth of the ethmoid plate, and (3) subsequent fusion of the cornua trabeculae and the anterior process of the ethmoid plate. The larval crista parotica of R. dorsalis resembles the one described for microhylid taxa.
4498614|Amphibian declines and extinctions are critical concerns of biologists around the world. The estimated current rate of amphibian extinction is known, but how it compares to the background amphibian extinction rate from the fossil record has not been well studied. I compared current amphibian extinction rates with their reported background extinction rates using standard and fuzzy arithmetic. These calculations suggest that the current extinction rate of amphibians could be 211 times the background amphibian extinction rate. If current estimates of amphibian species in imminent danger of extinction are included in these calculations, then the current amphibian extinction rate may range from 25,039-45,474 times the background extinction rate for amphibians. It is difficult to explain this unprecedented and accelerating rate of extinction as a natural phenomenon.
10.2307/1564797|During 1984-1985, we investigated the population ecology and habitat relationships of river cooters (Pseudemys concinna) in an 11.2 km section of the New River in southern West Virginia. Cooters occurred in three pool habitats characterized by slow current velocities, shallow water (0-2 m), aquatic macrophyte beds, and basking sites. We estimated an adult population of 67 during summer, 1985. At the three study pools, juveniles comprised 6%, 25%, and 35% of the captures. Adult cooters consumed eelgrass (Vallisneria americana), elodea (Elodea canadensis), and crayfish. Juveniles consumed vegetation, invertebrates, and fish. Movements of cooters between pools was not detected. Movements within pools were often attributed to the availability and location of basking sites which varied with river flow. Two radio-tagged cooters wintered in backwaters.
10.2307/1565386|Parvoscincus is described as a new genus of small skinks inhabiting the litter in closed canopy forests on two islands in the centralwestern part of the Philippine Islands archipelago. The genus consists of two species, one of which, Parvoscincus sisoni sp. nov., is described here from seven specimens from the Mt. Madia-as region of the Visayan island of Panay.
10.2307/1564421|The development and degeneration of the chondrocranium of Typhlonectes compressicaudus (Typhlonectidae: Gymnophiona: Amphibia) is described and compared with data for other gymnophione species. The typhlonectid pattern exemplifies many of the constraints typical of gymnophiones (emphasis on otic and nasal capsule development, late development of stapes, retention of cartilaginous nasal capsule rims), but has a number of unique features as well, especially extensive lateral vaulting of the braincase, the absence of a cartilaginous mesethmoid component and its precursors, and concomitant modifications of nasal capsule development. Other aspects of development are apparently correlated with both the live-bearing mode (early mineralization of tooth crowns and jaw articulation surfaces) and with the aquatic habits of the species (reduced overlap of dermal elements).
10.2307/1563868|The reproductive cycle, growth rate, and size and age at maturity are described for female Desmognathus ochrophaeus from near the northwestern border of its geographic range, and these life history characteristics are compared with studies of D. ochrophaeus from the southern Appalachian Mountains. Some females oviposit and brood eggs prior to emergence from overwintering refugia while others oviposit and brood eggs later in the spring or early summer. Field observations indicate that some females oviposit in August with larvae hatching in September and October. The smallest juvenile size class averaged about 10 mm SVL in May and grew 7-9 mm SVL per year over the next three years. Females begin yolking their first clutch at 27-30 mm SVL when they are approximately 36 months old but do not deposit this clutch until they are 30-34 mm SVL. Ovarian follicles reach a maximum size between 2.50 and 3.00 mm diameter. Females of intermediate body size (34-40 mm SVL) may have more rapid follicle growth and larger maximum follicle size than smaller and larger females. Female D. ochrophaeus in the northwestern portion of its geographic range is similar in the characteristics examined to the rockface populations of the southern Appalachian Mountains.
10.2307/1564647|The structure and topography of cutaneous receptors of 21 species of iguanian lizards were studied using histology and scanning electron microscopy. Sense organs with "hairs" are found in the integument of Ceratophora, Draco, Phrynocephalus, Stellio, and Trapelus (agamids), and in Anolis, Chalarodon and Oplurus (iguanids). Sense organs without "hairs" are found in the integument of Physignathus (agamid) and Sceloporus (iguanid). The chameleons have generalized epidermal receptors with simplified structure. Familial differences were observed in the numbers of receptors on the scales of the head and the tail: iguanids have 5-7 times more receptors than agamids. Physignathus differs from other agamids in the morphology, size, and number of receptors. These receptors are hypothesized to serve several functions (as mechano- and thermoreceptors, and possibly sensitivity to humidity).
23327174|We investigated the relation between heterophil/lymphocyte ratios, hepatozoon parasitemia, and two presumed fitness correlates (residual body condition and growth rate) in two regional populations of the Eastern Foxsnake, Pantherophis gloydi. Parasite intensity was not related to either fitness correlate. We found a significant relationship between log (heterophil to lymphocyte [H/L] ratio) and residual growth rate for individuals from Georgian Bay, but not those from southwestern Ontario. There was no significant relationship between log (H/L ratio) and residual body condition in either regional population. We also detected dramatic differences in parasite prevalence and H/L ratios between the two populations: Almost half of the sampled individuals from Georgian Bay were infected with hepatozoons compared to only 2 of 46 infected individuals from southwestern Ontario; H/L ratios were significantly higher in Georgian Bay individuals implying that individuals in this northern population experience higher levels of stress than those in southern Ontario where the environment differs markedly.
43287328|A new species of Tantilla is described from Refugio de Vida Silvestre Texguat in northern Honduras. The new species is allocated to the Tantilla taeniata group, which currently contains 20 of the 63 species in the genus, but it differs from all congeners on the basis of its dorsal body pattern and scutellation. The new species has a pale mid-dorsal stripe composed of narrow spots, confined to the mid-dorsal row, and a lateral coloration of pale spots on each of rows 1,2, and 4 with dark brown pigment on the lateral edges of the ventrale. The new species appears to have no close affinities within the T. taeniata group. Refugio de Vida Silvestre Texguat is one of the most important cloud and premontane rain forest reserves in eastern nuclear Central America with respect to evolution, species endemism, and conservation. Nonetheless, areas of this reserve are seriously imperiled, especially on the leeward side due to continuing illegal logging and forest clearing for subsistence agriculture. Una nueva especie de Tantilla es descrita para el Refugio de Vida Silvestre Texguat en el Norte de Honduras. Se le asigna al grupo de T. taeniata, que actualmente contiene 20 de las 63 especies en el gnero, pero difiere de todos los congneres en el patrn de coloracin y conteo de escamas. El patrn dorsal del cuerpo de la nueva especie consiste en una lnea dorso central plida confinada a la hilera dorso central, compuesta por manchas estrechas y una coloracin lateral de manchas plidas en cada una de las hileras 1,2 y 4 con pigmento marrn oscuro en los bordes laterales de las escamas ventrales. La nueva especie parece no tener ninguna relacin dentro del grupo de T. taeniata. El Refugio de Vida Silvestre Texguat es una de las reservas ms importantes de bosque lluvioso premontano y bosque nublado en Centro Amrica Nuclear Oriental con respecto a la evolucin, el endemismo de especies y la conservacin. Sin embargo, las reas de esta reserva se encuentran en peligro, especialmente en el lado de sotavento debido a la continua tala ilegal y tala para la agricultura de subsistencia.
40665005|We describe a new species of Luperosaurus from Mt. Mantalingajan, southern Palawan Island, Philippines. The new species is distinguished from all other species of Luperosaurus by the combination of its large body size (81.3 mm for the single male specimen), near complete absence of interdigital webbing, absence of cutaneous expansions on limbs except for a minute flap on the posterior margins of the hind limbs, the presence of differentiated, moderately enlarged chin shields, 40 precloacofemoral pore-bearing scales, the limitation of scattered flattened dorsal tubercles to only the posterior portions of the torso, absence of spinose or recurved ornamental tubercles on the head and nuchal region, and convex to posteriorly raised tubercles clustered at the posterior margins of caudal tail annuli. Because the new species shares features with species in both species of Luperosaurus and Gekko, we compare the new species to (and distinguish it from) both genera. The new species is distinguished from all Southeast Asian Gekko by the combination of its smaller body size, relatively short, stout limbs, presence of only moderately enlarged, slightly imbricate ventral body scales, differentiated postmentals not highly elongate, dorsal body tubercles limited to posterior trunk and not arranged in rows, absence of enlarged, spinose tubercles on the limbs and tail, and tail encircled by small scales (enlarged subcaudals absent). The new species further emphasizes the biogeographic distinctiveness (from Sundaland fauna) and level of vertebrate endemism of Palawan Island and underscores the degree to which the biodiversity of the Philippines is not fully understood.
10.2307/1564623|Over a five year period, breeding biology of the Great Plains toad (Bufo cognatus) was studied in central Oklahoma. Breeding activity was closely associated with precipitation. Consequently, the number of nights when breeding occurred during spring varied considerably from year to year. Breeding occurred for 14 consecutive nights during March 1985, up to six consecutive nights after rainstorms in April and early May but for only one or two nights after June rains. Breeding activity was greatest during the first three hours after sunset and typically during the first two nights after a rainstorm. Regardless of when females entered the breeding pool and paired, egg laying began at sunrise and lasted until mid-morning with amplexus averaging 803 minutes. Bufo cognatus exhibited communal egg laying at seven different breeding sites that characteristically had large breeding choruses. Eighty-eight percent of all females in those pools laid eggs at a 1 m<sup>2</sup> to 4 m<sup>2</sup> area specific in each pool. These areas were used from rain to rain and from year to year. It is not clear why these exact locations were repeatedly chosen or why communal egg laying was so prevalent. Females exhibited size-related fecundity with clutches ranging from 1342-45,054 eggs. Larval period also varied greatly ranging from 45 days in April to 18 days in June. Finally, mean size of breeding males and females increased markedly over the course of the 1985 breeding season and individually marked adults captured over three years exhibited a wide range of growth rates.
10.2307/1565694| A Quaternary sand dune area was discovered in the morphoclimatic domain of the semiarid Brazilian Caatinga. This site consists of high continental dunes located on both banks of the middle Rio So Francisco, Bahia, Brazil. The area contains a very unique fauna presenting striking adaptations to psammophily and high levels of species richness and endemism. A total of 6904 specimens comprising 36 lizard (including amphisbaenians) and 25 snake species were collected at the study sites. This area of approximately 5000 m<sup>2</sup> includes 20 endemic reptiles and several newly described genera and species. This fauna is particularly characterized by an abundance and high diversity of fossorial and nocturnal forms differing strongly in ecological composition from Caatinga faunas and previously studied North American, Kalaharian, and Australian desert faunas. These differences may be a result of an association of an ecogeographic mechanism of speciation initially synchronic and latter replaced by a classic allopatric speciation which occurred in an ancestral Caatinga fauna. It is postulated that the last event of speciation possibly took place when the So Francisco river attained full exorrheism dividing formally continous sands and isolating ancestral psammophilic populations on opposite banks. At present, four closely related species pairs isolated by the river support this model. The last period of species differentiation most likely corresponded to the end of Wurm-Wisconsin glacial period. 
10.2307/1562739| Studies on the dentition, hemipenis and vertebrae of the snake Conophis nevermanni indicate that this species cannot be associated with Conophis nor any other known genus. The generic name Crisantophis is proposed for this species. /// El estudio de ciertos caracteres anatmicos de la serpiente Conophis nevermanni Dunn indica que esta especie pertenece a una lnea filtica sin previa designacin genrica. Propongo el nombre genrico Crisantophis, que se define de la siguiente manera: serpientes de tamao moderado y rasgos colbridos generalizados, con 19-19-17 filas de escamas dorsales lisas sin fosetas apicales; cabeza diferenciada del cuello, pupila redonda; dientes maxilares 13-14 aumentando en tamao posteriormente y seguidos por una diastema breve y uno o dos colmillos acanalados y grandes; hempenis largo, delgado, subcilndrico y bilobulado, sin ganchos basales, pliegues o clices; surco espermtico distalmente bifurcado; lbulos puntiagudos cubiertos de espnulas finas desde la mitad distal del hempenis; vrtebras con hipapfisis en el tronco del cuerpo. 
10.2307/1563135| The thermal biology of Gopherus berlandieri was studied on a free access grid near Laguna Vista, Cameron County, Texas. Active tortoises had temperatures ranging from 24.1 to 39.0C, but 90.8% of these fell between 30 and 35C. There was a significant positive correlation between air temperature and body temperature of active tortoises and between substrate temperature and body temperature of inactive tortoises. No correlation existed between size and body temperature. Mean body temperature of tortoises active in Spring was significantly lower than mean body temperature of tortoises active in Summer. Tortoises in a laboratory thermal gradient had a mean temperature below the field activity mean. Heat stress (as evidenced by frothing) occurred at 37.5C, but the critical thermal maximum was near 43.7C. Apparently, tortoises only occasionally encounter heat stress in nature, for we recorded only 3 (of 287) temperatures that approached or exceeded heat stress conditions. Data suggested that G. berlandieri rarely encounters damaging cold in this area. 
43287378|Pharmacological anesthetics are used frequently in aquatic animal husbandry and research. Although several studies have investigated the effects of these anesthetic agents on immune responses in fish, none have assessed such effects in amphibians. To address this disparity, we exposed Osteopilus septentrionalis tadpoles to 0.005% benzocaine, 0.1% tricaine methanesulfonate (MS-222), or artificial spring water, and quantified circulating white blood cells and susceptibility to infection by larval trematodes. Exposure to neither MS-222 nor benzocaine elevated circulating white blood cells relative to water-exposed tadpoles. Furthermore, anesthetic treatment did not affect resistance to larval trematode infection. These results indicate that the anesthetics tested here probably do not affect tadpole immune function and should aid researchers in determining anesthetic usage.
10.2307/1565055| Both triploid (TES-B(3n)) and diploid (TES-C(2n) and TES-D(2n)) lineages of all-female, normally parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus tesselatus are sympatric with gonochoristic C. sexlineatus viridis in Ninemile Valley of the Purgatoire River at Higbee, Otero County, Colorado. An adult, a subadult, and a juvenile hybrid male C. tesselatus  C. sexlineatus were collected in 1973, 1988, and 1989, respectively, in microhabitats where all of the possible parental forms were found. Scutellation, color pattern, and electrophoretic data identified TES-B(3n) as the maternal parent of the adult hybrid, and the presence of four bands at the albumin locus confirmed that it is tetraploid. The subadult and juvenile males also appear to represent tetraploid hybrid TES-B(3n)  C. sexlineatus based upon color pattern and univariate and multivariate analyses of scutellation data. Female TES-B(3n) achieve sexual maturity at a significantly smaller size than either TES-C(2n) or TES-D(2n) at Higbee; this makes insemination of female TES-B(3n) by adult male C. sexlineatus more likely, and also favors the hypothesis of TES-B(3n) parentage for the two hybrids. All evidence of continuing hybridization between any of these all-female forms and C. sexlineatus is significant since it provides a basis for the inference that hybrid females with the potential of founding new parthenogenetic lineages of Cnemidophorus may also be produced. 
1566085| A new snake of the genus Tantilla is described from southern Belize. This species, a member of the taeniata group, is characterized by a dark gray-brown, almost black ground color; a narrow pale middorsal stripe confined to the vertebral scale row; a narrow pale lateral stripe on adjacent thirds of the third and fourth scale rows; a broad pale nape band that is complete medially; dark mottling on the lateral edges of the ventrals; and 153 ventrals + 64 subcaudals in the single known specimen, a female. It is most similar to Tantilla impensa of southern Chiapas, the central Guatemalan ranges and western Honduras but differs from this species in its darker overall color pattern, the presence of dark mottling on the lateral edges of the ventrals, and in having a lower number of ventrals. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Tantilla del sur de Belice. Esta especie pertenece al grupo taeniata y se caracteriza por lo siguiente: color oscuro gris-caf, casi negro; una estrecha franja plida mediodorsal confinada en la fila vertebral de escamas; una estrecha franja plida lateral en los tercios adyacentes de las filas de escamas tercera y cuarta; una ancha banda plida en la nuca, completa medialmente; moteaduras oscuras en los bordes laterales de los ventrales y 153 ventrales + 64 subcaudales en la nica hembra conocida. Es similar a Tantilla impensa con una distribucin en el sur de Chiapas y centro de Guatemala hasta el oeste de Honduras, de la que se diferencia por su color ms oscuro, presencia de moteaduras oscuras en los bordes laterales de los ventrales y por tener un menor nmero de ventrales. 
10.2307/1563219| The Late Tertiary basaltic rocks of the Patagonian Meseta of Somuncura, Rio Negro, Argentina, extend for about 15,000 square km north of 42 South Latitude, approximately 60 miles from the Atlantic coast. It is a flat stepparian landscape of some 1200-1400 m elevation in which many temporary clay-lagoons are scattered. Small rocky streams filter from the basaltic uplands towards the lower slopes of the Meseta, about 700-500 m. The fauna of such an isolated environment is very peculiar and a high rate of endemic forms can be emphasized. Two new species of telmatobiid frogs are reported: Telmatobius reverberii from the clay-lagoons of the stepparian uplands, and Telmatobius somuncurensis from the lower rocky streams. Adults and tadpoles of Telmatobius reverberii are described; this form has morphological and ecological affinities with the smaller Telmatobius praebasalticus of the volcanic lagoons of Neuquen, near the Southern Argentine Cordilleras. Certain characteristics of Telmatobius somuncurensis are discussed, such as the uncommon everted cloaca and the similarity between the upper and lower rounded structures of its iris and the upper "meniscus" of the iris of the east-Brazilian Cyclorhamphus. Probable biogeographic relationships and a tentative evolutionary history of these ancient leptodactylid stocks are discussed. 
40665016|Karyotypes of Leposotna show a clear differentiation between species of the scincoides group from Brazilian Atlantic Forest (2n = 52, without distinctive size groups of chromosomes) and those of the paritale group from the Amazon (2n = 44, with 20M + 24m). In a previous study, we found that in the paritale group the parthenoform Leposotna percarinatum from the state of Mato Grosso, Brazil, exhibited a triploid karyotype (3n = 66) with 30 macrochromosomes and 36 microchromosomes. It was suggested that this karyotype arose after hybridization between a bisexual species with N = 22 (10M + 12m) and a hypothetical unisexual cryptic diploid form of the L. percarinatum complex. Herein, we describe the karyotypes for two species of the paritale group occurring sympatrically in the Arquiplago das Anavilhanas, lower Rio Negro, in Amazonian Brazil. The first represents a distinctive diploid parthenogenetic clone of the L. percarinatum complex, and the other is the recently described Leposotna ferreirai. Both species have 44 Manned chromosomes clearly represented by 20 macrochromosomes and 24 microchromosomes and present Ag-NORs in one pair of the smallest sized microchromosomes; heteromorphism of size for these regions was detected in L. percarinatum, C-banding revealed blocks of constitutive heterochromatin on the telomeric and pericentromeric regions of macrochromosomes and some microchromosomes. The description of a diploid karyotype (2n = 44, 20M + 24m) for the L. percarinatum complex and its sympatric congener L. ferreirai provides new insight for a better understanding of the origin of parthenogenesis in the L. percarinatum complex.
10.2307/1564015| The three Israeli forms of Ptyodactylus (P. hasselquistii puiseuxi, P. h. guttatus and P. h. hasselquistii) differ in daily activity pattern, being mainly diurnal, diurno-nocturnal and nocturnal, respectively. We measured body temperatures of the three forms in a photothermal gradient. They differed significantly from each other in mean selected body temperature, the northern, diurnal P. h. puiseuxi having the highest value of 33.5  1.5C, the southern, nocturnal P. h. hasselquistii having the lowest value of 28.71.7C, and the common, diurno-nocturnal P. h. guttatus having an intermediate mean selected body temperature of 30.9  2.4C. Frequency distributions of body temperatures revealed modes of 35C in P. h. puiseuxi, and 28C in P. h. hasselquistii, and a bimode of 30C in P. h. guttatus. P. h. hasselquistii chose significantly lower ambient temperatures and had a significantly wider range of body temperatures compared with P. h. guttatus. The diurnal P. h. puiseuxi maintained a significantly greater body-to-air temperature difference than both other forms. We conclude that the selected body temperatures of the three forms are closely associated with their different daily activity patterns and with their distinct ecological distributions. 
10.2307/1565577|The influence of substrate moisture on hatchling red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans) during incubation and overwintering was examined. Eggs (24 clutches) were incubated on two different but relatively wet substrates (-150 and -200 kPa). Half the hatchlings from eggs incubated on wet (or dry) substrates were moved to dry (or wet) substrates for overwintering, whereas the other half were overwintered on substrates similar in kPa to the substrate kPa used during incubation. All hatchlings (N = 283) were released to experimentally examine the influence of incubation/overwintering substrate moisture on probability of recapture. After incubating 82-88 days, only maternal effects and initial egg size were significant. After overwintering for 199 days, incubation substrate moisture, overwintering substrate moisture, and their interactions were also significant effects. Hatchlings with drier overwintering substrates weighed less after overwintering and lost more mass during overwintering than did hatchlings overwintered on wetter substrates. Hatchlings from wetter incubation substrates were more likely to be recaptured and less likely to be found dead than those from drier incubation substrates. Heavier hatchlings were also more likely to be recaptured and less likely to be found dead than lighter ones. In contrast, overwintering substrate moisture was not a significant predictor of hatchling recapture.
10.2307/1563740|Exposure of African clawed frogs (Xenopus laevis) to gas supersaturated water produced gas bubbles in the interdigital webbing, progressing to inflammation, hemorrhages, and erosion of the skin. Due to extensive formation of gas bubbles in the webbing and under the skin, the frogs floated prior to death. Death resulted from accumulation of gas within the vascular system and secondary bacteremia. Reducing the dissolved gas levels of the water resulted in a reversal of clinical signs and complete recovery in many cases. Bubble formation in the webbing of Xenopus resulting from gas supersaturation has been reported at one other location. Gas supersaturation may be a significant primary cause of "red leg" disease of amphibians in both natural and laboratory systems.
10.2307/1564614|Three species of map turtles, genus Graptemys, were trapped in rivers, streams, and lakes of southeastern and south-central Kansas, and 32 environmental variables were measured at each trap site to compare overlap in habitat use among species. Graptemys ouachitensis and G. pseudogeographica were collected in rivers with abundant basking sites. However, G. geographica was found exclusively in shady streams over rock and gravel substrata. The three species had high habitat overlap index values, but discriminant analysis based on environmental variables separated them into distinct groups. Variables most useful in distinguishing among groups were, in order of decreasing discriminating power, percentage rock substratum, percentage bare shoreline, dissolved carbon dioxide, percentage mud substratum, percentage shade, dissolved oxygen, pH, and stream width. Graptemys pseudogeographica was commonly found together with G. ouachitensis, but sites of co-occurrence were distinguishable from sites where only one of these species occurred.
4092982|The most abundant and diverse records of teiids in the South American Miocene are from early and middle Miocene of Patagonia (Argentina) and Colombia. Only two genera of tupinambines are recognized: Paradracaena and Tupinambis. In this contribution, we describe remains assigned to Tupinambis from the late Miocene Cerro Azul Formation. The fossils were collected in exposures of this unit at several localities in the province of La Pampa, central Argentina. Evolutionary history and biogeography of South American tupinambines were affected by the environmental-climatic change subsequent to the uplift of the Andes. Among the taxa represented in the Miocene, Paradracaena became extinct, whereas Tupinambis survived restricted to environments with a more benign climate, disappearing from Patagonia but not from central Argentina.
10.2307/1564310| The population biology of the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) was studied in southern Florida during 1977-1982. Crocodiles occur primarily in inland mangrove swamps protected from wave action. Females use the open waters of Florida Bay only for access to nesting sites. Individuals have large (86-262 ha), overlapping activity areas. Nesting occurs in spring and summer, avoiding the cold and the wet seasons, either of which can affect incubation. Clutches averaging 38 eggs were laid both in mounds and in holes in the ground, either singly or communally. Available data cannot support the view that the number of nests has decreased in recent years. Hatching failure occurred as a result of infertility, predation, and embryonic mortality from desiccation and flooding. Hole and creek nests were most susceptible to embryonic mortality. Seventy-eight percent of nests hatched some young. We found no evidence of adults defending nests or young, but nest opening by adults was essential for hatching. Disturbance at nest sites caused females to abandon the site. All expected age classes occurred in the population. Size at maturity was 2.25 m TL for females. Documented mortality of adults and subadults of approximately 2 crocodiles per year was predominantly human-caused. At least 45 crocodiles have been released into southern Florida in 17 years. We estimate the southern Florida population to be about 220  78 adults and subadults. 
4498526|Orientation is a key component to successful movements between habitats. We hypothesized that barren agricultural landscapes hinder the ability of frogs to orient and move between habitats. Specifically, we predicted that when presented with a choice between a short route through a hostile environment and a longer but safer route, individuals would select the one that entails the least risk. During a field experiment, we translocated 104 Edible Frogs (Rana klepton esculenta) into a recently harrowed field according to two treatments: the distance to their pond of origin (5-70 m) and the distance to a wooded hedgerow (10-60 m). The frogs' ability to orient toward the pond decreased with pond distance and increased with distance to the hedgerow, but we did not detect interactive effects. In addition, frogs were more successful in orienting toward the pond under high wind conditions. We have shown that both the configuration of the landscape and weather variables influence the movement behavior of amphibians in agricultural settings, and these may have important implications for population persistence.
43287371|A negative relationship between parasite intensity and male ornament condition or sexual display rate is one of the conditions of the parasite-mediated sexual selection model. In anurans, temporal properties of calling behavior, and particularly calling rates, are the best candidates to express a negative relationship with parasite intensity, given the high energy costs of calling and the fact that calls are potentially under strong intersexual selection. We studied the relationship between call parameters and helminth parasite intensity in males of a Brazilian subtropical treefrog, Hypsiboas prasinus. We tested the hypotheses that: 1) calling characteristics are correlated negatively to parasite intensity; and 2) the relationship between calling performance and parasite intensity is more pronounced when dynamic properties are considered. According to our predictions, only rate, the most important dynamic property of calling behavior, is associated with individual variation in parasite intensity. Males that call at higher rates show lower total parasite intensity. The negative relationship between parasite intensity and calling rate in H. prasinus could be because of the higher energy cycles associated with the maintenance of high calling performance. Also, theoretically, calling rate could work as an honest signal of anuran male quality, although the causal relationship between calling variation and parasite intensity, as well as the relevance of this relationship for female choice and male reproductive success, remain to be investigated.
4498593|We documented population densities, microhabitat preferences, desiccation rates, and diets of Sphaerodactylus vincenti on St. Vincent, West Indies. We predicted and observed high densities (to 5,625/ha) in moist, shaded leaf-litter. Such microhabitats provide refuges, access to prey, and protection against water loss, because S. vincenti is vulnerable to high desiccation rates. We found significant differences in mass-specific water-loss rates and body mass between con populations at differing elevations, with larger geckos less resistant to water loss living in more mesic environments at higher elevations. Stomach content analysis suggests that S. vincenti is a dietary generalist that feeds on a variety of small arthropods primarily by day.
40060575|We studied the feeding behaviors of two sympatric species of caimans (Melanosuchus niger and Caiman crocodilus) during the dry season in the Mamirau Sustainable Development Reserve, Amazonas State, Brazil. Observations were made in 50 X 13 m plots located along the land-water interface. We investigated the influence of interspecific density and the effects of temperature and water depth on the feeding behaviors of both species. We identified three principal categories of feeding behavior: trapping (with the body perpendicular to the shore, the caiman captures prey swimming close to the shore), active search (with the head under the water, the caiman searches for benthic prey), and jumping (leaping partially out of the water and capturing fish or other under water invertebrates prey). Using multiple linear regression, we found that water temperature had a negative effect on trapping by M. niger, and water depth did not affect feeding behaviors in either species. Density of M. niger did not affect either the density or the frequency of feeding by C. crocodilus. Results suggest that environmental factors have little influence on the feeding behaviors of the caimans we studied, and there is probably little interspecific competition for food during the dry season.
10.2307/1564953|Sympatric populations of the leaf-frogs Phyllomedusa distincta (2n = 26) and P. tetraploidea (4n = 52) were studied in southeastern Brazil. In a region of sympatry, seven of 15 leaf-frogs were triploid hybrids (3n = 39). The advertisement calls of both species are similar, and may not function adequately as a premating isolation mechanism. Triploids apparently exhibit low fertility or sterility, supporting the assertion that diploid and tetraploid populations are valid species. We suggest that P. tetraploidea originated by autopolyploidy of P. distincta, based on the following evidence: (1) the indistinguishable vocalizations of diploid and tetraploid species, and (2) the geographic distribution of species in the Phyllomedusa burmeisteri group.
10.2307/1565110|A symposium was held 8 August 1991, at the annual meeting of the Society for the Study of Amphibians and Reptiles and The Herpetologists' League in University Park, Pennsylvania. The topic, "Amphibian Declines and Habitat Acidification" was selected for its relevance to the topical issues of a precipitous drop in many amphibian populations, and possible causation by acidic atmospheric deposition. As organizers, we felt that a rigorous approach to these issues requires meticulous field documentation of population fluctuations and correlated environmental measures of pollution, along with an experimental ecotoxicological analysis of possible anthropogenic causation. Because of the potential for large-scale environmental change acting synergistically with pollution across landscapes, the experimental elucidation of cause and effect will be extremely difficult. It appears that some amphibian populations fluctuate in an episodic fashion, but there are no long-term data bases adequate to determine whether particular declines are uniequivocally due to acidic deposition from non-point sources, other anthropogenic causes, natural causes, or interactions among them. This series of papers deals with the effects of acidic waters and soils on amphibians in England and North America. It is very clear that acidic habitats of natural and polluted origin exclude certain species and cause sub-lethal and lethal effects. However, no data are at hand which show directly that anthropogenic acidification causes amphibian populations to decline. There is considerable interest in the development of bioindicators of habitat decline. Net loss of body sodium and the embryonic curling defect in amphibians are examples of the best of such direct bioassays in acidified aquatic and terrestrial habitats. There is a strong need for standardization of test conditions so that better comparisons can be made among results from laboratories in different geographic regions. We recommend that a number of sites be chosen for long-term (10 year minimum) study of the relation between amphibian population cycles and anthropogenic change. This research would provide data not only specifically pertinent to the issue of amphibian declines, but would also provide valuable tests of the usefulness of amphibians as general bioindicators of ecosystem decline in response to anthropogenic stress. These issues are complex and are not amenable to quick solutions. A sustained commitment is needed by researchers and funding agencies to provide long-term monitoring and rigorous experimental tests of the causes of any declines in especially sensitive biotic components of ecosystems.
10.2307/1565722|Examination of specimens collected for the international leather trade provided data on two species of large, heavy-bodied snakes: blood pythons (Python brongersmai) from northeastern Sumatra and short-tailed pythons (P. curtus) from northwestern Sumatra. Measurement and dissection of 2063 P. brongersmai and 181 P. curtus revealed broad interspecific similarities in morphology (size, shape, sexual dimorphism), food habits (feeding frequencies, dietary composition) and reproductive output (reproductive frequencies, egg sizes, and clutch sizes). Females of both species attain larger sizes than males, mature at larger sizes, and contain larger abdominal fatbodies. Python curtus is more heavy-bodied and longer-tailed than P. brongersmai, and more heavily infested with gut parasites. Both species feed almost exclusively on commensal rodents. Feeding rates increase with body size, and vary seasonally. Reproduction is highly seasonal. Adult females reproduce biennially, producing an average clutch of 12 to 16 large (mean = 83 to 90 g) eggs. The data also enable us to comment on the sustainability of the existing commercial trade, which is based mainly on adult males, and adult plus juvenile females. Anthropogenic habitat modification (especially, the establishment of oil-palm plantations) has increased the abundance of these taxa. Although neither species is likely to be extirpated by current levels of offtake, we need additional information to evaluate long-term sustainability of the commercial industry based on these snakes.
10.2307/1566107| We examined in the laboratory the effects of thermal and hydric environments on incubating eggs and hatchling traits of Naja naja atra collected from a population near the northern distributional limit of the species in Zhejiang, eastern China. Eggs were incubated at temperatures of 24, 26, 30, and 32 C on substrates with water potentials of 0 and -220 kPa using a 4  2 factorial design. Temperature strongly affected hatching success, incubation length, water uptake by eggs during the course of incubation, and most morphological hatchling traits examined; it even affected embryonic mobilization of inorganic material from the shell. Hatching success was higher at 26 and 30C but lower at 24 and 32C. Eggs incubated at 26 and 30C produced larger and heavier hatchlings that also contained more inorganic material and energy than did eggs incubated at lower and higher temperatures. Hatchlings from eggs incubated at 24 and 32C were similar in size and mass, but hatchlings from eggs incubated at 32C had larger residual yolks. Deformed hatchlings were found at 24, 30, and 32C, the frequency being independent of incubation temperature. At the time of hatching, shells from eggs incubated at 24C had greater dry mass and contained more ash, suggesting that less inorganic material was withdrawn from the shell by embryos developing at 24C. Compared with temperature, water potential was not an important source of variation for the hatchling traits we examined, although it did influence water uptake by eggs during incubation and hatching success at 24C. The effects of temperature were independent of the effects of water potential. Variation in size and mass induced by incubation temperature may be important to posthatching survival and fitness of hatchlings. 
10.2307/1565265|The internal oral morphology of tadpoles of Dermatonotus muelleri and Elachistocleis bicolor were analyzed using scanning electron and stereoscopic microscopy. Similarities between these larvae include the architecture of the buccal roof and floor: wide and almost flattened surfaces; unperforated internal nares appearing as circular depressions; absence of infralabial and lingual papillae; presence of massive, triangular postnarial papillae; and absence of other papillae posterior to the median ridge. Differences include a raised glottis placed in the center of the buccal floor arena in D. muelleri, and the number of the lateral papillae positioned at each side of the prenarial arena. We suggest that the oral flaps and the roof papillae play a significant role in the capture of food particles by establishing the inflow of "alimentary water", and aggregating food particles and mucus inside the buccopharyngeal cavity. Microhylid tadpoles have a stable pattern of body size and shape, and oral and buccopharyngeal features, which may reflect ecological and functional constraints relative to the morphology of other suspension feeding anuran larvae.
40983654|Phenotypic variation in a population is a key requirement for natural selection. Body size variation, in particular, can affect the dynamics, life history, and ecological relationships in a population. Past work suggests that variation in body size within a population reflects a competitive gradient in which larger individuals negatively affect smaller individuals because of the superior ability to obtain limited resources, a result of exploitative or interference competition. We hypothesized that, if larger individuals outcompete smaller individuals through aggressive interactions (interference competition), the individual's position in the size distribution of their population (relative size) would be a better predictor of growth rate and time to metamorphosis than would their absolute size. We tested for the effect of body size on future larval growth rates, time to metamorphosis, and aggressive behaviors in individual Ambystoma talpoideum using experimental microcosms. Larvae were reared in small groups, producing variation in growth and development within each group. Using mixed-model analyses, we found that relative size was the best predictor of time to metamorphosis and aggressive behaviors and that growth rate of individuals within these populations was best explained by absolute or relative size depending on life stage. The largest individuals within a tank made the most aggressive attacks, had faster growth rates when young, and the quickest time to metamorphosis, regardless of their absolute size. This study found evidence for a complex relationship between population size structure, growth rate, and time to metamorphosis by tracking the effects of relative size on individuals within a population.
10.2307/1563289|Lepidophyma lipetzi n. sp. is described from 30 km N Cintalapa, Chiapas, Mexico. The single known specimen is in the Univ. Colorado Mus. It resembles L. sylvaticum more than any other species; both approach the subgenus Gaigeia more than any other species of the subgenus Lepidophyma. The holotype was found in a cave.
4498557|In the mid-Atlantic region, agriculture and development have resulted in habitat fragmentation; however, the effect on Eastern Box Turtle (Terrapene carolina carolina) movement remains undetermined. Understanding how box turtles move in fragmented landscapes can be used to elucidate the impacts of forest fragmentation on box turtle ecology. We chose four study areas that differed in degree of fragmentation ranging from isolated forest fragments to an interior forest to investigate the effect of sex, season, and study area on turtle movements. We randomly selected five radio-tagged turtles per week per study area and attached thread trailers to measure their daily movements. Sexxseasonxstudy area and seasonxstudy area did not interact to affect turtle movements. However, sexxstudy area and sexxseason interacted to affect turtle movements. Box Turtles in isolated areas moved less than those in more continuous habitat, and turtle movements varied among seasons. Differences in movement may be related to sex-specific life history traits such as mate searching in males and nesting followed by energy conservation in females.
4092844|We examined 142 papers, which contained 603 separate predator-prey trials, to investigate whether unpalatability is an important defense against predation for amphibian eggs and larvae. Although unpalatability is often cited as an antipredator defense, it was rarely demonstrated that 89% of the trials that we reviewed found prey to be palatable. The most extensively studied taxa, the genera Bufo and Rana, were diagnosed unpalatable at rates comparable to all other taxa. Diagnoses of unpalatability were not always consistent for a prey species across different predators and were influenced by experimental method. Despite these limitations and our conservative definition of unpalatability, several patterns emerged. First, across all taxonomic groups, eggs and hatchlings were unpalatable more often than mobile larval stages. Second, species that breed in temporary ponds were more likely to be palatable to fish predators than those that breed in permanent habitats. Third, fish and caudates were more likely to find amphibian prey unpalatable than insect predators. We conclude that unpalatability is rare, but when it occurs, it is a property of an ensemble (predator, prey, and alternative prey) and a life-history stage in a particular circumstance but is not a species-specific attribute. We suggest methods of experimentation that could strengthen future research on the palatability of amphibian eggs and larvae.
4092900|A variety of biotic and abiotic variables have been shown to affect length of larval period and size of juveniles at metamorphosis in amphibians. However, influence of water quality on phenotypic plasticity of growth and development of tadpoles generally has received less attention. We examined how abiotic factors in the larval environment change over time and how these changes affect the growth and development of larval amphibians. Western Chorus Frogs, Pseudacris triseriata, in tallgrass prairie breed in ephemeral aquatic habitats including intermittent streams and bison wallows. Our objectives were to determine whether abiotic factors in the larval environment of P. triseriata changed predictably as pools dried and to determine whether these changes affected growth and development of tadpoles when the environment was simulated in the laboratory. In our field studies, pH increased gradually in wallows, whereas ammonium increased in streams, as each habitat dried. In the laboratory, we examined the effects of increased levels of pH and ammonium on growth and development of tadpoles collected from both wallows and streams. Tadpoles collected from streams metamorphosed significantly faster in the high ammonium treatment than tadpoles from wallows. In contrast, tadpoles from wallows metamorphosed faster in the high pH treatment than tadpoles collected from streams. Growth rates of tadpoles from streams were not significantly affected by high pH, whereas those from wallows were not significantly affected by high ammonium treatments. We suggest that changes in abiotic factors over the course of the larval period may influence developmental rate and that natal habitat may determine how tadpoles respond to changes in abiotic factors.
41515035|Amphibians are considered one of the most threatened vertebrate groups. Although numerous studies have addressed the many causes of amphibian population decline, little is known about effects of invasive plants. Chinese tallow (Triadica sebifera) is an exotic deciduous tree that has invaded the southeastern United States. Amphibian larvae in environments invaded by T. sebifera may be impacted negatively as autumn leaf litter decomposes in natal areas. We compared effects of leaf litter decomposition from T. sebifera and two native tree species on survival and development of four species of anuran larvae from eastern Texas. Larvae from Pseudacris fouquettei, Lithobates (Rana) sphenocephalus, Hyla versicolor, and Incilius (Bufo) nebulifer were introduced into mesocosms containing leaf litter from one of the three tree species. Pseudacris fouquettei and L. sphenocephalus, species that breed earlier in the year, had lower survival within the T. sebifera pools. Pseudacris fouquettei were smaller in T. sebifera mesocosms compared with native tree mesocosms, whereas L. sphenocephalus were larger in T. sebifera mesocosms. Hyla versicolor showed significant developmental and morphological differences in T. sebifera mesocosms; however, survival was not significantly different among treatments. Leaf litter treatment did not affect survival or development in I. nebulifer. Our results suggest that breeding season may determine how each species survives and develops in an environment with T. sebifera leaf litter. Triadica sebifera leaf litter breaks down faster than native species; therefore, negative effects may be short lived but pose a greater threat to species that breed soon after leaffall.
10.2307/1564390|Prey remains were obtained from 104 Crotalus viridis oreganus from northern Idaho from 1978 to 1987. Rattlesnakes fed on eight species of mammals, one lizard, and one bird. Voles (Microtus montanus and M. longicaudus), deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus), and cottontail rabbits (Sylvilagus nuttallii) comprised nearly 92% of the biomass ingested and 80% of the numbers of prey taken. Snakes less than one year of age fed exclusively on shrews (Sorex vagrans). The only ontogenetic shift in prey was related to an increase in mammalian prey size with snake body size. The regression of the proportion of snakes with prey to an index of small mammal abundance was not significant. Feeding occurred from mid-April to early October. Reproductive females fed in the spring until early August, and in the fall after parturition. Feeding during the reproductive year may explain how some female C. v. oreganus in our study area can reproduce in two consecutive years.
10.2307/1562720|Spermatozoa in the Hyla rubra group (sensu lato) differ from those of all other Hyla species in possession of two tail filaments rather than one. Three distinct sperm-head shapes occur in the group, and a few species are somewhat intermediate or otherwise fail to precisely fit the categories. Comparison of sperm structure in Leptodactyloids prompts speculation of possible separate origins of certain Hyloid groups from Leptodactyloid stocks. Because anuran sperm structure appears conservative and differences seem to parallel those used as criteria in current classifications, sperm morphology provides a useful suite of taxonomic characters. Based on the diagnostic sperm-tail difference, plus pior definition of the Hyla rubra group, elevation of that group to generic status is judged valid, and is advocated. Ololygon is the oldest available name, and is tentatively applied, pending definite determination of the identity of the type-species, Hyla strigilata. At least five species-groups of Ololygon are tentatively identified. The O. rubra group and O. catharinae group are defined by sperm structure. Other species have a common sperm type; the O. rostrata group is morphologically distinctive; other species are tentatively placed in the O. staufferi and O. x-signata groups. Additional species tentatively assigned to Ololygon are listed. It is suggested that a two-filament state is primitive to a single-filament sperm-tail in anurans.
10.2307/1565046|Nine adult tree lizards, Urosaurus ornatus, were maintained in a large, indoor enclosure, and each individual was monitored simultaneously. Behavior was quantified during 1-hour observation periods throughout the breeding season, for a total of 1305 lizard-hours of observation. Males were significantly more active than females, and they established a despotic hierarchy. Body mass was associated with male social status because the despot was always the heaviest male, and a dominance shift occurred when the despot and subsequent despot weighed precisely the same. Despots (1) accounted for 98.8% of the 3371 male displays and contests recorded, (2) were considerably more active than subordinates, and (3) had nearly exclusive access to females. Escalated contests were infrequent relative to ritualized displays.
10.2307/1565962|The Hyla pseudopseudis group includes two species, H. pseudopseudis and Hyla saxicola, whose tadpoles are found mainly in rocky streams in the interior highlands of Brazil. They have large, robust, ovoid bodies, and muscular tails. The group is supposedly related to the Hyla circumdata group, whose relations with the Hyla boans group are not clear. The H. pseudopseudis group can be distinguished easily from those groups by tadpole morphology. Tadpoles of H. pseudopseudis and H. saxicola differ from each other mainly in body shape in lateral view, size of oral disc, number of tooth rows on the posterior labium, interorbital distance, and pattern of tail patches. The advertisement calls are pulsed both in species of the H. circumdata and H. pseudopseudis species groups, and species can be told apart by differences in frequency and number of pulses in their calls. The advertisement call of H. saxicola can be distinguished from that of H. pseudopseudis by having shorter, faster pulses and more harmonics.
40060460|Fitness benefits to individuals from using a particular habitat during the non-breeding season are likely species- and habitat-specific. Our goal was to define the postbreeding habitat use of adult Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica) within continuous oak-hickory forest in Missouri. We used radio-telemetry to determine whether adult Wood Frogs are evenly spaced throughout this forest type or clumped at a particular resource. In addition, we determined microhabitat selection using conditional logistic regression that compares the microhabitat at frog locations to paired points located 2 m from the frog. Adult frogs migrated from breeding sites located on ridgetops into ephemeral, rocky ravines. Use of drainages by Wood Frogs depended on the distance between the breeding site and drainage, and the orientation of drainages relative to the pond edge influenced whether migratory paths of frogs are funneled or spaced apart. The most supported model of microhabitat selection indicated that frogs selected locations with increased leaf litter depth and air temperature and with decreased humidity and light compared to paired points. Persistence of Wood Frog populations along the southwestern edge of their range requires successful annual migrations between breeding sites and forested drainages, which are important nonbreeding habitat for Wood Frogs in a Missouri oak-hickory forest.
10.2307/1565725|Brown tree snakes (Boiga irregularis, BTS), inadvertently introduced to the island of Guam shortly after World War II, have had catastrophic effects on the native fauna of this U.S. territory. We used radio-telemetry to monitor daytime refugia and nightly movements of 60 BTS (30 during each of two seasonal periods) to determine the extent of nightly, weekly, and monthly movements. Eighty-three percent of subadult daytime sightings were in trees, compared to only 49% of adult daytime sightings. Most measures of movement did not vary with seasonal period, sex, or age class. BTS moved an average of 64 m (Range: 9-259 m) between successive daily refugia. Mean total cumulative distance traveled between successive locations from one afternoon to the next was 238 m during January-March and 182 m during May-July. However, over the course of each seasonal period (60-70 d), most snakes concentrated their activity within core areas. During each of the two seasonal periods, snakes were located a mean distance of only 78 m and 93 m, respectively, from their original release points 30-50 d after release. Sixty to 70 d after release, snakes were a mean distance of 92 m and 68 m, respectively, from their original release points. Snakes frequently crossed dirt roads that separated forested areas at the study site. They also utilized grassy and brushy clearings, but less than would be predicted by the occurrence of such clearings in the study area. These results suggest that under the conditions of this study, BTS would be slow to reinvade areas where snakes have been removed by trapping or other means.
1565841|Although Upper Respiratory Tract Disease (URTD) has been recognized as a potentially serious problem threatening the viability of gopher tortoises, little is known about the impact of this disease on tortoise populations in the wild, and some researchers regard the disease as relatively benign. We monitored the impact of URTD on gopher tortoises at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, and found a striking increase in the proportion of tortoises showing signs of URTD between 1995-2000. We also documented a sudden increase in the number of tortoises found dead at the site, starting in 1998 and continuing through 2001. Based on condition and position of dead tortoises, we strongly suspect that URTD was the cause of death. Sex ratios and body sizes of tortoises found dead were not distinguishable from samples of living tortoises, indicating that mortality was not confined to a single gender or age class. Combined with recent reports of large-scale mortality of tortoises from other sites in Florida, we suggest that URTD is not benign but may instead have a substantial impact on tortoise populations. If so, the "protected lands paradigm" that many resource managers rely on to conserve tortoise populations may be violated, suggesting that more active management measures are needed.
10.2307/1565959| Techniques to assess population changes in reptiles across large landscapes are a conservation and management need. We studied a population of Texas tortoises (Gopherus berlandieri) on a large study area (6150 ha) of contiguous thornscrub vegetation in southern Texas from 1990 to 1999. We examined cohort and temporal variation in capture probabilities; and estimated survival, population size, and  (finite population growth rate) for a population of Texas tortoises. We captured 2128 tortoises a total of 3132 times during the study period. The distribution of the frequency of captures by sex varied during the active season and across years, but annual capture probabilities were similar between sexes. The ratio of juvenile to adults varied by a month-by-year interaction. Tortoises exhibited a temporary response to marking that was modeled in survival analysis. Capture probabilities of adult tortoises on an annual basis ranged from 0.12-0.38, and annual survival rate of adults was estimated to be 0.79  0.05. We estimated the density of the adult population to be 0.26 tortoises/ha, a level of magnitude lower than previous work conducted on habitat islands. Lambda (population growth rate) was estimated to be 0.981 (95% confidence limits: 0.945-1.019) from a Jolly-Seber model. Road-cruising was an effective large-scale method for population monitoring of the Texas tortoise in our study area and may prove useful in thornscrub habitats that compose the majority of its geographic range. 
10.2307/1563286|A tentative checklist of 16 amphibian and 42 reptilian species from the central Venezuelan Llanos is presented along with notes on the ecology of many of the species from this herpetologically poorly known area. Fifty state records from the states of Apure and Guarico are included.
4498534| A new species of diurnal gecko of the genus Cnemaspis is described from granite boulder habitats in gallery forests in the Monts Alantika and Hossr Vokr, north of the Adamaoua Plateau in north Cameroon. The new species is most similar to the widespread species Cnemaspis spinicollis but differs from this and all other congeners in details of both scalation (single enlarged scale beneath the penultimate interphalangeal joint of digit IV of pes, absence of an enlarged, flattened preaxial metatarsal scale, absence of tubercles on the crown and beneath the ear) and coloration (pale, with little contrast between background color and series of distinct whitish dorsal markings, throat markings weakly developed). The discovery of several new reptile species from the Adamaoua Plateau and its outliers highlights the potential importance of the northern Cameroonian highlands as a center of endemism. /// Une nouvelle espce de gecko diurne du genre Cnemaspis est dcrite des boulis granitiques en galeries forestires dans les monts Alantika et le Hosser Vokr, au Nord du plateau de l'Adamaoua au Cameroun. Cette nouvelle espce est morphologiquement trs proche de Cnemaspis spinicollis, espce congnrique  large rpartition, mais elle diffre de cette dernire et de toutes les autres espces du genre par des particularits d'caillure (une caille agrandie sous le avant-dernier joint interphalangial de l'orteil IV, absence d'caille mtatarsale prvaxiale agrandie et aplatie, absence de tubercules sur la couronne et sous l'oreille) et de coloration (ensemble ple, avec peu de contraste entre la couleur de fond et les ponctuations dorsales claires, marques gulaires peu dveloppes). La dcouverte de plusieurs espces nouvelles de reptiles dans le massif de l'Adamaoua et les inselbergs qui s'y rattachent souligne l'importance potentielle de cette rgion comme centre d'endmisme. 
10.2307/1565713|Stomach contents were collected from 213 Caiman crocodilus with snout-vent lengths (SVL) between 15 cm and 115 cm, and 25 Melanosuchus niger with SVLs from 15 cm to 95 cm, in the Anavilhanas Archipelago, Rio Negro, Central Amazonia. The prey types consumed by the two species were generally similar. However, fish were common in the diet of C. crocodilus but absent from the M. niger. Snails (Pomacea) occurred in 24% of stomachs of M. niger, but in only 2% of C. crocodilus. The mean mass of food and the mean proportion of fish consumed increased, while the mean proportion of terrestrial invertebrates decreased significantly with the size class of C. crocodilus. The mean proportion of molluscs consumed increased significantly with the size class of M. niger, but there was no relationship between the mean mass of food or the mean proportion of other prey categories and size class in this species. However, the sample included only subadults. The mean size of all prey consumed, and of fish, increased significantly with size of C. crocodilus. However, there was no relationship between the mean size of prey in the categories terrestrial invertebrates, shrimps, or crabs, and the size of C. crocodilus. The mean size of all prey consumed was positively related to the size of M. niger. The mean mass of food consumed by C. crocodilus varied with the water body type (lake or canal), but there was no effect of season as indexed by the water level of the Rio Negro. Seasonal variation in the proportion of fish, terrestrial invertebrates, and shrimps consumed by C. crocodilus differed among water body types. Empty stomachs occurred in 24% of the C. crocodilus and 20% of the M. niger. Individuals with food in the stomach had eaten small volumes, suggesting that the caiman are unlikely to impact fisheries in the region.
1565876|The fall-winter food habits of the Texas river cooter (Pseudemys texana) were investigated at Spring Lake, Hays County, Texas, by examination of stomach contents. Samples were collected from 33 live turtles by flushing stomach contents with water (Fields et al., 2000). Four aquatic macrophytes composed 91.6% of the diet. Aquatic macrophyte availability at Spring Lake was estimated using the Daubenmire technique (Daubenmire and Daubenmire, 1968) and compared to occurrence in the diet to assess selectivity in foraging. Cooters actively selected Carolina fanwort (Cabomba caroliniana), a plant low in fiber and high in total digestible nutrients. Hydrilla (Hydrilla verticilata), an invasive exotic aquatic plant, was an important food item due to the large amount present in the lake.
10.2307/1563652|We observed ritual combat and other agonistic behavior between male blacksnakes (Pseudechis porphyriacus) in a field population in central New South Wales. Combat bouts vary greatly in duration (2 to 30 minutes), and apparently function as male "strategies" to displace rival courting males. Direct attack and biting may serve to displace rival males in copulo. We briefly review published literature on male combat in snakes.
40983589|Distance sampling methods to estimate population densities are in wide use; however, this method may not be suitable for certain species or in certain habitats. Although validation of population estimates derived from distance sampling is necessary to determine the reliability of population estimates, validation is lacking in most studies. We measured densities of six lizard species, with particular emphasis on the endemic Dunes Sagebrush Lizard (Sceloporus arenicolus) at 14 sites throughout the range of this species in the Mescalero Sands ecosystem in southeastern New Mexico. We tested the accuracy of distance sampling by comparing results from 238 distance line transects to densities measured in 20 total removal plots. Density estimates from the distance sampling method (N= 238 transects) for S. arenicolus and all lizard species combined were 4.6 lizards/ha and 26.14 lizards/ha, respectively. Density estimates from the total removal plots (N = 20) were 30.0 lizards/ha for S. arenicolus and 85.0 lizards/ha for all lizard species combined. It is clear that, even in the relatively open shinnery oak sand dune habitat, distance sampling methods were not reliable and underestimated the densities of lizards. The disparity in density estimates from distance sampling versus total removal plots was caused by violation of the assumption of perfect detection of individuals on the transect line. Individuals that were unavailable for detection greatly influenced the density estimates. Because of the difficulty in correcting for biases, we suggest that distance sampling is not an appropriate sampling method for estimating densities of lizards.
10.2307/1563328|Unlike many partially sympatric species of West Indian Anolis lizards, two sympatric Hispaniolan grass anoles (semilineatus and olssoni) occupy similar microhabitats and do not differ in times of activity or body temperatures. Both species are relatively passive to ambient thermal conditions despite living in an open habitat. Thermal passivity may be a function of their small body sizes.
10.2307/1564357|Although movement patterns should reflect important aspects of a species' ecology, a survey of published information on snake movements reveals few general trends among species, populations, or individuals within populations. Snakes are sometimes difficult to study, and some of the problems associated with them (e.g., crypticity of young) will not be overcome easily. However, general patterns might be more evident if: (1) studies were done over reasonably long time periods; (2) methods of data collection, analysis, and presentation were standardized to some extent; and (3) factors that might affect movement patterns (especially resource requirements and distribution) of different individuals became a focus of attention.
23327185|We studied the reproductive ecology of the gecko Phyllopezus pollicaris in a mountain environment in the Municipality of Diamantina, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, from February 2005 to January 2006. The reproductive activity of P. pollicaris was cyclic, occurring from the end of the dry season to the end of the wet season. We found no relationship between female reproductive activity and long-term precipitation and temperature. Males exhibited sperm in their testes throughout the year, and their reproductive activity was not related to any of the climatic factors analyzed. Fat storage varied inversely with reproductive activity, and fat-body mass was large in females. All gravid females had a clutch of two eggs.
1566149| I used radio-telemetry to study home-range size and the impact of seasonal and daily temperature and weather patterns on activity and movements (May to August 1999 and 2000) in a population of Chrysemys picta marginata living in a small marsh system on Beaver Island, Michigan. Male and female home ranges were similar in size. Within the home range, most individuals favored one or two core areas. Total daily distance moved (based on three daily radio-locations per individual) averaged 68.1 m/day and was significantly different between years (1999: x = 102 m/day<sup>-1</sup> vs. 2000: x = 39 m/day) but was not affected by gender or daily variations in water temperature or weather conditions during the summer months. Twenty-four-hour monitoring of individuals revealed that most turtles showed both diurnal and nocturnal activity. Home-range size averaged 1.2 ha and was larger in 1999 (x = 1.8 ha, N = 7) than in 2000 (x = 0.7 ha, N = 8). Annual differences in total daily distance moved and in home-range size probably occurred because the marsh was relatively small in 2000 because of low precipitation in that year. Terrestrial activity and multiple activity centers were observed mainly in males in 2000 and probably represented attempts by individuals to escape the crowded conditions of the Main Marsh area as its surface area decreased throughout the summer. 
10.2307/1564682|The thermal ecology of the striped plateau lizard, Sceloporus virgatus, was studied in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona. Body temperatures averaged 33.4 C (range 14.2-39.3), and air temperatures at the site of capture averaged 24.8 C (range 9.0-34.8). The slope of the regression of body temperature on air temperature was 0.40. Body temperatures did not differ for lizards caught in winter (October to April) and summer (May to September). Individuals using different substrates had different body temperatures, but air temperatures at the site of capture were not different. While males and females maintained the same body temperature, gravid females had lower body temperatures than non-gravid females. Sceloporus virgatus individuals maintain lower body temperatures than did sympatric individual Urosaurus ornatus despite the fact that their mean air temperatures at the site of capture did not differ significantly.
10.2307/1564104| Diets of three species of syntopic neotropical racers (Colubridae) were studied on coffee plantations in Guatemala and Chiapas, Mxico. Drymobius chloroticus ate mostly anurans, especially Eleutherodactylus; Drymobius margaritiferus ate mostly anurans; and Mastigodryas melanolomus ate mostly lizards. Mastigodryas melanolomus and D. margaritiferus are the most euryphagic, taking prey from three vertebrate classes and the eggs of reptiles. Diets of all species overlapped at the generic and species levels. Relatively small prey were eaten and relative prey mass averaged 4.1%-12.9% per snake species. All prey larger than 17% the mass of an individual predator were ingested head first. Positive predator-prey size relationships were demonstrated for each species. Larger snakes take larger as well as small prey and where sample size is large enough there are upper and/or lower size ranges of frequently ingested prey. 
10.2307/1564156|Diamond pythons (Morelia s. spilota) are large (to 3 m) snakes of temperate-zone coastal eastern Australia. Foraging behavior was studied by observation of telemetered snakes, and diets determined by dissection of museum specimens and collection of fecal samples from wild-caught snakes. Five adult snakes monitored in the field by radiotelemetry were found to be ambush foragers. In summer, telemetered snakes spent more than 80% of their time coiled, usually in a disinctive ambush posture near mammal trails. Telemetered snakes found feeding had occupied the site for at least a day beforehand. The diet of adult diamond pythons consisted almost entirely of mammals (91% of 44 records), mainly Rattus rattus and R. fuscipes (52%). Birds (9%) were taken infrequently. Juveniles ate mainly mammals (69%) and reptiles (23%). Larger snakes consumed larger prey. Hatchlings in captivity showed a preference for copper-tailed skinks, Ctenotus taeniolatus, but would also take newborn mice. Feeding occurred mainly in late spring, summer and early autumn. In terms of feeding biology, diamond pythons may be more similar to viperid snakes of other continents than to the elapids or colubrids with which they are sympatric.
10.2307/1562738| Tantilla briggsi is described on the basis of a single specimen from 12 de Julio, 3 leagues W Donaj (formerly Tolosa), on the Caribbean drainage of the trans-Isthmus railway, Oaxaca. 
10.2307/1565357|In gekkonoid lizards, a few species of actively foraging eublepharids have been shown to identify prey chemicals by tongue-flicking and a few ambush foragers have been shown not to do so. Gekkonids in the omnivorous genus Rhacodactylus identify both plant and animal food by lingually sampling chemical cues. We conducted experiments with several species of geckos to provide further evidence on the evolutionary association between active foraging and lingually mediated prey chemical discrimination, to begin examination of the relationship between plant diet and chemosensory response to plant foods, and examine the utility of palatable plant chemicals as a pungency control for studies of insectivores. Chemosensory discriminations were investigated by observing tongue-flicking and biting responses to cotton swabs bearing animal prey chemicals, palatable plant chemicals, and control substances. The eublepharids Goniourosaurus luii and Eublepharis macularius both responded strongly to cricket chemicals, but not to control stimuli, whereas the gekkonids Gekko gecko and Uroplatus were unresponsive to all cues. These data support and extend the evidence for correlated evolution between prey chemical discrimination and foraging mode. They provide support of limited scope for the hypotheses that insectivorous geckos do not respond to plant chemicals and that such responses evolve with inclusion of plants in the diet. The lack of any strong response to plant chemicals by insectivores indicates the potential usefulness of plant chemical as pungency controls. Vomerolfactory discriminations are usually indicated by tongue-flicking, but several G. luii bit swabs bearing cricket chemicals without first tongue-flicking. This suggests that those individuals may have identified prey by olfaction, corroborating evidence for two other species of geckos.
10.2307/1563379|Plasma Na concentrations of Crocodylus acutus captured in sea water are similar to the Na levels seen in this species in fresh water and typical of fresh water reptiles in general. In sea water starved C. acutus lose weight as an inverse function of total body volume. Therefore large crocodiles are capable of prolonged substenance in marine environments, particularly if free water is gained from vertebrate prey in the diet. Young or small animals may avoid a rapid increase in body osmolality from sea water either by avoiding hyperosmotic salinities or by utilizing terrestrial microhabitats of high relative humidity. NaCl loading of 1 mmole Na / 100 g of body weight evokes an elevated blood Na concentration coupled with an apparent reduction of cloacal flow rate. These responses act to conserve body water and would be beneficial to a species that has only periodic access to fresh water. No evidence was found to suggest that a salt gland capable of compensating for an induced salt load is functional in this species.
10.2307/1564502|Both the "levator anguli oris" and "adductor externus superficialis" of snakes, as labelled by previous authors, are together the homolog of the lizard levator anguli oris; the "adductor externus profundus" of snakes, as identified previously, is the homolog of the lizard adductor externus superficialis; the true adductor externus profundus, which would run deep to the facial artery but superficial to the trigeminal nerve, is absent in snakes. The rictal fold of lizards is much shortened in snakes, at least at its aperture, and becomes the tunic of the venom gland in proteroglyphs (including Atractaspis), viperids, and Gonionotophis and Mehelya (Colubridae). The specialization in secretory function of some oral epithelium is probably an independent event, developmentally, from the organization of the gross form of the venom gland by mesenchyme and a muscularized venom gland is the result of the specialized epithelium entering the rictal fold as a lining; if the specialized epithelium remains external to the rictal fold, it forms a Duvernoy's gland. A series of intermediates, currently classified in Calliophis, connects typical elapids with Atractaspis and the Homoroselaps Group (essentially, the "Aparallactinae" but without Aparallactus and Macrelaps). The musculature of the venom gland of typical elapids appears to be the levator anguli oris, attached to the rictal plate; this attachment seems a primitive, rather than specialized, feature and is suggestive of uropeltids that are considered primitive snakes, in large part because of this muscle pattern. The different patterns of venom gland musculature among typical proteroglyphs can be explained as the interaction of two quantitative developmental factors: posterior extent of the levator anguli oris; and dorsal growth of the levator anguli oris relative to the adductor externus medialis. Proteroglyphs are more primitive than colubrids in their head musculature and in failure to bring the fangs close to the attachment of the pterygoideus superficialis. Some proteroglyphs have extended non-venomous maxillary teeth close to the pterygoideus attachment on the ectopterygoid and provide some insight into how this may have happened in colubrids. The colubrid rear-fanged condition involved backward extension of the maxillary tooth row, with an accompanying Duvernoy's gland formed from the dental lamina, on the homolog of the hind-maxilla of Bolyeridae, a portion of the maxilla characterized by special ligamentous connections to the palatine and not present in booids, anilioids, acrochordoids, or tropidophids (present, but not fang-bearing, in proteroglyphs). The viperid condition seems derived from the colubrid, but the characteristic posterior medial process of the maxilla and its ligament to the lateral proces of the palatine have been lost and the serous secretory epithelium has entered a secondarily enlarged rictal fold (venom gland) that has acquired a new musculature not utilizing the levator anguli oris. The primitive nature of proteroglyphs, as compared to colubrids, suggests that the most primitive colubrids should be looked for among the most proteroglyph-like forms and Homalopsinae appear to fit this criterion.
10.2307/1562732| The Das Tierreich account of leptodactylid frogs (Gorham, 1966) perpetuated incorrect usage of several leptodactylid frog names. Six of these names are based on materials lacking type-locality information and hence have not been considered in geographic studies. Taxonomic dispositions of seven names are proposed: Cyclocephalus lacrimosus Jimnez de la Espada, 1875, is redescribed and recognized in the genus Eleutherodactylus; Hylodes diadematus Jimnez de la Espada, 1875, is placed in the genus Eleutherodactylus and considered an older name of E. bufonius Andersson, 1945; Hylodes oxyrhynchus Dumril and Bibron, 1841, is an older name for Eleutherodactylus femurlevis Cochran, 1935, and is redescribed; Hylodes philippi Jimnez de la Espada, 1875, and H. verrucosus Jimnez de la Espada, 1875, are considered synonyms of Ischnocnema quixensis (Jimnez de la Espada), 1870; Hylodes rubicundus Jimnez de la Espada, 1875, is recognized in the genus Eleutherodactylus; Hylodes orientalis Philippi, 1902, is tentatively considered a synonym of Phyllomedusa iheringi and should be regarded as a nomen dubium; Eleutherodactylus ranoides emmitti Gorham, 1966, proposed as a replacement name for E. r. nubicola Dunn and Emlen, 1932, is an obligate synonym of E. r. emleni Dunn, 1932. 
40060516|We compared shell temperatures of Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta) overwintering in two different ponds in Algonquin Park, Canada, over one winter. Movements under the ice occurred from late November into late December or early January, and based on thermal data, turtles were likely not buried in the substrate. Over the course of the winter, one pond became severely hypoxic, whereas the other remained more highly oxygenated. Turtles in the hypoxic pond exhibited significantly lower shell temperatures than did the turtles in the normoxic environment, despite significantly cooler average water temperatures in the normoxic pond. Painted Turtles submerged in normoxic water can assimilate O through extrapulmonary means, and cutaneous O uptake at low temperatures would significantly delay the onset of metabolic acidosis. Therefore, we suggest that, in the present study, turtles in the hypoxic environment likely could not assimilate O cutaneously; thus, these individuals may have voluntarily selected low temperatures to delay metabolic acidosis and conserve energy stores for the active season. Our limited data suggest that Painted Turtles possess behavioral adaptations to detect and respond to aquatic hypoxia.
10.2307/1565665| A new species of Colostethus from Colombia is described. This species is related to those Colostethus having males with Finger III expanded. The presence or absence of neopalatines is examined in 25 species of Colostethus, two Dendrobates, three Mannophryne, one Minyobates, and two Nephelobates. The absence of neopalatines is synapomorphic within the Dendrobatidae. The absence of neopalatines suggests that Colostethus (sensu lato) is paraphyletic with respect to the aposematic dendrobatids. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Colostethus de Colombia. Esta especie esta relacionada a aquellos Colostethus cuyos mchos tienen el Dedo III expandido. La presencia o ausencia de neopalatinos se examina en 25 especies de Colostethus, dos Dendrobates, tres Mannophryne, uno Minyobates, y dos Nephelobates. La ausencia de neopalatinos es sinapomrfica dentro de los dendrobatidos. La ausencia de neopalatinos sugiere que Colostethus (sensu lato) es parafiltico con respecto a los dendrobatidos aposemticos. 
10.2307/1566109| Based on characters of external morphology, scutellation, and osteology, we describe a new species of Synophis from the Pacific versant of the Cordillera Occidental of Colombia. Assignment of this species to Synophis is tentative, pending a reassessment of nothopsin relationships. Some natural history notes are reported for the new species. /// Con base en caracteres de morfologa externa, escamacin y vrtebras, se describe una nueva especie de Synophis del bosque nublado de la vertiente pacfica de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia. La referencia de esta especie a Synophis es provisoria y queda a la espera de una revisin de las relaciones de los notpsinos. Se reportan algunos aspectos de la historia natural de la nueva especie. 
10.2307/1563508|Breeding sites, eggs, small larvae, and neotenes of Ambystoma rosaceum are described. The breeding habitat is slow-moving mountain streams. Preferred deposition sites of single eggs seem to be the undersides of flat rocks. Hatchling larvae are uniformly dark brown until acquisition of a pale-dark mottling near 35 mm SVL. Breeding occurs in summer with the advent of the rainy season, and may occur in winter months. Neoteny and variations in the annual reproductive cycle are probably dependent on permanent water. Life history features are compared with those of Ambystoma ordinarium. The geographic range of A. rosaceum is extended into the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Zacatecas.
25599260|Habitat selection in adult Alligator Snapping Turtles (Macrochelys temminckii) is known for only a few populations. Given that habitat availability can vary in different geographical locations, we used radiotelemetry to study habitat selection in a riverine habitat in central Arkansas by attaching radio transmitters to 14 female and four male Alligator Snapping Turtles. We tested the hypothesis that males and females select different habitats throughout the year because of differences in reproductive cycles and higher thermoregulatory requirements for females prior to nesting. Our results indicated that males and females selected similar habitats with similar thermal properties, but both sexes selected submerged structure. The tendency for Alligator Snapping Turtles to select sites with structure may be caused by higher prey densities (e.g., fish and crayfish) in these areas, protection from predators (e.g., American Alligators), or as an aid in surfacing to breathe rather than for thermoregulatory purposes.
10.2307/1563143|Water snakes (Natrix sipedon) were tested for their ability to capture cryptic vs. conspicuous prey as a function of their previous experience with such prey. The results indicate that under certain circumstances, N. sipedon that have had experience in capturing cryptic prey may adopt a specific searching image whereby prey which are colored similarly to their background are more readily captured than are more conspicuous prey (i.e., prey whose coloration contrasts with the test background).
10.2307/1564176| The Venezuelan hylid frog Hyla jahni Rivero, a member of the Hyla bogotensis group synonymized with Hyla platydactyla Boulenger, is shown to be a distinct, valid species. Morphology, color patterns, mating calls, tadpoles, and ecology of H. jahni and H. platydactyla are compared. H. jahni is redescribed. /// La rana venezolana conocida como Hyla jahni Rivero, actualmente en sinonimia con H. platydactyla Boulenger, se considera como una especia vlida del grupo de H. bogotensis. Se compara la morfologa, patrones de coloracin, cantos nupciales, renacuajos y ecologa de ambas especies. Se provee una redescripcin de H. jahni. 
10.2307/1564552|We tested the hypothesis that thermoregulation increases growth rate in nocturnal lizards. Leopard geckos (Eublepharis macularius) maintained from hatching at 25 C grew at a rate of 0.11 g/day, while geckos allowed to thermoregulate at preferred body temperatures (30 C for 13.5 h per day) grew 1.5 times as fast (0.16 g/day). Long-term thermal treatment had a significant reverse acclimation effect on preferred body temperature (T<sub>p</sub>): T<sub>p</sub> was 1.2 C lower in thermoregulatory individuals than in those kept at 25 C. Feeding and time of day also had significant but monor effects on T<sub>p</sub> Despite their nocturnal ecology, leopard geckos seem to be typical among lizards in requiring a diurnal heat source for maximal growth. This result provides a physiological explanation for the observation that some nocturnal lizards thermoregulate in burrows during the day, and may have implications for the biogeography of nocturnal ectotherms.
25599195|Livestock grazing is a common land use across the western United States, but concerns have been raised regarding its potential to affect amphibian populations. We studied the short-term effects of full and partial livestock grazing exclosures on Rana luteiventris (Columbia Spotted Frog) populations using a controlled manipulative field experiment with pre- and posttreatment data (2002-2006). Despite a significant increase in vegetation height within grazing exclosures, we did not find treatment effects for egg mass counts, larval survival, or size at metamorphosis 1-2 years following grazing exclosure installation. Water samples taken in late summer showed concentrations of nitrite, nitrate, ammonia, and orthophosphate that were low or near detection limits across all ponds and years. The results of this experiment do not support a hypothesis that limiting cattle access to breeding ponds will help conserve R. luteiventris populations in our study area. Further research is needed to evaluate regional variation and long-term effects of grazing exclosures on R. luteiventris populations.
25599239|Many amphibians are explosive breeders, but the key factors that influence migrations to (and from) breeding sites are not well understood for all species. We used a comparative approach to compare and contrast the complex relationships among breeding chronology, environmental conditions, sexual dimorphism/body size, sex ratio, and genetic variation in Small-mouthed (Ambystoma texanum) and Eastern Tiger Salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum tigrinum). We intercepted 171 A. texanum and 330 adult A. t. tigrinum on their annual migration to breeding ponds over two consecutive breeding seasons (2003-04). Both species immigrated over a short period of time (4-17 days) and displayed no clear pattern regarding whether males or females typically arrived first at breeding ponds. Sex ratios were skewed toward males in both species but varied between years. Consistent with their expected sexual selection regimes, intraspecific sexual dimorphism was subtle in A. texanum but pronounced in A. t. tigrinum. There was no size-ordered immigration or emigration for either species examined; migration events were triggered by temperature and precipitation. We genotyped four hypervariable microsatellite loci and found no gross difference in the overall level of genetic variation between species but document that our study populations are genetically diverse (mean of >18 alleles per locus and heterozygosities >0.75 in each species), presumably as a result of historically large effective population sizes.
10.2307/1562788|The seasonal changes in thermoregulatory behavior of chuckawallas were investigated in the field (Amboy, California) and laboratory to determine if their winter inactivity period resembles a true hibernation. In the field, fall chuckawallas display a greater hesitancy to bask and become surface active than spring animals under a similar ambient thermal regime. This reluctance is even more evident in the laboratory. Spring collected chuckawallas placed in a large thermogradient with retreats at one end and heat lamps at the other, spend the majority of their time under the lamps. When the heat lamps are replaced with smaller light bulbs, resulting in a cooler thermogradient, chuckawallas increase the proportion of time that they spend under the lights. Summer chuckawallas in the warmer thermogradient spend nearly equal portions of time near or under the lights and under the retreats. Their behavior in the cooler gradient resembles that of spring chuckawallas. Fall and winter chuckawallas collected from two different years (November 1970 and October 1971) behaved like summer chuckawallas in the warmer thermogradient but their behavior in the cooler gradient was unprecedented; now, instead of increasing the time spent basking they all completely retreated from the surface and did not emerge for four to five days. The preferred body temperature (PBT) of chuckawallas measured in a structurally homogeneous thermogradient displays small and irregular changes with the month of collection. During food deprivation in the laboratory, chuckawallas do not appear to alter their PBT or thermoregulatory behavior. It is concluded that winter inactivity in chuckawallas resembles a true hibernation.
1565871|We describe the ecology of the gecko Gymnodactylus geckoides amarali in the Cerrado of central Brazil and using published data, compare it with the conspecific Gymnodactylus geckoides geckoides from the Caatinga of northeastern Brazil. Gymnodactylus geckoides amarali is rupicolous, living primarily in rock crevices in "campos rupestres" (rocky fields), which are highly patchy in Cerrado. Field body temperatures were low and associated with environmental temperatures, suggesting thermoconformity. Termites were the most important food item, and consumption was greatest during the dry season. We suggest that access to termites is facilitated by the shallow soils used by G. g. amarali and by its well-developed chemosensory apparatus. Reproduction was concentrated in the dry season, a pattern known for very few Cerrado squamates, possibly because of the higher availability of termites during that period. Clutch size was significantly correlated with female size, a pattern unknown in any other gecko, and there was no association between egg size and female size. Gymnodactylus geckoides amarali produced larger clutches of smaller eggs relative to G. g. geckoides, presumably because of the high climatic unpredictability of the Caatinga. We detected a significant sexual dimorphism in both body size and shape: females were larger and had smaller heads than males. We suggest that large female size is likely a plesiomorphic character of gekkonids and that large head size in males results from sexual selection theory.
10.2307/1565239|Roadside wetlands are often contaminated by highway runoff; however, little is known about the impact of pollution on the organisms that use these wetlands. Most amphibians use wetlands as breeding habitats and are therefore vulnerable to aquatic pollutants. In 1995 and 1996, I conducted transplant experiments to compare the embryonic survivorship of Ambystoma maculatum in temporary woodland pools to that in roadside pools. Chemical parameters were monitored to identify differences between roadside and woodland pool environments. Failure time analysis was used to compare embryonic survival probabilities for transplant experiments in both years. The results indicate that deicing salts heavily contaminate roadside vernal pools. Ambystoma maculatum survivorship was significantly lower in roadside pools for four of five transplants in 1995 and all transplants in 1996. Deicing salts used for highway maintenance contaminated roadside vernal pools, and are a possible factor in the reduced embryonic survival observed in these pools.
43287335|Three adult-sized Loggerhead Turtles (Caretta caretta), captured incidentally by bottom trawlers, were tracked by satellite in the Mediterranean Sea for a substantial part of their annual cycle, including the period preceding nesting. The three turtles performed longdistance movements that were variable between individuals but shared common features such as seasonal migration. Very prolonged dives (up to over 300 min) were associated with temperature drops to below 18C, likely an overwintering strategy. Our findings integrate recent tracking data on the postnesting migrations of Mediterranean Loggerhead Turtles, documenting the movement patterns made during the poorly known nonreproductive phase.
10.2307/1562694|In Preble County, Ohio, 36 Desmognathus fuscus were tagged subcutaneously with Co<sub>60</sub> and monitored between April 1969 and June 1970. Between April and November 1969 salamanders had an average home range of 1.4 m<sup>2</sup> (0.1 m<sup>2</sup>-3.6m<sup>2</sup>. Average weekly movement during this period was 0.49 m (0.3 m-10.2 m). No significant changes in movement were noted when the salamanders were monitored at 24 hr intervals. Salamanders began to move into winter retreats when the stream temperature dropped below 7.0 C. Within these retreats as many as 15 salamanders were found within an area of 30.0 cm<sup>2</sup>. All salamanders were active and feeding through the winter. In April 1970 5 gravid D. fuscus were radioactively tagged and their movements monitored but the data obtained were inconclusive regarding nesting behavior.
40060455|A new species of Eutropis (Sauria: Scincidae) is described from the island of Sulawesi, Indonesia, distinguished from all congeneric species, with the exception of Eutropis longicaudis, by its large size and low number of midbody scale rows. It has two primary temporal scales, whereas E. longicaudis from Borneo has only one. This new species is diurnal, partially arboreal, and inhabits rain forest from below 100 m to at least 600 m elevation.
1565875| We studied the ecology of a population of Sceloporus undulatus speari from the Transmontane Sand Dune region of northern Chihuahua, Mxico. Most of the individuals in our population used fence posts or yucca plants as perches and were only rarely seen on the ground. The majority of individuals in our population were seen in full sun, although a substantial number were in shade. Mean body temperature in our population was 35.2C. Individuals first seen in full sun had lower T<sub>b</sub>s than individuals first seen in shade. Lizards using different microhabitats (e.g., yucca vs. fence post) had different body temperatures. Clutch size in our population was 5.23 eggs per clutch. Clutch size in our population was not statistically significantly related to female body size; however, the trend was for an increase in clutch size with SVL, with the smallest females having the smallest clutches. We found no evidence for sexual dimorphism in body size (SVL) in our population of S. undulatus, but males had larger heads. Coleopterans (particularly tenebrionids) and hymenopterans (particularly formicids) were the most important prey items. 
10.2307/1565535|A new snake of the Tantilla taeniata group from southeastern Chiapas, Mexico, is described. Its relationship to other members of the taeniata group is discussed. A revised key to the taeniata group members is presented.
10.2307/1565171| Field studies were conducted on the visual and acoustic behavior of the Panamanian golden frog, Atelopus zeteki, a species lacking a tympanic middle ear. Males displayed three stereotyped behaviors in response to playbacks of male pulsed vocalizations: foot signaling, vocalization, and repositioning orientation. Frequencies of foot signaling and orientation responses were significantly increased by presentation of playback vocalizations. Vocal responses also increased (non-significantly) during the playback period and continued to increase during post-playback silence. These results provide the first experimental evidence that an "earless" anuran species displays behavioral responses to sound, and that vocalization may play an important role in communication. The forefoot waving, and possibly hindfoot raising observed in this species appear to represent visual signals used intraspecifically in male agonistic behavior. Male frogs appear to rely preferentially on visual signaling (foot signaling) as compared to acoustic signaling (vocalizing). The existence and preferential use of visual signaling in this species may be correlated with their noisy, montane stream habitat. Orientation by the frogs toward the playback speaker suggests that this "earless" species of anuran is capable of localizing a sound source. /// Sellevaron a cabo estudios de campo sobre el comportamiento visual y acstico de la rana dorada de Panam, Atelopus zeteki, una especie que carece del odo medio timpnico ("sorda"). Se observ, en los machos, tres tipos de comportamiento estereotipado como respuesta a grabaciones de vocalizaciones de individuos del mismo sexo: movimientos de las patas, vocalizaciones y cambios de orientacin. La frequencia en el movimiento de las patas y en los cambios de orientacin aument en forma significativa cuando se us las grabaciones. Las vocalizaciones tambin aumentaron (pero no significamente) durante y despus de las grabaciones. Estos resultados constituyen la primera evidencia experimental de que las especies de anuros "sordos" son capaces de responder a sonidos y de que las vocalizaciones pueden jugar un papel importante en la comunicacin. El movimiento circular de las patas delanteras, y posiblemente el levantamiento de las patas traseras parecen ser seales visuales usadas intraespecficamente en las relaciones agonsticas. Los machos parecen depender ms de seales visuales (movimientos de las patas) que de seales acsticas (vocalizaciones). La existencia y el uso preferencial de seales visuales en esta especie pueden ser relacionados al nivel de ruido existente en su habitat de ros y riachuelos montaosos. Los cambios de orientacin en direccin a las grabaciones empleadas sugieren que esta especie "sorda" de anuros es capaz de localizar eficientemente una fuente de sonido. 
10.2307/1562901|Data on body temperatures and perch site selection of Anolis polylepis, a lizard which rarely basks, were collected in the tropical wet forest of southwestern Costa Rica during the peak of the rainy season. Body temperatures were consistently higher than and strongly correlated with air temperatures, and increased through the day. Adult males and females perched in significantly different parts of the understory, but had similar body temperatures. Data on the availability of sun patches suggest that these tropical anoles are active over a wide range of body temperatures because the relative cost of basking in the forest is high.
10.2307/1563295|Specimens of Crotalus lepidus klauberi collected in the southwestern United States and northern Mexico have exhibited sexual color dimorphism. The basic body color is green for males and gray for females with both sexes possessing black or dark brown crossbands. This dichromatism has probably evolved for background color-matching through natural selection influenced by predator pressure. The sexual basis of the dimorphism in body color may be the result of a sex-limited character that acts to balance the percentage of color morphs in the population or it may function in intraspecific sex recognition if C. I. klauberi, a diurnally active snake, has redeveloped color vision.
1566151| We examined effects of body size and temperature on swimming performance in juvenile estuarine crocodiles, Crocodylus porosus, over the size range of 30-110 cm total body length. Swimming performance, expressed as maximum sustainable swimming speed, was measured in a temperature- and flow-controlled swimming flume. Absolute sustainable swimming speed increased with body length, but length-specific swimming performance decreased as body length increased. Sustained swimming speed increased with temperature between 15C and 23C, remained constant between 23 and 33C, and decreased as temperature rose above 33C. Q<sub>10</sub>-values of swimming speed were 2.60 ( 0.091 SE) between 18C and 23C, and there were no differences in Q<sub>10</sub> between crocodiles of different sizes. The broad plateau of thermal independence in swimming speed observed in C. porosus may be of adaptive significance by allowing dispersal of juvenile animals at suboptimal body temperatures. 
10.2307/1564885| Cold-stunned sea turtles, both moribund and dead as a result of hypothermia, were collected along the shorelines of Long Island, New York, during three consecutive winters. A total of 130 juvenile Lepidochelys kempii, Caretta caretta, and Chelonia mydas was collected. Lepidochelys kempii represented 75% of all individuals encountered. The size distribution of L. kempii (straight-line carapace length 22.5 cm to 37.6 cm; x = 29.4 cm, SD = 3.1) was unlike any other assemblage reported within the species' range. The regular occurrence of relatively small turtles suggests that New York waters are utilized on an annual basis by L. kempii during early developmental stages. The numbers observed in this study, coupled with historical records, indicate that New York represents an important portion of the range of L. kempii. There is a continuous distribution of this species from the Gulf of Mexico to New England waters. 
1566073|The Spotted Salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) is widespread throughout the eastern United States and southern Canada. In 1997, we initiated a long-term study of A. maculatum at a breeding pond in Calhoun County, Alabama. Each winter, we captured salamanders as they returned to breed and inserted passive integrated transponders to permit positive identification of recaptures. We fit the von Bertalanffy growth-interval equation to data on snout-vent length taken from individuals captured and recaptured in different years and estimated intrinsic growth rates for both males and females. Males displayed rapid juvenile growth, which slowed as they neared estimated maximum size. Females, however, displayed relatively constant growth until nearing their estimated maximum size. The intrinsic growth rate of females was lower than that estimated for males. We hypothesize that sex-specific growth patterns maximize reproductive efforts of A. maculatum.
10.2307/1563360|The foods and habitats of seven species of aquatic snakes were investigated in a Louisiana swamp, the Atchafalaya River Basin. Nerodia rhombifera was the most abundant species, and N. cyclopion, the second most common species, was an ecological associate. Stomachs of 796 aquatic snakes were examined. N. rhombifera and N. cyclopion fed mainly upon fish, and Agkistrodon piscivorus fed upon fish and other vertebrates. Catfish were frequently ingested by N. rhombifera, and A. piscivorus, but rarely by N. cyclopion. N. fasciata showed preferences for anurans and fish, and N. erythrogaster for anurans. Regina grahami and R. rigida fed upon crayfish. N. rhombifera and N. fasciata were observed utilizing crayfish burrows, and individuals of all seven aquatic species occasionally moved considerable distances overland. In the ecosystem under consideration, N. rhombifera and N. cyclopion are habitat generalists and food specialists; A. piscivorus is a habitat specialist and probably a food generalist.
10.2307/1565150|We measured the sprint performance, lactate concentration in two muscles at the end of exercise, and activity of two glycolytic enzymes in those two muscles of 24 Rana pipiens. Differences among individuals in sprint performance were not associated with differences in lactate level or enzyme activity in the gastrocnemius or triceps femoris. The concentration of lactate in the gastrocnemius was positively associated with gastrocnemius lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity but not with gastrocnemius phosphofructokinase (PFK) activity. In contrast, triceps femoris lactate concentration was negatively associated with the activity of PFK but was not related to the activity of LDH in that muscle.
43287391|The defensive secretions of anurans contain a large array of chemical compounds that are synthesized in the granular glands and released onto the skin. We used histological and peptidomic analyses to investigate the skin glands and their products in Litoria aurea, Litoria ewingii, and Litoria raniformis, which were introduced to New Zealand from Australia approximately 150 yr ago. The skin glands were induced to release their product by either norepinephrine or electric stimulation. Granular glands in all three species are distributed evenly in both dorsal and ventral skin and share morphological features common in other anurans, such as a contractile myoepithelium that surrounds the syncytial secretory unit. However, differences are observed in the granular ultrastructure between L. ewingii and the more closely related L. aurea and L. raniformis. The latter have larger glands with granules that are opaque and contain homogeneously spaced, diaphanous vesicles, whereas the substructure of the granules in L. ewingii is homogeneous and consists of miniscule vesicles that are either electron opaque or diaphanous. Comparatively large mucous glands in the small-bodied L. ewingii may be attributed to increased mucous requirements due to differences in microhabitat use. Nanospray mass spectrometric analyses confirmed the presence of several unidentified peptides, as well as 11 peptides described previously. Both exposure to norepinephrine and mild electric stimulation of the skin triggered the bulk discharge of gland contents. We discuss potential functional specializations of gland structure and peptide content as mechanisms for predator or pathogen defense.
43287394|Some prey species vary the intensity of antipredator responses according to the perceived level of threat associated with different concentrations of chemical cues related to predation. Here, we examine whether Red-Backed Salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) respond to different concentrations of damage-released cues from the tails of conspecifics in a threat-sensitive manner. We exposed salamanders either to a control or to damage-released cues from conspecifcs at one of three different concentrations. We found that salamanders exposed to damagereleased cues significantly decreased their activity compared to salamanders exposed to a control. However, the intensity of the responses was not related to the concentration of the cue, suggesting that individuals of P. cinereus do not respond in a threat-sensitive fashion at the concentrations tested.
10.2307/1562705|A key to the skulls of Recent North and Central American turtles, allowing them to be identified to genus, is presented.
10.2307/1563806| A single, intraperitoneal injection of 0.02 g arginine vasotocin (AVT) caused oviposition and associated behaviors in the lizards Sceloporus aeneus aeneus, Hemidactylus frenatus, and Lepidodactylus lugubris. In addition, AVT induced parturition in Sceloporus aeneus bicanthalis, a viviparous lizard. These results, along with previous reports that oviposition or parturition are correlated with regression or surgical removal of corpora lutea, suggest that luteal regression induces AVT secretion. Neither 0.02 g nor 2.0 g AVT stimulated oviposition in Anolis carolinensis, whether the animals were kept in a dry or moist substrate. Since previous work showed that the oviducts of these animals contract in response to AVT in vitro, it is hypothesized that there is a stress-induced neural inhibition of AVT-induced oviduct contraction in vivo. 
41415266|Chemical contamination and physical alteration of the environment can separately or in combination cause changes in the abundance and diversity of amphibian species. However, these factors are typically considered in isolation using experiments focused on single life stages. We examined the terrestrial performance (i.e., growth, survival) of Southern Leopard Frog (Rana sphenocephala) juveniles that had been chronically exposed to one of three initial concentrations of the heavy metal cadmium (0, 5, or 18 g Cd/L) as aquatic larvae. Juveniles were reared in terrestrial enclosures within deciduous forest and open field habitats through their first growth season (summer to autumn). The effect of cadmium (Cd) on terrestrial survival depended on habitat type; survival increased with Cd concentration in the field enclosures and decreased with Cd concentration in the forest enclosures. Terrestrial survival was 73% in the forest enclosures and 54% in the field enclosures, but the difference was not significant. The trend for mass at metamorphosis to increase with Cd concentration was maintained through the first growth season, and frogs collected in autumn from the field enclosures were heavier than their counterparts in the forest. Individuals that survive larval Cd exposure may benefit from a large size, but carryover effects that reduce juvenile survival may occur in forest habitats. The conversion of forest habitat into open fields may be of mixed consequence to the Southern Leopard Frog, in the form of lower survival but better growth among the survivors.
10.2307/1563132|Ten isolations of salmonella representing six serotypes were obtained from intestinal cultures of 124 free-ranging Florida lizards. Seven of the isolants were from lizards captured in among campsites of a county park. The relationship of salmonella and reptiles is summarized.
4092956|Variation in the frequency and intensity of territorial displays occurs within individuals and populations. Such variation should be correlated with variation in potential costs and benefits of the behaviors. We examined temporal variation in vocal displays of male Strawberry Poison-Dart Frogs (Dendrobates pumilio) and investigated correlations with environmental and social factors. Forty-three adult male D. pumilio were studied for six-day sessions. Five vocalization characteristics (total time calling, mean call group duration, number of call groups, call note rate, and proportion of days calling) were quantified. Each of these calling variables was greater between 0630 and 0830 h than at other times through the day. Perch use (occupation of elevated display sites) was greater between 0530 and 0930 h than at other times of day, a period that extends one hour before and after the peak in calling activity. There was no difference between vocalization patterns on or off perches for any of the calling characteristics, but males called during a larger proportion of observations when on perches than when off perches. Snout-vent length was not correlated with any of the calling characteristics. Rainfall during the previous 24-h period was positively correlated with all calling characteristics and perch use.
4498531|Eighteen species of the frog genus Phrynobatrachus are recognized from Cameroon. We describe a new species from Mt. Nlonako in the Littoral Province of Western Cameroon. It was recorded during a six-year amphibian inventory at Mt. Nlonako and is known only from the type locality within a submontane rain forest at an altitude of approximately 450 m. Because of the low number of captures over the six-year period, Phrynobatrachus sp. nov. is considered a secretive leaf litter species. Diagnostic characters are a smooth skin texture, a distinct tympanum, rudimentary webbing, white spots on the lips extending to the hands and along the flanks, and a white interorbital line.
41415238|Large-scale amphibian conservation often relies on remotely sensed data to describe spatial patterns in occupancy. Commonly used data include ownership, forest type, soil class, and proximity of wetlands. We evaluated the influence of these variables on terrestrial amphibian occupancy in southern Michigan. We trapped amphibians using drift-fence arrays in 82 forest patches and estimated detection probabilities for all captured species. Ten species were captured, but only three were detected at levels suitable for occupancy modeling. We concluded that drift-fence arrays alone were not sufficient for adequately detecting the majority of terrestrial amphibians. The best detection models for American Toad (Anaxyrus americanus), Wood Frog (Lithobates sylvaticus), and Spring Peeper (Pseudacns crucifer) consistently included a positive relationship with temperature and precipitation. Detection-adjusted occupancy models for the three anurans indicated relatively high occupancy (>0.43). Ownership, forest type, and soil class did not occur in higher ranking occupancy models. Rather, the higher ranking models often included the distance to National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) wetland and sample year factors. However, these effects were highly variable and of no use in consistently predicting terrestrial amphibian occupancy. Our results substantiate the importance of incorporating detection probabilities into studies of amphibian habitat relationships and suggest that coarse descriptors of environmental conditions may not adequately portray factors important to terrestrial amphibian occupancy.
23326907|Body condition factors have been used as an indicator of health and well-being of crocodilians. We evaluated body condition of Morelet's Crocodiles (Crocodylus moreletii) in northern Belize in relation to biotic (size, sex, and habitat) and abiotic (location, water level, and air temperature) factors. We also tested the hypothesis that high water levels and warm temperatures combine or interact to result in a decrease in body condition. Size class, temperature, and water level explained 20% of the variability in condition of Morelet's Crocodiles in this study. We found that adult crocodiles had higher condition scores than juveniles/subadults but that sex, habitat, and site had no effect. We confirmed our hypothesis that warm temperatures and high water levels interact to decrease body condition. We related body condition of Morelet's Crocodiles to natural fluctuations in air temperatures and water levels in northern Belize, providing baseline conditions for population and ecosystem monitoring.
1566167|To ascertain whether an ambush forager might select ambush posts bearing chemical cues, I presented emerald swifts (Sceloporus malachiticus) a choice between two ambush posts affording minimally overlapping views. One post was labeled with chemical cues from mealworms, the other was unlabeled. Occupancy of ambush posts was random with respect to mealworm scent. It appears that ambush foragers use chemical cues neither to locate and identify prey nor to select ambush posts.
10.2307/1564340|A new subspecies of beaded lizard, Heloderma horridum charlesbogerti, is described from the xeric middle Motagua Valley of eastern Guatemala. It differs from the other subspecies of H. horridum in scalation, body proportions, coloration, and pattern. The Motagua population of H. horridum is widely disjunct from other conspecific populations. The probable vicariance event that shaped present distribution of the Motagua Valley population was the formation of the volcanic cordillera in southern Guatemala during the Quaternary. With the formation of this chain of high mountains, the Pacific coast and piedmont of Guatemala became more mesic, fragmenting Heloderma populations and restricting H. horridum to the east and west in drier habitats.
41515045|Leptophis santamartensis, known only from Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia, is one of the more poorly known species of the genus Leptophis, The characters used for its diagnosis largely overlap with those of other Leptophis, mainly with Leptophis ahaetulla occidentalis, the only other Leptophis known to occur in the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta. A detailed comparison of L. a. occidentalis with the two known specimens of L. santamartensis leads to the conclusion that the latter should be relegated to the synonymy of the former.
10.2307/1564909|We examined body size and head dimensions in relation to cannibalism in larvae of an autumn-breeding salamander, Ambystoma annulatum. Body size distribution was both broad and discontinuous; a class of large larvae was present for much of the larval period. Larvae of all sizes preyed upon zooplankton and insect larvae, but some large larvae were cannibalistic. Larvae of the large size class were first to metamorphose and produced the largest metamorphosed salamanders found. Comparison of allometric relationships in cannibals and noncannibals indicated that cannibals had proportionally broader heads, but the differences were less than those observed between cannibal and noncannibal morphs of the tiger salamander, A. tigrinum. The mean body length of cannibals was twice that of their conspecific prey. The long breeding season of this species probably contributes to the incidence of cannibalism by increasing size variation of larvae. Although the spawn of early breeders may be likely to gain selective advantages, later breeding may be maintained because early breeders may face greater risk due to unpredictable pond conditions.
10.2307/1562908|The hardiness of Scaphiopus larvae is well known, but it has not been reported that some can survive completely out of water on wet mud. A single larva of Scaphiopus bombifrons was observed in Pool 12, Tillman Co., Oklahoma, to survive almost 20 hrs completely out of water. Other larvae were observed to orient in a supine position with their mouths upward. A dry mud cover formed over them as the pool dried; the dry mud cover appeared to serve as a "seal" to additional moisture escaping and provided that additional time for the larvae to metamorphose.
4092892|A new species of Ischnocnema is described from cloud forests in the Andes of northwestern Bolivia (La Paz Department). The new species can be distinguished from all other Ischnocnema except Ischnocnema sanctaecrucis by the presence of a pale sacral stripe from the level of the caudal tip of the coccyx to the level of the sacrum, well-developed occipital and sacral folds, rounded narrow terminal discs 1.3 times as wide as the corresponding phalange, and dorsal skin moderately warty. It can be distinguished from I. sanctaecrucis, also of the Bolivian cloud forests, by having head longer than wide, well-marked occipital and sacral folds, longer subacuminate to rounded snout, ventral regions mostly cream with little brown mottling, and dorsal region without reddish to scarlet mottling or spots. The new species shares some characteristics with other species of Ischnocnema and members of the Eleutherodactylus discoidalis group, and it appears closely related to I. sanctaecrucis.
4092928|I reared four species of anurans (Rana sphenocephala [Southern Leopard Frog], Rana blairi [Plains Leopard Frog], Rana clamitans [Green Frog], and Bufo woodhousii [Woodhouse's Toad]) for seven to 12 months in small, outdoor terrestrial enclosures (1 x 2 m) to examine the consequences of larval competition (via density) and contaminant exposure (via the insecticide carbaryl). I added six Rana clamitans, eight Rana sphenocephala, eight Rana blairi, and 10 Bufo woodhousii to terrestrial enclosures shortly after metamorphosis and recaptured them during the following spring. All anurans from low-density ponds were significantly larger than those from high-density ponds, but these size differences did not significantly affect survival to or size at spring emergence. However, R. sphenocephala, R. blairi, and R. clamitans that survived to spring had been larger at metamorphosis on average than those that did not survive; in contrast, B. woodhousii that survived the winter were smaller at metamorphosis on average than those that did not survive. Carbaryl exposure affected mass at metamorphosis of R. clamitans and B. woodhousii that were added to enclosures, but this difference disappeared or did not increase by spring emergence. Overall, exposure to carbaryl during the larval period did not have any apparent effects on survival or growth during the terrestrial phase. In my study, anurans were able to offset small size at metamorphosis with terrestrial growth, although there was a trend of reduced overwinter survival for ranid species that metamorphosed at a smaller size.
10.2307/1564768|In five study areas in the Okefenokes Swamp, Georgia, 129 nests of alligators were located during 13 nesting seasons. The total predation rate on these nests was 69%; the predation rate of 93% in one study area is the highest ever reported for an alligator population. Predation on nests was significantly higher during nesting periods with low water levels. The nest defense strategies of alligators were investigated using log-linear analysis; nests guarded from humans had a significantly lower predation rate than either attended or unattended nests. Surveillance cameras monitored turtles, Pseudemys nelsoni, using alligator nests as oviposition sites. These cameras also identified bears, Ursus americanus, as the primary predator of alligator eggs.
10.2307/1565608|Phalangeal elements from 80 individuals from two populations of the Ramsey Canyon leopard frog, Rana subaquavocalis, were sectioned, stained and then examined to estimate individual ages and to determine population age structure and growth curves. Large adults from the Ramsey Canyon population exceeded 100 mm in body length and had as many as 10 resting lines indicating that they were 11 years postmetamorphosis. In contrast the majority of the 38 specimens from the Barchas Ranch population were small, under 70 mm in body length, and were five or less years old. Growth curves for both populations were constructed based on body size and the number of resting lines in bone sections. Growth rates for males in the Ramsey Canyon population are lower than females. The population age structure revealed in this study has implications to conservation efforts. Our findings suggest that the Ramsey Canyon population was composed largely of reproductive and very old reproductive individuals whereas at the time of analysis the Barchas Ranch population was larger and contained mostly prereproductive individuals.
40060544|Understanding the relationships between animal population demography and the abiotic and biotic elements of the environments in which they live is a central objective in population ecology. For example, correlations between weather variables and the probability of survival in populations of temperate zone amphibians may be broadly applicable to several species if such correlations can be validated for multiple situations. This study focuses on the probability of survival and evaluates hypotheses based on six weather variables in three populations of Boreal Toads (Bufo boreas) from central Colorado over eight years. In addition to suggesting a relationship between some weather variables and survival probability in Boreal Toad populations, this study uses robust methods and highlights the need for demographic estimates that are precise and have minimal bias. Capture-recapture methods were used to collect the data, and the Cormack-Jolly-Seber model in program MARK was used for analysis. The top models included minimum daily winter air temperature, and the sum of the model weights for these models was 0.956. Weaker support was found for the importance of snow depth and the amount of environmental moisture in winter in modeling survival probability. Minimum daily winter air temperature was positively correlated with the probability of survival in Boreal Toads at other sites in Colorado and has been identified as an important covariate in studies in other parts of the world. If air temperatures are an important component of survival for Boreal Toads or other amphibians, changes in climate may have profound impacts on populations.
10.2307/1564223|Eggs of black racers (Coluber constrictor) incubated at 28 C hatched in 39-40 days (N = 7) compared to 62-63 days (N = 7) for eggs incubated at 22 C. Although mass did not differ, snout-vent length was significantly less for hatchlings incubated at 22 C compared to 28 C. Hatchlings incubated at 28 C held their heads higher prior to striking, had longer strike distances, and reached higher when striking than hatchlings incubated at 22 C. Similarly, 28 C hatchlings held more of their body erect when moving from a solid surface than did 22 C hatchlings. However, there were no significant differences in maximum movement speed when tested on a 1 m track. Eggs of kingsnakes (Lampropeltis getulus) incubated at 22 C (N = 3) failed to hatch; eggs incubated at 28 C (N = 10) hatched in 52-54 days, compared to 39-40 days for eggs incubated at 32 C (N = 4). Although there was no difference in weight, kingsnakes from eggs incubated at 28 C had longer snout-vent lengths than those incubated at 32 C. All behavioral measures (except escape speed) differed significantly, with 28 C snakes performing better than those incubated at 32 C. The latter group did not even engage in striking behavior. These results indicate that temperature effects on incubating embryos may be general for snakes lending support to the set point theory.
10.2307/1562980|The gut contents of 486 salamanders representing all five species (Plethodon cinereus, Desmognathus fuscus, Eurycea bislineata, Gyrinophilus porphyriticus, and Notophthalmus viridescens) occurring in the northern hardwoods forest of central New Hampshire were analyzed. These data show that there is broad niche overlap in the feeding ecology of the five species but spatial (habitat) separation, and gradients in size of adult salamanders effectively reduce competition for food resources. The food habits of all five species in the forest are described in detail. Generally, all five species are euryphagic predators and feed on any food they can capture in the proper size category.
25599215|We evaluated the diets of three sympatric anuran species, the native Northern Pacific Treefrog, Pseudacris regilla, and Foothill Yellow-Legged Frog, Rana boylii, and the introduced American Bullfrog, Lithobates catesbeianus, based on stomach contents of frogs collected at 36 sites in 1997 and 1998. This investigation was part of a study of mercury bioaccumulation in the biota of the Cache Creek Watershed in north-central California, an area affected by mercury contamination from natural sources and abandoned mercury mines. We collected R. boylii at 22 sites, L. catesbeianus at 21 sites, and P. regilla at 13 sites. We collected both L. catesbeianus and R. boylii at nine sites and all three species at five sites. Pseudacris regilla had the least aquatic diet (100% of the samples had terrestrial prey vs. 5% with aquatic prey), followed by R. boylii (98% terrestrial, 28% aquatic), and L. catesbeianus, which had similar percentages of terrestrial (81%) and aquatic prey (74%). Observed predation by L. catesbeianus on R. boylii may indicate that interaction between these two species is significant. Based on their widespread abundance and their preference for aquatic foods, we suggest that, where present, L. catesbeianus should be the species of choice for all lethal biomonitoring of mercury in amphibians.
10.2307/1562771|The relationship of temperature to hibernation in a thermophilic lizard, Sceloporus occidentalis, was investigated by use of a photothermal gradient (12.5-60 C substrate temperatures). During the hibernation period of field populations one group of laboratory lizards was provided with a heat lamp and placed in a cool room (12.5 C). This group was active every day thereafter. However, lizards without a heat lamp in the same room became spontaneously active 22 days later, but not before. It is suggested that in the absence of available photothermal stimulation lizards were dormant; and that interruption of dormancy was due to internal influences such as hormonal state.
25599257|Seasonal shifts and overlap in home range are poorly known in the Leopard Tortoise (Stigmochelys pardalis). Consequently, these, together with daily distance moved, were investigated in the semiarid Nama-Karoo, as a function of season, sex, and body mass. Annual home-range size was significantly greater for telemetered compared with nontelemetered tortoises stressing the importance of telemetry in spatial ecological studies of tortoises. Consequently, only telemetered tortoises were analyzed further in terms of variation between seasons and sexes. Home ranges differed significantly with season and were smallest in winter, when tortoises were less active. Seasonal home-range size did not differ between sexes. Considerable individual variation existed in the amount of home-range overlap both within and between sexes. Daily distance moved in each season was highly variable for each individual and between individuals. However, the least movement occurred in winter in all individuals. Home-range size and daily distances moved in the active seasons were larger than for Leopard Tortoises found in more mesic habitats, suggesting a resource availability effect. Increased home-range size, in conjunction with their low density and population size, has implications for Leopard Tortoise conservation in semiarid regions in terms of planning and designating conservation areas. Variation in home-range size with regard to habitat type must be considered when planning terrestrial tortoise conservation efforts.
41515041|We investigated the role of amphibian prey in the diet and distribution of the Aquatic Gartersnake (Thamnophis atratus) in the San Francisco Bay Area of California, USA. During surveys for amphibians and snakes at 185 ponds, we captured 139 T. atratus, of which 60 contained identifiable stomach contents. Native amphibians were found in 93% of the snakes containing food. Analysis of stomach contents indicated that Pacific Chorus Frogs (Pseudacris regula) were the most important amphibian prey, followed by Western Toads (Anaxyrus [=Bufo] boreas), California Newts (Taricha torosa), and California Red-legged Frogs (Rana draytonii). The occurrence of T. atratus at a pond associated positively with the presence of all native amphibian species but negatively associated with the presence of introduced American Bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeianus [=Rana catesbeiana]). The mean species richness of native amphibians at ponds where we detected T. atratus was also higher than that in ponds without Gartersnakes (2.45 vs. 1.74), and the odds of finding T. atratus at ponds with native amphibians was 12 times greater than at ponds without native amphibians. Our results underscore both the importance of native amphibians in the diet and distribution of T. atratus and the potential implications of ongoing amphibian declines for animals that prey on amphibians.
41415247|Amphibians show strong dependence on environmental variables (water balance, temperature). However, interactions affecting geographic distribution of body size are poorly known. We present an analysis of body size within and between species of an anuran genus using a climatic approach. We studied geographic body size distribution in 23 species of South American redbelly toads (Melanophryniscus) spanning 16 latitude, 22 longitude, and 2,400 m altitude. Body size was analyzed in relation to climatic parameters including temperature, precipitation, seasonality, evapotranspiration, and water balance at interspecific, interpopulational (all populations regardless of species), and intraspecific (populations within species) levels. LogSVL was regressed against climatic principal components scores using simultaneous autoregression. Interspecifically and interpopulationally, temperature and precipitation are the main factors responsible for the observed size clines, larger body sizes being associated with decreasing maximum ambient temperature and water availability. Intraspecific results for two species suggested comparable body-size trends. That temperature affects these size clines is reinforced by the strong positive correlation of logSVL with altitude. Because anurans strongly depend on water for survival and reproduction, it is reasonable that, besides temperature, larger body size is favored in drier environments, which is supported by the correlation between body size and coefficients of variation of annual rainfall: lower surface : volume ratios in larger species would help conserve water in unpredictable environments. Also, Melanophryniscus has reproductive peculiarities associated with ephemeral aquatic environments: explosive breeding synchronized with rainfall; eggs deposited in several clutches; and rapid tadpole development, which suggest a strong relationship between life history and water balance.
10.2307/1563930| Body temperature was measured by a 108 mHz transmitter inerted into a mouse subsequently consumed by the snake. The transmitter assumed a fixed position in the gut and did not interfere with the digestion or elimination of food. Light and heat were provided by a 100 w bulb located at one end of the cage thereby providing a gradient of temperature from 22 to 45 and of light from 40 to 3900 lux. Continuous recordings of temperature were made on 3 male and 3 female vipers under conditions of continuous light, of darkness, or of a dark-light rhythm of 12 hrs. In the dark, body temperature was same as substrate; in day-night, the vipers had a rhythmicity previously described by Naulleau and Marqus (1973); in permanent light the body temperature showed very little variation (1.29) but nevertheless was significantly higher during the normal day (8 AM to 8 PM), indicating an innate internal rhythm. The mean body temperature was higher in a pregnant female than other females and higher in females than in males. Digestion of a mouse lasted 5 to 6 days under day-night conditions but only 1.5 to 3 days under permanent light. (Henri C. Siebert) /// Pour effectuer cette tude, des metteurs cylindriques de 60 m/m de long, 15,5 m/m de diamtre, pesant 15 grammes, ont t utiliss. La frquence d'mission est de 108 Megahertz. L'metteur est introduit dans une souris qui est ingre par le serpent. Il prend rapidement une position fixe dans le tube digestif, ne gne pas la digestion des proies et l'excrtion des dchets. La temprature de la vipre est enregistre en permanence  raison de une mesure toutes les 5 minutes. Les expriences ont t ralises en laboratoire dans une cage de 1m  0,50 m  0,50 m chauffe et claire par une ampoule de 100 W. La dure de fonctionnement de l'ampoule varie suivant l'exprimentation. La luminosit au sol varie 40  3 900 lux selon l'emplacement considr dans la cage, mais les vipres frquentent surtout les zones o il y a 410 et 3 900 lux. L'exprimentation a surtout t ralise en lumire et chauffage continus avec 6 vipres (3 femelles et 3 mles) totalisant 51 jours d'enregistrement de temprature. La temprature maximum enregistre a t 36. Les femelles ont des exigences thermiques suprieures  celles des mles. En dbut de gestation, les femelles recherchent des tempratures plus leves que les femelles non gestantes. La dure de digestion varie selon les conditions thermiques, lorsque la lampe est allume de 8 h  20 h, elle est de 5  6 jours, et 1 jour   3 jours lorsque la lampe fonctionne en permanence. 
4498563| Chytridiomycosis (infection by the fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis) has been associated with amphibian declines in at least four continents. We report results of disease screens from 210 pond-breeding amphibians from 37 field sites in Oregon and Washington. We detected B. dendrobatidis on 28% of sampled amphibians, and we found  1 detection of B. dendrobatidis from 43% of sites. Four of seven species tested positive for B. dendrobatidis, including the Northern Red-Legged Frog (Rana aurora), Columbia Spotted Frog (Rana luteiventris), and Oregon Spotted Frog (Rana pretiosa). We also detected B. dendrobatidis in nonnative American Bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) from six sites in western and central Oregon. Our study and other recently published findings suggest that B. dendrobatidis has few geographic and host taxa limitations among North American anurans. Further research on virulence, transmissibility, persistence, and interactions with other stressors is needed to assess the potential impact of B. dendrobatidis on Pacific Northwestern amphibians. 
25599208|A new species of brachycephalid frog is described from So Lus do Paraitinga, in the Atlantic Rain Forest of So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. The new species is characterized by male SVL = 10.8-12.1 and female SVL = 12.6-14.0 mm; and general color orange with dorsal reddish irregular markings, lateral surfaces with small dark brown spots, and belly with brownish spots and small dots. Comparisons with other brachycephalid species and osteological data are provided. /// Uma nova espcie de braquicefaldeo  descrita da localidade de So Lus do Paraitinga, na Floresta Atlntica do estado de So Paulo, sudeste do Brasil. A nova espcie  caracterizada pelo comprimento rostro-clocal que nos machos varia de 10,8 a 12,1 mm e nas fmeas de 12,6 a 14,0 mm; colorao geral alaranjada com manchas irregulares no dorso de cor avermelhada, superfcies laterais, com pequenas manchas marrom-escuro e ventre com manchas marrons. So includas comparaes com as outras espcies de braquicefaldeos e dados osteolgicos.
10.2307/1562869|A new species of parthenogenetic whiptail lizard, Cnemidophorus dixoni, is described from Presidio County in southwest Texas. A summary of pertinent literature relating to the taxonomic status of parthenogenetic vertebrates is presented. Two pattern classes, C. dixoni A and C. dixoni B, are recognized for the two morphologically distinct populations occurring in the Chinati Mountains. A population of whiptail lizards from Hidalgo County, New Mexico, previously recognized as C. tesselatus F is referred to C. dixoni. Ecological interrelationships between C. dixoni and sympatric species of Cnemidophorus, including C. tesselatus, are discussed.
10.2307/1563532|Certain niche characteristics were quantified for Opheodrys aestivus in a forest habitat surrounding a central Arkansas lake. Preferred microhabitat for this diurnal, arboreal, forest edge species was dense, highly-branched vegetation. There was no preference for plant taxon, but selection of perch height, perch diameter, perch angle and position on branch was restricted. Diel variation in some perch parameters was seen. Intraspecific class differences (sex, snout-vent length) were slight. More than 85% of the diet consisted of caterpillars, spiders, grasshoppers and crickets, and odonates. These prey were most abundant at the forest edge and were consumed by snakes in disproportion to the abundance of prey in the habitat. Distances between recaptures and size of activity range were markedly restricted compared to other snakes.
40983658|We examined the influence of reduced hemoglobin concentrations resulting from malarial infection on metabolism and thermorgulation in the Fence Lizard, Sceloporus occidentalis. Malarial infections diminish the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood, depressing hemoglobin concentrations by as much as 25%. Lizards collected from Oregon were screened for Plasmodium mexicanutn. Malaria-infected and uninfected lizards were placed on a temperature-controlled treadmill at preferred body temperature (35 C) and induced to walk at constant speed for 5 min (0.7 m min) or sprint maximally to exhaustion (< 2 min of activity). Excess oxygen consumption during recovery was over 30% higher in infected lizards when compared to uninfected lizards following similar levels of activity. Malarial infection significantly elevated blood lactate levels following sprint or endurance activity (20 and 36% elevation, respectively) when compared to uninfected lizards. Malarial infection significantly increased preferred body temperature tested in a thermal gradient following sustained activity (2-4 C increase) but had little impact on thermorgulation following exhaustive exercise. There was a strong negative correlation between hemoglobin concentration and postactivity body temperature. Our findings suggest that there are metabolic costs, measured as excess oxygen consumption and thermorgulation disruptions, associated with malaria-induced hemoglobin depression. These results may help explain limited size and reproductive success previously measured in malaria-infected lizards.
25599268|Predators must balance their time between foraging (searching for and capturing food) and other necessary behaviors, such as courtship, mating, territoriality, and predator avoidance. The purpose of this study was to determine how much time two lizard species (Sceloporus jarrovii and Sceloporus virgatus) spent in foraging, aggressive, general maintenance, and basking behaviors. Two age classes of S. jarrovii were examined in this study, neonate and adult, whereas only adults of S. virgatus were studied. Lizards were observed for 30-min intervals from late May through July in 2004 and 2005 at two research sites in southeastern Arizona. Neonatal S. jarrovii spent more time running and foraging during observational intervals than did adults of either species, which may be a result of their higher metabolic needs. Adult S. virgatus spent more time doing head bobs than did either age class of S. jarrovii, possibly explained by the notion that this behavior is used for both aggression and courtship and both were occurring for S. virgatus during the study. In contrast, adult S. jarrovii spent little time in head bobs, because courtship and mating in this species were not occurring during the time of the study. Very little time was spent actively foraging by any subject lizard group, because the majority of time was spent immobile, likely basking or passively searching for prey. Differential amounts of time spent in the various measured behaviors can be explained by the reproductive or developmental state of the lizards involved.
10.2307/1563869|Reproductive periods, mating calls, nuptial pads, amplexus, eggs, embryos, tadples and oviposition sites of Eupsophus roseus and E. vittatus are described. Natural history provides important additional characteristics for generic definition, which are used to modify the definition of the genus Eupsophus.
10.2307/1565901|Although the behavioral significance of bright female coloration has been evaluated for many organisms, its role in squamates is less clear. The conditional signal hypothesis posits that bright female coloration signals are conditional upon the degree of coloration: early in the breeding season low-intensity coloration signals courtship receptivity, whereas later in the season high-intensity pigmentation signals courtship rejection. This system is adaptive if the benefits of color maintenance and expression outweigh the costs associated with conspicuous markings. Results of this work on the lesser earless lizard, Holbrookia maculata, of southern New Mexico, suggest that females (1) maximize the potential for egg fertilization by stimulating courtship with low-intensity coloration when eggs are ready for fertilization, and (2) reject courtship with high-intensity pigmentation when carrying fertilized eggs. This line of evidence establishes a more complete explanation for the adaptive role of bright female coloration in lizards.
43287373|The trade-offs associated with maternal provisioning strategies in amphibians are well documented. Relevant studies typically demonstrate that female body size is correlated positively with provisioning of resources to offspring; females may augment offspring resources by increasing the size of the clutch or increasing individual egg size. Alternatively, females may practice one or more alternative strategies, including increasing variation of egg size within the clutch or switching from one strategy to another between breeding events. For this study we examined the trade-off provisioning strategy employed by Red-eyed Treefrogs (Agalychnis callidryas), a species with predator-induced flexibility in hatching age. We recorded the mass of 30 females found amplexed with males in the field, as well as clutch size, individual egg diameter, and total yolk volume resulting from the pairings. Our hypothesis that female mass would be correlated positively with total yolk volume was not supported, nor were most other traditionally expected trade-offs. However, we found that there was a significant difference between the largest and smallest eggs within clutches, and that clutches differed in egg size variability, with larger females tending to produce clutches with less variation in egg size. For the largest females, there was a positive trend between female mass and total yolk volume, and a significant and positive relationship between female mass and total number of eggs. These data suggest that a combination of maternal provisioning strategies may be present in this population of A. callidryas, which is likely an adaptive response to an unpredictable environment
10.2307/1565047|The summer diet of the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus and the availability of potential prey were compared at a Mediterranean evergreen woodland in central Iberia. Prey size proved to be the main factor implied in the selection of both prey taxa and individual prey items: lizards were selective in the sizes of the arthropods they captured, their selectivity for different prey types was related to the mean volume of these types, and they tended to capture only the larger items when feeding from the smaller prey types. We conclude that lizards did not assess the taxonomic identity of arthropods but rather relied on prey size in their responses to food availability.
41415326|Anuran amphibians feature at least two olfactory systems, the main olfactory organ and the vomeronasal organ (VNO). Although the main olfactory organ is known to detect air-borne olfactory stimuli, the capacities of the anuran VNO are still under discussion. One unresolved question is how chemical stimuli reach the vomeronasal sensory epithelium. The present study investigates, for the first time, the anatomical relationship between the anuran lateral nasal glands (LNG) and the VNOs of adult and developing animals. Based on the histological results, it seems very likely that the LNG is involved in the functioning of the vomeronasal system. First, the orifice of the LNG in adult animals of three investigated anuran species is always located nearby the external naris but, at the same time directly above the entrance to the lower nasal cavities and, thus, the VNO. Secretions discharged by the gland are observed to move toward this entrance. Furthermore in the development of the gland during metamorphosis, the spatial affiliation between the glandular opening and the VNO becomes prominent. The secretions of the LNG may carry chemical stimuli from the entrance of the nasal cavity to the vomeronasal sensory epithelium, a scenario already described for so-called odorant-binding proteins (OBP), found in secretions of the mammalian LNG. The question of whether the stimuli trapped by the gland secretions may be volatile is discussed in the light of the present and previous results.
10.2307/1565359|Moss frogs of the genus Arthroleptella from the mountains of the Western Cape, South Africa are morphologically identical, and were once placed in a single species. Previous fieldwork on these cryptic animals inhabiting seepage areas has shown the presence of allopatric populations on isolated mountains. We present a molecular phylogeny and describe a new species that is sympatric with Arthroleptella villiersi. It has a unique advertisement call, and the skin is smoother, with nostrils placed slightly wider than the other species.
4092951|Little is known about the biology of the Order Gymnophiona of the Class Amphibia. The organs of their immune system have been described only in adult specimens. We describe the development of the immune system in Typhlonectes compressicauda embryos from stages 24-33. At stage 24, just prior to hatching, the thymus and spleen develop from the fourth, fifth, and sixth visceral pouches. The spleen develops from a bud of cells in the mesentery, situated between the stomach and the mesonephros, and the thymus comprises a medulla and cortex. By stage 28, between hatching and metamorphosis, organelles resembling Hassal's corpuscles develop in the thymus, and are retained to the end of development and throughout adult life. At stage 30, just before metamorphosis, the spleen becomes organized into the red and white pulp. Upon disappearance of blood islets, lymphocytes appear to circulate between the spleen and thymus through the blood vessels. The kidney is never haematopoietic in either embryos or adults. The liver, which has been described as equivalent to the bone marrow, develops earlier than the thymus or the spleen, and becomes granulocytopoietic and monocytopoietic at stage 30. The development of the immune organs of Typhlonectes compressicauda is distinct from that of Anura and Urodela, although apparently closer to the Anura, because the spleen develops distinctly later than the thymus. The presence of a white and a red pulp in the spleen and of a medulla and a cortex in the thymus in early stages of differentiation indicate a highly evolved immune system in this species.
10.2307/1563363|Trunk vertebrae of a new species of Necturus from the Paleocene of southern Saskatchewan are described. These represent the oldest definite record of the Proteidae. Available evidence indicates that proteids and the extinct batrachosauroidids are closely related, and that Proteus and Necturus are of monophyletic origin.
10.2307/1563562|Because a male plethodontid salamander actively uses its tail during courtship, an experiment was designed to compare differences in courtship ability and insemination success between male D. ochrophaeus with and without intact tails. Rates of spermatophore deposition and of female insemination were scored during two blocks of staged courtship encounters: during the first block of tests, both experimental and control groups of males had intact tails; during the second block, experimental males were tailless while the control males had intact tails. Courtship and insemination scores did not differ significantly between control and experimental males either before or after tail loss.
4092937|Five specimens of Lepidophyma radula were collected recently near San Pablo Villa de Mitla, Oaxaca. The species had not been collected since its description in 1942. A redescription of the holotype is presented, including new and important taxonomic characters proposed by other workers.
25599276|Atractus bocki was described based on a single specimen from the Cochabamba region in Bolivia, and since its original description, there have been no further records for the species. During the examination of Argentinean and Bolivian collections, we found four additional specimens of this poorly known snake. In this paper, we describe these individuals and report new data on meristic and morphometric variation for A. bocki. We also evaluate the taxonomic status of Atractus canedii and propose its synonymy with A. bocki. /// Atractus bocki fue descrita en base a un espcimen proveniente de la regin de Cochabamba en Bolivia y desde su descripcin original no hubieron registros adicionales para la especie. Durante la revisin de las colecciones de Argentina y Bolivia fueron encontrados cuatro ejemplares adicionales de esta serpiente muy poco conocida. En este trabajo describimos estos especmenes y reportamos datos nuevos de variacin merstica y morfomtrica para A. bocki. La posicin taxonmica de Atractus canedii tambin fue evaluada y proponemos su sinonimizacin con A. bocki.
10.2307/1562954| Two new subspecies of Tretanorhinus nigroluteus are described on the basis of their color and head scutellation. T. n. dichromaticus from Roatn Island, Honduras, has a dichromatism hitherto unknown in the genus. T. n. obscurus from the Corn Islands, Nicaragua, is the darkest known form of nigroluteus. 
1566217|The description of the species Callulina kreffti was based on specimens collected in the East Usambara Mountains of Tanzania. Successive collecting has shown this species to be widely distributed through the Eastern Arc Mountains. Advertisement calls from populations in the type locality of Callulina kreffti were compared with calls from populations in the West Usambara Mountains. Analysis of the calls suggested that these two populations of Callulina represent two separate taxa. Subsequent morphological and molecular investigations indicated that these two populations are distinct. Herein, we describe a new Callulina species on the basis of call, morphology and molecular sequences.
10.2307/1565083|The ability to recognize chemical cues from predatory snakes is congenital in the common lizard Lacerta vivipara. This conclusion follows from a series of experiments in which we observed the behavior of naive lab-born lizards in terraria that had previously been inhabited by predatory snakes. Chemicals from both the viper Vipera berus (a sympatric predator) and the smooth snake Coronella austriaca (an allopatric saurophagic snake) elicited a sharp increase in tongue-flick rates. The lizards, when confronted with snake chemicals, exhibited an increased number of foot shakes, tail vibrations and starts, and moved about in a strange, jerky way. In these aspects, the behavioral response of juvenile lizards resembled that of adults. The only quantitative age-related difference concerned thermoregularoty behavior: whereas juveniles refrained almost completely from basking in the presence of snake chemicals, adult lizards basked equally long in snake and control experiments.
10.2307/1565986| A new species of Tropidophis is described from the northern coast of eastern Cuba, in the province of Holgun. It is a small, spotted species previously confused with Tropidophis haetianus of Hispaniola. It differs from that species in being smaller, and in scalation and coloration. It is tentatively placed in the maculatus species group. Tropidophis galacelidus and Tropidophis hardyi are recognized as valid species rather than subspecies of Tropidophis pilsbryi and Tropidophis nigriventris, respectively. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Tropidophis del noroeste de la provincia de Holgun. Es una especie pequea de Tropidophis que anteriormente haba sido confundida con Tropidophis haetianus de La Espaola. Se diferencia de esta especie en ser de menor tamao, as como en escamacin y colorido. Se le sita tentativamente en el grupo de especies maculatus. Se reconocen como valids a nivel especfico las especies Tropidophis galacelidus y Tropidophis hardyi en vez de considerarlas subespecies de los txones Tropidophis pilsbryi y Tropidophis nigriventris, respectivamente. 
10.2307/1565953|The taxonomic changes proposed by Wells and Wellington (1985a, Australian J. Herpetol., Suppl. Ser. 1:1-61) are evaluated in light of the application of the fourth edition (1999) of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature (ICZN). Of their proposed names, only the genus Macrochelodina (for which we fix a new type species), and the species Elseya purvisi and Emydura worrelli (a synonym of Emydura subglobosa) represent available names. Their lectotype designation for Emydura victoriae is complicated by their choice of a specimen of Emydura macquarii and will require action by the ICZN to prevent a destabilization of these names. To prevent a similar problem, we herein designate a lectotype for Chelodina expansa.
1566086|A new species of Echinosaura, Echinosaura brachycephala, is described from two localities on the Pacific versant of the Ecuadorian Andes. The new species differs from all other species of the genus by its conspicuously short head with a high domed snout in lateral profile and various scalation characteristics including the number of ventral scales per caudal segment, the arrangement of dorsal body scales, and a reduced or absent postmental scale. A key to the species of Echinosaura and Teuchocercus is provided.
10.2307/1563802|Inquiry into the identity of softshell turtles in Hawaii reveals the occurrence of two species, Trionyx steindachneri and T. sinensis, living in wild populations on the island of Kauai, and at least T. steindachneri also occurring on Oahu. Descriptive and life history data are provided for the little-known T. steindachneri.
10.2307/1563429| Brachylophus fasciatus (Brongniart 1800) is widely distributed throughout Fiji and Tonga Groups, though little is known about its abundance on different islands. Brachylophus vitiensis sp. nov. is described from Yaduataba Island (16 50 S; 178 20 E), Fiji. Since B. brevicephalus Avery and Tanner 1970 is here regarded as synonymous with B. fasciatus, the genus has until now been monotypic. B. vitiensis differs from B. fasciatus in several morphological features including larger size; longer spines on the nape; little sexual dimorphism; a differently shaped dewlap; narrower vertical bands on the body; pinkish-gold eye coloration; greater numbers of upper and lower labial scales; structure of the nostril scale; the greater color lability; whitish ventral coloration; and larger eggs and hatchlings. There are also ecological and behavioral differences. The new iguanine can change color rapidly from light green to jet black in less than five minutes, though reversal to green takes far longer. B. vitiensis is apparently more primitive than B. fasciatus, and shows more obvious affinities with other iguanine genera including Conolophus, Iguana and Cyclura. The ancestral form of Brachylophus probably arrived in the South Pacific from the Americas on rafts of floating vegetation on a course determined by the South Equatorial Curent. The presence in Fiji and Tonga of the Atlantic mangrove, Rhizophora mangle, is in line with this view. 
1566219|Sexual dimorphism is widespread in animals, either because of sexual selection or ecological divergence between the sexes. In natricine snakes, for example, females are usually larger than males and have larger heads and shorter tails relative to body length. Grass Snakes (Natrix natrix) near Canterbury, U.K., generally proved to be typical natricines in these respects. Most differences between the sexes were apparent at hatching, rather than being confined to adults, but there was no evidence that the sexes differed in allometry. Despite high r<sup>2</sup>-values, allometry of relationships of body mass, head width, and tail length with body length were not satisfactorily explained by linear regressions (using log-transformed data). Rather, both polynomial and piecewise regressions provided better fits, suggesting that allometric coefficients were not constant but varied with body size. Nonetheless, all analyses were in agreement that small snakes had relatively heavier bodies and wider heads than large snakes. How general such patterns are, and their ecological significance, remain to be determined.
10.2307/1564284|In the ponds of some regions of France, Triturus cristatus and Triturus marmoratus coexist and natural hybrids can be found. In the course of our study examining evolutionary strategies of newts, the method of individual age determination (skeletochronology) was applied. Cross-sections of femurs and phalanges were stained with Ehrlich hematoxylin. Hematoxylinophilic lines considered to be Lines of Arrested Growth (LAG) were observed and carefully counted. Our results on longevity, median age, sexual maturity and growth rate concur with the observations on life span of the two species in allopatric situations. The general morphology of the hybrids, age at sexual maturity and median life span were intermediate between those of the parental species.
10.2307/1564356|Measurements of four external morphological features of 132 live smooth snakes were compared with data from the literature. A statistical evaluation of snout-vent length, the number of ventralia, and the number of subcaudalia enabled the development of a classification criterion by means of which the sex of a snake can be determined from the numbers of ventral body and tail scales. More than 90% of 132 snakes could be sexed in this way with greater than 95% confidence. The identification of sex of 22 preserved snakes from Dutch museums by means of this criterion proved to be 100% correct upon dissection of the specimens.
10.2307/1564588|Field body temperature records from seven species of Thamnophis were used to investigate intrageneric variation of body temperature selection under field conditions. There was no evidence for geographic or interspecific variation of thermal preferenda in Thamnophis. Major factors imposing constraints or influencing body temperature were found to be season, weather, macrohabitat, time of day, reproductive status, and activity type. After controlling for these factors, field-selected body temperatures converged on an apparent intragenerically stable preferendum near 30 C, with means ranging from 28.04-30.53 C for the study populations. Observations on thermoregulatory behavior suggest that behavioral adjustments compensate for thermal differences among habitats and across latitude. Review of the literature revealed that intrageneric variation of PBT in snakes has yet to be demonstrated unequivocally. The potential significance of, and possible reasons for, the conservatism of PBT in snakes are discussed in terms of stabilizing selection and plasticity of activity timing in the diel cycle.
10.2307/1562956|Two new localities of Plethodon dunni in Del Norte County, California, constitute the first report of the species in the state and from redwood forest areas. Biogeographic barriers that occur along the California-Oregon border are discussed. Five Rhyacotriton olympicus found in Josephine County, Oregon, represent a new inland record for the species. Discovery of Ascaphus truei in the McCloud River region of north-central California extends the range of the frog 41 airline miles eastward. The distribution and habitat of Hydromantes shastae are reviewed, and three new localities are reported near the McCloud River USFS Station, Shasta County, California. We recommend protection of limestone outcrops that harbor H. shastae and that these salamanders be taken sparingly if at all.
41415276|Although the treefrog Hypsiboas albopunctatus (Spix, 1824) (Anura: Hylidae) is abundant in South America, especially in regions of open vegetation in Brazil, information regarding its natural history is still scarce. This study describes its ecology including aspects of microhabitat use, population dynamics, diet, and reproduction in the Cerrado biome of central Brazil. We used model selection to test hypotheses of variation in survival and recapture rates as a function of differences in sex, seasonality, and climatic variables. We also tested hypotheses regarding sexual dimorphism. This species uses mainly herbaceous vegetation and bushes along margins of the ponds. Apparent survival, estimated using the Cormack-Jolly-Seber mark-recapture model, was higher for males than females and was negatively correlated with rainfall. Recapture probability was influenced by seasonality, presenting higher values in the wet season. This highlights the influence of weather, especially seasonal rainfall, on the population dynamics of anurans occurring in tropical savannas. The analysis of previously preserved individuals showed strong sexual dimorphism in body size and shape, with females being larger than males. Female body size positively correlated with clutch volume. Hypsiboas albopunctatus seems to have a generalist diet, consuming primarily Coleoptera, Aranae, and Orthoptera (assuming accidental vegetal ingestion). Prey size was positively correlated with anuran head size. Hypsiboas albopunctatus seems to be a generalist, as demonstrated by its continuous activity and reproduction, generalist diet, and habitat use, presenting some breeding adaptations to enhance offspring size, such as sexual size dimorphism related to clutch volume in females.
10.2307/1564018|Venom composition and morphology of a male Crotalus atrox, female C. s. scutulatus, their F<sub>1</sub> hybrid offspring, and a half sibling C. s. scutulatus are examined. F<sub>1</sub> hybrids show morphological and venom characteristics of both parental species. F<sub>2</sub> hybrids show morphological characteristics of both C. atrox and C. scutulatus. Type B Crotalus s. scutulatus venom is shown to be qualitatively similar to that of C. atrox and qualitatively very different from Type A C. s. scutulatus based on gel filtration and ion exchange chromatography, ELISA and PAGE. Guidelines are provided regarding the detection of presynaptic neurotoxins in crotalid venoms to prevent their being confused with non-toxic phospholipases A<sub>2</sub>. Several hypotheses are offered to explain the origin of the Type B venom populations within C. s. scutulatus.
43287318|Research that investigates the impact of invasive plants on reptiles, particularly snakes, is sparse. Butler's Gartersnake (Thatnnophis butleri) is a rare snake, endemic to the upper midwestern United States. Little research has focused on the habitat selection of this snake, which is often sympatric with the Common Gartersnake (Thatnnophis strtalis). The highly invasive wetland grass Phalaris arundinacea (reed canarygrass [RCG]) has become established or dominant throughout much of the geographic distributions of these snakes. The impacts of this invasive grass on the habitat selection of T. butleri and T. strtalis have not previously been examined. During 2 yr of drift fence surveys at three survey sites and five habitats sampled in southeastern Wisconsin, we captured 243 adult T. butleri and 311 adult T. strtalis. Thamnophis sirtalis was found more often in RCG than T. butleri, which appeared to have more specific habitat needs and most often occurred in upland habitats, particularly grassland, rather than wetlands. These findings have important regulatory and conservation implications for the globally rare T. butleri. For example, our data support the importance of upland habitat protection as part of conservation strategies for T. butleri. In addition, management of wetland habitat for this species must consider the impact of RCG and direct habitat restoration strategies accordingly.
23327169|We investigated responses of adult and juvenile Desert Nightsnakes (Hypsiglena chlorophaea) to odor extracts of potential invertebrate and vertebrate prey. Snakes were collected during 2009 from three localities in Washington state. We obtained odor from three potential invertebrate preyspider (Tegenaria spp.), scorpion (Paruroctonus boreus), and field cricket (Gryllus spp.)and compared responses with a vertebrate prey item, a Western Terrestrial Gartersnake (Thamnophis elegans). All potential prey items were collected at the same site as H. chlorophaea. We presented odors on 15-cm cotton swabs held 2.5 cm in front of the snake's snout. For each trial we recorded the number of tongue flicks in 60 sec, the latency to first tongue flick, and whether the stimulus elicited an attack. We observed no significant difference in latency of responses between spider, scorpion, cricket, or snake odors. However, both adult and juvenile H. chlorophaea responded with higher tongue-flick rates to snake odor. Juveniles showed an increase in tongue-flick rate toward crickets. Attacks were made against snake odor with no difference between adult and juvenile responses. Our results indicate that adults and juveniles of H. chlorophaea do not feed on invertebrates, and in some cases invertebrates may pose a threat to small snakes such as H. chlorophaea. However, the diet of H. chlorophaea may vary geographically, and populations of H. chlorophaea with a more southerly distribution may feed on invertebrates. Whether such differences in diet exist between populations will remain unresolved until additional studies of the diet of southern populations of H. chlorophaea are compared with those of northern populations.
10.2307/1563667| A population of prairie rattlesnakes (Crotalus v. viridis) was studied at Leader, Saskatchewan, near the northern limits of the distribution of the species, during the active seasons of April through October in 1976-1978. Snout-vent length within the population at spring emergence ranged from 19.5-122.0 cm (x = 67.0 cm, N = 123). The modal size of the adults (105-110 cm class) was equal to the maximum size of lower latitude populations. Two discrete sub-adult age-size classes were found. Growth in the first year averaged 33.7 cm. Approximately 50% of adult females were gravid each summer. Identified mortality factors in the population were winter-kill, especially of the young-of-the-year, and human predation on all age groups. 
23327175|We analyzed the diet composition of adult Common Toads (Bufo bufo) in Europe to define their general diet preferences with the use of data collected in Serbia and published data from Great Britain, Spain, France, Poland, Hungary, Belarus, and Bulgaria. We also addressed the potential correlation between adult body size and prey size, and sex-based food niche partitioning in adults as suggested by the pronounced sexual size dimorphism in this species. Analysis revealed that European Common Toads feed most frequently on insects, e.g., Coleoptera and Hymenoptera (Formicidae), but food diversity may vary among regions. A number of other invertebrate taxa were included in the diet, though usually in frequencies less than 0.1. The results suggest that the Common Toad is neither a feeding generalist, nor a myrmecophagous specialist, as some bufonids are proclaimed to be. In-depth analysis of samples from Serbia revealed no correlation between the body size of toads and the number of prey ingested, a positive correlation between toad body size and prey size due to sexual size dimorphism, high overlap of dietary preferences, and concordance in the distribution of various prey types between males and females. Furthermore, males consumed small prey items in higher proportions than did females, but the opposite was found for medium-size prey, which suggests possible dietary niche partitioning in prey size rather than in taxonomical composition.
1566152|Karyotypes from the New Zealand skinks Oligosoma nigriplantare nigriplantare, Oligosoma nigriplantare polychroma, and Oligosoma microlepis are presented. All have a chromosome complement of 30, and there are no sex-related heteromorphisms. Comparisons with the other New Zealand skink genus, Cyclodina, and the Mauritius skink Leiolopisma telfairi, indicate Oligosoma and Leiolopisma share a common karyotype and that the Cyclodina karyotype is derived from Oligosoma.
10.2307/1565392|Habitat preference by Plethodon cinereus was examined by allowing salamanders to choose among different combinations of soil moisture, soil pH, and light intensity at varying levels. Although soil moisture, soil pH, and light intensity all significantly affected salamander distribution, soil pH was clearly the most influential factor. Interactions between abiotic factors played only a minor role. Light intensity was found to play a less substantial role in P. cinereus distribution than suggested by previous studies; salamanders were less apt to move away from light if they were already in locations with acceptable soil moisture/soil pH levels.
10.2307/1563877|The diving capabilities of snakes belonging to four species were investigated. Three of these species are common to aquatic habitats (Nerodia erythrogaster flavigaster, Nerodia fasciata confluens and Nerodia rhombifera rhombifera) and one is found in terrestrial habitats (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta). In addtion, various morphological and physiological parameters contributing to underwater survival were examined. Underwater tolerance was approximately one hour with no difference between the aquatic and terrestrial species. The lung volume of E. obsoleta was found to be larger than the three species of Nerodia, but there were no significant differences in hemoglobin concentrations, red blood cell counts or hematocrits among the four species. Nerodia and Elaphe showed a reduced heart rate when submerged but it is not representative of the pronounced underwater bradycardia characteristic of the diving vertebrates. Based on similarities in underwater tolerance, lung morphology, hematology, and cardiovascular response, Nerodia more closely resembles the terrestrial E. obsoleta than those reptiles specifically adapted to an underwater existence.
10.2307/1562823| Lantz and Cyrn (1936) suggested that their Lacerta mixta arose as a hybrid between L. derjugini and L. saxicola, an origin that would make it unique among known vertebrate species in having both hybrid origin and two sexes. Crossing experiments and morphological studies of populations of L. mixta lend some support to the hybrid origin hypothesis. In contrast, L. mixta differs from both putative parents in electrophoretic patterns for lactate dehydrogenase, mannosephosphate isomerase, and aspartate aminotransferase, and from at least L. derjugini in two peptidases and glocosephosphate isomerase. In its general lack of heterozygosity at these loci, L. mixta shows no evidence of hybrid origin. 
1566162|Eleutherodactylus operosus is placed in the synonymy of Eleutherodactylus cerasinus, based on the collection of new specimens from eastern Honduras.
10.2307/1565939|Rreproductive features of a population of Mabuya mabouya were studied in a wet tropical habitat with a bimodal precipitation regime. The sex ratio was approximately 1:1, and females were larger than males. Males matured at a SVL of 72 mm and are continuously reproductive throughout their adult life. Two groups of females were found reproducing simultaneously: primiparous females that reached a minimum size at their first reproduction and continued to grow during the gestation period and multiparous females of larger size that exhibited more limited growth. Primiparous females began preovulatory follicular growth and ovulated at juvenile sizes (60-74 mm SVL). Reproductive activity of the females appeared aseasonal. However, births occurred during the dry months, producing a bimodal pattern of neonate recruitment into the population. Gestation of four to seven embryos lasted approximately 10 months. Litter size was related to female SVL. The maximum follicular size corresponded to a microlecithal egg, and the percentage of growth of the embryo during development indicated a substantial matrotrophy. Accumulation of abdominal fat bodies in males or females was unrelated to season, and the relative quantity of fat accumulated was smaller in males. Stored fats decreased in the last phase of gestation, indicating a higher energetic cost during the final growth phase of the embryo. The reproductive traits of M. mabouya are comparable to those of other South American Mabuya, but this population possesses particular features related to the environmental conditions of its tropical habitat that suggest local adaptation.
4092969|Ectotherms from high latitudes experience a reduction in the length of their seasonal activity period, which may have consequences for life-history strategies. I studied winter survivorship and spring reproduction of a population of Common Side-Blotched Lizards, Uta stansburiana, in eastern Oregon. Results suggest that winter survivorship is much higher than estimates from other populations of this species; up to two-thirds of lizards survived winter. Data also suggest that one-third to one-half of females failed to reproduce in 2004. Larger females were significantly more likely to reproduce successfully. Over the course of the breeding season I found no animals that attempted to produce a second clutch despite a relatively early breeding season. Near the northern limits of their range, Uta may shift from maturing in less than one year and producing multiple clutches to requiring multiple years to mature and producing only a single clutch of eggs.
43287321|Field observations and lab studies were carried out on the Rough-tailed Gecko (Cyrtopodion scabrum) in the Suez Canal Zone to assess sexual size dimorphism, activity, habitat selection, growth rate, diet, and reproduction. Cyrtopodion scabrum showed no significant sexual difference in body size and head shape characters. The lizard's maximum activity was in autumn and the minimum in winter, with peaks of daily activity during the first 3 h following sunset; air temperature was a major factor controlling daily and seasonal activity of C. scabrum. Lizards were solitary and had small home ranges. They occupied all available substrates and assumed different positions at heights ranging from 5 to 500 cm above the ground. The greatest rate of growth occurred in spring, and growth ceased altogether during winter. Lizards with the smallest snout-vent length had the highest growth rate. A total of 14 arthropod orders were recorded in the diet of C. scabrum; dipterans and hymenopterans dominated in number and volume, respectively. Cyrtopodion scabrum showed evidence of a sit-and-wait foraging mode. Males and females both ate prey of similar numbers and sizes; however, lizard stomachs were filled with food in spring more than any other season, which may indicate the lizard's increased need for energy for reproduction. The reproductive season extended from March through September. Peak reproductive activity for both sexes was in June and July. Female C. scabrum deposited single-egg clutches more commonly than two-egg clutches and displayed communal nesting, which was previously unrecorded for the species.
10.2307/1565929| The twin-spotted rattlesnake (Crotalus pricei) is a small-bodied pitviper that has received little attention in the literature to date. The species reaches the northern limit of its range in southeastern Arizona, where it inhabits higher elevations than any of the state's 10 other rattlesnake species. During 1997-2000, we captured, measured, and marked 127 C. pricei in Arizona's Chiricahua Mountains between 2530 and 2900 m elevation. We also used radiotelemetry to track the movements of 16 C. pricei in the study area during 1997-1998. Mean ( SE) snout-vent length of C. pricei was 387.8  8.3 mm (range = 168-572), and mean mass was 53.5  3.3 g (range = 3.6-188.5). Based on fecal analyses, lizards constituted the bulk of prey (74%), but the diet of C. pricei also included mammals, birds, and a conspecific. Mating was concentrated in August and early September and parturition took place during late July and August. Mean number of embryos was 3.94  0.34 (range = 1-6) and female reproduction appeared biennial or less frequent. Based on shed and growth rates, female C. pricei develop embryos at 4-5 years of age. Gravid females maintained warmer body temperatures relative to substrate temperature than nongravid females or males, presumably by spending more time basking than other snakes. Radiotelemetry revealed that movement patterns varied from year to year, as males moved over six times farther per week during the 1998 monsoon season (July to September) than during the 1997 monsoon season. Additionally, use of talus slopes by males decreased during 1998. During dry years, such as 1998, males may be forced off talus into cooler microclimates where resources are less concentrated than on talus. 
10.2307/1564902|A study of the reproductive biology of pregnant, free-ranging prairie rattlesnakes was conducted in Wyoming from 1982 through 1987. Females reproduced on a flexible superannual cycle. Pregnant females were longer than nonpregnant females, and heavier than nonpregnant females of similar length. Among pregnant snakes, follicle number was positively correlated with increasing body size. Pregnant snakes that had radiotelemetry transmitters surgically implanted early in the active season resorbed follicles, whereas those with transmitters implanted later in the season continued pregnancy through parturition. Movements from hibernacula to rookeries were spatially direct, but often one more or more in duration. Snakes in rookeries were relatively sedentary, frequently shared shelter rocks with pregnant conspecifics, and maintained higher body temperatures than nonpregnant conspecifics that were not in rookeries. Air temperature, date, and microhabitat were important influences on body temperature. Among other potential benefits, residence in rookeries may enhance reproductive success through thermal effects on gestation.
10.2307/1565581| Gephyromantis tricinctus Guib, 1947 (Anura: Ranidae: Mantellinae), known only from the type series and currently considered as a synonym of Mantidactylus biporus, is resurrected as Mantidactylus tricinctus, and included in the subgenus Brygoomantis. A detailed redescription, based on specimens recently collected in central eastern Madagascar, notes on natural history, and a description of advertisement calls are provided. The species is distinguished from all other named species of the subgenus Brygoomantis by its short in snout-vent length and reduced webbing. 
10.2307/1562935|The morphology and seasonal variation of the nasolabial glands of the plethodontid Eurycea quadridigitata were studied by gross dissection, light microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy. Nasolabial glands of E. quadridigitata are simple, branched, tubular exocrine glands found from the snout posterior to the level of the eye with orifices along the nasolabial groove. The glands are directly beneath the dermis and largely outside of the bony skull elements. Those glands along the lip are the most numerous and highly developed, and they turn ventrally as the nasolabial groove reaches its termination on the upper lip. Seasonal growth from September through January of the nasolabial glands along the lip results in development of a ventral elongation, the cirrus. The fine structure features of the nasolabial glands include wide intercellular canaliculi, abundant mitochondria, dense bodies in the lumen and cytoplasm, and absence of ergastoplasm. Nasolabial glands of both sexes show only slight cytological changes throughout the year. Nasolabial glands of females are similar morphologically to those of males but do not hypertrophy seasonally.
10.2307/1563841|One hundred and fifteen pools were surveyed for Ambystoma jeffersonianum in western Maryland over a two-year period. Fifty-four were found to be used by A. jeffersonianum as breeding sites. The distribution of the species was generally confined to ridge areas in the ridge and valley province where the salamander primarily selected isolated upland pools. These sites generally contained greater amounts of living plants, especially emergent vegetation, as well as dead plant debris than sites not selected as breeding habitat. This material served as egg mass attachment sites and provided refugia to breeding adults and developing larvae. Besides containing certain moisture tolerant plants, e.g., Juncus sp., selected sites usually were surrounded by forest land and a dense border of shrubs and/or trees. Breeding pools also tended to have cooler and more turbid water conditions.
10.2307/1565926| A new species of Phyllomedusa, related to Phyllomedusa megacephala, is described from the high plateaus of the state of Gois and Distrito Federal, Brazil. The new species is characterized by medium size, small finger pads, short and narrow head, thin body, vertical snout in profile, very granulate belly, chest without reticular pattern, transversal bars in the mandible, and flanks with reticular black, sepia, or purple pattern over yellow or orange background. 
41515021|Determining how animals respond to habitat loss and fragmentation requires detailed studies of habitat use and behavior in regions that vary in their degree of fragmentation. As predators, snakes are an important component of ecosystems, yet little is known about how they respond behaviorally to habitat loss. Using radiotelemetry at two locations that differ in their habitat patch size, we examined habitatuse patterns at two spatial scales and movement patterns for the endangered Eastern Foxsnake (Phantherophis gloydi). Movement patterns were similar at the two locations, but individuals exhibited greater variation in home-range size, and males and gravid females dispersed further from hibernation sites within the larger natural habitat patch. Individuals from both locations preferred marsh at the home-range scale, but open dry habitat at the location scale. Within the smaller habitat patch, however, these preferences were accentuated with snakes avoiding agricultural fields. At the landscape scale, individual occurrence records were found closer to, and in areas with a higher density of, usable habitat than locations that are distributed randomly.
10.2307/1565720|Effects of post-hatching maintenance temperature on growth, morphology, and behavioral thermoregulation were studied in the desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii). Tortoises were held at one of three temperatures (19, 28, 37 C) during the four months following hatching, then placed into a control temperature of 28 C. Body mass, maximum plastron width, height, and length ratios were determined monthly for the following year. Nine months post-hatching, cloacal and shell temperatures were determined while animals were allowed to behaviorally regulate their temperature in a thermal gradient ranging from 23-45 C. Animals held at 37 C had a greater surface area-to-volume ratio (flat morphology) than animals maintained at 19 or 28 C (round morphology). These morphological changes were correlated with thermoregulatory behavior. Animals with a greater surface area-to-volume ratio (37 C) had a lower cycle frequency (movement between minimum and maximum temperatures) and higher mean core temperature than 19 and 28 C animals. These experiments indicate the existence of a window during juvenile development in which temperature will influence morphological and behavioral characteristics.
25599277|Roads cause direct mortality of animals, but less is known about how this mortality translates into changes in populations. This is particularly true for snakes, which have been subject to little research at the population level compared to other taxa. We studied the effects of proximity to a heavily traveled road on snake populations in three old-field sites at Cicero Swamp Wildlife Management Area in Cicero, New York. We conducted 26 surveys of snakes from June to August 2006 on a regular grid of cover boards at different distances from the road and nearest forest edge and measured the microclimate at each cover board. Adult Common Gartersnakes, Thamnophis sirtalis, and Northern Brown Snakes, Storeria dekayi dekayi, occurred independently of distance from the road but were more abundant farther from the forest edge. The lack of a "road effect" was surprising, given that both species of snakes have been shown to be prone to road-mortality in previous studies and could be caused by either snakes avoiding crossing roads or mortality events being rare. Increased abundance of snakes farther from the forest edge suggests that snakes prefer sites that receive direct sunlight for longer periods of the day. Our study indicates that snake abundance is not necessarily influenced by proximity to roads and that the location of other habitat edges such as a forest-grassland interface may be a more important driver of patterns of spatial distribution.
10.2307/1564835|I investigated acoustic interactions in Bufo woodhousii fowleri by using playbacks to simulate a vocal intrusion on a male's calling site. In response to intruder calls, males did not change their call rate, call duration, calling effort, pulse repetition rate, dominant frequency, or bandwidth, but they did shift the timing of their calls to avoid overlap. The amount of time that male calls were overlapped by intruder calls was significantly less than expected, and males tended to call sooner after the end of an intruder call than expected if timing was random. Males also significantly reduced their calling efforts during a silent period that followed playback of intruder calls. This suggests that behavior of a calling male is contingent on activity of local competitors and not on the chorus as a whole. Males did not change call parameters to match those of the intruder call.
10.2307/1563874|The recorded history of the Jamaican Iguana is reviewed and brought up to date. Once abundant, iguanas were greatly reduced by hunting and were rare by the middle of the nineteenth century. For a hundred years, they were only known to survive on the Goat Islands but, after the introduction of the mongoose and the interference consequent on the Second World War, that population became extinct in about 1948. But iguanas had, after all, survived on the mainland; in the Hellshire Hills. Hog-hunters have been catching occasional specimens up to 1978 and one of these, killed in 1969, was obtained by the author and positively identified. It is unlikely that the Jamaican Iguana, already very rare, will survive the proposed development of the Hellshire Hills.
10.2307/1564796|Growth and reproductive data from a single population of Kinosternon hirtipes in Chihuahua, Mexico are reported. Males grow faster and are larger than females by age five or younger. Females mature in six to eight years at 95-100 mm carapace length. Ovulation occurs from at least early May to late September. Given the lengthy reproductive season, evidence from multiple sets of corpora lutea and enlarged ovarian follicles suggests an annual production of four clutches. Egg width and mass correlate positively with body length and mass, and negatively with clutch size when the effects of carapace length are removed. Clutch size based on corpora lutea averages three eggs (range 1-6). Clutch size correlates positively with body length and mass. Relative clutch mass (clutch mass/body mass minus clutch mass) averages 7.1% and is independent of body size. Comparisions are made with other kinosternine turtles.
41415275|Turtles are the most common vertebrates in the upper Eocene and lower Oligocene rocks of Nebraska. In this work we characterize a striking decline in overall turtle abundance in the early Oligocene at two Nebraska localities: Toadstool Park and Scotts Bluff National Monument. In both locations, this decline occurs at a prominent change in rock composition, the contact between the Orella and Whitney members of the Brule Formation. The two study sites are 140 km apart, suggesting that this decline in turtle fossils was a regional event. Although the reasons for the abundance changes are not entirely clear, we present preservation biases or regional cooling and drying as competing hypotheses.
1566230|Sternotherus odoratus is an omnivorous turtle inhabiting shallow littoral zones of lakes and swamps in the eastern United States. Previous studies have quantified the diet of this turtle, but few have addressed seasonal and sexual differences. Stomach and fecal samples were collected from June through October 1998. Although males and females consumed similar taxa, there were monthly dietary differences likely, in part, because of sexual differences in peak activity and reproductive conditions. Patterns of consumption suggest that Stinkpots are omnivorous but show some dietary preferences.
1565878|Terrestrial salamanders of the genus Plethodon live in a world dominated by chemical-mediated senses. Little is known, however, about the histochemistry of the integumentary glands that produce chemicals used for communication and predator defense. We used histochemical staining techniques to identify the caudal integumentary glands in both male and female Plethodon cinereus. Our research suggests that there are three types of caudal integumentary glands, including nongranular mucous glands, and two types of granular serous glands. The two serous glands are histochemically and morphologically distinct, are concentrated in different areas around the tail's circumference, and are believed to have different function.
1566068|We conducted a field study to analyze spatial relationships among male Iberian Rock Lizards, Lacerta monticola. We then used the same individuals in a laboratory experiment to test whether avoidance responses of a male lizard in a previously unknown area is affected by presence of scents of familiar and unfamiliar resident males. Time spent attempting to escape in presence of unfamiliar odors was significantly higher than in presence of familiar odors suggesting avoidance of unfamiliar scent marks, which may lower the costs of aggressive interactions. Our results are concordant with previous studies in which differential tongue-flick rates showed discrimination between odors of familiar and unfamiliar males of L. monticola.
10.2307/1565546|We studied the diet of the North American glossy snake, Arizona elegans, by examining stomach contents of more than 700 museum specimens, and supplemented our findings with published dietary records. Fifty percent of 107 prey were lizards and 44% were mammals; birds and snakes composed the remaining prey. Most lizard prey were diurnal, and presumably were captured when they were inactive by nocturnally wide-foraging glossy snakes. Conversely, most rodent prey were nocturnal heteromyids that we suspect were ambushed by A. elegans, thus raising the possibility that these snakes use alternative hunting tactics on different prey types. Ninety-five percent of the specimens with food contained a single item, and all 49 prey for which we determined direction of ingestion were swallowed head-first. Although smaller A. elegans consumed mammals occasionally, specimens that ate mammals were significantly larger than those that fed on lizards, and glossy snakes that took birds were larger than those that ate mammals. Larger glossy snakes ate larger prey and added birds to their diet, but they continued to eat lizards and mammals, which suggests that there is no absolute ontogenetic change in the diet of A. elegans. For any given body size, A. elegans has a longer head, and thus a larger gape than the sympatric long-nosed snake, Rhinocheilus lecontei. This difference in relative head length may explain why smaller A. elegans are capable of predation on mammals, whereas smaller R. lecontei feed almost exclusively on lizards, and may also account in part for the higher frequency of stout-bodied phrynosomatid lizards and of mammals in the diet of glossy snakes.
41415252|A new species of Mastigodryas is described based on 10 specimens collected on the Upper regions of the Negro and Branco River basins, in the States of Amazonas and Roraima, Brazil, and in the northernmost portion of Guyana. Apparently this species is associated with the open areas of the Amazonian region known as "lavrados," "campos," and "savannas." The new species is characterized by the presence of eight supralabials; five dorsal stripes situated on the anterior portion of the body that fade or disappear on the posterior half of the body and exhibit a reddish unicolor pattern; and a hemipenis with an enlarged spine situated on the left side of the sulcus spermaticus. The new species is similar to Mastigodryas pleei and, herein, included in the pleei group, along with M. pleei, Mastigodryas amarali, and Mastigodryas bruesi.
43287364|Snakes are highly diverse in head morphology and in the types of prey they eat. Species of the Viperidae family have a high degree of morphological specialization; however, some species specialize in feeding on a single or a few prey species whereas closely related organisms take a diverse array of prey taxa. We compared head morphology and diet throughout ontogeny in two species of the family Viperidae. Rhinocerophis alternatus (Yarar grande) had a highly specialized diet, feeding exclusively on mammals throughout its life. Bothropoides diporus (Yarar chica) fed on small prey such as amphibians and reptiles and on large prey such as mammals. Mature specimens differed significantly in snout-vent length (SVL) between species whereas juvenile specimens did not A statistical comparison of head morphology showed differences between species in both juvenile and mature specimens. Linear regression analysis showed that head variability throughout ontogeny was greater in R. alternatus than in diporus. There were significant positive correlations between total length of prey in relation to SVL, head length, and head width of predator and they were higher in R. alternatus than in B. diporus. Our findings suggest ontogenetic morphological variation between R. alternatus and B. diporus and that this variation could be related to interspecific differences in eating habits. Therefore, our results agree with the hypotheses postulating that differences in morphology and. diet between species could be influenced by genetic and phylogenetic constraints. However, further studies comparing sympatric species or species with their ancestors in terms of morphology and diet are necessary to confirm these results. Las serpientes presentan gran variabilidad tanto en la morfologa de la cabeza como en los tipos de presas que consumen. Las especies de la familia Viperidae tienen un alto grado de especializacin morfolgica; sin embargo algunas de ellas son especialistas en su alimentacin, consumiendo solo un tipo de presas, mientras que otras se alimentan de variadas presas. En ste trabajo se compar la morfologa de la cabeza y dieta a lo larg de la ontogenia en dos especies de la familia Viperidae. Rhinocerophis alternatus se aliment exclusivamente de mamferos a lo largo de su vida. Bothropoides diporus present una dieta generalista, consumiendo presas pequeas como anfibios y reptiles, y presas grandes como mamferos. Los ejemplares maduros presentaron diferencias significativas entre las especies en la distancia entre el hocico y la cloaca (LHC), mientras que los individuos juveniles no presentaron diferencias. La morfologa de la cabeza present diferencias entre las especies tanto en los ejemplares juveniles como en los maduros. Los anlisis de regresin lineal mostraron que las variables de la cabeza analizadas presentaron mayores dimensiones a lo largo de la ontogenia en R. alternatus. Las correlaciones entre el largo total de las presas y el LHC, largo de la cabeza y ancho de la cabeza de los predadores fueron positivas y significativas, y fueron mayores en R. alternatus. Nuestros resultados sugieren que existe una variacin morfolgica ontognica entre R. alternatus y B. diporus, y que dicha variacin podra estar plantean que las diferencias en morfologa y dieta entre las especies podran estar influenciadas por factores genticos y filogenticos. Sin embargo, son necesarios futuros estudios que comparen especies simptricas o especies con sus ancestros, en relacin a la morfologa y dieta para poder corroborar stos resultados.
10.2307/1564951|In this paper we describe the courtship behavior of the plethodontid salamander Desmognathus monticola. Three consecutive phases of courtship progression are apparent: a long period of orientation of the male to the female, a short period of persuasion of the female by the male (involving both tactile and chemical stimulation), and a very short period of tail-straddle walk, during which indirect sperm transfer is attempted. Comparison of our observations with those of two other authors suggests that the presence of certain male behavior patterns may vary geographically in this species. Courtship in D. monticola is compared with that of other congeneric salamanders, in anticipation of a formal phylogenetic analysis of behavioral evolution for the entire subfamily Desmognathinae.
10.2307/1562809|A population of Uta stansburiana was studied for two years in the Sonoran Desert. Mean growth rates were highest in juvenile males (5.19 mm/month) and lowest in adult females (0.31 mm/month). Average home range for 15 males was 446 m<sup>2</sup> (convex polygon), for 15 females, 121 m<sup>2</sup>, and for 15 juveniles, 61 m<sup>2</sup>. On one study area, population density of adults decreased from 50/ha in February to 7/ha in May. Most females did not survive to lay second or third clutches. Numbers of emerging hatchlings paralleled the reduction in number of surviving females. Among 5 sub-areas, utas were most abundant in a disturbed wash and flatland site, becoming less abundant in a low-altitude mountain valley and adjacent slopes.
10.2307/1563582| The Sierra Madre del Sur of Oaxaca and Guerrero, along the west coast of Mexico, marks the northwestern limits of the genus Bolitoglossa. The three species known from these mountains comprise the macrinii group, which differs from all other Bolitoglossa beta by lacking mental gland clusters in adult males, and in having extremely weak premaxillary bones that frequently have incomplete frontal processes. Bolitoglossa macrinii and B. riletti occur in Oaxaca, and B. hermosa, here described, has recently been found in Guerrero. These species can be distinguished by differences in color pattern and amount of foot webbing. The three species are also well differentiated on the basis of morphometric and electrophoretic differences. /// La Sierra Madre del Sur en Oaxaca y Guerrero, Mxico, constituye el lmite noroccidental del gnero Bolitoglossa a lo largo de la costa oeste de Mxico. Las tres especies conocidas en estas montaas constituyen el grupo macrinii, que se difiere de todos los otros Bolitoglossa beta por su carencia de acmulos de glndulas en el mentn de los machos adultos, y en su posesin de huesos premaxilares extremadamente dbiles que frecuentemente tienen procesos frontales incompletos. Bolitoglossa macrinii y B. riletti se distribuyen en Oaxaca, y B. hermosa--aqu descrita--se ha encontrado recientemente en Guerrero. Estas tres especies pueden distinguirse en base de sus diferencias en coloracin y grado de condicin palmpeda, as como su morfometra y caractersticas electroforticas. 
10.2307/1565175|An investigation of habitat use, home range, and seasonal movements of adult yellow-blotched map turtles (Graptemys flavimaculata) was conducted on the Pascagoula River in southeastern Mississippi. Females were found in deeper, faster water at greater distances from the shoreline in areas with fewer emergent snags than were males. Male distance from the shoreline was inversely correlated with surface current speed during the summer, but female distance was not. Male mean home range area was 1.12 ha; mean home range length was 1.8 km. Female mean home range area was 5.75 ha; mean home range length was 1.5 km. Home range areas and lengths did not differ significantly between the sexes. Graptemys flavimaculata was active in the study area throughout the year. Some turtles were relatively sedentary but others moved seasonally. Seasonal movements appeared to be associated with nesting (females), searching for receptive mates (males), or to avoid increased currents during winter (both sexes). Two females regularly moved into a cypress pond in early spring, presumably to increase their foraging opportunities.
4498622| The taxonomic placement of cantils from Veracruz and Hidalgo, Mexico, has remained uncertain based on the small number of samples available from these areas. We examined the scutellation and color pattern of three new specimens of Agkistrodon taylori from northeastern Hidalgo and adjacent Veracruz and compared these results with the morphology of other A. taylori and the single specimen of Agkistrodon bilineatis lemosespinali from the coastal area of central Veracruz. Our results indicate very little morphological deviation from the range of variation previously reported for A. taylori. In addition, the single specimen of A. b. lemosespinali does not appear to represent A. taylori, contrary to a previous report. However, whether or not it deserves formal recognition as a subspecies distinct from other Agkistrodon bilineatus remains questionable. The presence of A. bilineatus along the eastern coast of Mexico in Veracruz provides support for a previous hypothesis of transcontinental dispersal of A. bilineatus. /// La ubicacin taxonmica de los cantiles de Veracruz e Hidalgo, Mxico, ha permanecido inciera basada en el pequeo nmero de muestras disponibles de estas reas. Examinamos la escutelacin y el patrn de color de tres especimenes recientes de Agkistrodon taylori para el noreste de Hidalgo y un rea adyacente en Veracruz, y comparamos estos resultados con la morfologa de otro A. taylori y el nico espcimen de Agkistrodon bilineatus lemosespinali del irea costera del centro de Veracruz. Nuestros resultados indican muy escasa desviacin morfolgica a partir del rango de variacin previamente referido para A. taylori. En adicin, el nico espcimen de A. b. lemosespinali no parece representar A. taylori, contrario a un previo reporte. Sin embargo, s es o no, sta merece reconocimiento formal como una subespecie distinta de otra Agkistrodon bilineatus permaneciendo cuestionable. La presencia de A. bilineatus a travs de la costa Este de Mxico en Veracruz provee apoyo a una hiptesis previa de dispersin transcontinental de A. bilineatus. 
10.2307/1565579| Eleutherodactylus bransfordii is an abundant leaf-litter frog at the La Selva Biological Reserve in northeastern Costa Rica. I studied a sample of 842 frogs collected from November 1973 to December 1974 to determine size and structure of the population and seasonality of reproduction in E. bransfordii. Individuals were measured snout-to-vent (SVL) and dissected to determine reproductive condition. Frogs were classified as adult female (SVL  20.0 mm, oviducts wide and convoluted, ovaries containing large eggs or yolking follicles), adult male (SVL  17.0 mm, nuptial pads well developed), or juvenile. The number of ovarian eggs was positively correlated with female body size. Female body size did not vary significantly among months, but the number of ovarian eggs did. Testis length varied significantly among months and was shorter in December 1973 than in other months. All three age-sex classes were captured in all months, and juveniles accounted for more than 50% of the monthly sample in 11 of 14 months. Juveniles in the smallest size class (SVL  10.0 mm) were collected in all months except October 1974, and were most abundant in February 1974. More frogs were collected during the dry season than in the wet season. Although the year-round occurrence of frogs suggests continuous reproduction, more juveniles were captured in the dry season suggesting some seasonality in reproductive output. 
10.2307/1563005| Auditory sensitivity in 6 bullfrog tadpoles (Rana catesbeiana) was investigated electrophysiologically. Tonal stimulus intensities that elicited a standard sensory potential of 0.1 v in the inner ear showed a response range from 100 Hz to 4000 Hz with maximum sensitivity near one dyne/cm<sup>2</sup> (0.1 N/m<sup>2</sup>) in the lower portion of the range. These potentials also indicated that tadpoles lack the place mechanism of adult frogs. 
10.2307/1563867|The large overlap in diet between these species suggests that partitioning of food resources was minimal. All larvae of both species ate ostracods; ostracods were the most important prey for both, by weight and numerically. As the larval period progressed, there was an increase in the percentage of the diet, by weight, consisting of pouch snails and decrease in the percentage of the diet, by weight, consisting of ostracods and cyclopoid copepods in the diets of both A. tigrinum and N. viridescens. It may be more efficient for larger larvae to invest energy in capturing a few larger prey (snails) rather than many smaller prey (ostracods and copepods). Differences in food habits were probably due to difference in size between larvae of the two salamander species. In samples containing both species, large prey were eaten more frequently (chaoborid larvae and fingernail clams) or exclusively (corixids) by A. tigrinum whereas some small prey (cyclopoid copepods and aphids) were eaten more frequently by N. viridescens. There was no predation between species nor was there cannibalism within either species.
10.2307/1563809|Ninety Sistrurus catenatus catenatus were observed at two disjunct study sites in western Pennsylvania during 1977. Twenty-five specimens were tracked by radiotelemetry for up to fifty days. Activity range areas (x=9794m<sup>2</sup>), range lengths (x = 89 m), and distances moved per day (x = 9.1 m) were calculated and found not to differ significantly between sexes or study sites. A comparison of the movements of gravid vs. non-gravid specimens revealed a significantly shorter mean range length for gravid snakes (40 m). Displaced specimens exhibited no homing behavior. A shift in habitat utilization with time of year was statistically substantiated at both study sites. In spring and fall, snakes frequented low, poorly drained habitats near hibernacula. During summer, habitats with low or sparse vegetation and dry soil were most frequented, particularly by gravid specimens.
4092899|Male Dendrobates pumilio are territorial, and vocalize in the presence of intruders. Territory displays are energetically expensive, and residents should modify display behavior according to costs and benefits associated with social contexts of intrusions by conspecifics. Activity censuses found no significant difference in the proportions of male and female D. pumilio found at various times of day, but a higher proportion of animals that were active at 0730 were male. Resident males exhibited a significantly greater mean call group duration when faced with male intruders in the morning than in the afternoon but did not respond differently to male or female intruders. This may reflect greater potential benefits of repelling territorial intruders in the morning than in the afternoon and use of the same territorial displays to defend territory boundaries as well as to attract potential mates. No significant differences were found in responses of resident males to familiar and unfamiliar conspecifics, which suggests that both neighbors and strangers may compete with residents for territory and mates.
40060538|Understanding seasonal variation in reproductive investment is crucial to explore life-history strategies of a given species. We measured the timing of reproduction and the reproductive output of recently captured females to test whether the conclusions on seasonal shifts of reproductive investment made in the laboratory can apply to field populations in a lacertid lizard Takydromus septentrionalis. Female T. septentrionalis started producing eggs in April and ceased reproduction in August. During the midreproductive season (May to July), more than 60% of field-captured females were gravid. The females produced more eggs and thus had heavier total egg mass in May than in July, although egg mass and hatchling size did not vary seasonally. The seasonal variation in clutch size did not induce seasonal shifts in trade-offs between clutch size and egg size. In general, these results are largely consistent with data collected in the laboratory and support the conclusion of previous studies in this species that seasonal shifts in reproductive output are determined ultimately by natural selection. However, Relative Clutch Mass (RCM) of recently captured females was greater than that of females in captivity, which suggests that RCMs could be affected noticeably by proximate factors. Therefore, when explaining the evolutionary strategies of an organism based on intraspecific comparisons of RCMs, investigators should measure them in a common-garden environment so as to control the potential influence of environmental factors.
10.2307/1562838|Three species of south Florida anoles, Anolis carolinensis, A. distichus, and A. sagrei, can be grouped on a phylogenetic basis with carolinensis and distichus in one group and sagrei in another. They can also be grouped ecologically with carolinensis and sagrei in a group and distichus in the other. Mean preferred temperatures were determined for all 3 species. A. sagrei (33.3 C) and carolinensis (34.0 C) were found to be similar, and both were significantly different from distichus (31.0 C). Critical thermal maxima were determined for all three species. As with mean preferred temperatures, distichus was significantly different from sagrei and carolinensis, while the latter two were not significantly different from each other. Both thermal characteristics are influenced more by ecology than by phylogeny. CTM shifted with a 10 C shift in temperature of previous acclimation. With animals acclimated at 20 C and 30 C, the shifts were from 38.6 C to 40.6 C for distichus, from 40.8 C to 41.9 C for carolinensis, and from 40.5 C to 41.9 C for sagrei. CTM is a better thermal character than MPT for interspecific comparisons, because of the lack of behavioral modification and the known effect of acclimation.
25599217|Although parental care is generally rare among reptiles, nest-guarding occurs in some species and is usually attributed to defense against nest predation. Nest-guarding also occurs in the Tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus), but nest predation on rodent-free islands does not appear to be a significant threat to nesting success in this species. We studied a population of colonially nesting Tuatara on rodent-free Stephens Island, New Zealand, over four years and tested the hypothesis that female Tuatara guard their nests to defend them from excavation by conspecific females. We located 73 nests for which females could be assigned based on observations during oviposition. Nearly 25% of these nests were subsequently excavated by another female, but only 56% of the nests were guarded by the females that constructed them. We found a trend where guarded nests were less likely to be excavated than unguarded nests. Females were more likely to guard their nests, and guarded nests for longer, as the activity of other females on the date of oviposition increased. Nest-guarding in Tuatara appears to be adaptive in that it tends to reduce the likelihood of nest excavation by other females, but social interactions may affect females' propensity to guard, because guarding behavior was influenced by the activity of conspecifics at the time of oviposition.
10.2307/1564248|Although Clemmys marmorata eats a variety of food and appears to be a dietary generalist, it does not select food items based on general availability. This species is a scavenger and an opportunistic predator with a preference for live prey captured by varied foraging tactics. Diets of males, females, and juveniles differ in prey size and proportions of food items, which may reduce intraspecific competition between the age and sex classes. Partial herbivory occurs in adults, and plants may provide an important source of readily available nutrients and some protein when animal food is unobtainable. Seston and other small animals abound in the filamentous algae eaten by C. marmorata, and may contribute considerable nutrient value to the diet.
10.2307/1565241|We radio-tracked 35 adult bog turtles (Clemmys muhlenbergii) at four study sites in southwestern Virginia (May 1995 to December 1996) to assess the scale and frequency of movement within and between wetlands and to identify the potential for population isolation. Net movements between subsequent locations recorded during 1995 (N = 18) and 1996 (N = 27) averaged 17 m and 18 m for females and 16 m and 23 m for males, respectively, and did not differ with respect to sex for either year. Net distances underestimated true bog turtle activity (measured by threadspooling) by a factor of 6.5. The length of time between net distance measurements (1-9 d) did not influence the resulting distance measured, suggesting that relatively short time intervals may not need to be considered when calculating activity estimates. Seventy-five percent of all net movements were <20 m, whereas only 2% were >100 m. Large-scale movements between wetlands were observed infrequently. Information regarding distance, timing, and proximate cues for movement is essential to further understanding of the behavior and ecology of turtles. Dispersal, although poorly studied, has profound implications for social behavior, genetic structure, and persistence of populations. If successful dispersal is limited to infrequent, large-scale movements, future wetland loss may serve to isolate some populations of bog turtles. Further study of the importance long-distance movements play in maintaining populations is needed to aid future conservation strategies in southwestern Virginia.
41415316|Sexually dimorphic traits are used for mate selection either by female choice (intersexual selection) or male-male competition (intrasexual selection). In anurans, both types of selection mechanisms, especially intersexual selection, generally will favor large males. In bufonids, however, male size does not seem to be a factor in mate selection. Very little is known about the mating preferences of the endangered Houston Toad (Bufo houstonensis). Studies examining the breeding dynamics of B. houstonensts were conducted during the early 1980s, with conflicting results. To further examine mate selection, 329 Houston Toads were collected from Bastrop State Park, Texas, and the snout-urostyle length (SUL) was measured. There was no significant difference in size for males found in amplexus, suggesting females may not select larger males.
10.2307/1564767| The spermatozoon of Typhlonectes natans consists of a long slender head approximately 18 m long and a distinct acrosome attached to the anterior margin of the head. A well-demarcated midpiece contains 35-40 spherical mitochondria that consist of many delicate cristae mitochondriales. The tail has a wavy 9 + 2 axoneme that runs helically along the axial rod. An undulating membrane connects the axoneme and axial rod. On the basis of acrosome structure the Gymnophiona appear to be more closely related to the Urodela than to the Anura. 
10.2307/1562892|Tadpoles of the tailed-frog, Ascaphus truei, exhibit distinct responses to temperature when placed in laboratory temperature gradients. Thermo-regulatory behavior is evidenced by an avoidance of temperatures above 22 C. Both first and second year tadpoles select over a wide temperature range (0-22 C), but first year animals tend to congregate below 10 C, whereas second year tadpoles aggregate above 10 C. Thermal acclimation had little influence on the preferendum of either year class, but photoperiod may alter the response of second year tadpoles to a temperature gradient.
10.2307/1565575|Estimates were made of the activity, movement patterns, habitat use, and home range size of adult yellow-margined box turtles (Cuora flavomarginata) in the Feitsui Reservoir Protected Area, northern Taiwan. Data collected from May 1996 to February 1998 by mark-recapture and radiotelemetry indicated that C. flavomarginata is exclusively terrestrial. The distribution of captures and relocations offered no evidence of aquatic habits. The activity and movement patterns varied seasonally and between sexes. From April to July, females were captured more frequently than males, suggesting that the activity of females was greater than that of males. By contrast, males were captured more frequently than females from August to October. Seasonal habitat preference also was observed for both sexes. Gravid females usually stayed near the border of evergreen forests during the nesting season of April to July (61.5%), and then moved back into the forest's interior (56.3%). Males tended to remain in the densely vegetated areas of evergreen forest throughout the year. Although the home range size varied greatly among individuals (0.07-6.39 ha), males tended to have larger home range sizes (3.53 ha) than females (0.53 ha). Activity of C. flavomarginata reduced dramatically after October. Most individuals selected areas with dense vegetation as overwintering sites, where they buried themselves under leaf litter or fallen logs, or used abandoned burrows of other animals as retreats.
41415294|Although a keratinous rattle structure at the end of the tail is the defining trait of rattlesnakes, there is variation in the ability of rattles to produce sound. In previously reported cases of reduced rattle functionality, near complete loss of sound production occurs in adult snakes that do not retain loose interlocking rattle segments. Here we report for the first time a distinct phenomenon: the delay in development of a functional rattle among neonate and juvenile Ridge-nosed Rattlesnakes (Crotalus willardi) resulting from universal loss of the rattle button, normally the first loose segment retained in functional rattles. Loose segments added during subsequent sheds are retained at rates similar to two other rattlesnake species examined (based on data from over 1,000 wild-caught rattlesnakes) and presumably other rattlesnakes with sound-producing rattles. This pattern of delayed rattle development results in effectively silent cohorts for approximately the first year of life and provides further insight into the ecological context of rattle function and evolution.
40060564|This study is the first comprehensive systematic study on the python genus Leiopython Hubrecht 1879 native to New Guinea. The taxonomic arrangement recently made is critically reviewed, and proper descriptions for taxa herein recognized as valid are provided. Twenty external morphological characters were recorded from 90 preserved specimens from throughout most of the distribution of the genus. Thirteen characters were used with principal coordinate analysis to test the diversity of populations from different distributions. Additional evidence for some species was obtained by maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analysis of mitochondrial DNA sequences (cytochrome b gene) taken from GenBank. Besides three conventional taxa, two new species from the mainland, and one new island species were recognized in accordance with the evolutionary species concept. Additionally, a new locality record is provided.
10.2307/1563080|The arterial system in Agama tuberculata Gray with perhaps several primitive features is similar essentially to the system in Agama agama and like Uromastix and Calotes shows a number of similarities with the system in Sphenodon. While the posterior tracheal artery as a branch of the pulmonary artery seems to be peculiar to the agamid lizards, the mode of origin and distribution of the visceral arteries seem to be extremely variable within the family. On comparing the blood supply to the liver and duodenum in Agama, Uromastix and Calotes, 3 pathways may obtain within these members, each characteristic of each genus.
4498546|The Sacramento Mountains Salamander (Aneides hardii) is a state-listed threatened species endemic to three mountain ranges in south-central New Mexico. Information about the ecological requirements of this species is inadequate for managers to make informed conservation decisions, yet changes in management practices are needed throughout the species range because of poor forest health. During summer 2004, we examined patterns of A. hardii distribution in relation to several abiotic and biotic parameters on 36 plots, each of which was 9.6-ha in area and located in mixed conifer forest. We evaluated 18 a priori logistic regression models using Akaike's Information Criterion corrected for small-sample bias (AIC
10.2307/1565390|I studied courtship, amplexus, and oviposition behavior of leaf litter and cavity breeding frogs (Eleutherodactylus johnstonei) in Georgetown, Guyana, using modified plastic planters equipped with observation windows. Both sexes used pots with and without plants as diurnal retreats, but there was a preference for pots with plants. Calling males showed no preference for pots with or without plants. Females preferred pots with plants for oviposition. A gravid female initiated courtship by touching a calling male, who then led the female to one or more potential oviposition sites. The female either accepted or rejected cavities as nest sites, and sometimes abandoned the male if the nest cavities were unacceptable. Unacceptable cavities had direct contact with soil. Only 45% of the mating pairs employed axillary amplexus; males usually just sat on the females' backs. Twenty-five percent of the amplectic frogs then employed the reverse hind leg clasp after 0.50-1.75 h in the nest cavity. Oviposition lasted for 0.75-1 h, and approximately 14 externally fertilized, unpigmented eggs were laid in a pyramid. Fecundity was positively correlated with female size. The time from initial contact of the male by the female to egg laying was 4-6 h. Eggs hatched in approximately 13 d, and newly hatched froglets had snout-to-vent lengths of about 3.5 mm. Clutches were found during all months of the year; however, most clutches were deposited during the wettest months of the year. On average, males sired 3.3 clutches/year, while females produced 4.3 clutches/year. The most striking feature of E. johnstonei's reproductive behavior is that a few pairs used a reverse hind leg clasp during amplexus; a behavior only known for E. coqui that has internal fertilization.
10.2307/1563399|Striped mud turtles, Kinosternon baurii palmarum, from the Gulf Hammock region of the Florida mainland exhibit color patterns characteristic of Lower Florida Keys K. b. baurii. Although biogeographic and geologic evidence suggest former faunal interchange between the two areas, multivariate analyses of 23 mensural character ratios indicate very little morphometric similarity between the two populations. Further, those characters that do vary geographically over the species' range show clinal trends along a north-south peninsular axis. Analysis of these latter characters revealed a general clinal tendency for plastral reduction from north to south Florida, a phenomenon noted also in Kinosternon subrubrum. In conclusion, the presence of at least one other population on the mainland exhibiting pattern characters typical of Lower Keys' turtles, the great variability in color patterns observed throughout the species' range, and the lack of morphometric distinctiveness of Lower Keys Kinosternon baurii do not justify present subspecific designations.
10.2307/1565966|We estimated fitness components for parental and F<sub>1</sub> hybrid genotypes between Rana blairi and Rana sphenocephala by measuring larval performance in wading pools. The effect of three predators (papershell crayfish, Orconectes immunis; eastern newt, Notophthalmus viridescens; green sunfish, Lepomis cyanellus) on larval growth and survival was used to assess differential performance of genotypes in a predatory aquatic environment. Larval genotypes were obtained from artificial crosses between adults collected from a natural population sympatric with these predators in central Missouri. After hatching, larvae were reared in single-genotype groups in outdoor experimental wading pools for 14 days. A higher proportion of R. sphenocephala survived than did R. blairi, and F<sub>1</sub> hybrids did not differ significantly in survival from either parental genotype. Fish predation was severe for all genotypes and reduced survival to a greater degree than other predators. Body mass did not differ significantly among genotypes or predator treatments. Relatively high survival and growth for F<sub>1</sub> hybrid larvae suggests natural hybridization between R. blairi and R. sphenocephala can produce novel and relatively fit hybrid genotypes that can cope with predators just as successfully as parental genotypes. Furthermore, low survival of all genotypes in experimental pools containing fish is consistent with the observation that leopard frog larvae do not normally coexist with fish.
10.2307/1563094|The extent and nature of geographic variation in all available specimens of the snake genus Pseudoficimia (distributed in western Mexico) was studied. The genus and single species (P. frontalis) are monotypic; geographic varaition exists as geographic clines (north-south). Differences between adjacent populations are not always associated with any particular area. These snakes are uncommon in collections and probably relatively uncommon in nature; very little is known of their natural history. The hemipenis, tongue, scutellation, size, and selected features of the skeleton and reproductive systems are described.
1565839|I investigated the potential role of intra- and interspecific competition for food in Midland Watersnakes (Nerodia sipedon pleuralis) and Diamond-Backed Watersnakes (Nerodia rhombifer rhombifer) during the summers of 1999 and 2000. Snakes offered prey (juvenile spotted bass, Micropterus punctulatus) at low densities (five fish/enclosure/week) had significantly lower proportional changes in mass than snakes offered prey at high densities (10 fish/enclosure/week). However, differences in mass changes of N. sipedon were not significant at constant relative densities of prey to snakes. Nerodia sipedon and N. rhombifer that were offered 10 fish per week and tested individually had significantly higher mass changes than snakes tested in intraspecific pairs. For snakes maintained in interspecific pairs and offered 10 fish per week, N. sipedon had higher mass changes than N. rhombifer, although the difference was not significant. I lab-tested the potential for exploitation as a mechanism of competition between N. sipedon and N. rhombifer by comparing rates of gastric breakdown after feeding snakes a goldfish (Carassius auratus), forcing regurgitation at six, 12, and 18 h after ingestion, and comparing ash-free dry masses (AFDMs) of the digested fish. Relatively higher AFDMs of digested fish were obtained from N. sipedon than from N. rhombifer at six and 12 hours after ingestion. Thus, the former species exhibited a faster rate of gastric breakdown than the latter. These differences in competitive abilities may potentially contribute to the higher abundance of N. sipedon than N. rhombifer in the upper Pascagoula River system of southeastern Mississippi.
10.2307/1563848|In this paper we describe the karyotype of the yellow-bellied sea snake, Pelamis platurus from Costa Rica. The diploid number is 38 chromosomes, with 20 macrochromosomes and 18 microchromosomes. The pairs 1 and 2 are metacentrics, pair 3 is subtelocentric and paris from 4 to 9 have the centromere in a terminal position. Females have a pair of slightly heteromorphic chromosomes identified as sex chromosomes Z and W; both are metacentrics but have different centromeric index and W is slightly smaller. The pattern of heteromorphism in sex chromosomes and the secondary constriction present in some sea snake karyotypes could be useful parameters in determining evolutionary relationships between the sea snakes.
10.2307/1565642|Effects of ultraviolet radiation on hatching success, larval survival, and induced abnormalities were tested in three threatened (Hyla arborea, Bufo calamita, and Triturus cristatus) and two common (Rana temporaria and Bufo bufo) amphibians of Sweden. In the laboratory, all species were exposed to artificial UV-radiation (intensities corresponding to midsummer conditions in Sweden) or visible light (controls) for ten days, during which hatching occurred. The effects of ambient levels of UV-radiation on hatching success and survival of B. bufo, R. temporaria, and B. calamita were also determined during outdoor conditions when exposed to three different light regimes: Full solar radiation, UV-filtered sunlight (exposed to photo-synthetically active radiation only) or darkness. In the laboratory experiment, neither eggs nor larvae of R. temporaria, B. bufo, B. calamita, and H. arborea were negatively affected by UV-radiation. However, UV-radiation induced darker pigmentation in tadpoles of H. arborea. Only one species, T. cristatus, showed reduced hatching frequencies and lower larval survival when exposed to UV-radiation in comparison to visible light. However, since female T. cristatus wrap their eggs in macrophyte leaves, embryos are effectively protected against solar radiation. In the outdoor experiments, there were no differences between the light treatments for any of the species. Thus, none of these species are likely to be threatened by moderately increased levels of ultraviolet radiation.
10.2307/1563004|The effect of leucine or arginine on insulin release from pancreatic islets of Anolis carolinensis was studied in an in vitro perifusion system. A biphasic pattern of insulin secretion resulted when 10 mM leucine or arginine was present in the incubation medium containing a non-stimulatory concentration of glucose. The present results suggest that insulin secretagogues in mammals, in addition to glucose, are also effective in elicting insulin release in reptiles.
10.2307/1563878| The Bandy-Bandy (Vermicella annulata) is a strikingly-colored (black-and-white-banded) fossorial elapid snake, widely distributed through Australia. Dissection of 276 museum specimens provided data on sexual size dimorphism, feeding habits, reproduction and inferred growth rates. Adult females (x SVL = 54.4 cm) grow much larger than adult males (x SVL = 39.2 cm). Typhlopid ("blind") snakes of the genus Ramphotyphlops were the only prey items found in Vermicella stomachs, and were the only prey types accepted by captive Vermicella. This stenophagy is unusual in Australian elapids. The low proportion of Vermicella containing prey items (1%, versus 20% in other elapids) suggests a low feeding rate in the Bandy-Bandy. The typhlopids consumed may often be larger than the Vermicella that eat them. Vitellogenesis commences in October and eggs are laid in late summer (Feb.-Mar.) Clutch size ranges from 2 to 13 (x = 7.7) and is highly correlated with maternal body length (P < .01). Hatchlings are  17 cm SVL, and growth is slow. Sexual maturity is attained at  24 months in  , but at least a year later in  . Behavior of captive specimens suggests that the banded coloration of Vermicella (i) is aposematic, and (ii) functions to confuse potential predators by creating a visual illusion (flicker fusion) when the snake moves rapidly. Attention is drawn to several Asian, African, American and Australian elapid species that show striking convergences with Vermicella in coloration, diet, behavior, morphology and general ecology. These aspects appear to be co-adapted, and result in a distinctive overall adaptive "strategy." 
10.2307/1563824| Effects of varying illumination and temperature cycles on circulating melatonin (mel) in neotenic tiger salamanders were investigated in three experiments. In Experiment I animals were maintained for seven days on a 12:12LD illumination regimen with either normal high temperature (20C) during the photophase, low (10C) temperature during the scotophase or reversed thermal periods. Animals maintained in a normal temperature and photic regimen had 87.7 and 141.7 pg mel/ml plasma (mean values) measured midphotophase and midscotophase, respectively. Animals in a reversed temperature environment had mean plasma melatonin titers of 100.8 and 91.6 pg mel/ml at midphotophase and midscotophase. In the second experiment, the effect of continuous high or low temperature was examined while animals were under a 12:12LD illumination regimen. Animals held at continuously low (10C) temperature had a mean plasma melatonin titer of 87.3 and 125.1 pg/ml at midphotophase and midscotophase respectively. Animals maintained in continuously high temperatures (20C) had mean plasma melatonin titers of 87.7 and 82.0 pg/ml. Finally animals maintained under either continuous light or darkness but an alternating thermal regimen did not display significant differences in plasma melatonin. It was observed that high nocturnal temperature can cause a depression in the amount of melatonin measured in the plasma of neotenic tiger salamanders. 
10.2307/1563398|Eleutherodactylus jasperi females retain developing embryos in the oviducts. Three to five fully metamorphosed froglets are born approximately 33 days after the female was in amplexus. Internal fertilization is presumed. Adult morphology of the reproductive organs is not unique. The oviduct has two distinct regions. Clutch size is very small (1-6 ova). The development of the froglets is very similar to that described for several species of direct developing Eleutherodactylus. The froglets have a small egg tooth. The tail is thin, highly vascularized, and overlies the dorsum or venter of the embryo. It may function as an organ for gaseous exchange with the oviducal capillaries. Unresorbed yolk is present in froglets even after birth. No other maternal nutrition is suspected. E. jasperi reproductive biology is compared with that of Nectophrynoides and with trends in reproductive biology within the genus Eleutherodactylus.
1566071|I raised tadpoles of the Common Frog (Rana temporaria) from populations in eight source ponds in southern Sweden, in a common garden experiment at two densities. Tadpoles from different populations differed in development rate; those from source ponds with high tadpole densities developed faster than those from less crowded ponds. Thus, differences among ponds in tadpole performance, which were documented in previous field studies, must have a genetic or maternal component. This result of source pond crowding likely resulted from microevolution and is an example of countergradient selection. In contrast, I found no significant effect of source pond hydroperiod; tadpoles from temporary ponds grew and developed at a rate similar to those from permanent ponds. Tadpoles of R. temporaria can respond plastically to pond drying by increasing development rate. I suggest adaptive plasticity in development rate decreased selection by pond drying in natural ponds.
4498552|Because many anurans have well-defined breeding seasons and male anurans produce loud advertisement calls, surveys of these breeding choruses are believed to provide a dependable means of monitoring population trends. The Patuxent Research Refuge initiated such a calling survey in the spring of 1997, which uses volunteers to collect anuran (frog and toad) calling survey data. The primary goal of initiating the calling surveys at the Patuxent Refuge was to obtain baseline information on anuran populations, such as species occurrence, frequency of occurrence, and relative abundance over time. In this paper, we used the calling survey data to develop models for the "proportion of area occupied" by individual anuran species, a method in which analysis is focused on the proportion of sites that are occupied by a species, instead of the number of individuals present in the population. This type of analysis is ideal for use in large-scale monitoring programs focused on species that are difficult to count, such as anurans or birds. We considered models for proportion of area occupied that allow for imperfect detection (that is, a species may be present but go undetected during sampling) by incorporating parameters that describe detection probability and the response of detection probability to various environmental and sampling covariates. Our results indicate that anuran populations on the Patuxent Research Refuge have high rates of occupancy compared to areas nearby and that extinction and colonization rates are stable. The potential uses for "proportion of area occupied" analyses are far-reaching and will allow for more accurate quantification of data and better-informed management decisions for calling surveys on a larger scale.
10.2307/1563949| Pseudemys nelsoni and Trachemys decussata inhabit brackish water in mainland areas of extreme southern Florida and on Grand Cayman Island. They appear to be intermediate in their salinity tolerance between truly freshwater forms and the highly specialized estuarine terrapin (Malaclemys). Unfed P. nelsoni (730-1240 g) had especially low rates of mass loss (primarily net water loss) in 100% sea water (about 0.4% initial mass/day). Smaller T. decussata (200-240 g) had higher values (about 0.8% /day), yet these rates were still lower than four values obtained on typical freshwater species (1.8-7.6% /day) held in 100% sea water. Mean whole body water effluxes in 100% sea water of adult P. nelsoni and T. decussata larger than 60 g were low (0.24-0.47 ml/100 gh). Hatchling T. decussata had much higher rates of water efflux (1.0 ml/100 gh). Sodium effluxes in 100% sea water were low (less than 100 mol/100 gh) in all size classes. There was no stimulation in sodium efflux after salt loading in P. nelsoni, nor in T. decussata after dehydration in saline solutions. This implies the lack of salt glands in these species. Sodium influx in 100% sea water was very low in adult P. nelsoni and in T. decussata larger than 200 g. There was a progressive increase in sodium influx with declining size in T. decussata, so that hatchlings underwent a considerable net uptake of sodium in sea water. Hatchling T. decussata fed fish ad libitum were unable to maintain mass or grow when the salinity exceeded 41% sea water. Juveniles of about 80 g grew at salinities up to 59% sea water, representing a significant increase in tolerance above that of the hatchlings. Additionally, 80 g turtles grew significantly faster in 25% sea water than in fresh water. Large individuals (>200 g) of both species tolerated immersion in 100% sea water for prolonged periods (at least 10-24 days). Their natural habitats vary seasonally in salinity, but remain on average quite dilute due to rainfall. 
10.2307/1564286|At least four species of anurans, one tortoise and one snake were identified from the Ipswichian interglacial bed (Late Pleistocene) of the Itteringham Gravel Pit, Norfolk, England. A tree frog (Hyla sp.) is reported for the first time as a British fossil. The herpetofauna indicates that the major habitat was a lentic one. The occurrence of the tree frog (Hyla sp.), continental water frogs (Rana), and the European pond tortoise (Emys orbicularis) indicates a continental climate with warmer summers than occur in England today.
10.2307/1563222|Meristic data (body size, relative tail length, relative head length, relative head width, testicular lobulation and vomerine tooth counts) and pigmentation notes are presented for eight of the nine species of urodeles (all plethodontids) which were found to occur on Mount Cheaha. The predominant salamander, heretofore referred to Desmognathus monticola, is judged, on the basis of vomerine tooth profiles and adult and juvenile pigmentation patterns, to be undescribed and a manuscript is in preparation. The physiography and ecology of the study area is reviewed.
10.2307/1565273|Spatial abilities are important in mediating natural behaviors in snakes, such as localization of refuges. Twelve spotted pythons (Anteresia maculosus) were trained to find the location of an escape hole in a circular arena, given a choice of eight holes. A snake was deemed to have learned the task if it found the goal on eight out of the last ten acquisition trials. Only half of the animals learned the task after 32 training sessions. Manipulation of sensory cues after training suggests that subjects differed in their responses to manipulations in the environment, suggesting the use of different cues to find the goal. Ten of 12 animals were also tested for shelter preferences. Snakes were given a choice of three different shelter sites (submerged, on the surface, or elevated) to determine the relevance of the arena escape task. Most snakes preferred elevated shelters and showed fidelity to shelters chosen on the first day. These results suggest that juvenile spotted pythons may be more motivated to seek elevated, instead of submerged, refuges, and this may account for the failure of half of the snakes to learn the spatial location task.
10.2307/1564611|Age from skeletochronological analysis of phalanges, sex, weight, and snout-vent length were analyzed for a population of Bufo cognatus living in the high altitude San Luis Valley of south-central Colorado. Only one and two year old toads were found. In general, toad size increased with age although there was considerable overlap between age groups. Males were consistently smaller than females at all ages. A high proportion of false lines occurred in the 1987 season of growth and can be correlated with a drought that occurred during June and July of that year. Age and size distribution of fossil B. cognatus from Alamosa Formation sediments in the San Luis Valley were determined from skeletochronological analysis of ilial shafts prepared as thin sections. Age structure of the fossil assemblages were similar to the modern; false lines in the fossil ilia may indicate summer drought during ancient times.
10.2307/1563104|Progeny from crosses between parthenogenetic Lacerta armeniaca Mehely and L. unisexualis Darevsky and bisexual L. saxicola valentini Boettger were obtained after releasing bisexual males in an area where both unisexual species occurred. The progeny were a composite of both diploid (2n = 38) and triploid (3n = 57) individuals. Eggs of different ploidy may develop in the same oviduct, thus indicating that only a portion of a clutch of parthenogenetic eggs is fertilized in each oviduct.
4092950|From June to October 1994, we used drift fences to sample migrating red efts (Notophthalmus viridescens) in terrestrial habitats near a permanent oligotrophic lake in the Mastigouche Reserve, Quebec. Fences were placed up to 200 m from the shore and yielded a total of 1443 efts. Age was estimated by skeletochronology. More than 1200 efts (modal SVL 20 mm, age 0+, 1, and 2 yr) were caught while migrating toward the forest; most (83%) were caught in fences < 15 m from shore between 7 and 30 September. Efts migrating toward the lake (N = 226) were more frequent in June (39.4%) and August (37.6%). Those from three fences nearest shore (< 87 m) were maturing efts (modal SVL 32 mm; age 3-5 yr). Age and SVL were highly correlated in the eft population. Fence distance from shore and the interaction of this factor with fence side accounted for a significant portion of eft body size variation. Results suggest that maturing efts may need more than one season to migrate from terrestrial home range to spawning lake. Reduced migration during midsummer may be the result of adverse conditions on the forest floor. We estimated the median number of breeding seasons (2.5) in the study population by comparing age structure of the maturing eft population with that of adults in the nearby lake.
10.2307/1563167| Patagonian lizards of the Liolaemus elongatus complex are revised. The proposed taxonomic arrangement consists of the widespread subandean L. elongatus elongatus (Koslowsky) between 33 and 45 south latitude, L. elongatus petrophilus Donoso B. and Cei from Central Rio Negro uplands and Northern Chubut, and a new allosympatric, closely related form, L. austromendocinus sp.nov., here described, from southern Mendoza Province, Argentina. Geographical variation and clinal trends of L. elongatus elongatus are analyzed and discussed. Sympatry and serological relationships of L. elongatus elongatus and L. austromendocinus north of the Barrancas-Colorado river are reported and criticized. 
25599249|Hyla cinerea recently introduced to a Chihuahuan Desert wetland in Big Bend National Park, Texas consumed a variety of terrestrial arthropods. We investigated its diet to analyze a component of colonizing potential for this species. Of 105 individuals analyzed, we found a total of 194 prey items representing 13 unique categories. The most important prey, determined with a quotient that combines volume and count with frequency, were beetles, cockroaches, grasshoppers and crickets, ants, and spiders. We documented the first occurrence of Scorpiones in the diet of H. cinerea, which demonstrates this invader's ability to exploit novel resource types outside of its native range. In comparison to other dietary studies conducted on H. cinerea, this nonnative population feeds on a similar diversity of prey in equal proportions. This analysis represents a first step into evaluating ecological effects of this nonnative population of H. cinerea.
41415325|Multiple mating and sperm storage can influence reproductive strategies of males and females. Male reproductive success is often limited by the ability to acquire mates; therefore, males have evolved strategies to mate with multiple females. In contrast, the number of offspring a female produces is generally not limited by the quantity of sexual partners; thus, selection for multiple matings is expected to be weaker than in males. Evidence of polyandry and sperm storage is widespread among lizards. We investigated whether female Common Fivelined Skinks (Plestiodon fasciatus) could store viable sperm between reproductive cycles, estimated the frequency of multiple paternity, and examined the sharing of paternity within clutches. Females were unable to store viable sperm between successive clutches. Most clutches (65%) had multiple sires, but within those clutches, there was unequal sharing of paternity. Although we cannot determine the function of polyandry from our data, we suggest possible causes of polyandry in the mating system of this species.
4498540| The reproductive biology of Tantilla melanocephala was studied in eastern Amazonia, Par, Brazil. Males and females attained sexual maturity at approximately twice the length (snout-vent length = SVL) of newborn snakes. Mature males had a larger tail length and more subcaudal scales than mature females, whereas females were larger (SVL) and had more ventral scales than males. Total length did not differ between mature males and females. Reproduction was not seasonal. There was no correlation between the number of vitellogenic follicles and oviductal eggs. The number of eggs was positively correlated with the female SVL. The data presented here indicate that the eastern Amazonia population differs from populations in southeastern Brazil in important morphological and reproductive aspects, including the mean number of eggs produced (mean = 1.53), which was smaller in eastern Amazonian populations. 
1566155|The Sonoran coast of Mexico is characterized by an abrupt transition from marine bay to inland desert. We surveyed lizard species along 141 transects in desert shrubland, desert-dune scrub transitional, dune scrub, and sandy intertidal habitat areas within this transition zone. Cnemidophorus tigris, Uta stansburiana, and Callisaurus draconoides accounted for > 99% (N = 353) of individuals identified. Cnemidophorus tigris was almost entirely restricted to desert shrubland, U. stansburiana was mostly restricted to desert shrubland and desert-dune scrub transitional habitats, and C. draconoides was the most generalized in habitat use. It exhibited strong preferences for bare ground and was the only species observed in the sandy intertidal zone, an area devoid of vegetation. The intertidal zone had the highest lizard biomass of the four habitats but was completely dominated by a single species. Total lizard density and biomass were substantially less in desert shrubland, but lizard diversity was greatest in this structurally complex habitat. We suggest that habitat structure regulates lizard diversity, whereas food resources control lizard density across the transition zone.
10.2307/1564961| Movements performed by eleven specimens of Coluber viridiflavus were recorded for two years in a hilly area of central Italy. Each snake homed to a primary shelter after each excursion. The primary shelter was also used as a hibernaculum. Excursions could be classified in three ways: simple loops lasting only one day, complex loops lasting two or more days and characterized by the use of secondary shelters, and large loops lasting up to about one month and having a total length up to 3 km. The three kinds of excursions were related to distinct functions. Simple loops were performed almost exclusively to reach basking sites; complex loops were exploratory trips, probably related to foraging; exceptional excursions were related to reproductive activity. Males were generally more mobile than females. Their home ranges were larger than those of the females (0.17  0.06 ha and 0.05  0.01 ha, respectively) as regards the core area (minimum convex polygon enclosing all the positions recorded during simple loops); the outer area (polygon enclosing all the fixes recorded during complex loops) was about the same size in both sexes (0.99  0.01 ha in the males and 0.95  0.31 ha in the females, respectively). 
4092947|We studied the movement ecology of Coastal Rosy Boas (Lichanura roseofusca) by radio tracking 17 animals across four sites for up to four years. The typical movement pattern included many short distance moves with rare long distance movements. These skewed distributions made the mean a poor descriptor of movement and this is likely a common issue in other studies. Sexes had similar movement patterns and moved less frequently and shorter distances per day during cooler seasons. Rare long-distance movements occurred primarily in the spring. Propensity to move and mean distance moved per day varied across sites. Home-range size increased with additional fixes even after four years and had a seasonal pattern, increasing during warmer seasons and remaining stable or shrinking during cooler seasons. Despite using novel habitat in sequential years, nearly all individuals used the same general area over longer periods of time. Finally, individuals of both sexes had high levels of spatial overlap. The results indicate for L. roseofusca (1) Individual variability in movement is more the rule than the exception; (2) Common seasonal patterns in movement and space use do exist; (3) Home-range sizes vary through time yet remain in the same general location; and (4) A lack of territoriality and considerable overlap in space use exist.
4092963|The tadpole of Bufo taitanus is described from material recently collected at the type locality. Tadpoles of B. taitanus possess a crownlike structure on top of the head. Observations suggest that the crown likely acts as an accessory respiratory organ. Development in B. taitanus is rapid with metamorphosis completed after just 13 days. Based on its similarity to tadpoles of Stephopaedes anotis and Mertensophryne micranotis, a close phylogenetic relationship between these three taxa is proposed.
4092875|Hibernation sites at higher latitudes must protect snakes from colder conditions for longer periods of time. Because fewer locations are likely to be suitable, hibernation site availability may restrict the northern distribution of snakes. We considered overwinter mortality, hibernation site fidelity, and the abundance of suitable hibernation sites based on surface features to assess whether Massasauga Rattlesnakes are likely to be limited by hibernation site availability on the Bruce Peninsula, Ontario, Canada. We used three years of radio telemetry to locate 46 hibernation sites of 32 individual snakes. Snakes hibernated individually in old root systems, rodent burrows, and rock crevices in forested areas. Hibernation sites could be differentiated from forested areas generally available to snakes but not from locations with holes and crevices in the immediate vicinity of hibernation sites. Few snakes hibernated in the same location in consecutive years, although most (>70%) hibernated within 100 m of their previous location. Overwinter mortality over three years (23%) was similar to mortality during the active season (21%). Our results suggest that Massasauga Rattlesnakes may be limited by the availability of suitable hibernation sites, but sites of similar quality to those used by overwintering snakes are locally abundant. The location of hibernation sites within forests could not be predicted reliably based on surface features. Therefore, efforts to conserve habitat for this threatened species should consider all forested areas on the Bruce Peninsula as potential hibernation habitat.
40983663|Nesting sites of three species of turtles, Trachemys dorbignyi, Phrynops hilarii, and Hydromedusa tectifera, were analyzed from 1997 to 2002 at the Taim Ecological Station, in the southern Brazil. Our objective was to evaluate the size of the core habitat necessary to protect nesting sites of these species and to relate this information to Brazilian environmental legislation. Trachemys dorbignyi and P. htlarii have similar width of their nesting sites, 49.6  36.3 m and 50.5  30.4 m, respectively. Hydromedusa tectifera lays its eggs closer to the edge of waterbodies, on average at 12.6  10.0 m. Curves were constructed to define the widths of the core habitats needed to protect 90% of the nests of each species. Trachemys dorbignyi requires 94 m of terrestrial habitat from the edge of waterbodies, P. htlarii requires 79 m and H. tectifera 24 m. In the study area, Brazilian legislation establishes a core habitat that is sufficient to protect the nests of these species around large waterbodies. However, because the protection areas are prescribed according to the width of the aquatic environments, this provision is insufficient for the majority of the aquatic environments in the region.
4092897| I performed playback trials with and recorded vocalizations of male Pickerel Frogs, Rana palustris, in 1992-1993 and 1998-2000 at sites in Delaware and Pennsylvania. I also conducted a mark-recapture study of one population throughout its 1998 breeding season at the Ashland Nature Center, Delaware. Rana palustris had a prolonged breeding season with chorusing occurring over more than one month on nights that the air temperature was at least 8C. Individual males during the breeding season participated in most choruses, were faithful to specific calling sites, and lost body mass. In the playback trials, I recorded male vocalizations during control conditions and after the playback of one conspecific advertisement call. Males had a complex vocal repertoire consisting of at least three call types: an advertisement call and two additional calls ("snicker" and "growl") that were elicited by the playback stimulus or exchanged during natural male-male interactions. The three call types had distinct combinations of duration and pulse rate, and the snicker and growl had similar dominant frequencies that were significantly lower than those of the advertisement call. All males in the playback trials eventually returned to advertisement calling; however, these calls differed from the calls emitted during the control period in that they had shorter durations, longer rise times, and a shift of energy toward lower frequencies. Several males responded to the stimulus by emitting a series of underwater calls before returning to the water's surface and calling into the air. Overall, R. palustris has a complex communication system in terms of number of call types, the ability to alter call properties, and the ability to vocalize in both air and underwater. 
40665012|Landscape composition and configuration affect ecological processes at the population and community levels, but few studies have demonstrated the effects of landscape pattern on individuals. Because heterogeneity influences abundance and distribution of critical resources, it is hypothesized that it indirectly affects home range size of individuals. To examine the spatial ecology of the declining Eastern Diamond-backed Rattlesnake (Crotalus adatnanteus; EDB), we conducted a two-year study in southwestern Georgia. We obtained home range estimates via radio-telemetry, employed Euclidean distance analysis to examine habitat associations at two spatial scales, and used the software program FRAG STATS to analyze landscape heterogeneity and examine its effect on home range size. Although no significant habitat associations were detected, there were trends for a positive association with pine habitat at the landscape scale and a negative association with agriculture within the home range. Home range size was negatively correlated with several landscape metrics representing heterogeneity in patch configuration, such that individuals in heterogeneous landscapes had small home ranges. This relationship was strongest at three spatial scales: the first was similar to mean home range size of EDBs; and the others were three and four times as large as the largest home range recorded. Together, these results suggest that management regimes to enhance population densities of EDBs emphasize the preservation of pine uplands, while maintaining a mosaic of other habitat types, and limit the conversion of forest to agriculture. Also, our results underscore the importance of using robust analytical tools and multiscale approaches in studies of spatial ecology.
4092967|The large mass of a turtle's shell presumably reflects a trade-off between its protective function and its imposition on the energy cost of locomotion. To examine this, we developed a relationship between body mass and shell linear dimensions in Ornate Box Turtles, Terrapene ornata, from north-central Nebraska. Using the relationship between body mass and plastron width, we estimated body mass of box turtles killed on roadways, and we cleaned and weighed their shells. Shell mass may be a linear function of body mass in these turtles, amounting to approximately a constant 30% of their body mass. Alternatively, shell mass may be an exponential function of body mass, increasing with body mass to approximately the 1.2 power; in this case, shell mass increases more quickly than body mass in these animals. We are unable to distinguish between these models based on our analysis, but the increase in shell mass with body mass is more consistent with the shell serving a supportive, rather than a protective, function. Plastron thickness increases with body mass to approximately the 0.47 power in our animals, which is also higher than expected if the shell serves solely a protective function.
41415286|We studied dietary composition and seasonal dietary patterns of the Mxican Twelve-lined Whiptail (Aspidoscelis lineatissima) in Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico. We removed stomach contents and identified them as to the order to which they belonged. We calculated an importance value, food niche breadth, and food niche overlap indexes. Termites were the most important prey item. They were consumed throughout the year, particularly during the dry season, suggesting that A. lineatissima is a facultative specialist during the driest period of the study. Other important food items were lepidopteran larvae, coleopterans (adults and larvae), hymenopterans, orthopterans, and arachnids. Dietary composition was similar between the sexes. However, we found dietary differences among lizard size classes and seasons, indicating opportunistic use of temporally abundant arthropods.
41515020|Toe and tail clipping are commonly used methods for permanent marking of animals and for obtaining tissue samples for genetic analyses. Although it has been tested whether toe clipping affects locomotor performance (and thus potentially the fitness of an individual), little is known about the effect of tail clipping. Tails are important organs in many amphibians and reptiles and are used for balance or stability during locomotion or as prehensile organs. Effects of tail autotomy or the removal of large parts of the tail have previously been demonstrated. Here, we test whether the removal of a small part (< 5 mm) of the distal tail in chameleons affects their ability to cling to branches of different diameters by measuring gripping strength using of a force platform. Our data show no significant or directional effect of tail clipping on the maximal forces that can be generated by the tail and, thus, suggest that tail clipping can be used as a method for tissue collection.
1566220| A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the Serrana de Pirre, Darin Province, Panama. This species is similar to Eleutherodactylus altae and Eleutherodactylus pardalis, but can be differentiated by the lack of red or white spots on groin and limbs. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Eleutherodactylus de la Serrana de Pirre, Provincia de Darin, Panam. Esta especie se asemeja a Eleutherodactylus altae y Eleutherodactylus pardalis, pero se diferencia de stas por carecer manchas de color rojo o blanco en su ingle y extremidades. 
4092872|Increased ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation reaching the Earth's surface has been implicated in amphibian declines. Recent studies have shown that many amphibian species have differences in sensitivity depending on developmental stage. Embryos and larvae of Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) and larvae of Ambystoma talpoideum (Mole Salamander) were exposed to five simulated UV-B treatments in controlled laboratory experiments to determine the relative sensitivity of different lifestages. Hatching success of the embryos exceeded 95% in all treatments; however, the larvae of both species exhibited greater sensitivity to UV-B exposure. Older larvae of A. maculatum that were not exposed to UV-B as embryos were more sensitive than larvae that had hatched during exposure to UV-B. Growth of surviving larvae of A. maculatum was significantly reduced as UV-B intensity increased, whereas growth of A. talpoideum was unaffected. These results were compared to ambient UV-B conditions in natural environments. It appears that the embryo stage is relatively unaffected by UV-B levels observed in natural habitats, probably because of protection from vegetation, organic matter in the water column, oviposition depth, and egg jelly. The larval stage of these species may be at greater risk, particularly if there is an increase in UV-B radiation exposure caused by increases in water clarity and/or decreases in dissolved organic carbon.
10.2307/1562774| A new subspecies of Bufo gntheri and a new species of Bufo are described from Hispaniola. Comparisons of the new species are made with the remaining 8 native Antillean species, its relationships are discussed, and data on call, calling site, and distribution are given. 
10.2307/1564054|A qualitative investigation into calcium storage in the endolymphatic sacs was made in the unisexual/bisexual complex of the gecko Lepidodactylus lugubris in French Polynesia. Hypertrophy of the endolymphatic sacs was pronounced only in adult females and was strongly associated with the development of oviductal eggs. Significant differences in the size of the sacs found between island populations and between clones within islands were tentatively ascribed to variations in seasonality of ovi-position.
10.2307/1562979| The paper describes the seasonal changes in the size and nuclear morphology of the interstitial cells in the testes of a high altitude subtemperate agamid lizard Agama tuberculata Gray from Kashmir. While the climatic changes do not seem to influence the cyclical changes in these cells, active spermatogenesis seems to be restricted to the months of May and June and September and October, which correspond to early summer and fall in Kashmir when the temperature keeps around 27C. In agamids, a positive correlation appears to exist between the spermatogenic and the interstitial cell activity. 
23327179|Understanding the specific habitat requirements of reptiles during different life stages or seasons is critical to conserving viable populations. Northern Pinesnakes (Pituophis melanoleucus) are one of the few species that spend the winter in underground hibernacula, which they excavate themselves. We report on 26 years (19862011) of monitoring Pinesnake use at seven hibernacula in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. Our goal was to determine the frequency of repeated use, number of snakes present by year, disruptions of hibernacula, and the relationship between number of snakes present and the probability of occupancy of each hibernaculum in successive years. The overall goal was to determine the importance of protecting known hibernation sites regardless of whether they appear occupied in a given season. These data suggest that, if no snakes are observed entering a particular hibernaculum over a limited time period, it does not mean none are there or that none will use it in successive years. The variability in use suggests not only that predation and human disturbance can result in nonoccupancy the following year but that environmental and temperature-related conditions force snakes to have alternative hibernacula to reduce risk and ensure survival. Pinesnakes are listed as threatened by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection for many reasons, including habitat loss. There is continued pressure from developers to destroy habitat during development, including critical hibernation sites. The long-term use of specific hibernacula, even with periods of low or no use, suggests that these resources should be protected to provide a matrix of available overwintering sites.
40060453|Contamination of aquatic ecosystems with anthropogenic sources of nitrate is of increasing concern. Anurans are especially at risk for overexposure to nitrate because they occupy aquatic environments during embryonic, larval, and adult stages. Whereas there have been numerous studies examining the effect of nitrate on frog eggs and tadpoles, the effects of nitrate on adult frogs have been largely neglected. In this study, we examined whether brief exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of aquatic nitrate influenced ovarian steroid synthesis and ovarian follicle size in adult African Clawed Frogs (Xenopus laevis). We exposed frogs for seven days to nitrate at concentrations of 24.8 or 49.5 mg/l in order to simulate a pulse of nitrate exposure. Relative to controls, nitrate-exposed frogs exhibited suppressed ex vivo synthesis of testosterone and estrogen. Follicles from nitrate-exposed frogs also exhibited an increased stage-4 diameter at both nitrate concentrations and a decreased stage-5 and -6 diameter at the highest nitrate concentration. These results indicate that anuran ovarian steroidogenesis and follicle size are modified by even a brief exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of nitrate.
4498555|Visually cryptic, long-lived, diurnal green geckos (genus Naultinus) were a significant component of natural ecosystems throughout much of New Zealand prior to human settlement 1800 ya. Since then, habitat modification and introduced mammalian predators have threatened many Naultinus populations, making their survival a conservation priority. However, the visually and behaviorally cryptic nature of Naultinus geckos and a lack of scientific attention pose challenges to their conservation management. We investigate natural population dynamics of the Marlborough Green Gecko (Naultinus manukanus) to act as a model for understanding the ecology of New Zealand's diurnal geckos and to inform conservation management. The largest known N. manukanus population (on mammal-free Stephens Island) has been the focus of several studies along a bush-edge transect. We pooled data obtained using markrecapture, population census, captive rearing of juveniles and radio telemetric methodologies over 25 yr to examine aspects of their ecology and behavior. The population is female-biased (1:1.7 m:f), a trend that is apparent from birth. Sexual maturity occurs at approximately 4 yr of age and 71% of females reproduce annually. Naultinus manukanus are strictly diurnal, arboreal, and opportunistic thermoregulators. Daily movements are very limited, averaging 0.6 m per day, characteristic of the sit-and-wait foraging strategy that they employ. The basic ecological information presented in this paper provides context for the conservation management of Naultinus species, which are increasingly recognized as threatened in their current ranges.
1566092| A new species of Scinax is described from Venezuela. It is the only species known from the Venezuelan Andes, between 600 and 1700 m. It differs from other species in the genus by its yellow coloration in life, two dorsolateral stripes, and unpatterned posterior surfaces of thighs. A description of the call is provided. The new species is not assigned to any species group. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Scinax para Venezuela. Esta especie es la nica que se conoce de los Andes de este pas, entre los 600 y los 1700 msnm. Difiere de cualquier otro Scinax por su coloracin amarilla, dos bandas dorsolaterales poco conspicuas, y ausencia de patrn en la parte posterior de los muslos. Se describe el canto. La nueva especie no es asignada a ningn grupo de especies. 
10.2307/1563670|The microarchitecture of the scale surfaces of Sphenodon punctatus was examined by scanning electron microscopy and compared with the morphologies described for a variety of lizards. The scale surfaces of Sphenodon lack ornamentation, and the epidermal cells have a laminar or lamellate arrangement in which the distal border of one cell overlaps the proximal border of the next distal cell. The cells are moderately elongated perpendicular to the proximo-distal axis of the scale. Among the scale surface morphologies described for lizards, the lamellate arrangement of Lacerta and Gerrhonotus is most similar to the Sphenodon morphology. The lamellate epidermal morphology may be primitive for lizards.
41415285|We describe the diet of a Liolaemus cuyanus population from the Monte of San Juan Province in Argentina. Diet composition, trophic niche breadth, age, sexual, and seasonal variation were analyzed. In addition, we investigated the relationship between L. cuyanus morphology and size of prey consumed. From the stomach contents of 105 lizards, we found that L. cuyanus is an omnivore, feeding mainly on ants, hemipterans, coleopterans (larvae and adults), and reproductive plant structures (seeds, fruits, and flowers) of the genera Lycium, Atriplex, Larrea, and Portulaca. We observed differences between juvenile and adult diets, probably associated with body-and head-size restrictions. Conversely, sexes did not differ in diet, in spite of head-and body-size sexual dimorphism. Seasonal variation in diet was observed in juveniles, whereas adults did not show substantial seasonal changes in the diet. Our findings show that L. cuyanus is opportunistic in diet and that diet appears to vary depending on age and morphology.
10.2307/1564884|Baseline information on abundance and growth patterns of green turtles was collected at Culebra, Puerto Rico from 1987 to 1989. A total of 167 individuals was captured, measured, tagged, and released. Twenty-five were recaptured 32 times for a recapture rate of 19%. Of 7 sampling areas, Mosquito Bay and Culebrita harbored the highest abundance of turtles with 2.16 and 2.04 caught per net set, respectively. Carapace length (CL) ranged from 24.6 to 75.3 cm, averaging 46.34 cm. The observed size-class composition was indicative of a juvenile population. A U.S. Virgin Islands age-size model suggested that turtles ranged in age from 2 to 14 yr old. Turtles grew at an annual rate of 5.08 cm (CL) with the highest growth rates recorded in the 40-50 cm CL interval. At the observed rates, turtles may spend 10 yr growing through the recorded CL range. Principal components analysis indicated that 99% of the variance was explained by the first or size component, with CL exhibiting the fastest relative growth rates of 4 morphometric variables. Shape components explained the remaining variance, with carapace width influencing most the general appearance of turtles. Our findings established that Culebra supports a juvenile green turtle population, and along with those of the U.S. Virgin Islands, confirmed the presence of developmental habitats and maturing populations through the eastern portion of the Puerto Rican Bank.
10.2307/1565804| Selection of diurnal shelter sites varies significantly with season in the cane toad (Bufo marinus), and the aim of this paper is to determine how hydric and thermal conditions of shelter microhabitats changed with season and whether those changes explained seasonal differences in toad behavior. Body temperatures of cane toads were measured by telemetry, and dehydration rates and thermal conditions of shelter microhabitats were measured by using preserved toads as environmental probes. Live toads and preserved toad models were monitored monthly over a 18-month period. Laboratory experiments showed that toad models dehydrated at the same rate as live toads. In the field, dehydration rates varied significantly between seasons and shelter microhabitats, but dehydration rates were always significantly less in shelters compared to a nonshelter control. Daily average body temperature of toads was 16-30C, and it changed seasonally in proportion to model temperature. Diurnal model temperature was significantly lower in shelters compared to the nonshelter control, but there were significant seasonal differences between shelter sites. It appears that access to suitable diurnal shelter sites is essential for survival of cane toads outside the wet season and that seasonal changes in environmental conditions influence shelter microhabitat selection. 
10.2307/1565545| A new species of Hyla is described from the wet northern slopes of the Oaxacan Highlands. These populations had previously been referred to Hyla chaneque, from which the new species differs by having bilateral vocal slits in males and smoother skin. The new species is known from the Sierra de Jurez, Sierra de Zonglica, and the Sierra Mixe. Hyla chaneque is restricted to two populations in Chiapas, Mexico. The tadpole of the new species has been described and illustrated, the tadpole of H. chaneque has never been collected. /// Se describe una especie de rana gel genero Hyla de las vertientes hmeda de las tierras altas del norte de Oaxaca. Previemente estas poblaciones fueron referidas como Hyla chaneque, de la cual la nueva especie difiere por presentar sacos vocales bilaterales en machos y piel ms lisa. La nueva especie se conoce de la Sierra de Jurez, Sierra de Zonglica, y la Sierra Mixe. Hyla chaneque se restringe a dos poblaciones en Chiapas. El renacuajo de la nueva especie ha sido descrito e ilustrada, el de H. chaneque no he sido recolectado todava. 
10.2307/1563847|Two subspecies of garter snakes, Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis from New Jersey and Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis from Manitoba, were examined for mean preferred temperature (MPT) in an artificial gradient. Analysis of variance failed to reveal any significant pattern of diurnal or nocturnal fluctuations in MPT. No significant differences were noted in the MPT's of starved T. s. parietalis and T. s. sirtalis, although the Manitoba subspecies did select slightly lower temperatures in the gradient than the New Jersey variety. Following feeding, a significant (p < 0.025) thermophilic response was revealed by analysis of variance in specimens of T. s. parietalis. The benefits of elevated body temperature to recently fed reptiles are discussed, and a hypothesis is presented to explain the failure to find a similar thermophilic response to feeding in T. s. sirtalis.
10.2307/1564836|The extent to which squamates retain eggs in utero is poorly known. The purpose of this study was to develop a broadly applicable laboratory based method for estimating egg retention time relative to the total period of embryonic development. The first step in determining the range of egg retention times for a species is quantifying embryo stage at normal oviposition for a large sample of females. The next step involves measuring the total time taken to develop, from ovulation to hatching, at constant temperature. Finally, by calculating the fraction of total development time taken to achieve each embryonic stage from ovulation, relative egg retention time can be determined. The modal embryo stages at oviposition in Sceloporus woodi, S. virgatus, and S. scalaris are stage 27, 31, and 38, respectively. It was previously reported that total embryonic development times at 30 C for these three species are 61.6, 55.3, and 45.6 days, respectively. Additionally, embryos of each species achieve similar stages at similar proportions of total development time. Embryo stages at oviposition (ESO), reported in the literature, indicate that the modal ESO for lizards (N = 38 species) is stage 30, which corresponds to approximately 26% of total embryonic development time. Although there are a few species of squamates that exhibit extreme periods of egg retention, most squamates appear to retain eggs for an absolute period that may be slightly longer than the egg retention times of crocodilians and turtles. Unlike turtles and crocodilians, squamate embryos continue to develop in utero and achieve a more advanced degree of embryogenesis at oviposition in a similar fraction of total development time.
40983652|We examined Desert Tortoise microhabitat selection on the Florence Military Reservation (FMR) in south-central Arizona where National Guard training and other activities, such as motorized recreation and grazing, are permitted. Previous research on the FMR indicated that Desert Tortoise home ranges overlapped with firing boxes, areas where most of the National Guard's training activity was concentrated. Our objective was to examine Desert Tortoise microhabitat selection within, and adjacent to, these firing boxes in an effort to guide future management for restoring degraded tortoise habitat on the installation. Desert Tortoises selected habitat that was characterized by a higher percentage of canopy cover, absence of cattle activity, and closer proximity to roads and washes than was available within their home range. Canopy cover had the highest calculated parameter importance and was included in each of the supported microhabitat selection models. Areas with sufficient canopy cover most likely provided shade for escaping the desert heat during periods of high tortoise activity. Our results suggest that management prescriptions that maintain, or increase, the amount of vegetative cover and that protect desert washes will have positive impacts on Desert Tortoise populations.
4498576|Teiid-like scincomorphan lizards from the Late Cretaceous (Campanian) of the Kaiparowits Formation of southern Utah include Chamops cf. Chamops segnis, cf. Leptochamops, a new species of Meniscognathus, and a new taxon with well-developed tricuspid teeth. These taxa comprise some of the only confirmed reports of these types of lizards from Late Cretaceous rocks south of Wyoming, allowing for a more comprehensive investigation of the distributional and evolutionary patterns of teiid-like scincomorphans from the Campanian. The majority of the known taxa are from the Western Interior west of the margin of the midcontinental sea that bisected North America during the Late Cretaceous. The teiid-like scincomorphans from the Campanian comprised two distinct faunas; one in the north (e.g., Montana, Western Canada) and one in the south (e.g., Utah, New Mexico). These two faunas share Chamops and potentially Leptochamops, but each region also has two to four endemic taxa representing a diversity that correlates to latitudinal differences. Teiid-like scincomorphans present in North America prior to the establishment of the midcontinental seaway are not nearly as diverse as during the Campanian, indicating that the radiation of forms followed the establishment of the seaway, although it may not have played a direct role.
10.2307/1565967|We compared preferred body temperatures, critical thermal minima, and maxima, and tolerance ranges among four populations of Zootoca vivipara (formerly Lacerta vivipara) distributed along an altitudinal gradient (250-1450 m) to examine whether different thermal environments have induced a change in these thermal characteristics. Lizards in all populations had similar preferred body temperatures and critical thermal limits, suggesting that acclimation or adaptation of these traits to different thermal environments did not occur. Subadult females and gravid females preferred lower body temperatures than non-gravid females and subadult and adult males. Preferred body temperatures differed among individuals of the same age and sex within a particular population. In contrast to the negligible among-population variation, preferred body temperatures varied considerably within populations in Z. vivipara.
10.2307/1564102|The pituitary gland and right testis, ductus epididymidis, ductus deferens, and renal sexual segment were examined histologically in Cnemidophorus sexlineatus (six-lined racerunner) collected at monthly intervals during most spring and summer months from 1978-82 in southwest Memphis, Shelby County, Tennessee. Circulating testosterone levels were measured by radioimmunoassay in specimens collected in 1982. Adult male racerunners emerged from hibernation in April and were most active in spring-early summer. Testes, associated ducts, and renal sexual segment tubules were hypertrophied during spermatogenesis in spring-early summer and involuted during sexual quiescence in late summer. Circulating testosterone levels were highest in late spring. Mating occurred from May through August. Racerunners resumed hibernation in September. Diameters of circumtesticular Leydig cell nuclei varied seasonally, but those of interstitial Leydig cell nuclei did not. Testicular recrudescence began in late summer-fall and spermiogenesis was under way in April. Differences in size, morphology, staining properties, distribution, and seasonal cycles confirmed the presence of two types of acidophils and three types of basophils in the pars distalis. Greatest activity in acidophils and basophils, indicated by cell and/or nuclear size, occurred in spring.
25599264|We use mitochondrial gene sequences to estimate relationships among Gekko populations from the northern Philippines. These data, plus morphological and biogeographical evidence, suggest that the Babuyan and Batanes island groups (north of Luzon Island) are inhabited by a minimum of six distinct evolutionary lineages, only two of which (Gekko porosus Taylor from the Batanes and Gekko crombota from Babuyan Claro) have been formally recognized as distinct species. In this paper, we provide a description of another new species, the endemic Gekko from Calayan Island. This geographically isolated species is diagnosed on the basis of a distinct color pattern, body size, scalation, and significant divergence in mitochondrial gene sequences. The new species has been found on rocky outcrops and limestone caves in forested areas and on trunks of mature forest trees 500 m above sea level, away from the island's coast. Given the history of geological isolation of Calayan Island and the distinctiveness of the endemic Gekko populations there, we are confident in diagnosing this gecko as a unique evolutionary lineage; it is unlikely that this species will be found on neighboring land masses. The remaining major islands of the Babuyans group (Camiguin Norte, Fuga, and Dalupiri islands) each contain similarly distinct endemic species that await description; additional surveys throughout the Batanes and Babuyan islands will be necessary to arrive at an estimate of total species diversity for this isolated gekkonid radiation.
25599251|We grew larval Rana sphenocephala at different densities but maintained equal mean growth rates among density treatments (via equal per capita food levels) to test the hypothesis that larval density can influence metamorphic timing independently of larval growth rate. Tadpoles at high density metamorphosed earlier than tadpoles at low density despite growing at similar rates. Food reductions did not accelerate metamorphosis. These results support the hypothesis that density can be a sufficient cue to initiate metamorphosis independently of growth rate.
4092954|Few studies have focused on the thermal biology of tropical or nocturnal snakes. We recorded preferred body temperatures (T
40060468|Two species of the Fringe-Toed Lizard, Uma exsul and Uma paraphygas, are restricted to small areas of sand dunes in the Chihuahuan Desert, where land cover transformation has increased dramatically in recent years and future climatic changes are expected to be severe. The current geographic distribution of each species was estimated by ecological niche modeling using the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Prediction (GARP). A recent land-use map was used to determine areas where habitat has been transformed by human activities, and niche models were projected under two simulated climatic scenarios and for two periods of time (2020 and 2050) to estimate their future potential distributions. Results indicate a high degree of anthropogenic habitat transformation within the distribution of U. exsul, and an important reduction of its distribution by 2050. For U. paraphygas land cover transformation is less severe, but a complete collapse of its current distributions is expected in the future because of climate change. Despite the uncertainty involved, the general trends seem highly feasible and immediate conservation actions are recommended.
10.2307/1564373|Dissection of 641 specimens of three species of Austrelaps provided data on body sizes, sexual dimorphism, food habits, and reproductive biology. These snakes are large elapids of cool to cold climates in southeastern Australia. Australian elapids mainly eat small prey, and foraging theory therefore predicts that they should be relatively unselective with respective to prey type and prey size. The diet of copperheads is very broad, including most of the locally available terrestrial vertebrates. Of 216 prey items, 66% were scincid lizards and 27% were frogs. Most prey items were very small, and there was no apparent relationship between prey and predator sizes. The proportion of snakes containing prey was consistently lower in juveniles than in adults, and lower in gravid females than in non-gravid females. Austrelaps ramsayi and A. superbus are similar in body size, with A. labialis much smaller: all are similar ecologically. Males grow much larger than females, and are more numerous in museum collections. All three species are viviparous, with ovulation in spring and parturition in late summer. Only about two-thirds of adult-size females collected in summer were reproductive, suggesting that individual females may not reproduce every year. Litter sizes varied from 3 to 32, with means of 7.4 in A. labialis, 14.6 in A. superbus, and 15.0 in A. ramsayi. The lower fecundity in A. labialis is attributed to smaller maternal body size: the relationship between maternal SVL and litter size is similar among the three species. Size at birth is also similar.
10.2307/1565661|Sex, family, and microgeographic variation in body size, head dimensions, tail length, and scalation were assessed from 273 wild-caught brown snakes (Storeria dekayi) from seven island and mainland sites near Lake Erie and from 145 neonates born to 25 wild-caught females. Significant differences between males and females were present both in wild-caught snakes and in neonates, with females exceeding males in snout-vent length and number of ventral scales and males exceeding females in tail length, head dimensions, and number of subcaudal scales. Previous analyses have typically focused on the effect that sex differences might have on adult snakes, e.g., in foraging or reproduction. The presence of sex differences among neonates raises the possibility that these differences may be of ecological and evolutionary significance in younger snakes as well. Significant differences among families were found in neonates for all characters except number of labial scales, and significant heritability (estimated from offspring-dam regression) was found for tail length, head length, and numbers of ventral, subcaudal, and temporal scales. Heritable variation in scalation is well known, but this is the first study to document heritable variation in snake morphology. This result is important because heritable variation is an implicit assumption of hypotheses for the evolution of sex, population, and species differences in morphology. Significant differences among sites were found for adult snout-vent length, head dimensions, number of subcaudal scales, and number of temporal scales. In addition, significant phenotypic correlations (e.g., among head dimensions, between tail length and number of subcaudal scales, between snout-vent length and number of ventral scales) and genetic correlations (e.g., between tail length and number of subcaudal scales, between head length and number of ventral scales) were found between pairs of traits. The presence of these correlations suggests that groups of traits may be influenced by the same genetic or ontogenetic processes and may exhibit patterns of correlated evolution.
41515040|Knowledge of growth rates, age at maturity, and longevity are important aspects of a species life history and are directly applicable to life table creation and population viability analyses. We measured the growth of a cohort of 17 semi-wild Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) located in Rock Valley, Nevada over a 47-yr period beginning in 1963. The tortoises were initially marked as hatchling and juvenile animals between the years 1963 and 1965 and ranged in size from 47 to 77 mm in plastron length. We assigned ages of 1-4 yr to the tortoises at initial capture based on their body size. These tortoises were recaptured, measured, and weighed approximately annually since their initial capture. Growth of male and female tortoises did not differ significantly until animals reached the age of 23-25 yr. Annual tortoise growth was correlated with the production of ephemeral vegetation, while accounting for size, sex, and repeated measurements of the animals as well as the interval between measurements. However, the production of ephemeral plants was likewise highly correlated (non-linearly) with winter rainfall. Stochastic predation events between 2003 and 2007 decimated this cohort of tortoises. The average age of the long-term surviving tortoises from this cohort was 43 yr with a range of 39-47 yr. Twelve of the tortoises survived to the age of 39 yr and 11 of the 12 reached 40 yr.
10.2307/1565605|Almost all unisexual members of the Ambystoma jeffersonianum complex of salamanders are triploid, although occasional tetraploid individuals have been observed in a few populations. A population characterized by a high percentage of tetraploids (7-27%) exists at Kickapoo State Park, Vermilion Co., Illinois. This high frequency of tetraploids has been maintained over a period of 12 years. Tetraploids in this population were originally formed by fertilization of unreduced A. platineum ova by A. texanum sperm. Tetraploids at Kickapoo State Park are, however, capable of obtaining sperm from the sexual host, Ambystoma texanum, and producing tetraploid offspring. Because tetraploids can be produced two ways, they might be expected to out-reproduce and replace triploids. However, these tetraploids also produce abundant pentaploid offspring as a result of fertilization of their ova by A. texanum sperm. A high incidence of physical abnormalities among pentaploid larvae and their scarcity as breeding adults suggests that pentaploids have reduced viability. Production of pentaploid larvae may thus be the selective mechanism that prevents tetraploids from replacing triploids in this population. Higher than normal water temperature may be causing increased fertilization rates in this population; this would account for its higher frequency of tetraploids compared to other populations, as well as for the high number of pentaploid larvae that tetraploids produce.
10.2307/1563377|The stomachs of 105 Trionyx muticus contained mainly various invertebrates (primarily insects), fruits, and fish carrion. The diet of males was more diverse and was significantly different from that of females. About 71% by volume of the prey of females was aquatic items (especially Hydropsyche larvae), whereas about 67% of the prey of males was terrestrial items. No significant relationship could be found between comparisons of prey size and turtle size and of prey size and sex of turtle. Sexual differences in diet are related to different microhabitat preferences. Females forage primarily in stable microhabitats in deep water whereas males forage at the shallower interface between terrestrial and aquatic environments.
10.2307/1565321| We studied the seasonal dietary patterns of the Mexican fringe-toed lizard (Uma paraphygas) in sand dunes of the Bolsn de Mapim, Chihuahua, Mxico. Stomach contents were examined and an Importance Value (IV = relative abundance + relative volume + constancy of prey) was determined. We found that formicids were the most abundant prey during spring, summer, and winter, while hemipterans were predominant in autumn. Other abundant food items were lepidopteran larvae (summer and autumn), and isopterans (winter), although seasonal variation existed. This lizard showed a high food niche breadth both for proportion of individuals (x H = 0.82) and for proportion of the volume prey (x Hv = 0.84) in all seasons and therefore is considered to have a generalist diet. The sexes overlapped in IV throughout the year (O<sub>jk</sub> x = 0.88). There were significant differences in morphometric characteristics between main insect prey items used throughout the year. However, only coleopteran's length is correlated with SVL (r = 0.53), and both sexes are capable of eating prey much larger than the mean size of prey found in stomachs. Sexual selection is suggested as the probable cause of the difference in body size between sexes. During the breeding season (winter and summer) males concentrated on plants (IV = 62.1 males and IV = 9.7 females for winter, and IV = 61.0 males and IV = 43.2 females for summer), probably reduced their foraging time, and thus increased the time available for other activities. 
10.2307/1563922|Seasonal movements and habitat preferences of adult alligators were studied in a north-central Florida lake from September 1976 until September 1977. Nine alligators (5 females, 4 males) were outfitted with radio transmitters and monitored on Newnan's Lake, Alachua County, Florida. Study animals were located 627 times via telemetric signals and visual observations. Female alligators were more sedentary than males during all four seasons (winter, spring, summer and fall). Greatest movements and largest seasonal ranges for both sexes occurred during the spring. Females showed no evident preference for either lake or swamp habitat during the spring, while males preferred the open lake. Reduction in activity ranges was noted during the summer for both sexes. Males preferred the open lake during the summer while females restricted themselves to the surrounding swamps. Preference for the swamp during the summer by females was believed to be due primarily to nest construction, egg laying, and attendance at nest sites.
10.2307/1564595| Three new species of small Eleutherodactylus are named from cloud forests of the northern and central Cordillera Central of Colorado. These species occur at altitudes between 2600 and 3370 m in Departamentos Antioquia, Caldas, Quindo, and Tolima. The new species apparently are related to E. leptolophus and E. peraticus that occur at comparable altitudes in the southern portions of the Cordillera Central. A single case of sympatry is known among the five species (between two species in Antioquia). /// Se describe tres especies nuevas y pequeas de Eleutherodactylus de los bosques nublados de la parte norte de la cordillera Central de Colombia. Estas especies se encuentra entre 2600 y 3370 m.s.n.m. en los departamentos de Antioquia, Caldas, Quindo, y Tolima. Aparentemente, las especies nuevas tienen parentescos con E. leptolophus y E. peraticus de la parte austral de la cordillera Central (en altitudes comparables). Hay un caso de simpatria entre las cinco especies (entre las especies de Antioquia). 
10.2307/1563040| A new arrangement of the Patagonian lizards of the Liolaemus fitzingeri group is discussed. Three geographical forms are proposed: L. fitzingeri melanops Burmeister North of Rio Chubut; L. fitzingeri canqueli subsp. nov. from the volcanic Meseta Canquel, Central Chubut; L. fitzingeri fitzingeri (Dumril et Bibrn) from Southern Chubut and Santa Cruz territories. A redescription of L. fitzingeri melanops is given. Populations from Meseta Canquel, formerly considered by the author as L. fitzingeri melanops, are synonymized with L. fitzingeri canqueli subsp. nov. 
10.2307/1563456|The Liophis cobella group consists of four species, L. breviceps, L. cobella, L. frenatus, and L. longiventris. The color pattern of the species in this group consists of a dark brown to black ground color with narrow light bands. The banding may be obscure in old adults, but the venter is consistently banded or checkered with black and coral red marks. The average number of dorsal bands, ventrals, subcaudals, maxillary teeth and tail length as a percentage of total length among the species of the group varies from 30-90, 138-189, 50-59, 15-22, and 17.0-20.0 respectively. Numbers of scale rows are invariably 17-17-15, scales smooth, without apical pits. A brief history of the names of some species and keys to the species and subspecies are presented for the group. The group previously was thought to consist of eight species among 14 named forms, but additional material from other localities have shown overlap of features between some taxa previously regarded as full species, resulting in the reduction to subspecific status of L. canaimus and L. trebbaui; the recognition of L. taeniogaster as a valid subspecies; the description of a new subspecies; and the placement of the currently recognized species L. brazili and L. ingeri as junior subjective synonyms of L. frenatus and L. cobella, respectively. One form, Coluber cinereus Linnaeus, cannot be allocated to any currently recognized colubrid genus.
1566218| The reproductive cycle and cycle in fat body mass are described for male and female Sceloporus pyrocephalus taken from the Municipio de Tejupilco, state of Mxico, Mxico. Males reached sexual maturity at 50.0 mm snout-vent length (SVL); females reached sexual maturity at 47.0 mm SVL. Testis of males began to increase in size in early April, maximum testis mass occurred during May through October, and testis mass decreased abruptly in November and December. Maximum testicular growth was associated with increased temperature, photoperiod, and precipitation. This is an oviparous species. Enlarged vitellogenic follicles first appeared during early May in females. Females contained oviductal eggs from May to September. Vitellogenesis, follicular growth, and egg production were associated with increasing photoperiod and precipitation but not with temperature. From a sample of 21 females with oviductal eggs, 13 (61.9%) had two clutches, and eight (38.1%) had a single clutch. Mean clutch size was not correlated with female SVL. /// El ciclo reproductivo y el ciclo de la masa del cuerpo graso son descritos para los machos y las hembras de Sceloporus pyrocephalus estudiados del Municipio de Tejupilco, estado de Mxico, Mxico. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 50.0 mm de longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC); las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 47.0 mm de LHC. Los testculos de los machos comenzaron a incrementar en tamao a principios de abril, la mxima masa testicular ocurri de mayo a octubre, y decreci abruptamente en noviembre y diciembre. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo asociado con el incremento de la temperatura, fotoperiodo, y precipitacin. Esta es una especie ovpara. Los primeros folculos vitelognicos alargados que presentaron las hembras aparecieron a principios de mayo. Las hembras presentaron huevos oviductales de mayo a septiembre. La vitelognesis, crecimiento folicular, y produccin de huevos estuvieron asociados con el incremento del fotoperiodo y precipitacin, pero no con la temperatura. De la muestra de 21 hembras con huevos en el oviducto, 13 (61.9%) presentaron evidencias de dos puestas, y ocho (38.1%) tuvieron una sola puesta. El tamao medio de la puesta no estuvo correlacionado con la LHC de las hembras. 
25599192|We studied the population biology of the Spiny-Tailed Iguana (Ctenosaura bakeri) endemic to the Honduran island of Utila and previously assumed to be close to extinction. Here, for the first time, we present a comprehensive mapping of its overall distribution and nesting area. The total range of C. bakeri comprised about 1,091 ha of mangrove swamp. Nesting sites were restricted to 109 ha of sandy coastal territory. We used two closed capture-recapture models to estimate adult population densities at 35-78 and 72-114 adults/ha within three mangrove areas, respectively. Population densities were largely related to the presence of suitable retreats. Population estimates for the entire mangrove habitat based on these mean adult densities ranged from 57,823-93,826 individuals, far higher than earlier reports have suggested. Also, no evidence was found for an unbalanced demographic structure. About 27% of all iguanas captured were juveniles (<150 mm snout-vent length). Notably, juveniles were difficult to detect and capture, and additional sightings of 0.8-2.3 juveniles/day indicated even higher abundances than given by captures. The sex ratio of males to females (1: 1.2) was consistent with reports of adult social groups in other large iguanids. Threats to C. bakeri included hunting and habitat pollution but mainly the loss of habitat and nesting sites caused by unrestricted property development. Without proper habitat management, we anticipate significant declines of the C. bakeri population within the next 20 yr.
10.2307/1565418|Theories on the scaling of saltatory locomotion were examined using data of anuran jump performance. we explored whether take-off speed in geometrically similar animals would be the same regardless of body mass (an energy output model), or whether it would scale with mass<sup>0.111</sup> (a power output model). Two frog species in central Panama, Eleutherodactylus fitzingeri (powerful jumpers, 0.14-8.65 g) and Bufo typhonius (slow hoppers; 0.16-11.60 g), were used for morphometric and take-off potential measurements. Like those of other species, our frog species showed isometric body shape in general in terms of muscle mass, hindlimb length, and interilial width. Scaling exponents for take-off speed were 0.16-0.17 for the two species and were not statistically deviated from those predicted by the power output approach. This conclusion would be supported by the fact that burst-type locomotion relies on the rate of energy release, not the total amount of energy released, by jumping muscles.
4092911|Herbivorous reptiles use microbial gut symbionts to digest plant material. These symbionts ferment cell wall components, producing short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), which the host uses as an energy source. In reptiles, fermentation usually occurs in the large intestine; however, the freshwater Florida Red-Bellied Cooler, Pseudemys nelsoni, has both small and large intestine fermentation. Although small intestine fermentation has not been found in other chelonians, no other freshwater turtles have been examined. We measured SCFA concentrations in the digestive tracts of juvenile and adult Pond Sliders, Trachemys scripta. Like many other turtles, T. scripta experiences an ontogenetic diet shift from carnivory to herbivory, and it is unknown whether juveniles can digest plant material. We determined whether (1) this species harbors small intestine fermentation, (2) juveniles possess SCFA concentrations comparable to other herbivorous reptiles, and (3) a change in relative fermentation chamber capacity accompanies the diet shift. We fed turtles a plant diet for five weeks and then measured SCFA concentrations in their gastrointestinal tracts and the mass of gastrointestinal tract contents. Both juveniles and adults had SCFA concentrations comparable to other herbivorous reptiles; however, they did not have significant small intestine fermentation. Additionally, there was no difference between the relative masses of juvenile and adult fermentation chamber contents. Therefore, the ontogenetic diet shift in T. scripta is not accompanied by a change in relative gut capacity.
10.2307/1563407|Two species of frogs, Rana clamitans and R. pipiens, were tested in a Y-maze wherein they were given a choice between a lighted and a darkened arm. Tests were performed with four groups of frogs: (1) intact controls, (2) optically enucleated, (3) parapinealectomized, and (4) enucleated-parapinealectomized. All of the groups demonstrated a positive phototaxis and eyeless frogs were about as efficient as intact frogs in selecting the lighted arm. It is concluded that neither optic nor parapineal photoreceptors are essential for positive photoaxis in the two species of frogs.
1566172|During the summer of 1997, 115 Plethodon metcalfi were collected on a 10-year-old clearcut (50) and in a nearby forest (65) in the vicinity of Highlands, North Carolina. Sex, reproductive status, snout-vent length, mass, and age were used to assess the effects of clearcutting. Relative to the forest population, the clearcut population had a smaller proportion of juveniles and proportionately fewer adult males in reproductive condition. Mature female salamanders had greater snout-vent lengths (SVL) than mature males, but there was no difference in average SVL between sites. Masses of mature salamanders did not differ by sex, but salamanders on the clearcut were more massive than their counterparts in forest. Ages of mature salamanders did not differ by sex or site. These results suggest that age distributions, masses, and reproductive efforts of P. metcalfi populations on clearcuts in the southern Blue Ridge Mountains are altered by clearcutting. Future research concerning effects of forest management on salamander populations must consider the possibility that, although salamanders may be entering managed areas shortly after cutting, these populations may be atypical in several important ways.
10.2307/1564534|We provide a review of literature concerning the use of artificial pond communities in static, outdoor, above-ground tanks (mesocosms) for ecological studies of amphibians. This approach has been widely used to evaluate the interaction of biotic variables, and less often biotic and abiotic variables. Although simulated pond communities offer unusually attractive properties for evaluating the effects of xenobiotics on aquatic ecosystems, this approach has received only limited attention as a potential model system for studying the effects of toxicants on amphibian communities. We provide a summary of results and experimental designs from past studies in order to illustrate the general protocols used and complex interactions between biotic and abiotic variables that can be simulated in artificial pond communities. We recommend that community ecologists who make use of this system generally become more aware of the importance of abiotic factors in pond simulations, and that they model the abiotic parameters of the particular system that they are attempting to simulate. We strongly recommend the use of this experimentally tractable system for aquatic community ecotoxicological research, since it is through such a multispecies, top-down simulation approach that we can begin to understand the processes by which xenobiotic factors impact more complex natural systems. We propose the acronym MATOX to designate use of this Multispecies Amphibian TOXicity community-level bioassay.
10.2307/1563029|The genus Oedipina is the most specialized genus within the family Plethodontidae. Fifteen species are recognized and are placed into two species groups: an Oedipina parvipes group with four species (parvipes, complex, elongata, and carablanca*) and an Oedipina uniformis group with eleven species (collaris, poelzi, pseudouniformis*, altura*, cyclocauda, uniformis, paucidentata*, alfaroi, taylori, ignea, and stuarti*); an asterisk indicates species described as new in this paper. Several taxa previously recognized are reduced to synonymy: Ophiobatrachus vermicularis, Haptoglossa pressicauda, Oedipina syndactyla, O. bonitaensis, O. longissima, O. gracilis, O. pacificensis, and O. inusitata are referred to Oedipina uniformis; O. alleni to Oedipina parvipes. Oedipina apparently evolved sometime during late early Tertiary or early middle Tertiary in the Costa Rica - western Panama region and shortly thereafter diverged into two separate species groups, the Oedipina parvipes group and the Oedipina uniformis group. The species range from Estado de Chiapas, Mexico, southward through western Colombia to extreme northwestern Ecuador and occur primarily in low lands or low montane areas up to 2286 m (7500 ft.) elevation. Oedipina is primarily fossorial and is often found along road cuts beneath very wet moss or beneath and in rotting logs in pastures of forested areas. Some forms occasionally occur in loose sand or gravel along stream banks.
4092930| We analyzed variation in growth in the lizard Xenosaurus grandis in a seasonal tropical environment in Veracruz, Mxico. We used the logistic-by-length model to represent the growth pattern of these lizards. Males and females did not differ in estimated asymptotic size or the characteristic growth parameter. Estimated growth curve predicted an age at maturity of 28 months for males and 32 months for females. Size independent growth rates were higher during the wet season, and did not differ among years. The interaction among body mass, food abundance, and maximum, minimum, and average temperatures significantly affected growth rates. Our results suggest that variation in body growth is predominantly driven by seasonal resource limitation. /// Analizamos el crecimiento corporal, su variacin, y las posibles causas de tal variacin en la lagartija Xenosaurus grandis en un ambiente tropical estacional en Veracruz, Mxico. Utilizamos el modelo logstico por longitud para representar el patrn de crecimiento de estas lagartijas. Los machos y las hembras no mostraron diferencias en la talla asinttica estimada ni en el parmetro caracterstico de crecimiento. La curva de crecimiento estimada predijo una edad a la madurez de 28 meses en los machos y 32 meses en las hembras. Las tasas de crecimiento independientes de la talla fueron ms altas durante la estacin hmeda y no fueron diferentes entre aos. La interaccin entre masa corporal, abundancia de alimento y las temperaturas m ximas, mnimas y promedio afect significativamente las tasas de crecimiento. Nuestros resultados sugieren que la variacin en el crecimiento corporal se encuentra ocasionada predominantemente por una limitacin estacional en los recursos. 
10.2307/1565486|A new species of Plectrohyla, previously identified as P. teuchestes, is described from Parque Nacional El Cusuco in northwestern Honduras. Adults of the new species differ from those of P. teuchestes in snout shape, size, and several features of color in life. Several differences in tadpole morphology also exist between the two species.
10.2307/1564701|We collected reproductive data on gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) in Duval County, Florida, from 1990 through 1993. We recorded male head-bobbing and mounting behavior most frequently in September. Of the 25 nests we located, 21 were in burrow aprons and four were found elsewhere by chance. Mean depth to the top of the uppermost egg was 12.6 cm, and mean distance from the burrow mouth was 40.8 cm. Mean clutch size was 5.04. Hatchlings emerged from nests from late August through early October, with a mean pre-emergence period of 105 days. Hatching success of protected eggs was 82.3%.
10.2307/1563291|A year long study of the reproductive cycle of Natrix s. sipedon was conducted at a commercial fish hatchery in central Missouri. Spermatogenic activity is maximal in mid-summer. The sperm are moved into the vas deferens where they are stored until the single breeding season the following May and June. The testes of males approaching one year of age are active and breeding is accomplished by males approximately 21 months old. Seasonal changes of the male kidney sexual segment are discussed. Females breed and produce litters once each year. Fast growing two year olds may produce litters but most reproduction is by three (or more) year old females. Ova show a rapid growth rate just prior to ovulation, corresponding with the breeding season. Sperm are not stored in crypts as in some other species. A correlation exists between the size of the female and the number of embryos. The right uterine horn carries the greater percent of the embryos. Parturition occurs in late August and early September.
10.2307/1564353|Insular gigantism was studied in a large, field-caught sample of Australian tiger snakes (Notechis ater serventyi), on Chappell Island, Bass Strait, to determine which of three hypotheses (food availability, predation and/or social-sexual interaction) best accounted for large body size. Predictions of predation and social-sexual hypotheses were not consistent with available evidence. Prey availability, and the correlations of clutch size and reproductive frequency with body size, provide an explanation for the selective advantage of large body size. This allows increased fat storage and provides a low surface-to-volume ratio conferring resistance to extreme temperatures or moisture. Both features are important when resources are saturating but very highly seasonal.
4092991|We investigated microhabitat selection by Terrapene carolina carolina in a North Carolina mountain wetland. We monitored a total of 21 radio-tagged turtles in 1997 and 1998. Turtles were located at least weekly from mid-May until they entered their overwintering sites. Microhabitat characteristics were quantified at each turtle location and at a corresponding random location < 25 m away. Weather varied during the study: 1998 was much hotter and drier than 1997. Microhabitat did not differ between males and females, except that females selected form locations with greater amounts of exposed soil. Overall, turtles constructed forms in areas that were more humid than the surrounding environment. Box turtles also used habitats with lower surface temperatures and higher humidity levels than the surrounding environment, particularly during hot and dry periods. This likely helped them regulate body temperature and prevent desiccation. During the summer of 1997 and all monitoring seasons in 1998, turtles were located at sites with moderate canopy cover and less understory plant cover than expected. Sites with less understory cover may have greater air circulation than those with more cover, thus allowing turtles to dissipate heat more rapidly. Amounts of woody debris, leaf litter, and canopy cover at turtle locations were similar to those available in the surrounding environment. Our results indicate that the attributes most important for defining the microhabitat of T. Carolina (surface temperature, relative humidity, and understory plant cover) are related to thermoregulation and minimizing water loss.
10.2307/1563527|Examination of female Sternotherus odoratus in central Alabama revealed that follicular enlargement begins soon after oviposition of the last clutch in July. Yolking of the ovarian follicles continued from August-December, until reaching a size not significantly different from spring preovulatory follicles. Ovulation of the first clutch occurred during late April, and eggs were found in the oviducts from May-July. Central Alabama females have at least 2 clutches per reproductive season, with many laying 3. Mean clutch size was 2.6 (range 1-6). Clutch size was positively correlated to body size, but there was no significant trend for larger females to produce larger oviducal eggs. Females first reached sexual maturity while in the 65-75 mm CL range. Estimated average annual reproductive potential of females laying a maximum of 3 clutches was 7.8 eggs per year.
4092998| A new species of Plectrohyla is described from the Sierra de Miahuatln in southern Oaxaca, Mexico. It is known from a single adult female obtained from pine-oak forest at 2550 m. The new species is similar to Plectrohyla cembra in size, habitus, and in having a partially concealed tympanum but differs most notably in aspects of color pattern, hand morphology, head shape, and palatine features. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Plectrohyla de la Sierra de Miahuatln al sur de Oaxaca, Mxico. Se conoce de una sola hembra adulta que fue capturada en un bosque de pino y encino a 2550 metros de elevacin. La nueva especie es similar a Plectrohyla cembra en tamao, habito, y en tener el tmpano parcialmente escondido, pero difiere notablemente en aspectos de patrn de coloracin, morfologa de la mano, forma de la cabeza, y caractersticas del paladar. 
40060527|Tadpoles of Cope's Gray Treefrog, Hyla chrysoscelis, were reared in the presence of two concentrations of colloidal clay to evaluate the influence of clay-associated, organic materials on growth. There were no dose-dependent effects of the amount of clay, but total tadpole lengths were 14.1 and 12.1% larger than clear-water controls for low and high clay content treatments, respectively. Similarly, tadpole wet masses were 35.1 (low clay) and 38.5% (high clay) larger than controls. Organic molecules and small organisms are sequestered on the enormous, collective surface area of the negatively charged clay particles, and we attribute the increased growth performances to these potential food sources.
10.2307/1564202|Scincella lateralis responds to both visual and chemical cues of prey. A visual stimulus is associated with an increased rate of tongue flicking, orientation to the prey, and attack behavior. Chemical cues are of reduced importance when the visual cue (movement) is present. However, when the visual stimulus of prey is removed, the rate of tongue flicking increases, and is significantly greater in the presence of a prey extract than to a dead prey item or a water control. When prey are non-moving or dead, chemical cues enable the lizard to distinguish potential prey from inanimate objects.
4498612| Internal larval oral anatomy was used to explore morphological diversity and its contribution to the systematics of the genera Aplastodiscus, Bokermannohyla, and Hypsiboas, belonging to the tribe Cophomantini. Internal oral morphology was examined for tadpoles of 12 species. All species have a large pair of infralabial papillae on the buccal floor and other papillae on the prelingual region. In Aplastodiscus and Bokermannohyla, the large infralabial papillae have digitiform secondary projections. The number and arrangement of the buccal floor papillae varies among species, but they are more numerous in Aplastodiscus and Bokermannohyla. The arrangement of the postnarial papillae is variable, but in Aplastodiscus and Bokermannohyla, they show a definite, inverted V-shape pattern. The lateral ridge papillae are more complex in larvae of Bokermannohyla with long digitiform secondary projections. Tadpoles of only Aplastodiscus albofrenatus, Aplastodiscus eugenioi, and Bokermannohyla luctuosa have papillae on the buccal roof arena and larvae of all species have lateral roof papillae except Hypsiboas albomarginatus and Hypsiboas cinerascens. Larvae of Aplastodiscus, Bokermannohyla, and Hypsiboas presumably share the presence of vacuities anterior to the internal nares; although this character state is clearly synapomorphic within hylids, it is still uncertain whether it is exclusive of these three genera or whether it is present in the other genera of the tribe Cophomantini (Hyloscirtus and Myersiohyla). The inclusion of internal oral anatomy characters, such as the narial vacuities, in systematic studies is certainly valuable because it will provide additional information toward the understanding of phylogenetic relationships. /// A anatomia oral interna larval foi usada para analisar a diversidade morfolgica e sua contribuio para a sistemtica dos gneros Aplastodiscus, Bokermannohyla e Hypsiboas, pertencentes  tribo Cophomantini. A morfologia oral interna foi examinada em girinos de 12 espcies. Todas as espcies possuem um par grande de papilas infralabiais no assoalho bucal, alm de outras papilas na regio prlingual. Em Aplastodiscus e Bokermannohyla a papila infralabial grande possui projees secundrias digtiformes. O nmero e a disposio das papilas do assoalho bucal variam entre as espcies, mas so mais numerosas em Aplastodiscus e Bokermannohyla. O arranjo das papilas ps-nasais tambm  varivel, mas em Aplastodiscus e Bokermannohyla elas esto dispostas em um padro definido na forma de um V invertido. As papilas laterais da crista so mais complexas em larvas de Bokermannohyla, com projees secundrias compridas e digitiformes. Somente os girinos de Aplastodiscus albofrenatus, Aplastodiscus eugenioi e Bokermannohyla luctuosa possuem papilas da arena do teto bucal e todas as espcies possuem papilas laterais do teto menos Hypsiboas albomarginatus e Hypsiboas cinerascens. Larvas de Aplastodiscus, Bokermannohyla e Hypsiboas compartilham a presena de concavidades anteriores s narinas internas. Apesar deste estado de carter ser sinapomrfico entre os hildeos, ainda  incerto se ele  exclusivo a esses trs gneros ou se est presente nos outros gneros da tribo Cophomantini (Hyloscirtus e Myersiohyla). A incluso de caracteres de anatomia oral interna, como as concavidades nasais, em estudos de sistemtica , certamente, importante para providenciar informaes adicionais na compreenso das relaes filogenticas entre as espcies. 
40665017|West European Rock Lizards within the Iberolacerta group have a restricted distribution, with small, widely separated ranges in highland areas. The aim of this study was to identify possible habitat requirements (including habitat structure, type of vegetation, and refuge availability) and topographic factors (altitude and orientation) that may determine variations in the abundance of Iberolacerta cyreni on a 300-km 2 mountain range and to discuss the implications of our results for the conservation of this endangered endemism. Both a stepwise regression and a best model selection approach showed that lizard abundance was positively correlated with only two predictors: altitude and cover of large rocks. Thus, the successful exploitation of alpine habitats by J. cyreni seemed to depend on the abundance of large rocks that may provide suitable basking substrates while minimizing prdation risk. The positive association between altitude and lizard abundance predicts a fragmented distribution with isolated populations in the mountain peaks.
10.2307/1563972| Ameiva ameiva, Cnemidophorus lemniscatus, and Kentropyx striatus reproduce seasonally in Amazonian savanna near Alter do Cho, Brazil. Most egg deposition occurs during the wet season but most development of gonads and growth of juveniles occur during the height of the dry season. Relative fat-body size varies little throughout the year and there is no apparent correlation between fat-body size and gonad development. 
10.2307/1565246|Male and female Ameiva exsul share overlapping home ranges. As a consequence sexually receptive females may have access to several males. We studied the effect of relative male size on paternity in five experimental populations of adult male and female A. exsul that were held in naturalistic 100 m<sup>2</sup> enclosures. Each population, which initially consisted of three males and three females, was followed for a breeding season. Behavior was tallied from data gathered by focal animal observation. Progeny were obtained by harvesting clutches of eggs from the sand piles in which the animals denned. DNA samples from embryonic tissue and from blood of adults were compared to determine parentage using RAPD-PCR with bands scored as dominant markers. Body size was strongly associated with male reproductive success in the enclosures: the largest male in each enclosure sired the most progeny, and overall, with enclosures as statistical blocks, large males sired significantly more progeny than did medium or small males. Nevertheless, small males obtained some paternity, and so were not completely excluded from reproduction. We detected multiple paternity in one of the clutches.
10.2307/1565504|Niveoscincus metallicus is a small viviparous skink common in Tasmania. We describe the annual reproductive cycle of female N. metallicus and relate this to changes in plasma levels of progesterone and estradiol. Vitellogenesis begins in autumn (March), with first matings in April, prior to entering winter torpor. Ovulation occurs in mid-September about two weeks after spring emergence. Size adjusted atresia of vitellogenic follicles was 8% in the population studied. No loss of embryos in utero was observed and young are born in January. Plasma estradiol levels are significantly elevated during the preovulatory phase. Progesterone concentrations are low through most of the year but rise during gestation and are highest during the second trimester, declining well before parturition.
10.2307/1563991| Stomach contents of Thamnophis eques at Lake Tecocomulco, Mexico, were recorded, and prey populations sampled. Results indicate significant differences in diet between large (44.0 cm SVL) and small (<44.0 cm SVL) snakes. Large snakes fed mainly on aquatic vertebrates (fishes, frogs, and salamander larvae) and leeches, small snakes on earthworms and leeches. Lack of a correlation between snake size and size of prey (leech or earthworm) indicates that the ontogenetic change in diet is not just a result of predator growth progressively diminishing the availability and/or ability to handle small prey. There was also seasonal variation in prey which was associated with fluctuations in prey availability. Birth season seems associated with annelid abundance. Differences in local distribution of large and small snakes were found and may reflect differences in foraging patterns. Possible effects of allopatry on the diet of this population are discussed. 
10.2307/1564982|We describe a new species of frog, genus Rhacophorus, from Minhsiung, Chiayi Hsien, Taiwan, found entirely in human-modified habitats associated with farming. Rhacophorus arvalis is distinguished from other Rhacophorus on Taiwan by a combination of characters, including the presence of a white stripe on each flank, unicolored dorsum and thighs, and a unique advertisement call.
10.2307/1562983|The tadpoles of the three species of Batrachyla (leptopus, antartandica, and taeniata) are described and compared with other larvae of the tribe Alsodini. Tadpoles of Batrachyla provide important additional characteristics for generic definition. On the basis of tadpoles and the natural history the definition of the genus is modified.
10.2307/1563432| The field notes of J. R. Slevin written during the expedition of the California Academy of Sciences to the Galpagos Islands in 1905-1096 contain previously unavailable data on the marine turtles of the eastern Pacific. "Land basking" by green turtles in Galpagos was predominately, if not exclusively, a female behavior. These terrestrial emergences were not concentrated in the major reproductive season of Galpagos turtles. Female Chelonia were also collected on shore during daylight hours on Socorro Island southwest of Baja California, Mxico. Chelonia, green turtles, were observed to feed on seaweed, the leaves and shoots of mangrove trees, and the leaves of another unidentified shoreline shrub. Comparative data on the gonads of dark and yellow turtles indicated that the latter did not breed in Galpagos during Slevin's stay. Lepidochelys olivacea, the olive ridley, was recorded in Galpagos waters and fed on fish eggs. 
10.2307/1563570|The bullsnake (Pituophis melanoleucus sayi) exhibits head morphology and stereotyped motor patterns adapted to excavating. Spading actions by the snout are followed by scooping a load of sand in a head-neck flexure, moving posterior, and dumping the load away from the excavation at varying distances. An excavating bullsnake can move as much as 3400 cm<sup>3</sup>/h. This behavior was seen in adults of both sexes and in a juvenile and may function for obtaining food (especially pocket gophers), digging a nest or a retreat. Bullsnakes respond positively to the soil from pocket gopher mounds.
10.2307/1564735|Cordylus giganteus is a large, terrestrial, viviparous lizard endemic to the Highveld grasslands of South Africa. It has a limited distribution and is regarded by conservationists as threatened. The testicular cycle and associated seasonal variation in the sexual accessory structures, together with plasma testosterone levels, were studies over a period of 15 months. Minimum size at maturity was about 165 mm snout-vent length (SVL). Reproduction was distinctly seasonal and the timing of events deviated from the typical saurian pattern. Males exhibited a basic post-nuptial spermatogenic cycle in which testicular growth and recrudescence began in summer, after emergence from winter hibernation and spring mating, followed by peak testicular size and spermiogenesis in late summer/autumn and testicular regression in late autumn and winter. Spermatozoa were stored in the ductus epididymidis and ductus deferens for 7-8 months. Plasma testosterone levels peaked twice during the testicular cycle, typically coinciding with spermiogenesis in late summer and also in spring at the time of mating. The epithelial heights of the ductus epididymidis, ductus deferens, and renal sexual segment showed significant seasonal variation, and peak secretory activity coincided with spermiogenic activity and high circulating testosterone levels in autumn. The second rise in plasma testosterone occured in spring, but was not accompained by increased secretory activity of either the ductus epididymidis or the renal sexual segment epithelia. Testicular recrudescence was correlated with increasing ambient temperatures, photoperiod, and summer rainfall, whereas testicular regression during late autumn corresponded to decreasing ambient temperatures, photoperiod, and rainfall. This study adds to data that indicate that autumn reproductive activity is the common reproductive strategy among viviparous cordylids and provides another example of asynchronous reproductive activity between male and female lizards.
10.2307/1563081| Ischnocnema simmonsi sp. nov. (Leptodactylidae, Telmatobiinae, Eleutherodactylini) is named from the Ro Piuntza, Cordillera del Condor, Morona-Santiago Prov., Ecuador, 1830 m; it differs from I. quixensis and I. verrucosa in skin texture, color pattern, and limb length and presumably occurs at higher elevations than do its congeners. 
40983590|Fowler's Toad (Anaxyrus fowleri) was historically abundant and widespread in various habitats, including urban and agricultural areas, in southern Louisiana. Coincident with intense anthropogenic disturbance, the abundance of the Coastal Plain Toad (Incilius nebulifer) has increased significantly in degraded habitats. Subsequently, A. fowleri is found only in forested areas near permanent water bodies that are not preferred breeding habitat of I. nebulifer. We hypothesized that larval competition with I. nebulifer, a species that breeds in extremely ephemeral habitat commonly found in disturbed areas, contributed to A. fowleri's decline. We raised tadpoles in intra-and interspecific competition in artificial ponds under simulated permanent and temporary breeding habitat conditions. Competition with I. nebulifer tadpoles, but not pond drying, resulted in a decrease in body size measures and a lower rate of survival to metamorphosis for A. fowleri tadpoles. Incilius nebulifer tadpoles were slightly larger in drying than in permanent ponds and were larger and had a higher rate of survival to metamorphosis in interspecific tanks than in intraspecific tanks, suggesting that it is easier for I. nebulifer to outcompete other species than conspecifics. The Coastal Plain Toad's superior competitive ability in temporary breeding sites may have resulted in ecological displacement and is potentially contributing to a decline of regionally sympatric populations of Fowler's Toad in degraded landscapes.
10.2307/1565234| A new species of the Bufo valliceps group is described from the Caribbean versant of north-central Honduras. The new species can be distinguished from the other members of the group by the following combination of characters: supraorbital and parietal crests strongly elevated, higher than postorbital crest at confluence of these three crests; parietal crest higher than supraorbital crest, arched, gradually sloping downward posteriorly; parietal crest not expanded laterally; m. interhyoideus unpigmented, forming small unilobed vocal sac; tympana small (x = 43.0% of eye length in males and 45.4% of eye length in females); and shanks long (x = 46.1% of snout-vent length in males and 44.2% of snout-vent length in females). The new species is most often found in primary broadleaf forests, but can be found sympatrically with B. valliceps in late second growth broadleaf forest. The new form disappears when the primary forests are cleared and is replaced in these degraded habitats by B. valliceps. There is no evidence to indicate that the new species forms breeding aggregations. 
1566049|Arrays of wood cover boards are useful tools for studying and monitoring plethodontid salamander populations. However, little is known about the biases inherent in monitoring data collected from such arrays. We used Red-Backed Salamanders, Plethodon cinereus, to test for two potential biases associated with use of wood cover board arrays. First, we tested whether frequent sampling of arrays can cause reduced counts of salamanders, resulting in the appearance of population declines where none exist. Second, we tested whether salamanders found under wood cover boards differed from salamanders found under natural cover objects in terms of sex ratios, stage class ratios, and snout-vent length. We found that sampling cover boards daily substantially reduced salamander counts under cover objects and that this result was pronounced for adults but not for juveniles. We found no decrease in counts with sampling cover boards weekly as compared to sampling every three weeks. With respect to differences between salamanders found underneath cover boards versus natural cover objects, we found that samples from under cover boards contained higher proportions of adults and lower proportions of juveniles and hatchlings than did natural cover objects. This was true in both the spring and fall. There were no differences in sex ratios or in snout-vent length within stage classes for salamanders in cover boards versus natural cover objects. These results suggest that cover boards used for monitoring or for studies of ecology and behavior should be sampled no more than once per week if natural levels of movement and territoriality are desired. Additionally, although cover board arrays may be suitable for tracking relative changes in overall population size, bias among size classes may make cover boards less than ideal tools for studies of salamander demography.
10.2307/1565015|Proteins of six species of the genus Rana found in Japan were compared electrophoretically to determine the phylogenetic relationship of R. rugosa among species in the subgenus Rana. Two phenetic methods confirmed the assignment of R. limnocharis to a separate subgenus or genus. By making R. limnocharis an outgroup to the remaining taxa, a cladistic analysis found R. rugosa to be more closely related to a clade representing the R. temporaria species group than to the R. esculenta species group. The large number of alleles unique to R. rugosa suggests it may be sufficiently divergent to warrant assignment to its own species group.
10.2307/1565536| Reproductive timing in relation to the size and age of individual female common Chameleons (Chamaeleo chamaeleon) was studied in a population in southern Spain. Thirty-one radio-tagged females were observed during two summers, 1993 and 1995. The mating season (courting, pair formation, and copulation) lasted from late July to mid-September. Egg-laying was recorded from 25 September to 28 October, 34-40 d after copulation. Timing of reproduction varied between individual females, old and large females timing the reproductive events (i.e., mating and egg-laying) earlier than young and small ones. Specifically, timing was affected by size when age was controlled for but not the reverse. Four alternative explanations for delayed breeding of younger and smaller female chameleons are discussed: (1) late breeding could be a consequence of physiological constrains in the onset of maturation of younger females; (2) late breeding allows young females to secure more resources for reproduction thus achieving larger clutches; (3) young females avoid competition for attractive males from large females, and (4) if young females are less preferred, they may not be courted until males no longer are courting larger females. This happens when the latter become pregnant. /// En este trabajo se analiza el efecto del tamao y la edad de la hembras en la fenologa reproductiva de una poblacin de Camalen Comn del sur de Espaa. Para ello se estudi el ciclo reproductor de 31 hembras mediante radio-emisores durante dos veranos (1993 y 1995). Cada ao, la estacin reproductora (cortejo, emparejamiento y cpula) comenz a finales de Julio y termin a mediados de Septiembre. La puesta tuvo lugar desde el 25 Septiembre al 28 Octubre, entre 34 y 40 das despus de la cpula. La fenologa reproductora estuvo relacionada con el tamao (no la edad) y as, las hembras de mayor tamao comenzaron y completaron la reproduccin significativamente antes que las hembras de menor tamao. Se discuten cuatro posibles hiptesis retraso en la reproduccin de las hembras de menor tamao: (1) la adquisicin de la madurez sexual en las hembras jvenes retrasa su reproduccin; (2) el retraso en la reproduccin podra ser ventajoso para estas hembras ya que as se aseguraran ms recursos para la reproduccin y posiblemente, una mayor fecundidad; (3) la reproduccin tarda evitara la competencia intrasexual con las hembras de mayor tamao por los machos ms atractivos y (4) los machos prefieren a las hembras de mayor tamao y por tanto, se reproducen con las ms pequeas una vez que aquellas estn grvidas. 
40060566|Two lineages of Xantusia occurring in northwestern Mexico are each deeply divergent in mitochondrial and nuclear DNA, mutually exclusive relative to other members of the genus, and morphologically diagnosable. They are formally described here as new species. The new species from Sonora resembles its nearest relative, Xantusia arizonae, in that females lack well-developed femoral pores, but it differs in numbers of dorsal scales around midbody and in color pattern. It is found near the Sea of Cortez in a unique microhabitat, fallen Pachycereus pringlei (cardon), whereas X. arizonae occurs in rock crevices in central Arizona. The new species from Baja California Sur differs from its nearest relative, Xantusia gilberti, in color pattern and in having small scales bordering the labium behind the fifth infralabial. It is found in Yucca valida (datilillo) on the Magdalena Plains near the Pacific Coast, whereas X. gilberti occurs in pine-oak woodland of the Sierra La Laguna, 350 km to the south. /// Dos linajes de Xantusia presentes en el noroeste de Mxico son muy divergentes en cuanto a su ADN mitochondrial y nuclear. Son mutuamente excluyentes con respecto a otros miembros del gnero y adems diferenciables morfolgicamente. Se describen aqu formalmente como especies nuevas. La especie de Sonora es parecido a sus pariente ms cercana, Xantusia arizonae, en que las hembras no poseen poros femorales bien desarrollados, pero se diferencian en el nmero de escamas dorsales en el centra del cuerpo y por los patrones de color. Se encuentran cerca del Mar de Cortez en un microhbitat nico, Pachycereus pringlei (cardn) cados. Al contrario, X. arizonae se encuentra en grietas en las de piedras en Arizona central. La especie nueva de Baja California Sur se diferencia de su pariente ms cercano, Xantusia gilberti, por su patrn de color y adems por tener escamas pequeas bordeando el labio detrs de la quinta infralabial. Esta especie se encuentra en el datilillo, Yucca valida, en las llanuras de Magdalena cerca de la costa Pacfica, mientras que X. gilberti se encuentra en los bosques de pino y roble de la Sierra de la Laguna, 350 kilmetros hacia el sur.
40983599|We analyzed variation in the advertisement calls among three localities of Eleutherodactylus glamyrus, a frog endemic to the Sierra Maestra mountains in Eastern Cuba. We assessed the levels of withinmale variation of each call property and the influence of temperature and size of calling male on acoustical features. The typical single-note advertisement call of the species was described using temporal and spectral parameters. Rise time and frequency modulation were highly variable within individuals, whereas dominant frequency and call duration were the most stereotyped properties. Call rate showed an intermediate level of variation. Air temperature strongly influenced call rate and call group duration. Snout-vent length (SVL) strongly influenced dominant frequency and rise time. Localities differed in call rate, call duration, and rise time. This acoustic differentiation might be the result of past divergences arising from a distribution gap between the two mountain massifs surveyed. Because acoustical features are increasingly used in interspecific or intraspecific comparisons in the genus Eleutherodactylus, we encourage researchers to assess whether temperature or SVL have sufficiently important effects on their data and use statistical procedures to remove these confounding factors. The multinote call of the species is quantitatively described for the first time. This call type resembles that of other members of the genus and probably carries an aggressive message.
10.2307/1563116|In this study, conventional diluting fluids were tested and others formulated in order to develop an appropriate fluid for differentiation and counting, by classical visual techniques, the white blood cells of ectotherms. Because of its wide spread use and the fact that its blood cells are fairly representative of ectotherms, this investigation was restricted to Rana pipiens.
10.2307/1565996|Organochlorine compounds (OCs) persist in the environment and can impair development and reproduction in birds, fish, mammals, and other wildlife. However, despite concerns about amphibian population declines and developmental deformities, little is known about the impact of OCs or other pollutants on amphibian populations. In the current study, five polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-contaminated wetlands were surveyed for anuran densities relative to four uncontaminated sites. Despite our finding that sediments contained PCB concentrations toxic to some organisms, we found no significant correlation between anuran density or species richness and severity of PCB contamination. In the laboratory, tadpoles and eggs of Rana pipiens and Rana utricularia were negatively affected by PCB concentrations comparable to field levels. Ranid adults and larvae collected from contaminated field sites contained tissue total PCB levels much lower than that of the sediments. Therefore, the apparent lack of population-level impact of PCBs in the field may be explained by limited contaminant accumulation, rather than low physiological sensitivity to chronic PCB exposure.
40983587|Female Hawksbill Turtles (Erettnochelys imbucata) nesting along the southeast coastline of the state of Rio Grande do Norte Brazil (6 13' 40" S, 35 03' 05" W) were captured and weighed during the 2006-07 and 2007-08 nesting seasons. The mean value for the first postoviposition mass was 79.6 kg. Individuals that were subsequently recaptured showed a mean mass change of 1.6 kg in the interval between two consecutive postovipositions (i. e., after one internidal interval). We plotted the mass of the individuals against the curvilinear carapace length. An analysis of residual mass above average body condition reveals that females with good body condition start nesting at the beginning of the season. Preoviposition mass was measured when the female aborted the nesting process. Gross mass change was 5.46 kg. Mean body mass recovery was 3.2 kg. Body mass recovery was always significantly lower than the change in gross mass. This is in agreement with the observed mass loss tendency throughout the breeding season for this species. Mass recovery was analyzed using allometric law, converting both loss in body mass and total egg mass to energy. Using mean turtle body mass, we performed three scenarios for the metabolic maintenance rate of the Hawksbill Turtle during the nesting period. The energy that the turtles expended in egg laying was estimated at 1,183 kj  d. The daily net mass loss for the most realistic scenario converted into energy was 4,213 kj  d. The total daily energy consumption (maintenance plus egg production) was similar to the daily energy from mass loss. This theoretical treatment suggests that, under this scenario, there is no reason for significant extra energy intake during the oviposition period.
40060494|Radio telemetry was used to track 16 adult Short-Horned Lizards (Phrynosoma hernandesi) to their individual overwintering sites on the Central Plains Experimental Range (CPER) in Weld County, Colorado. Above-ground habitat characteristics of overwintering sites and randomly selected points within the study area were assessed. All individuals entered overwintering between 29 August and 19 September with a mean estimated entrance date of 7 September. Arrival of the first subzero nighttime air temperatures occurred shortly thereafter on 16 September. No lizard left its normal area of use to overwinter, and there was no tendency to aggregate. Lizards did not necessarily overwinter on warmer south-facing slopes; the proportion of overwintering sites oriented southward (0.62) was not different from random. Most lizards (75%) selected overwintering sites in the banks of washes that had relatively steep slopes and at specific locations where substrate was relatively bare and penetrable. Overwintering sites also tended to have a greater coverage of Yucca glauca (0.02%) than the general study area (0.01%). Analyses of historical soil temperature data from the CPER revealed that lizards would have to overwinter at a subsoil depth of about 1 m to avoid freezing temperatures. Banks that contain suitable hibernation sites that are located within an individual's normal area of use may be the habitat feature most important to successful overwintering.
10.2307/1563355|Tadpoles of Bufo boreas and B. hemiophrys aggregated in a temperature range of 28-34 C in laboratory gradients of 22-40 C. B. americanus tadpoles aggregated in a range of 27.5-37 C in gradients of 11-42 C. Lethal temperatures were 37-40 C for B. boreas and 37-42 C for B. americanus. The ability to locate and occupy a temperature range which is optimum is considered adaptive for the tadpoles. Bufo tadpoles formed aggregations in response to thermal gradients, although under natural conditions other factors in addition to temperature are usually involved in aggregative behavior.
10.2307/1563014|Hyla kennedyi is a new, terrestrial member of the Hyla rostrata species group from the Colombian Ilanos. It differs from other members of the rostrata group in structural features, thigh pattern and breeding call.
10.2307/1563763|Population estimates of metamorphosed frogs were calculated in the summer of 1975 in an enclosed pond-marsh habitat in northern Michigan. Eight species of amphibians were found in the study area of which five, H. crucifer, B. americanus, R. sylvatica, R. clamitans and R. septentrionalis contributed significantly to total biomass. Densities varied from 0.03/m<sup>2</sup> for R. sylvatica to 0.39/m<sup>2</sup> for R. clamitans. The highest densities were reached in August when newly metamorphosed frogs entered the population. R. clamitans accounted for about 85% of the biomass in July and August.
10.2307/1566183| A new species of Atractus is described from the Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. The new species can be distinguished from all other congeners by the combination of 15 dorsal scale rows at midbody and a color pattern consisting of two pale dorsolateral stripes on a dark ground color. Additionally Atractus pamplonensis is reported for the first time for Venezuela. /// Una nueva especie de Atractus es descrita para la Cordillera de Mrida, Venezuela. Esta nueva especie difiere del resto de los Atractus por la combinacin de 15 hileras de escamas dorsales y un patrn de coloracin de dos lneas claras dorsolaterales sobre un dorso oscuro. Adicionalmente se reporta Atractus pamplonensis por primera vez para Venezuela. 
10.2307/1566177| A new species of the genus Echinosaura is described from the Pacific drainages of northern Ecuador and adjacent Colombia. Evaluation of variation among congeners justifies their recognition as distinct species instead of subspecies as previously proposed. The new lizard occurs in close proximity to Echinosaura horrida and Teuchocercus keyi. /// Se describe una nueva especie de lagartija del gnero Echinosaura de los drenajes Pacificos en el norte de Ecuador y el sur de Colombia. Evaluacin de variacin entre las formas nombradas en el genero se justifica reconocimiento como especies distintas, y no como subespecies. La especie nueva ocurre cerca de las distribuciones de Echinosaura horrida y Teuchocercus keyi. 
1566211|The reproductive cycle and egg production of Chersina angulata females, maintained under natural climate conditions, were studied over 29 months using ultrasonography. Angulate tortoises initiated egg production in February (late summer) and were gravid through most of the year. A short nongravid period in January indicates a cyclic rather than continuous reproductive pattern. Chersina angulata females produced one egg at a time, and clutch frequency ranged from one to six per year. Annual fecundity was influenced by the date of reproductive onset and egg-retention time; early ovulation and a short retention time increased annual fecundity. Egg retention time was highly variable (23-212 days) and correlated to ambient temperature (inversely) and rainfall (positively). Temperature had no direct effect on oviposition, but rainfall served as an important exogenous cue, perhaps facilitating nesting. Oviposition and ovulation were synchronized and females prepared a new egg immediately after oviposition. This reproductive pattern is highly unusual for chelonians in Mediterranean climates. This pattern might facilitate reproduction in the different environments over the range of C. angulata.
10.2307/1565904| We describe a female courtship call, a vocalization produced before amplexus, by female Iberian midwife toads as a response to calling males. We recorded a large sample of female responses to synthetic calls imitating male calls in two-speaker phonotaxis playback tests. Female courtship calls were tonal calls similar to male advertisement calls but shorter in duration. Courtship call duration by both sexes was negatively correlated with body temperature of toads. Unlike male advertisement calls, which were always a single note, female courtship calls comprised a sequence of 1-5 different notes; note duration of the last note was longest. Both duration and dominant frequency were much more variable in female courtship calls than in male advertisement calls. No correlations were found between female body size and call characteristics. /// Describimos la llamada de cortejo de la hembra del sapo partero ibrico que es emitida antes de la cpula como respuesta a la llamada de aparemiento del macho. Grabamos una amplia muestra de cantos de hembras que respondan a llamadas sintticas de machos en tests de fonotaxis. Como las llamadas de apareamiento de los machos, las llamadas de las hembras son cortas y tonales, pero de menor duracin. As mismo, al igual que en los machos, la duracin de la llamada de cortejo de las hembras est negativamente correlacionada con la temperatura corporal. Contrariamente a las llamadas de apareamiento de los machos, de una nica nota, las llamadas de cortejo de las hembras pueden tener de 1 a 5 notas, siendo siempre la ltima nota la ms larga. Tanto duracin como frecuencia son mucho ms variables en las llamadas de cortejo de las hembras que en las llamadas de apareamiento de los machos. No se encontr una correlacin entre el tamao de la hembra y las caractersticas del canto. 
10.2307/1563925|Certain aspects of the ecology of a population of Thamnophis sirtalis sirtalis including population density, selection of cover objects, and sexual dimorphism and geographic variation in tail length proportions were studied on the campus of Western Illinois University in McDonough County, Illinois. The habitat of this area can be classified as semi-disturbed due to its heavy use by the university and students. Despite this degree of disturbance, a relatively successful population of garter snakes seems to exist based on population density estimates. Garter snakes showed a high association for cover objects, which may have been used for thermoregulation during warm and cool periods. Sexual dimorphism in tail length proportions (tail length/total length ratios) is present in this subspecies as reported previously in the literature. Geographic variation in tail length proportions exists for both males and females with three midwest and western races (T. s. parietalis, T. s. pickeringi, and T. s. concinnus) previously studied having longer tail length/total length mean ratios than T. s. sirtalis inhabiting west-central Illinois. One of these (T. s. concinnus) had a statistically highly significant difference in ratios from T. s. sirtalis for both males and females.
10.2307/1565573|We investigated possible negative effects of tail-tip marking and tissue sampling on recapture rates, body condition, and size in a population of individually recognized crested newts (Triturus cristatus). Recapture rates of tail-clipped newts, which were also toe-clipped, did not differ from those of control, toe-clipped newts. Clipped tails had regrown within ca. 8 months of terrestrial life. Body condition, as indicated by mass/SVL index, fluctuated significantly over sampling periods and was higher for males than for females. Newts caught the first time, possibly representing first-time breeders, were in better condition than repeat captures. Analysis of data from repeatedly caught individuals did not reveal consistent significant effects of tail clipping on body condition. Contrary to our expectations, tail clipped newts of both sexes tended to be larger than non-clipped controls. Due to the faster regrowth of tail-tips in newts, we would recommend tail-tip clipping when individuals are to be tissue sampled and toe-clipping for marking in population studies. Both methods might, however, handicap the breeding behavior of male newts to an unknown degree.
10.2307/1564252|Adult male and female Cnemidophorus sexlineatus enter hibernation in the fall with gonads in a regressed state. Cnemidophorus sexlineatus are still hibernating in March when spermatogenesis and follicular development begin. Males emerge from hibernation in late April with testes containing spermatids or mature sperm. In female racerunners follicular development and vitellogenesis begin prior to their emergence in early May. The liver and fat bodies of both sexes attain maximum size at the onset of hibernation and are smallest during the summer activity months. Although some energy stores from the liver and fat bodies are used for winter maintenance, the bulk of this energy is utilized as reproductive activity begins in April and May.
10.2307/1564249| Schweigger's 1812 original description of Testudo gigantea is translated and analyzed. Among the living or Subrecent tortoise species of appropriate size, this description is found to differ from the known characteristics of the Aldabra tortoises (to which the name gigantea is commonly applied) in seven points; from the Galpagos tortoises in eight points; from the Mascarene tortoises in seven points; but in no aspect is the description incompatible with the South American tortoise Geochelone denticulata. The type locality of "Brazil" is also compatible with this assignation, as are known historical events contemporary to the time when this specimen was acquired and described. Bour's proposal of the substitute epithet elephantina for the Aldabra tortoises is supported, but it is proposed that Aldabrachelys be retained as the genus. This would require action by the ICZN Commission to designate Testudo elephantina Dumril and Bibron, 1835 as the type species of Aldabrachelys, rather than Testudo gigantea Schweigger, 1812. 
10.2307/1563695|Extensive field investigations have determined the geographic distribution of four species of Acanthodactylus in Tunisia: A. inornatus, A. pardalis, A. boskianus and A. savignyi blanci. Important changes of the ranges, in comparison to those given in the literature, are available for the last three species. The ranges of these species are here related to bioclimatic zones and habitats.
4498619|Although a highly visible component of the West Indian herpetofauna, few data address the biology of Curly-Tailed Lizards (Leiocephalus). We examined sexual dimorphism in size and head shape and reproductive life-history characteristics for five species of Leiocephalus from the Dominican Republic. Many hypotheses have been posited to explain head shape dimorphism in lizards. Previous studies on Leiocephalus lizards failed to support the niche divergence hypothesis. Consequently, we examined patterns of head shape dimorphism by measuring the scaling relationships of head dimensions of males and females for each species. Head dimensions of the sexes mostly scaled isometrically or with negative allometry, which may support the differential growth hypothesis, although patterns in one species (Leiocephalus semilineatus) suggest that sexual selection may be operative. Clutch sizes varied from 1-4 eggs across species, but mean clutch size generally does not differ significantly among species. Similarly, egg size varies little across species, with only the smallest of the species examined, L. semilineatus, differing significantly from the other species. Therefore, although maximum female snout-vent lengths differ by as much as 50 mm, reproductive characteristics are relatively static. These data are suggestive of an optimal reproductive strategy for Leiocephalus lizards, although detailed experimental data are necessary to examine this fully.
10.2307/1565235| Temperature is one of many factors that may have an important influence on activity of ectotherms. We investigated the influence of weather conditions on activity of common garter snakes, Thamnophis sirtalis, at a fish hatchery on Vancouver Island where the water in which they forage is cold (<14C). We used reduced major axis regression to partition the relationship between air temperature and number of snakes seen into subsets, and the uppermost subset of data was used to describe the upper boundary of the overall relationship. At the hatchery site, the maximum number of snakes observed increased in relation to maximum daily air temperatures, with the highest numbers of snakes being observed on days when maximum daily air temperatures exceeded 25C. By contrast, at a nearby reference site where snakes do not consume fish, the maximum number of snakes observed decreased in relation to maximum daily air temperatures, with very few snakes being observed on days with high maximum daily air temperatures. Radiotagged snakes were observed swimming in hatchery channels only on days when maximum daily air temperatures were high. Body temperatures of these snakes decreased extremely rapidly when the snakes entered the water, and remained low while they were in the hatchery channels. The body temperature of one snake that captured a fish while swimming in the channels was just over 14C. We hypothesize that hot weather conditions permit snakes at hatchery sites to achieve high body temperatures rapidly subsequent to foraging activity. 
10.2307/1565795|Many antipredator behaviors function by hindering the ability of a predator to catch or consume prey once they are encountered. However, prey may also reduce predation risks by detecting predators before an encounter occurs. We tested the ability of the desert iguana (Dipsosaurus dorsalis) to detect and identify snake predators via chemoreception. Desert iguanas were exposed to chemicals from two sympatric snake species. The California kingsnake (Lampropeltis getula californiae), a species known to feed on lizards, was used as the predator stimulus, whereas the western shovel-nosed snake (Chionactis occipitalis), which feeds only on arthropods, served as a control for a general response to snake chemicals. Lizards were placed in terraria that previously housed live snakes or had been treated with distilled water or a pungent control. Overall tongue extrusion frequency and number of tongue extrusions prior to movement increased in response to chemicals from the California kingsnake but not in response to the western shovel-nosed snake. In addition, desert iguanas exhibited unusual slowness of movement and adopted a distinctive body posture in response to the predator stimulus. These results demonstrate that desert iguanas can detect chemical deposits from snakes and can discriminate between a snake species that feeds on lizards and one that poses no threat. In addition, the resulting low posture and slow movement may facilitate crypsis as the lizards attempt to gain information regarding the predator. Desert iguanas are herbivorous lizards and may use chemical cues to detect and avoid snake predators while foraging or when entering burrows.
10.2307/1563001|A comparative study of morphological changes in chromosomes and nucleoli was carried out during oogenesis in 10 reptile species (3 parthenogenic subspecies of L. saxicola among them) belonging to the families Lacertidae and Agamidae. For 5 species the karyotypes were described. At diplonema (over a year) the chromosomes assumed a lampbrush configuration. This phenomenon is similar to that observed in the oogenesis of other chordata. Unlike oogenesis in fishes and amphibians, in this instance there are no peripherical nucleoli. This fact seems to be connected with the appearance of more developed follicle cells in reptiles. RNA and proteins are formed on lampbrush chromosomes of reptiles. The proteins morphologically transform into granules mostly of spherical shape, then separate off into the karyoplasm and arrange in regular circles. The analysis of large bivalents of A. caucasica demonstrates that the character of lateral loops and the shape of their matrix change during oogenesis. In species belonging to different lacertid genera, but having the same chromosome number (2n = 38) the course of oogenesis differs insignificantly. In species belonging to different agamid genera with karyotypes varying in the number and morphology of chromosomes this difference is more significant.
1565752|Early age classes of the Desert Tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) are particularly vulnerable to predation by several mammal and bird species. We studied tortoise survival at the Sand Hill Training Area of the Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center, Twentynine Palms, California, from 1998 to 1999. We radiographed and thread-spooled 25 females to determine reproductive and nesting ecology. Predators consumed 11 of 42 monitored nests during the first 70 days of incubation. Ninety-one of 132 eggs in nests fenced after 70 days developed into healthy neonates. We recorded 0.84 and 0.91 neonate survival probability during dispersal in 1998 and 1999, respectively. Applying neonatal survival to egg success, we predict that 40% of individuals survived from oviposition to hibernation. Our findings support other chelonian life-history models indicating relatively high mortality early in life. Our data also suggest that neonatal Desert Tortoises are less susceptible to predation than was previously thought, perhaps because of their cryptic coloration and secretive habits. The Common Raven (Corvus corax) was not found to be a source of neonate mortality during this study.
10.2307/1565144|Body temperatures were measured on diurnally-active arboreal green snakes (Opheodrys aestivus) throughout their activity season and compared to operative temperatures measured with copper models. Green snakes were active over a broad range of body temperatures (17.9-36.8 C) and their mean activity temperature (29.3 C) was similar to that reported for a variety of snake species. Body temperatures of females tended to be higher than those of males, especially in June. Variation in perch heights selected by green snakes did not appear to have significant thermal consequences. Green snakes avoided basking and their body temperatures usually tracked cooler shaded air temperatures. Hypotheses for the lack of basking include biophysical constraint and antipredator strategy. Further study in a cooler climate is needed to confirm whether the lack of heliothermic thermoregulation of green snakes is typical of the species or whether it occurred in this study simply as a function of living in a thermally favorable environment.
10.2307/1563995| Investigation of osteological characters has revealed the existence of two previously unrecognized species of Gastrotheca in the Andes of Peru. Gastrotheca lateonota from an isolated mountain range in northern Peru superficially resembles G. monticola, but immunologically it is related to species in the G. marsupiata group. Gastrotheca rebeccae from the cloud forest on the Amazonian slopes of the Cordillera Oriental in central Peru is related to G. excubitor and G. pacchamama in the same cordillera. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies crpticas de anuros marsupiales del gnero Gastrotheca de los Andes del Peru. Gastrotheca lateonota habita la Cordillera de Huancabamba y G. rebeccae ocurre en las laderas amaznicas de la Cordillera Oriental en el Departamento de Ayacucho. Las dos especies pertenecen al grupo de G. marsupiata. 
40060553|When divergent selection favors different phenotypes in different environments, a preference for resident mates can help ensure that offspring are well suited to local conditions, thus increasing an individual's lifetime fitness. Here I use both field and laboratory experiments to investigate the potential for mate choice in a unique color morph of the Common Lesser Earless Lizard, Holbrookia tnaculata, which inhabits the gypsum dune fields of White Sands in southern New Mexico. I demonstrate that light-colored H. tnaculata, which have evolved within the last 6,000 years, can discriminate between potential mates. In the field, simultaneous choice experiments revealed that White Sands males in their natural habitat courted females from White Sands sooner than females from a nearby population occupying dark substrate. The use of paint treatments to reverse female dorsal coloration showed that male choice was not based on dorsal coloration alone, if at all. The only variable measured in field trials that correlated strongly with male courtship behavior was female display activity. Resident females displayed in more trials than nonresident females, and males preferentially courted actively displaying females suggesting that behavioral cues may be important in this system. In the lab, sequential choice experiments on an intermediate substrate color showed that preference for local mates was reciprocal, with males of both color morphs preferentially addressing courtship behavior to potential mates from their same locality. By integrating field and lab experiments, I demonstrate that male preference for local mates in the recently diverged White Sands population is robust to experimental design.
10.2307/1565206|During 1991-1993, we conducted capture-recapture studies on pig frogs, Rana grylio, in seven study locations in northcentral Florida. Resulting data were used to test hypotheses about variation in survival probability over different size-sex classes of pig frogs. We developed multistate capture-recapture models for the resulting data and used them to estimate survival rates and frog abundance. Tests provided strong evidence of survival differences among size-sex classes, with adult females showing the highest survival probabilities. Adult males and juvenile frogs had lower survival rates that were similar to each other. Adult females were more abundant than adult males in most locations at most sampling occasions. We recommend probabilistic capture-recapture models in general, and multistate models in particular, for robust estimation of demographic parameters in amphibian populations.
1565866|Amphibians in general, and plethodontid salamanders in particular, are highly susceptible to cutaneous water loss. We compared behavior, habitat use, and physiology of Batrachoseps attenuatus (Eschscholtz) and Ensatina eschscholtzii (Gray) in Humboldt County, California, to identify adaptations of water economy. Both species lost more body water in a dry environment than in a wet one. In the field, sites with salamanders had higher relative humidity than sites without salamanders. In behavioral experiments, both species used water-conserving postures; they positioned themselves deep in leaf litter in dry environments while remaining on the surface of leaf litter in wet environments. The slender morphology of B. attenuatus may aid in habitat partitioning by plethodontid salamanders; in the field we found B. attenuatus closer to the surface of the leaf litter than E. eschscholtzii. The evolution of a slender body shape appears to be unconstrained by microclimates typically encountered by this species.
25599205|Chemical communication is important in aquatic environments, particularly where visual and acoustical signals are limited. Both larval (tadpole) and adult anurans (frogs and toads) use waterborne chemical signals for many activities. Adult anurans commonly rely on acoustical communication for sex recognition and mating; however, a growing body of evidence suggests that anurans also may use aquatic sex pheromones for localization of potential mates. We provide an overview of how the anuran nasal cavity reorganizes during metamorphosis from the larval to the adult stage. Also, we focus on the behavior of reproductive anurans in response to chemical information detected by olfaction of waterborne chemical cues. Overall, we synthesize the current literature on anuran sex pheromones and chemical communication in the aquatic environment.
10.2307/1562898|Sceloporus adleri, a new species founded on 41 specimens, is related to the geographically adjacent species S. formosus, and is presumably limited to the Sierra Madre del Sur, Guerrero, Mexico. This Sierra appears to possess sufficient biotic endemism to justify recognition as a distinctive biotic province.
10.2307/1562984|Mental hedonic gland clusters of 18 species of eastern United States plethodontids were studied by gross dissection and light microscopy. In the Plethodontinae examined, the glands are largely or completely posterior to the mandibular symphysis. In the Plethodontini, the glands are relatively short, vertically oriented in a circular cluster, and bordered dorsally by the dense inner layer of the dermis, the stratum compactum. Within the Hemidactylini genus Eurycea, the glands are more elongate and excretory ducts only occur ventral to and immediately posterior of the mandibular symphysis. The glands then pass horizontally between the intermandibularis posterior muscle ventrally and the geniohyoideus muscle dorsally. The stratum compactum is reduced to a thin sheath over the glands. Reduced or specialized glands resembling those of the Plethodontini occur in the hemidactyliines Hemidactylium, Typhlotriton, and E. multiplicata. From literature reports, the Bolitoglossini contain seven genera with glands like the Plethodontini and one (Oedipina) with glands like Eurycea. In the Desmognathinae, except for Desmognathus wrighti, the excretory ducts are in a fleshy protrusion anterior to the mandibular symphysis, and the short glands extend posteriorly, terminating ventral to and just posterior of the mandibular symphysis. In D. wrighti the gland cluster bifurcates anteriorly with elongate glands then extending posteriorly between the dermis and throat musculature along the medial borders of the dentaries. The excretory ducts in D. wrighti pass dorsally around the anterior ends of the dentaries.
25599240|We studied the ecology of Trachylepis atlantica, the easternmost native lizard species in South America, endemic to the Fernando de Noronha archipelago, approximately 350 km off the northeastern coast of Brazil. Activity of this species extended from dawn to dusk, with a peak from 1200-1400 h. Mean body temperature of active T. atlantica was 32.2  2.9C and was significantly related to both air and substrate temperatures. Trachylepis atlantica used most types of available substrates in the area but was found most frequently (72.5% of observations) on rocks and normally used perches up to 80 cm high. There was sexual dimorphism in body size, with males larger than females. Trachylepis atlantica had an omnivorous diet, with plant material comprising 77% of the volume ingested and being present in 67% of stomachs with food. Formicidae and insect larvae were the main animal items in the diet. Mean prey volume (6.9  5.3 mm) was small compared to other related species. This, coupled with the high plant consumption, suggests that local availability of suitable prey may be limited, as expected for small islands in general.
10.2307/1564674| Despite the widespread distribution of Caiman crocodilus fuscus (=chiapasius) in Central America, few detailed studies of its reproduction are available. In northern Costa Rica, brown caimans nested in riverine forest adjacent to rivers or canals during the early wet season. Thirty-five nests were located and measured in 1988-1989; detailed egg parameters were measured from 17 clutches. Mean incubation temperature of nine nests averaged 31.8 C (30.5-32.8 C). Individual nest temperatures ranged from 29.6 to 36.0 C. Egg temperatures increased by 3 C in five nests during the nesting season, but temperatures in four other nests remained nearly constant. Flooding accounted for high embryonic mortality by destroying entire nests; egg predation was minimal. Hatching occurred in September and October during high water levels when aquatic habitat was abundant. Delayed hatching of some nests suggests that a stimulus may be useful to initiate hatching. Typically, parent caimans opened nests to release the young. Hatchlings formed sibling groups near the nest site and often remained together for over 1.5 years. Mound nesting was favored by the optimal conditions of the wet season in Cao Negro. Wet season nesting increases the availability of resources and suitable habitat to hatchling caimans. Abundant habitat during the wet season enables hatchling to avoid predation and cannibalism. The predominant use of riverine forests for nesting by caimans in Cao Negro has important ecological consequences and management implications. /// A despecho de la distribucin extendida de Caiman crocodilus fuscus (=chiapasius) en centroamerica, existen pocos estudios detallados sobre su reproduccin. En la zona norte de Costa Rica, los caimanes nidificaron en los bosques ribereos contiguo a un ro o un cao durante la estacin lluviosa. Treinta y cinco nidos se localizaron y se midieron en 1988-1989; los parmetros detallados de huevos fueron medidos en 17 puestas. La temperatura de la incubacin en nueve nidos era de promedio 31,8 C (30,5-32,8 C). Las temperaturas individuales eran de 29,6 a 36,0 C. Las temperaturas en cinco nidos se aumentaron un promedio de 3 C durante la incubacin, sin embargo, las temperaturas en cuatro nidos fueron constantes. Las inundaciones causaron la mortalidad alta de los embriones a fuerza de destruir nidos enteros; la depredacin de huevos era mnima. Los caimanes empollaron en septiembre y octubre durante niveles altos del agua cuando el ambiente acutica era abundante. El empollamiento atrasado de algunos nidos sugiere que algn estmulo sea til para iniciar la eclosin. Tpicamente, los caimanes adultos abrieron el nido para soltar las cras. Los neonatos formaron grupos de hermanos cerca del nido y quedaron juntos mas que 1,5 aos. Las condiciones optimales de la estacin lluviosa favorecieron la nidificacin en monticulos en Cao Negro. La nidificacin durante la estacin lluviosa aumenta la disponibilidad de recursos y hbitat favorable para los caimanes recien nacidos. El hbitat abundante de la estacon lluviosa resulta que los caimanes eviten la depredacin y el canibalismo. El uso predominante de bosques ribereos por los caimanes en Cao Negro tiene consecuencias ecolgicas importantes y sugiere consideraciones para su manejo. 
4498585|Nonbreeding habitats are critically important for Rana draytonii, especially for individuals that breed in temporary bodies of water. We radiotracked 123 frogs to evaluate seasonal habitat use. Individual frogs were continuously tracked for up to 16 months. Some individuals remained at breeding ponds all year, but 66% of female and 25% of male frogs moved to nonbreeding areas, even when the breeding site retained water. Frogs at our main study site moved 150 m (median), roughly the distance to the nearest suitable nonbreeding area. The greatest straight-line distance traveled was 1.4 km, although the presumed distance traveled was 2.8 km. Females were more likely than males to move from permanent ponds (38% of females, 16% of males), but among dispersing frogs, males and females did not differ in distance moved. Some frogs left breeding sites shortly after oviposition (median = 12 days for females, 42.5 days for males), but many individuals remained until the site was nearly dry. Fog provided moisture for dispersal or migration throughout the summer. Our data demonstrate that maintaining populations of pondbreeding amphibians requires that all essential habitat components be protected; these include (1) habitat, (2) nonbreeding habitat, and (3) migration corridors. In addition, a buffer is needed around all three areas to ensure that outside activities do not degrade any of the three habitat components.
10.2307/1563006|Certain aspects of the life history of Plethodon vehiculum from Benton and Lincoln Cos., Oregon, were studied. Mating occurs primarily from November through January with oviposition in the spring. The number of yolky ovarian ova is a function of body size; the mean for all sizes was 10.4/female. Incubation is in the summer, with hatching in the fall at 13 to 15 mm SVL. Growth rates for both sexes are about 10 mm SVL/year for the first 3 years. Both sexes mature between their second and third years: males at 42 mm SVL and females at 44 mm SVL. Females have a biennial gonadal cycle as has been described for other species of Plethodon, and males have an annual cycle. Spermatogenesis begins in the spring and culminates in the fall. Mature females are larger (mean SVL = 49.1 mm) than mature males (mean SVL -45.7 mm). In general, P. vehiculum, a western plethodon, has a life history similar to that of eastern small and eastern large plethodons.
10.2307/1565115|Censuses of forest floor amphibian assemblages at 17 sites in New York revealed that amphibian density and species richness were lower in more acidic habitats. At least three species of salamanders have field distributions that suggest an avoidance of acidic conditions. A gradient of humus and mineral soil pH exists with relatively high [H<sup>+</sup>]s in the forest interior and lower [H<sup>+</sup>]s near streams and seepage areas. Small scale maps of humus and mineral soil [H<sup>+</sup>] reveal much spatial heterogeneity in a beech forest and little in coniferous forests. The dominant modes of soil pH for New York and for sites around the globe are in the aluminum and iron buffering ranges, where these elements dominate soil chemistry. We hypothesize that high concentrations of aluminum and/or iron, in soil solutions at low pHs, reduce sodium available for uptake by amphibians, and together with increased sodium efflux on low pH substrates result in a toxic disruption of sodium balance. Future experiments must determine if artificially reduced humus and/or mineral soil pH reduce amphibian density and species richness.
4093011| Anuran amphibians are important consumers of arthropods in tropical ecosystems. Previous research has indicated that very small, terrestrial frogs, especially juveniles, largely consume small leaf litter arthropods. To date, few studies have examined diet in African anurans, and no studies exist of ontogenetic change in prey composition for any African frog. We investigated the change in diet that accompanies body size increase in the arthroleptid frog Schoutedenella xenodactyloides (Anura: Ranoidea) from a population located on the Mulanje Massif in Malawi, central Africa. Schoutedenella xenodactyloides is a miniature (< 22 mm snout-urostyle length; SUL), direct-developing frog that is often very abundant and is likely an important consumer of small leaf litter arthropods. Based on examination of stomach and intestinal contents from specimens that span the known range of posthatching body sizes, we document the taxonomic diversity of prey consumed by S. xenodactyloides. We present evidence that S. xenodactyloides exhibits a size-related ontogenetic change in the type and relative proportions of prey taxa. Small frogs ( 13 mm SUL) consume large numbers of collembolans and mites. As frogs attain larger body sizes; ants constitute a larger percentage of the total number of prey consumed; and collembolan and mite consumption falls below 10% of the total prey items. The prey consumed by S. xenodactyloides include at least 10 orders of arthropods and an unidentified mollusk. This is a greater diversity of prey items than previously found in Schoutedenella as well as most other arthroleptid species. 
4092910|Sexual dimorphism in body size, body condition (body mass relative to body size), and relative head size was investigated on 1250 field-caught Python regius (Togo, western Africa). Sexual dimorphism was often undetectable in neonates. By contrast, sexual dimorphism was apparent for many traits in adults. Adult females were larger and had a higher body condition than males; they also had longer jaws relative to their body size. This suggests that females and males follow different growth trajectories from birth to adulthood. In support of this, neonate females had a higher postnatal growth rate than males. Fecundity was strongly correlated with body size in females; a larger body size may be favored by fecundity selection in this sex. Our data show that females mature at a large body size: 95 cm in snout-vent length (SVL). The estimated external parasite load (number of ticks) was higher in adult males than females, perhaps because males encounter more ticks during movements.
43287307|The Siamese Crocodile (Crocodylus siamensis) is critically endangered and, until a decade ago, few remaining wild populations were known to exist. Described here are the first in-depth surveys for C. siamensis in Laos with new field data on ecology and conservation. Small breeding populations of C. siamensis are confirmed to persist in Laos. During surveys between 2003 and 2008, C. siamensis was recorded in 13 sites of six river systems, where at least 36 individuals (1-11 per site) were documented. In all sites, crocodile densities and recruitment rates were extremely low. Eight nests were recordedamong the first wild nests of C. siamensis to be reported. Perennial, thickly vegetated floodplain lakes are critical dry-season refugia and breeding habitats for C. siamensis in Laos. Opportunistic collection of crocodiles by local communities was observed, and at all sites there is increasing degradation of floodplain lakes for agriculture or economic development. National crocodile records were compiled and indicate that, historically, C. siamensis was widespread in lowland riverine and palustrine habitats of Laos, with most records from Central and South Laos in the Mekong Plain. These records also suggest that a severe range decline has occurred over the past century, although most wetlands remain unsurveyed for crocodiles. Crocodylus siamensis is probably now extirpated from the Lao Mekong and many other wetlands. Remnant C. siamensis populations in Laos are of global importance. All documented breeding sites, and most confirmed national records, are in rural lands outside the national protected area system, and conservation efforts will require community-based approaches.
43287352|We evaluated an automated telemetry system that can dramatically increase the amount of activity and spatial data collected for snakes. We developed methods for analyzing data from single automated receiving units (ARUs) and ARU arrays, compared results from ARUs with conventional hand tracking, and assessed previously untested assumptions used in conventional telemetry, using data from ratsnakes (Pantherophis spp.) in Texas and Illinois. ARU data indicated that ratsnakes spent most of their time in small home ranges (mean = 25 ha) but engaged in forays of up to 1.5 km from their core-use areas, suggesting this species may engage in central place foraging. Forays inflated homerange sizes greatly if areas were estimated using minimum convex polygons rather than 95% kernels. Large numbers of locations generated by ARUs produce more reliable home-range estimates than those from hand tracking. ARU data indicated that snakes moved in response to observers during hand tracking. Daily hand tracking produced reliable estimates of distances moved but underestimated distances by a factor of 4 when snakes were tracked every 5 days. Drawbacks of ARUs are that the error associated with individual locations exceeds that for handtracked locations and that the costs exceed those for hand tracking. Automated receivers can increase data greatly from radio-tracked snakes, providing novel insights unavailable from conventional hand tracking. There are drawbacks to this technology, some of which will vary among study species; therefore, researchers should evaluate the appropriateness of the technology for both the study species and the questions being asked.
10.2307/1565087|A new species tentatively assigned to the genus Proctoporus is described from the Amazonian slopes of the Andean Cordillera Oriental of Ecuador. The new species is distinguished from other species of Proctoporus by features of lepidosis, body proportions, hemipenial morphology, and color pattern. The species is named in honor of Gustavo Orces V., a pioneer in Ecuadorian natural history.
10.2307/1564732| Eleutherodactylus pozo, a member of the E. rugulosus species group, is described from humid forests found within the Northern Highlands region of Chiapas, Mxico. It can be distinquished from most members of the E. rugulosus group on the basis of differences in suites of morphological features, but is most obviously distinquished from E. brocchi in features of coloration. Present evidence indicates that E. pozo is most similar to E. brocchi, a species of the E. rugulosus group occurring in the highlands of northcentral Guatemala. /// El Eleutherodactylus pozo, un miembro del grupo de las especies de E. rugulosus, es descrito en las selvas hmedas encontradas dentro de la regin de las Montnas del Norte de Chiapas, Mxico. Se le puede distinguir de la mayora de los otros miembros del grupo de E. rugulosus basndose en las diferencias en las series de caractersticas morfolgicas, aunque se le distingue mas obviamente por sus caractersticas de coloracin. La evidencia presente indica que la E. pozo es mas similar a E. brocchi, una especie de el grupo E. rugulosus que ocurre en las tierras altas de Guatemala norte-central. 
10.2307/1565693|We examined individual variation in the sequence and timing of skeletal ossification in Bufo bufo. The sequences of ossification within the cranium and within the appendicular skeleton were highly conserved. However, individuals were highly variable in the relative timing of ossification in these two skeletal regions. Individuals had as few as 10 or as many as 19 appendicular bones ossified when the cranium first showed ossification. Similarly, individuals varied in the initiation of skeletal ossification relative to external morphology; they initiated ossification in both cranial and appendicular skeletons at stages ranging from Gosner Stages 38-43. The most notable difference in skeletal ossification between B. bufo and species of other anuran families was the delayed ossification of the skull. Unlike other species, B. bufo began cranial ossification after appendicular and axial ossification. The relative delay in cranial ossification may be associated functionally with the rapid larval development of this species.
10.2307/1564264|Lygosoma brevicaudis, a savanna form from the Ivory Coast and Ghana, is described as new. It is similar to and broadly sympatric with L. guineensis (Peters, 1879). The two species are contrasted and their morphological differences related to their habitat differences.
10.2307/1563475| Eleutherodactylus vertebralis is redescribed based on fresh material from the upper montane forests of the Pacific slopes of the Andes in Ecuador. It is most closely related to E. devillei, found in comparable ecologic settings on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in northern Ecuador. Eleutherodactylus supernatis sp. nov. occurs on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes in extreme northern Ecuador. This species is also reported from the Cordillera Central north to the vicinity of Medelln. Eleutherodactylus supernatis differs from E. devillei and E. vertebralis in lacking dorsolateral folds and in the shape of the snout. 
10.2307/1564821| The reproductive ecology of wild and captive Orinoco crocodiles was studied in the llanos of Venezuela. Nesting occurs during the early dry season and eggs hatch during the initial rise in water level at the beginning of the wet season. In the Capanaparo River hole-type nests are situated in elevated, sandy substrates (eroded river banks--54%, beaches--46%) along riverbanks. The peak nest density ranged from 0.24 to 0.36 nests/km, but the distribution of nests was clumped, reflecting the dry-season grouping of females. Individual females reused nesting sites and the estimated reproductive frequency was high (ca. 80%). Natural nest depredation was not encountered, but a large percentage of the nests are collected by Indians for subsistence purposes. Average female TL in the wild was 306 cm. Females mature at a size of 250 cm TL and reach a maximum size of 360 cm TL. Among captive crocodiles, egg viability is positively correlated, and date of oviposition is negatively correlated with female size. Egg size, clutch size, and clutch mass are all positively correlated with female size, but when female size is accounted for, no tradeoff between clutch size and egg size was found. /// La ecologa reproductiva de caimanes del Orinoco fue estudiada en vida silvestre y cautiverio en los llanos de Venezuela. Nidificacin ocurre al comienzo de la estacin seca, y los huevos eclosionan cuando el nivel de agua comienza a subir al principio de la estacin lluviosa. En el ro Capanaparo los nidos son hoyos excavados en substratos arenosos elevados (barancas--54%; playas--46%), a lo largo de las orillas de ros. La densidad de nidos vara de 0.24 a 0.36 nidos/km, pero su distribucin es concentrada en reas ocupadas por hembras adultas durante la estacin seca. Hembras nidifican individualmente en los mismos sitios ao tras ao, y el porcentage de hembras adultas nidificando es bastante alta (ca. 80%). Depredacin natural de los nidos aparentamente no ocurre, pero los Indios recolectan un gran porcentage para su propio consumo. Las hembras alcanzan madurez reproductiva a los 250 cm largo total (LT), y su tamao maximo es 360 cm LT. El tamao promedio de hembras nidificando es 306 cm LT. La viabilidad de huevos en cautiverio correlacion positivamente, y la fecha de postura negativamente, con el tamao de la hembra. El tamao de huevos, y el tamao y masa de la postura correlacionaron positivamente con el tamao de la hembra, pero independiente del tamao de la hembra, no hubo una relacin entre el tamao de la postura y el tamao de los huevos. 
10.2307/1563312|Lygosoma fragile Macleay 1877, originally described from Hall Sound, New Guinea and long unidentifiable in the New Guinea fauna, is in fact a valid species referable to the genus Sphenomorphus. It is very common in the Port Moresby area where it has generally been referred to as S. crassicaudus. The species is redescribed and diagnosed, and the general features of its distribution, behaviour, ecology, reproduction and skull osteology are described.
10.2307/1563221|Three false coral snakes, Pliocercus elapoides, from the Sierra de Tuxtla in southern Veracruz are described which exhibit bizarre variation in pattern and coloration. An adult female and one young snake lack black bands posterior to the nuchal collar and another young is banded; all three are noteworthy in the absence of yellow bands. In several respects these specimens resemble to varying degrees others from more southern areas in Mexico.
1565771| A new genus and species of lizard is described from far northern New Caledonia and the les Belep, to the north of the New Caledonian mainland. In overall appearance and biology, it is most similar to the forest-dwelling species of the endemic New Caledonian genus Marmorosphax and shares with those skinks a live-bearing mode of reproduction. However, the new species is highly divergent in its scalation and includes a combination of character states not seen in any other New Caledonian species. The new species has been recorded mainly from dry forest habitats in the far north of the region, including dry closed forest on the les Belep, dry riverine forest adjacent to the Rivire Nhou, and dry closed forest on Dome de Tibaghi. The forests in which this new species is found are now present as relictual patches as a result of historical factors or more recent anthropogenic impacts. The taxonomic uniqueness of this species, in combination with its restricted distribution and threats to its preferred habitat, make it a high priority for conservation management. 
1565773|The coloration of animal integuments evolves in response to numerous and often competing selective pressures. Although male-male competition and female mate choice characteristically select for increased color conspicuousness, visibility to predators and to prey often select for decreased conspicuousness. We examined three populations of Common Collared Lizards, Crotaphytus collaris, in Oklahoma (Arcadia Lake, Glass Mountains, Wichita Mountains) that have been argued to differ in the intensity of natural and sexual selection acting on their color patterns. Our study had two main objectives. First, reflectance spectra were obtained from the lizards to replicate and extend previous work on differences in sexual dichromatism among these populations. Second, spectra were gathered on components of visual backgrounds at our study sites to explore the possibility that each population may be relatively cryptic within its own habitat. Results showed that most body regions differed significantly in sexual dichromatism among populations, but in contrast to prior work, no one population was more sexually dichromatic than another for all body regions examined. Males exhibited less overlap in coloration with their visual backgrounds than did females (i.e., males were more conspicuous), and females overlapped more in coloration with rocks than with other visual backgrounds. The population estimated previously to experience the strongest predation pressure (Arcadia Lake) was shown in the present study to be the least conspicuous. Some support also was found for the proposition that even the most "colorful" population (Wichita Mountains) may not always be conspicuous when viewed against its typical visual background.
10.2307/1564316|The Taiwanese population of the Hemidactylus garnotii-vietnamensis complex is triploid, and is distinct from any known species belonging to this parthenogenetic group (H. garnotii, H. vietnamensis, and presumably H. karenorum). Therefore, we here describe it as a new species, Hemidactylus stejnegeri. This gecko is karyotypically distinct from H. garnotii and H. vietnamensis. In external characters, H. stejnegeri differs statistically from several other local populations of this parthenogenetic species complex. The process of divergence and the problem of taxonomy of the H. garnotii-vietnamensis complex are discussed.
43287374|Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA, or HPI  interrenal in amphibians) function and the typical stress response system can be altered in many ways. Glucocorticoids (GC) are modulated seasonally in a variety of vertebrate taxa, and long-term captivity also modifies the HPA/I axis. Our experiment investigated the functioning of the HPI axis in free-living and long-term captive Eastern Red-spotted Newts. Freeliving newts were collected and blood sampled throughout and after the breeding season in 2006-2007, and 2010. Captive newts arrived in the laboratory in December 2006 and their blood was also sampled in pre-, late-, and postbreeding season in 2007. Contrary to most other amphibians exhibiting seasonally in plasma corticosterone (CORT, the predominant GC in amphibians) levels, the peak in CORT in free-living newts was not related to the breeding season. As expected, captive newts had higher baseline levels of plasma CORT than free-living newts. However, whereas stress-induced CORT levels were equivalent in free-living and captive newts in July (postbreeding), stress-induced concentrations were significantly lower in free-living newts in both January (prebreeding) and April (late breeding). These data suggest that HPI function is altered by captivity in newts.
10.2307/1562825| Urosaurus ornatus was studied in Arizona during 1964-66 at a low-altitude Sonoran Desert mountain range. Females were gravid from late March through August. One or more clutches of 2 to 7 eggs each (x = 4.8) were produced annually. Males had enlarged testes from March through July. Hatchlings appeared from mid-June through November. All individuals attained sexual maturity when less than one yr old. Comparative reproductive data from other localities in Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas are presented. 
40060529|The second-to-fourth digit ratio (2D : 4D) is a well-studied sexual dimorphism that likely arises as a result of prenatal androgenic effects on homeobox gene expression. This dimorphism has been found to exhibit interesting phylogenetic patterns in which females have larger ratios than males among most mammalian species and males have larger ratios than females in most avian and reptilian species. Digit ratio has not been measured in more basal taxa such as amphibians. In this study, 2D : 4D and snout-vent length (SVL) were measured in 40 male and 44 female adult Oophaga [=Dendrobates] pumilio frogs to investigate the existence and patterning of sexual dimorphism. The 2D : 4D of the rear feet varied significantly by sex with males having a larger ratio than females. The digit ratio of the front feet did not differ between the sexes. SVL or its interaction with sex did not affect 2D : 4D on any of the feet. These results indicate that 2D : 4D in an anuran is both sexually dimorphic and follows a pattern between the sexes similar to that of diapsid species. A potential application of 2D : 4D to environmental monitoring is also discussed.
10.2307/1563825|Observations on embryonic and larval survival in Polypedates leucomystax were made near Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Twelve field-collected egg masses were examined for the amount and timing of embryonic mortality. Embryonic mortality averaged 34% (limits 0-100%). Four egg masses were infested with the larvae of a calliphorid fly (Lucilia sp.). Survival of tadpoles to early metamorphic climax was 3.4% and 2.8% in two ponds studied under natural conditions. Overall embryonic and larval survival was estimated as 2%. Median survival was about 22 days after hatching.
4092909|We simulated nests constructed in an area heavily used by ovipositing Diamond-backed Terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin) and foraging raccoons (Procyon lotor), to investigate the cues used by raccoons to locate terrapin nests. Marking nests with flags did not increase predation rates, and human scent decreased predation rates. Raccoons seemed to locate nests based on soil disturbance, ocean-water scent, or a combination of these cues.
23327166|The Indonesian parachuting frog Rhacophorus catamitus is endemic to the mountains of southern Sumatra. Herein, we describe the larval morphology of this species based on several developmental stages. Tadpoles were collected from localities that ranged in elevation from 1,0681,680 m in montane primary and secondary growth rainforest habitats. We matched larvae to an adult paratype and a referred specimen using mitochondrial DNA. The tadpole of R. catamitus has a conspicuous black tail tip and a larval morphology similar to most congeners. Characteristics of this body plan include a ventral oral disc, jaw sheaths, several labial tooth rows, dorsolaterally positioned eyes, a single sinistral spiracle, and a median anal tube. All specimens (N = 28) have a large suctorial oral disc with 911 tooth rows (68 anterior, 3 posterior) that we hypothesize is an adaptation for life in fast-flowing streams. At least two size cohorts of R. catamitus larvae were collected in June 1996, suggesting that this species may breed either continuously or opportunistically throughout the year.
10.2307/1563326|The "lost" holotype of Tschudi's (1845) Liophis taeniurus was found and data obtained on the holotype and additional specimens were compared with similar data on other colubrid species and genera that have been considered related to the former species. Liophis festae is here considered a distinct species.
40060565|Extralimital populations of red-legged frogs have recently been found on Graham Island (Queen Charlotte Islands), British Columbia, and on Chichagof Island, Alaska. Both islands are well north of the traditionally understood (or core) range of red-legged frogs in western North America. The Chichagof Island frogs are known to be introduced, and the Graham Island frogs are suspected to be introduced. However, species-level identification of these populations remains uncertain. Recent phylogeographic analyses have demonstrated that there are two species of red-legged frogs, Rana aurora and Rana draytonii, and R. aurora is more closely related to the Cascades Frog, Rana cascadae (i.e., [aurora + draytonii] is not monophyletic). Here, we compare new mtDNA sequence data from these extralimital populations to available sequences from 50 populations from the core range of red-legged frogs. These results demonstrate that both extralimital populations are the Northern Red-Legged Frog, R. aurora, and are most closely related to haplotypes found in the most northern clade of R. aurora. Further, we conduct ecological niche modeling under current conditions and future conditions that assume a global warming scenario to assess habitat suitability in southeastern Alaska and the Queen Charlotte Islands and the potential for the persistence and expansion of the extralimital populations. These analyses suggest that the extralimital populations occur in the most suitable habitat on Graham and Chichagof Islands and that suitability will increase on Graham and decrease on Chichagof Island in the future. These results are used to discuss several management options for the extralimital R. aurora.
4498609|Anurans display a variety of antipredator behaviors from flight and crypsis to defensive postures. External attachment of a radio-transmitter is a commonly used technique that could potentially interfere with the antipredator behavior of anurans. We investigated the effect of an externally attached radio-transmitter on the antipredator behavior and vagility of adult Northern Leopard Frogs (Rana pipiens) and adult Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica). We simulated attacks by birds and snakes and used fluorescent powder to follow the path of individuals through natural habitats. Both species displayed a different frequency of behaviors in response to each predator, but the presence of a transmitter did not affect the frequency of antipredator behaviors. When carrying a transmitter, R. pipiens exhibited a different escape angle during attacks by simulated aerial predators and exhibited a change in the mean turn angle over 4-h movement paths. Rana sylvatica's escape behavior and vagility were unaffected by a transmitter during simulated attacks, although frogs with a transmitter did take more jumps per 4-h movement paths and followed straighter paths than did frogs without a transmitter. The body mass of the individual did not affect any of our behavior or movement metrics. Although most of our metrics did not change markedly in response to the presence of a transmitter, the subtle changes in vagility and escape behavior are analogous to the negative effects of externally attached transmitters seen in birds and mammals. These results suggest that transmitters may have consequences for the energetics, survival, and reproduction of anurans.
10.2307/1563000| Seventy-six species of snakes and 2 species of amphisbaenians are reported to display the tail so that it becomes unusually conspicuous. This behavior is ordinarily a response to stress, such as a sudden tactile stimulus, and is probably an antipredator strategy. The snakes can be placed in 3 groups on the basis of coloration and caudal morphology. (1) Five species are obscurely patterned or unicolored and have short tails with blunt tips. (2) Fifty-four species have contrasting or brightly colored tails without stout, blunt tips. (3) Seventeen species have either blunt, brightly colored tails or tapered, dull colored tails. Display is correlated with a brightly colored, autotomizeable tail in one amphisbaenian and with a blunt, heavily reinforced tail tip in another. A study of injuries on the tails of 52 Eryx johnii and 63 Calabaria reinhardtii suggests that these snakes display their blunt tails to misdirect the attacks of predators. Skeletal peculiarities of several boids (Charina and Eryx) and of Amphisbaena alba might be adaptations for this function of tail display. The injury data for 156 pipe snakes (Cylindrophis rufus) imply that misdirection of attack is not an important function of the display of this brightly colored species. Bright colors associated with the tail displays of many snakes and of A. fuliginosa might serve as intimidating devices, aposematic signals, or mimetic signals. The display of A. fuliginosa probably also facilitates caudal autotomy. Different functions of tail display need not, of course, be mutually exclusive. A comprehensive bibliography of tail display behavior, new information for many species, a brief discussion of terminology, speculation on the origins of tail displays, and suggestions for future investigations are also presented. /// Bei 76 Arten von Schlangen und zwei von Amphisbniden beobachtete man Verhaltens-formen, bei denen der Schwanz auffllig demonstriert wird. Gewhnlich geschieht dies bei Erregung, z.B. pltzlicher Berhrung, und dient zur Ablenkung von Fressfeinden. Nach ihrer Frbung und Morphologie lassen sich die Schlangen drei Gruppen einteilen. (1) Fnf Arten sind dster gemustert oder einfarbig und haben einen kurzen Schwanz mit stumpfen Ende. (2) 54 Arten haben einen mehr oder weniger dnn zegespitzten Schwanz, der bei einigen grell gefrbt ist. (3) 17 Arten lassen sich nicht eindeutig in einer der vorgenannten Gruppen unterbringen. Bei der einen Amphisbnide (Amphisbaena fuliginosa) ist der zur Schau gestellte Schwanz autotomisierbar, bei der anderen (A. alba) ist sein Ende stumpf und krftig gepanzert. Eine Untersuchung an den Schwnzen von 52 Indischen Sanboas (Eryx johnii) und 63 Erdpythons (Calabaria reinhardtii) bestrkt die Annahme, dass diese Arten ihre Schwnze demonstrieren, um Fressfeinde abzulenken. Skeletteigentmlichkeiten mehrerer Boiden (Charina und Eryx) und von Amphisbaena alba knnten Anpassungen an diese Funktion des Schwanzes sein. Die Auswertung der Schwanzverletzungen von 156 Walzenschlangen (Cylindrophis rufus) ergibt, dass der Schwanz dieser auffllig gefarbten Art Angriffe nicht in strkerem Mass abzulenken vermag. Bei vielen Schlangen und A. fuliginosa knnte die grelle Frbung kombiniert mit Schwanzbewegung als abschreckendes, warnendes oder mimetiches Signal wirken. Die Schwanzbewegung von A. fuliginosa erleichtert wahrscheinlich auch die Autotomie. Die auffallenden Schwanzbewegungen knnen durchaus mehrere Funktionen nebeneinander haben. Diese Arbeit enthlt auch ein umfassendes Literatureverzeichnis uber auffllige Schwanzbewegungen, neue Angaben ber viele Arten, eine kurze Diskussion der Terminologie sowie Anregungen fr zufnftige Untersuchungen ze diesum Thema. 
1566097|The three members of the Malagasy genus Aglyptodactylus (Aglyptodactylus madagascariensis, Aglyptodactylus laticeps, Aglyptodactylus securifer) form, together with Laliostoma labrosum, the subfamily Laliostominae within the Mantellidae (Ranoidea: Anura). In this paper, the morphology, life history, and ecology of sympatric tadpoles of A. laticeps and A. securifer are described and compared to those of A. madagascariensis and L. labrosum. Tadpoles of all Aglyptodactylus species are morphologically more similar to each other than to L. labrosum. However, all species differ with respect to habitat, feeding habits, and life history.
10.2307/1564354|Eleutherodactylus rosadoi, new species, is named from a lowland locality in Provincia Esmeraldas, Ecuador. It had previously been confused with E. roseus (Boulenger), a species which occurs only in the central Chocoan lowlands of Colombia. Eleutherodactylus katoptroides, new species, is described from a lower montane rainforest locality in Provincia Pastaza, on the Amazonian slopes of the Andes of Ecuador. It had been previously confused with E. crucifer (Boulenger), which is known only from three cloud forest localities on the Pacific slopes of the Andes of Ecuador. Both of the new species are members of the E. crucifer assembly of the unistrigatus group. The relationships of the two new species within the crucifer assembly are unclear. Both of the new species have color patterns identical to particular crucifer assembly species, but differ markedly from those particular species morphologically, and the problems this presents in interpreting relationships is explored.
10.2307/1563718|An evaluation of the methods for determining home ranges was made, and the factors affecting home range estimates were examined. Inadequate sample size and the use of statistically based models to correct for small sample size were the most common deficiencies in home range studies. The determinant and recapture radii methods unrealistically inflated home range estimates. The assumption of normality was not confirmed by actual data. The convex polygon method is the most attractive home range measurement to field biologists because it accurately describes the area used (if based on an adequate number of sightings), and it is simple, using only the actual sightings of an animal. By examining the relationship between number of sightings and cumulative home range size, the minimum number of sightings that accurately estimates home range can be empirically determined. Additionally, these data can provide information on the use of home ranges and territories. The time interval on which home ranges are based affect size estimates greatly. Many sightings per animal and short time intervals between censuses are necessary for accurate home range estimates. Eighteen was the minimum number of sightings to accurately measure home range size in Sceloporus virgatus. Eighteen is much larger than the minimum number commonly considered adequate. Few generalizations concerning home ranges are possible from the published data on North American iguanid lizards. The data indicate that caution is necessary in interpreting the function of home ranges from correlative data, and that the same data can support alternative hypotheses regarding function.
10.2307/1566029| The reproductive cycle and diet of a population of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus torquatus torquatus from the Pedregal de San Angel, Distrito Federal, Mxico, were studied. Ovarian activity began in June, and by October, one to five preovulatory follicles per ovary were present. Ovulation took place in November and December, and parturition occurred in late April or early May. Relative litter and egg masses were higher at the end of development than at the beginning. Testes increased in size from June through September, when they reached their maximum volume and weight. Testicular regression began at this point and was particularly accentuated in October and November. The diet of both sexes was composed primarily of insects; however, plant material (small flowers and fruits), spiders, isopods, and occasionally earthworms were also consumed. Both sexes consumed plant material throughout the year. In the dry season, males ingested twice as much food as females. /// Se estudiaron el ciclo reproductor y la dieta de una poblacin de la lagartija vivpara Sceloporus torquatus torquatus que habita en el Pedregal de San Angel, Distrito Federal, Mxico. La actividad ovrica comenz en junio, y para octubre se encontraron de uno a cinco folculos preovulatorios por ovario. La ovulacin ocurri entre noviembre y diciembre, y el parto a fines de abril o principios de mayo. La masas relativas de la camada y de los huevos fueron mayores a finales del desarrollo embrionario que al principio. Los testculos aumentaron de tamao desde junio hasta septiembre, cuando alcanzaron su volumen y peso mximos. Posteriormente comenz la regresin testicular, la cual fue particularmente acentuada en octubre y noviembre. La dieta de ambos sexos consisti principalmente de insectos; sin embargo, tambin se consumieron, adems de materia vegetal (flores y frutos pequeos), araas, ispodos y ocasionalmente lombrices de tierra. Ambos sexos consumieron materia vegetal durante todo el ao. En la poca seca, las hembras consumieron alrededor de la mitad del alimento consumido por los machos. 
40060552|We describe a new species of Anolis from cloud forest habitat in Department of San Martin, Peru. The new species shares distinctive aspects of color and scalation with Anolis huilae from Colombia and Anolis boettgeri and Anolis cuscoensis from Peru but differs from these species in dewlap color, limb length, and scalation. Phylogenetic analysis places the species among the basal group of "alpha" Anolis (latifrons group sensu lato, "Dactyloa").
4092927|A new species of Telmatobius is described from humid paramo of southeastern Peru and western Bolivia. Males of the new species differ from those of Telmatobius sanborni, the only other species of Telmatobius in the area, mainly by lacking hypertrophied forearms and having smaller nuptial spicules; in addition, color patterns are different. The apparent low diversity of forest Telmatobius in southern Peru may be an artifact of lack of research on this group of frogs in this region.
10.2307/1564559|Two new species of snakes previously identified as Ninia atrata are described from Central America. A new species from Costa Rica and western Panama is distinguished from the other atrata group members by its low number of ventral and subcaudal scales, strongly reduced parietal scales, and small eye, whereas the new species from Honduras and El Salvador is distinguished from the other forms most easily by its lack of a pale nuchal collar and the possession of numerous tubercles on the parietal scales. A brief discussion on some of the morphological variation in the species N. atrata is also presented.
10.2307/1564789|The thermal biology of two populations of red-chinned lizards (Sceloporus undulatus erythrocheilus) living in different habitats in southcentral Colorado was examined over two summers. One population lives on an isolated volcanic cone that rises 65 m above the surrounding short-grass prairie, while the other population occupies a nearby pinyon-juniper covered mesa. Mean body temperature for all populations sampled varied between 34.8 and 35.5 C. Females had a slightly but significantly higher mean body temperature than males (35.3 vs. 34.9 C, respectively), but variance in mean body temperature did not differ between sexes. Neither mean body temperature nor its variance differed significantly among populations, years, and months, nor in comparisons between gravid and non-gravid females or between juveniles and adults. Analysis of thermoregulatory performance revealed significant differences between populations and between sexes but not among any other groups tested. This study provides additional support to the view that temperate lizards are evolutionarily conservative in their thermal physiology and that they have mean body temperatures which are largely non-responsive to short-term environmental variation. An investigation of thermoregulatory performance and daily activity patterns of red-chinned lizards, on the other hand, suggests that these characteristics may be quite sensitive to physical and biological factors.
10.2307/1563939|The energy flow in syntopic populations of the greater snakes Thamnophis radix and T. sirtalis in Ohio ranged from 74,676 to 144,041/kJ/ha/yr. Important factors affecting this quantity were the high densities of the snakes (114 to 212 snakes/ha), the high annual reproductive rate (approximately 15 to 19 young/female), and the high growth rates of the newborn snakes prior to their first hibernation period. This large intake of energy was channeled primarily into secondary productivity, with calculated tissue production/assimilation ratios (P/A) averaging 74% for new-born snakes prior to their first hibernation period and then dropping to a yearly average of 14% for the adults of both species. The factors that allow for high P/A values were the low metabolic rates, the circadian oscillations in metabolic rates, the winter period of low temperatures, voluntary hypothermia during the day, and generally low activity levels. The garter snakes' impact upon the food resources at the study site appeared to be minimal during the three years of this study. A 1 to 4 predator/prey biomass ratio was estimated to be sufficient for maintenance, growth, and reproduction. Since the calculated predator/prey ratios were much smaller than this value, interspecific exploitative competition for food resources is unlikely to be a major factor in the population dynamics of either species of garter snake at the site studied.
10.2307/1565122|We used radiotelemetry to monitor 12 eastern massasauga rattlesnakes, Sistrurus c. catenatus, within Bruce Peninsula National Park (Ontario) for 419 days. The snakes exhibited non-random use of habitat, strongly associating with wetlands and coniferous forest, and avoiding open areas (roads, trails), open water, and mixed forest. Hibernation sites also occurred in wetland and coniferous forest habitat. By contrast, snakes were disproportionately captured in open areas, presumably because they are much more easily detected there. Daily movements by transmitter-equipped snakes were frequent (60% of the time), averaging 56 m per episode (N = 11; SE = 12.35). Activity ranges averaged 0.25 km<sup>2</sup> (N = 11; SE = 0.06), with females covering significantly smaller areas than males. The habitat use and movement data are used to make preliminary management recommendations.
40060517|We tested a common prediction of the thermal coadaptation hypothesis in the Northern Map Turtle (Graptemys geographica), an aquatic emydid with pronounced aerial basking. We measured the effect of body temperature on two locomotor performances (swimming and righting) to determine optimal temperature of performance (
1565838| The Jambato Toad, Atelopus ignescens, is endemic to montane forests, inter-Andean valleys, and paramos in Ecuador. Although formerly abundant and widely distributed, the species has not been recorded in nature since 1988. To determine its population status, data from intensive surveys in 1999-2001 are compared with those from 1967 and 1981. Presence-absence data from several localities also are reported. Temperature and precipitation between 1891 and 1999 were analyzed to determine whether these correlate with population trends. Atelopus ignescens was abundant in 1967 at Paramo de Guaman (47 individuals recorded in 120 pers/min) and in 1981 at Paramo del Antisana (up to 0.75 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>). In the 1999-2001 surveys, A. ignescens was absent despite considerably higher survey efforts. The presence-absence data at several localities also indicate a dramatic decline. Before 1988, A. ignescens was present during 64% of the visits to sites throughout its range. After 1988, A. ignescens was absent at all sites. The results strongly suggest that A. ignescens is extinct. Climatic data show that 1987, the year previous to the last record of A. ignescens, was particularly warm and dry. The reasons for the decline in pristine areas remain unclear, although the available information suggests that a combination of factors such as pathogens and unusual weather conditions may have played an important role. /// El sapo jambato, Atelopus ignescens es endmico de bosques montanos, valles interandinos, y pramos del Ecuador. A pesar de que anteriormente era abundante y ampliamente distribuido, A. ignescens no ha sido registrado en la naturaleza desde 1988. Para establecer su estado poblacional, monitoreos intensivos Ilevados a cabo entre 1999-2001 fueron comparados con muestreos efectuados en 1967 y 1981. Datos de presencia-ausencia en varias localidades tambin fueron considerados. La temperatura y precipitacin entre 1891-1999 fue analizada para encontrar correlaciones con tendencias poblacionales. Atelopus ignescens era abundante en 1967 en Pramo de Guaman (47 individuos registrados en 120 pers/min) y en 1981 en Pramo del Antisana (hasta 0.75 individuos/m<sup>2</sup>). En los monitoreos 1999-2001 A. ignescens estuvo completamente ausente a pesar de que hubo un esfuerzo de muestreo considerablemente mayor. Los datos de presencia-ausencia en varias localidades tambin sugieren una declinacin dramtica. Antes de 1988, A. ignescens estuvo presente en el 64% de las visitas a localidades a lo largo de su rango. Luego de 1988, estuvo ausente en todos los sitios. La informacin combinada sugiere que A. ignescens est extinto. Los datos climticos muestran que 1987, el ao previo al ltimo registro de A. ignescens, fue inusualmente clido y seco. Las razones para la declinacin en reas no disturbadas no estn claras. Sin embargo la evidencia disponible sugiere que factores como la accin de patgenos y condiciones climticas inusuales pueden haber jugado un rol importante. 
41415282|Studies of species coexistence within communities and food webs depend on knowing how species use varying resources. Diet has been asserted as a partitioned resource and an important proxy for measuring ecological similarity between species. Diet, like any aspect of an organism's ecology, varies over space and time, which may diminish the generality of conclusions made about how species interact. Few studies have examined diet variation across two or more dimensions, but here we evaluate diet variation over space and time for four lizard species within the genus Ctenotus (Scincidae). Samples were collected at three field sites in the Great Victoria Desert of Western Australia over the course of 16 years. Diet varies widely over both space and time. However, changes in diet over time overwhelm variation over space at the scale of our study. Despite diet variation within species, distinct differences exist between species in fundamental and realized dietary niche space. Limited overlap between species in dietary niche space implies fundamental ecological differences between species that may not be overturned by environmental variation.
10.2307/1565269|Hatchling painted turtles (Chrysemys picta) and hatchling red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta) were released 40 m from a drift fence with pitfall traps. I asked whether larger hatchlings were more likely to be recaptured than smaller ones. I recaptured 63 of 84 (75.0%) C. picta and 48 of 84 (57.1%) T. scripta. Larger hatchlings were not more likely to be recaptured when species identity was ignored. However, within each species, larger hatchlings were more likely to be recaptured. The smaller C. picta hatchlings reached the fence quicker but lost more mass than the larger T. scripta hatchlings.
10.2307/1566193|The effect of caudal autotomy on reproductive investment in females of a viviparous skink, Niveoscincus metallicus, was investigated to examine the relative importance of lipid depletion and energetic diversion to this activity. Although abdominal fat bodies are present, this species stores most of its energetic reserves in the tail. Since caudal fat is preferentially aggregated toward the base of the tail, autotomy and lipid depletion may be mutually exclusive events. Reproductive consequences following tail loss associated with significant loss of caudal fat were compared with those following autotomy involving no fat loss in two groups of females: females that had lost their tail during their most recent vitellogenic period; and females in which tail loss had occurred in a previous reproductive season. Caudal autotomy during vitellogenesis resulted in a significant reduction in litter size, irrespective of the position of tail loss, suggesting that smaller litters were a consequence of the diversion of energetic resources from reproduction to tail regeneration, rather than the loss of fat reserves per se. However, offspring from mothers that experienced tail loss during vitellogenesis without associated loss of fat reserves were significantly larger in size (snout-vent length and mass) and had longer tails than those from any other group. We suggest that this was probably achieved through facultative placental transfer during gestation, although the possibility that more yolk was allocated to each egg cannot be discounted. Sprint speed and the size of abdominal fat reserves at birth and postnatal growth were not correlated with either recency of autotomy or the location of the tail break.
25599274|The genus Simophis includes Brazilian and Paraguayan colubrid snakes with color patterns mimetic with triad-banded coral snakes of the genus Micrurus. Currently Simophis is thought to include two species: Simophis rhinostoma, described from Brazil and recorded in the literature from Paraguay, and Simophis rohdei, considered to be a Paraguayan endemic. The species are differentiated by the number of scale rows at midbody (15 in S. rhinostoma and 17 in S. rohdei) and the number of supralabial scales (7 in S. rhinostoma and 8 in S. rohdei). A review of specimens from Paraguay and Brazil indicate variation in the number of supralabial scales, and a reexamination of the holotype of Rhinaspis rohdei showed that it actually has 15 middorsal scale rows and not 17 as was indicated in the original description. A single specimen from Brasilia has 17 dorsal scale rows. The genus Simophis must be considered to be monotypic (S. rhinostoma), having 15 dorsal scale rows (rarely 17) and between 7 and 9 supralabials (rarely 5). The species has a unique combination of characters, some associated with arboreality (slender body, long tail, laterally keeled ventral scales), and one found in fossorial snakes (shovel-shaped rostral). /// El gnero Simophis incluye serpientes de Brasil y Paraguay, las cuales poseen un patrn de coloracin mimtico con serpientes de coral con tradas. Actualmente se cree que el gnero contiene dos especies: Simophis rhinostoma, descrita de Brasil y tambin registrada en la literatura paraguaya, y Simophis rohdei considerada como una especie endmica de Paraguay. Las especies se diferencian por el nmero de hileras de escamas dorsales al medio cuerpo (15 en S. rhinostoma y 17 en S. rohdei) y por el nmero de escamas supralabiales (7 en S. rhinostoma y 8 en S. rohdei). La revisin de ejemplares de Paraguay y Brasil indica que existe variacin en el nmero de escamas supralabiales, y la reexaminacin del holotipo de Rhinaspis rohdei muestra que tiene en realidad 15 hileras de escamas dorsales al medio cuerpo y no 17 como se indica en la descripcin original. Slo un ejemplar procedente de Brasilia fue confirmado que posee 17 hileras de escamas dorsales. El gnero Simophis debe ser considerado como monotpico (S. rhinostoma), el cual tiene 15 hileras de escamas dorsales (raramente 17) y entre 7 y 9 supralabiales (raramente 5). La especie tiene una nica combinacin de caracteres, algunos de ellos asociados a hbitos arborcolas (cuerpo delgado, cola larga, escamas ventrales lateralmente quilladas) y uno encontrado en serpientes fosoriales (escama rostral modificada en forma de pala).
4092948| We studied the ecology of Anolis capito in the rain forest of southeastern Nicaragua during late dry season of 1993. These cryptic anoles live low on trunks in shaded rain forest and are active throughout the day but appear to spend most of their time in shade. Body temperatures averaged 28.8  0.5C, which is 1.3C higher than substrate temperatures and 1.7C higher than air temperatures. Females were larger and reach sexual maturity at a larger SVL than males. Females in late dry season often contain two oviductal eggs that differed in shell condition indicating that they were not ovulated simultaneously. Females had evidence of as many as four clutches (two oviductal eggs and two different-sized enlarged vitellogenic follicles) suggesting rapid clutch production. The diet consists of a variety of invertebrates, with grasshoppers, homopterans, insect larvae, and roaches dominating volumetrically. On average, these lizards contained 1.6  0.1 prey items. Prey size varied with lizard size, but no sexual differences existed. These lizards appear to capture a small number of large prey. Many ecological and life-history traits of A. capito are similar to those of other Anolis lizards suggesting an historical origin. 
10.2307/1565305|Reproduction in spotted turtles, Clemmys guttata was studied in Georgian Bay, Ontario from 1992 to 1995 using mark-recapture, radiotelemetry, and x-ray photography. The nesting season occurred in mid to late June and lasted approximately 2 wk. Oviposition was primarily nocturnal and required up to 8 hr to complete. All 11 observed nests were placed in shallow soil on exposed Precambrian Shield rock outcrops. Over 4 yr, an average of 58% of 109 females captured in June were gravid. No turtle laid more than one clutch per year, most females did not oviposit every year, and some (16%) did not produce eggs in three consecutive years. There was a positive relationship between female body size and nesting frequency. Mean clutch size, determined from x-rays and direct counting of oviposited eggs was 5.3 eggs. As predicted from optimal egg size theory, clutch size was positively correlated with female body size, whereas egg size was independent of female body size. However, correlations adjusted for body size indicated no trade-offs between clutch size and egg mass, length, or width. Compared to data from a more southern population in Pennsylvania, Georgian Bay spotted turtles had a larger mean clutch size and relatively smaller eggs. Most of the variation in reproductive output between the two populations was from differences in clutch size, not egg size. Northern spotted turtles are similar to other northern species of turtles in having more delayed maturation, larger body and clutch size, and eggs that are relatively (to body size) smaller than those in more southern populations.
10.2307/1563550|An electrophoretic comparison was made between Anolis carolinensis from Texas and Georgia and Anolis porcatus from Cuba. At five of 35 presumptive gene loci the Cuban population may be distinguished from the North American population. The Nei genetic distance (D) estimate between the Cuban and North American populations is 0.165 which is slightly above interpopulation, intraspecific distances that have been measured in other lizards. A molecular clock prediction of a Pliocene date of colonization of North America by a Cuban porcatus stock is congruent with a divergence time estimate based on immunological data.
43287376|We studied a population of Ameerega flavopicta on an island in southeastern Brazil that was formed during the rilling of a reservoir in 1965. We studied frog condition factor, diet composition (through induced regurgitation), prey preferences (based on prey availability assessed at frogs' habitats), vocalizations, breeding period, and density. We conducted fieldwork monthly from July 2008 to March 2010 to locate frogs in marked grids. We photographed individual frogs to register particular patterns of dots on the dorsum that allowed individual recognition. During the rainy season A. flavopicta used a temporary trench inside the inland vegetation (Cerrado) for tadpole development The frogs migrated to the margins of the reservoir during the dry season, when the trench dried completely. Frogs measured 24.0  4.0 mm (snout-vent length), and mass was 1.6  0.5 g (N = 47). Their condition varied among months but not between the two areas used (trench surroundings inland and island shores). Ameerega flavopicta favored specific food items and preferred Lepidoptera larvae in both areas. The advertisement call was composed of simple notes repeated 102.7  7.63 times per min, lasting 166  42 msec and spaced by 387  66 msec. The breeding period differed from that reported for other areas. This and other aspects of the Pirapitinga population differed from populations studied elsewhere. Differences may be attributable to a bottleneck effect or different selective pressures in this isolated population.
10.2307/1563940|The early developing skin of two species of caecilians, a uterine Chthonerpeton indistinctum and a free-living Ichthyophis kohtaoensis, has been described using electronmicroscopy. On the whole caecilian skin is typical of amphibians in its fine structure and in the Ichthyophis larva it includes most of the components recognized in premetamorphic larvae of other amphibian groups. The epidermis of Chthonerpeton, in terms of skin development relatively younger than that of Ichthyophis, has 3 types of epithelial cells and a highly microvillar surface, which may be related to its viviparity. As yet the epidermis of Chthonerpeton does not possess other cell components recognized in the better differentiated skin of the Ichthyophis larva. The presence of Merkel cells and the ultrastructure of Leydig cells, reported for the first time in the epidermis of a larval Ichthyophis, have morphological properties which conform to those already described for similar cells in other amphibian larvae. Merkel cells of Ichthyophis originate early in ontogeny and it is known that they are present in adults. Leydig cells presumably disappear at metamorphosis, as in urodeles, for they do not occur in adults. From examination of numerous specimen cells in different regions of the body of the larval Ichthyophis, it appears that Leydig cells develop from a granular type cell originating in the basal layer of the epidermis.
40983603|Here we describe the tadpoles of Rhinella jimi. Rhinella jimi tadpoles are benthic and exotrophic and display aggregative behavior. These tadpoles can be distinguished from other members of the Rhinella marina group by the combination of the following characters: spiracle with external tube opening on midbody; snout sloped in lateral view; eyes and nostrils proportionally larger than in Rhinella schneideri. Finally, we reviewed the information available on the other described tadpoles of the R. marina species group and compare them with the tadpole of R. jimi.
10.2307/1565079| Two populations of tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) that differ in morphological and social traits, were used in a comparative study examining the ontogenetic development of throat coloration. Adult males from the Aguirre Spring population exhibited monomorphic throat coloration while Doa Ana males were polymorphic. In a separate study, Aguirre Spring males were found to be in certain respects more aggressive than Doa Ana males. Juvenile males and females from both populations first exhibit orange throat color. Adult Doa Ana females always retain the orange throat coloration but Aguirre Spring females may either retain orange or develop yellow throats. In males from both populations throat badge ontogeny involves a series of throat color changes while ventral belly coloration initially appears as its final hue. This suggests that ontogenetic color change and polymorphic adult coloration serve social functions. Orange throat coloration seen in females and young males may serve to inhibit aggression from adult males. Most dominant Aguirre Spring males have throat colors that are seen late in the developmental sequence suggesting that mature colors (i.e., blue and blue-green) are more socially dominant and are favored by sexual selection. 
4092981|Few studies have investigated the emigration behavior of adult ambystomatid salamanders in fragmented landscapes. We assessed the emigration behavior of 30 Spotted Salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) by implanting transmitters in 2003. Study sites, all in southern Rhode Island, included an active golf course, a golf course under construction, and a closed-canopy forest that served as a control site. Maximum dispersal distances from breeding ponds ranged from 44-467 m (mean = 145, SE = 20 m), with the maximum distance twice as far as prior studies on this species. Spotted Salamanders exhibited distinct preferences for terrestrial habitats by avoiding fairways and selecting forested uplands and forested wetlands. The use of forested wetlands was unusual because most past research has suggested avoidance of this habitat by Spotted Salamanders. We documented adult Spotted Salamanders crossing fairways to adjacent forest patches; thus, fairways were not a dispersal barrier. Compared to random points, adult Spotted Salamanders selected cool microhabitats with greater leaf litter depth, more coarse woody debris, more canopy cover, less herbaceous cover, and high densities of vertical and horizontal small mammal burrows. These results suggest that maintaining extensive upland and wetland forested habitats near breeding ponds, with significant amounts of deep leaf litter, coarse woody debris, and high small mammal densities will help sustain Spotted Salamanders.
10.2307/1563133|Eyeless red-spotted newts, Notophthalmus viridescens, were able to synchronize their activity pattern to an imposed light cycle. This demonstrates the presence of an extraocular photoreceptor. Eyeless animals without pineals did not entrain to the light signal. Eyeless newts whose pineals were only partially removed also entrained to an imposed light cycle. These results indicate that the pineal body is involved in the entrainment response.
41415273|The first snake craniomandibular fossil specimen from the Campanian-Maastrichtian of South America is described herein. The specimen, from the Allen Formation in Rio Negro Province, consists of an incomplete anterior portion of a left dentary. The general morphology of the bone resembles that of the basal legged snake Najash Apestegua and Zaher and the small madtsoiids from the Eocene-Miocene of Australia. The dentary was found associated with several isolated snake vertebrae, most of which are referable to madtsoiids, thus it probably belongs to one of the already known madtsoiid taxa. El primer resto craneomandibular de serpiente del CampanianoMaastrichtiano de Amrica del Sur es aqu descripto. El espcimen, de la Formacin Allen en la provincia de Ro Negro, consiste en la porcin anterior incompleta de un dentario izquierdo. La morfologa general del elemento es similar a la de la serpiente basal Najash Apestegua and Zaher y a la de los pequeos madtsoiidos del Eoceno-Mioceno de Australia. El dentario fue hallado asociado a numerosas vrtebras aisladas de serpiente, la mayora de las cuales son referibles a madtsoiidos y por lo tanto, el mismo probablemente pertenezca a alguno de los taxones de madtsoiidos ya conocidos.
40060471|Florida is now home to several exotic species of amphibians and reptiles, but the most prevalent is Anolis sagrei, the Brown Anole. We surveyed 28 sites across the state for infections with the saurian malaria parasite, Plasmodium floridense between 2000 and 2006. Plasmodium floridense was found at five sites, primarily along the Gulf of Mexico coast. The results of the survey allowed for two tests of possible factors contributing to the presence of the parasite. One was a set of ecological variables as implemented in the niche modeling program Maxent. We found that proximity to fresh water and urban areas were important variables in predicting the parasite. The second test examined whether A. sagrei that had originated from western Cuban populations were less susceptible to the parasite; there was no difference in infection rates of A. sagrei from western versus eastern/central Cuban populations.
10.2307/1564388|The water skink (Eulamprus quoyii) tends to be restricted to creekside habitats and moist areas. Factors correlated with the relative abundance of E. quoyii were demonstrated using multivariate techniques. Rocky, open creeks supported higher densities of E. quoyii than those in cool forests or thick vegetation, where basking sites were fewer. Rocks correlated well with presence or absence of skinks. Non-random utilization of basking sites occurred in sites where skinks were rare, in contrast to random utilization of basking sites where skinks were common. Basking sites and their associated environmental cues may influence skink abundance. Use of rocky basking sites was associated with substrate temperatures of ca. 29 C, similar to the preferred body temperature (PBT) of 28 C chosen in a thermal gradient. Lighting conditions had no effect on PBT, although a significant drop in PBT to 24 C occurred when skinks were deprived of water.
10.2307/1565924| Rheodytes leukops is a bimodally respiring turtle that extracts oxygen from the water chiefly via two enlarged cloacal bursae that are lined with multi-branching papillae. The diving performance of R. leukops was compared to that of Emydura macquarii, a turtle with a limited ability to acquire aquatic oxygen. The diving performance of the turtles was compared under aquatic anoxia (0 mmHg), hypoxia (80 mmHg) and normoxia (155 mmHg) at 15, 23, and 30C. When averaged across all temperatures the dive duration of R. leukops more than doubled from 22.4  7.65 min under anoxia to 49.8  19.29 min under normoxic conditions. In contrast, aquatic oxygen level had no effect on the dive duration of E. macquarii. Dive times for both species were significantly longer at the cooler temperature, and the longest dive recorded for each species was 538 min and 166 min for R. leukops and E. macquarii, respectively. Both species displayed a pattern of many short dives punctuated by occasional long dives irrespective of temperature or oxygen regime. Rheodytes leukops, on average, spent significantly less time (42  2 sec) at the surface per surfacing event than did E. macquarii (106  20 sec); however, surface times for both species were not related to either water temperature or oxygen level. 
10.2307/1563111|Character variation in the two newts Notophthalmus meridionalis and Notophthalmus kallerti is reviewed. Specimens examined from to localities that fall between established ranges of the two forms are intermediate and are regarded as integrades. The two forms, therefore, should be designated as Notophthalmus meridionalis meridionalis (Cope) and Notophthalmus meridionalis kallerti (Wolter storff), Geographic variation within each subspecies is minor; no obvious clines extend through the two forms, and the zone of integradation appears to be well defined. The relationship between Notophthalmus meridionalis and Notophthalmus viridescens is briefly examined. Differences relating to reproductive biology emphasize the distinctness of the two forms. A case of possible sympatry is described for San Patricio County, Texas.
10.2307/1565422|The phylogenetic relationships of geckos formerly regarded as Cyrtodactylus are estimated using allozymic data from 18 loci. Three genera are used as potential outgroup taxa, Gekko, Nactus, and Teratoscincus (three species). Allozymic data are coded in two ways for phylogenetic inference. Phylogenetic analysis of the data, when coded for the presence or absence of alleles, produces a robust phylogenetic hypothesis depicting sampled species of Cyrtopodion and Mediodactylus as separate monophyletic groups. A similar topology is recovered from analysis of the data when allele combinations are coded as character states and step matrices are used. Full generic status of Cyrtopodion and Mediodactylus is recommended. Mediodactylus russowi from the Ili River Valley of Kazakhstan and the Junggar Depression of China may represent a distinct species, based on a number of fixed and frequency differences when compared with Mediodactylus russowi from the Kara Kum Desert of Turkmenistan, but further work is needed. Phylogenetic relationships within Cyrtopodion and Mediodactylus suggest hypotheses of area relationships for the fauna of Central Asia.
10.2307/1562808|The utilization of visual cues in the selection of goldfish (Carassius auratus) by Natrix sipedon sipedon and Natrix rhombifera rhombifera was studied. The serpents were tested in black and gold water pans which contained gold and black fish. Activity, proximity to the predator, and size of prey were also noted. The results indicated that serpents use visual cues to a greater extent than had previously been reported. Contrast of prey with the background was found to be of major importance in selection, while size, activity and proximity of prey were of little or no importance. The results were related to the natural history of Natrix. Observations of typical feeding behavior are also reported.
23326916|In colder climates, survival of neonate Timber Rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus) following dispersal relies heavily on conspecific scent trailing and the ability to locate suitable communal hibernacula. Less is known regarding populations in the southern portion of their range where they are more likely to den solitarily in ephemeral overwintering sites. On 6 August 2009, we captured a post-parturient female Timber Rattlesnake with a litter of 23 neonates in a hardwood thicket within a Longleaf Pine (Pinus palustris) forest in southwestern Georgia. Fourteen of the neonates were radio-tracked to examine their movements and activity range overlap as they dispersed from the natal site. Snakes were tracked for periods of 1110 days, daily for the first three weeks and at least three times per week thereafter. Dispersal distances increased over time, and overlap of activity ranges was minimal, potentially reducing intraspecific competition between litter mates. Neonates were located predominantly beneath clumps of vegetation or beside coarse woody debris (62.4%), in hardwood tree branches (31.6%), or just off the ground in vegetation or on top of course woody debris (6.0%). Selection of appropriate cover structure may aid in reducing susceptibility to predation.
4498599|Chemical cues can assist intraspecific communication associated with sexual behavior, territoriality, and home-site philopatry. We tested experimentally the influence of chemical cues on the behavior of male Common Musk Turtles (Sternotherus odoratus). In laboratory-controlled choice boxes, we video recorded the location of turtles moving between two water tanks separated by a raised divider. Water was scented by no turtles, the test turtle, another male, or a female. Based on two-hour trials, we considered turtles that spent > 55% of the time in one water tank as having demonstrated a scent preference. From at least 10 replicates of each of six different treatment combinations, males significantly chose tanks with the scent of a female versus tanks with clean water, the scent of self, or the scent of another male. We propose that the smell produced by a female turtle includes an intraspecific chemical cue that helps males search for potential mates.
10.2307/1565688| A stomach content analysis was conducted on Hemidactylus turcicus, the Mediterranean gecko, from 19 April 1990 to 15 October 1990, on the campus of Stephen F. Austin State University, Nacogdoches, Texas. Geckos (N = 167) were placed into four size groups based on snout-vent-length ( 29 mm, 30-39 mm, 40-49 mm, and  50 mm) and three microhabitat groups based on perch height (those occupying perch sites < 1.52 m,  1.52 m to  3.05 m, and > 3.05 m). Stomach contents were analyzed and sex, size, and microhabitat groups were compared using Schoener's percent overlap index. Volumetrically, the most important prey items taken were Orthoptera, Lepidoptera, and Isopoda. Geckos of different size groups showed some differences in diet. The greatest difference occurred between the smallest and largest size groups. A significant positive correlation was found between gecko size and prey size (r = 0.24, P = 0.0008). Differences in the diets of geckos inhabiting different microhabitats were very evident. Geckos occupying high perch sites ate more flying prey while geckos at lower perch sites ate more ground-dwelling prey. 
40664963|We provide descriptions for two new species belonging to the Liolaemus montanus group from northern Argentina. The new species are similar to Liolaemus nigriceps and Liolaemus multicolor. However, the new species differ from these taxa, and all other members of the montanus group, in a number of characteristics. The first new species differs from L. nigriceps in the following ways: smaller body size, dorsum of head grey, and variegated throat, and most males exhibit supernumerary precloacal pores. The second new species differs from all other members of the montanus series in having frontonasal scales forming a convex protruding area. It differs from L. multicolor in that males never show blue scales, in the lack of projecting scales on the anterior margin of the auditory meatus, in having an immaculate throat, and in the lack of supernumerary precloacal pores. The first new species occurs throughout the high elevation (3,500-4,300 m) of the puna region situated at the western edge of the southwest Salar de Arizaro (Salta Province, Argentina), an ancient hypersaline dehydrated lake. The second new species is known only from a restricted area on the hypersaline margins of the same ancient lakebed, where plant cover is quite scarce with small grassy plants, and the ground surface is salty. The discovery of these new taxa supports the hypothesis that large saline depressions, such as Salar de Arizaro, are natural vicariant barriers that favored speciation in this genus. Proveemos de la descripcin de dos nuevas especies pertenecientes al grupo de Liolaemus montanus del norte de Argentina. Las nuevas especies son similares a Liolaemus nigriceps y Liolaemus multicolor, las cuales tambin viven en la regin de la puna. De todos modos, las nuevas especies difieren de aquellos taxa, y de otros miembros del grupo montanus en varios caracteres. La primera nueva especie difiere de L. nigriceps de la siguiente forma: tamao ms pequeo, menor nmero de escamas alrededor del cuerpo, dorso de la cabeza gris, garganta variegada, y la mayora de los machos exhiben poros precloacales supernumerarios. La segunda nueva especie difiere de todos los miembros de la serie montanus por contar con las escamas frotonasales formando un rea convexa prominente. Difiere de L. multicolor en que los machos nunca presentan escamas azules, la ausencia de escamas proyectadas sobre el margen del meato auditivo, en contar una garganta inmaculada, y por carecer de poros precloacales supernumerarios. La primera nueva especie se encuentra en grandes elevaciones (3,500-4,300 m) de la regin de la puna al oeste del Salar de Arizaro (provincia de Salta, Argentina), un antiguo lago hipersalino desecado. La segunda nueva especie es conocida solamente para un rea restringida en los mrgenes hipersalinos de ese mismo salar, donde la cobertura de las plantas es muy escasa con pequeas plantas y donde el suelo es salino. El descubrimiento de estas nuevas especies soporta la hiptesis de que las grandes depresiones salinas, tal como el Salar de Arizaro, son barreras vicariantes naturales que habran favorecido la especiacin en este gnero.
25599250|In amphibians from tropical or subtropical regions well-expressed growth marks in bone could be expected because of the existence of strong dry/wet seasons, but little evidence is available. Additionally, temporal patterns of growth-mark formation may be a function of genetic and environmental factors. We used skeletochronology and a laboratory experiment to tease apart both causal sources, establishing direct correspondence between an observed pattern of bone growth and the actual age of Ceratophrys cranwelli and Dermatonotus muelleri from the subtropical Argentinean Chaco. Also, we describe the growth by application of the von Bertalanffy model. Growth rates decreased in both species, tending to reach asymptotic values at age 8-10 months after metamorphosis. Both species clearly exhibited haematoxylinophilic lines of arrested growth (LAG) after one year growing in captivity. These results reinforce the hypothesis that in subtropical climates the LAG formation is ultimately caused by a general intrinsic (genetic) control.
10.2307/1563007|Newborn garter snakes were fed earthworms either daily (Group D, n=9) or weekly (Group W, n=6) for 13 weeks. Both groups then were fed weekly for 3 weeks, then were totally food deprived for three weeks, followed by 1 week of daily feeding. By the fourth week of life all snakes in Group D were longer and heavier than any in Group W. In 13 weeks, Group D increased a mean of 285 per cent in weight and 162 per cent in length. Corresponding values for Group W were 184 and 134 per cent. When fed weekly, snakes increased substantially in weight after feeding, but lost much of the increase during the week. However, during the last 2 weeks of the 3-week deprivation period, mean percentage body weight losses for Groups D and W were only 6.72 and 7.50, and they rapidly gained weight when feeding was resumed.
10.2307/1566024|Sexual behaviors in dyadic encounters in the alpine newt, Triturus alpestris alpestris, is described to test whether male behavior is influenced by external cues, that is, female responsiveness. Depending on this factor, a male exhibits one of the two following tactics during the sperm transfer phase. The male either waits for a positive response from the female before initiating sperm transfer ("waiting" tactic), or creeps and deposits a spermatophore in front of a nonresponsive female ("luring" tactic). The sperm transfer success rates of these tactics are 31% and 6%, respectively, and encounter success rates, 64% and 8%, respectively. The success of the second tactic is linked to behaviors that lure the female, notably quiver and distal lure. The same individual can exhibit both tactics, and neither body size nor condition appears to influence the tactic a male exhibits. These tactics can be interpreted as the result of a conditional strategy, that is, a strategy that allows an individual to incorporate information about its ability to obtain fitness through alternative tactics and then express the tactic that maximizes its fitness. More particularly, these tactics are examples of a side-payment strategy, that is, a strategy that allows individuals to achieve small gains by capitalizing on passing opportunities.
43287323|While many amphibian species around the world are experiencing catastrophic declines, we have little understanding of the population dynamics of the majority of species. Estimating demographic parameters can help us understand the spatial and temporal dynamics of healthy populations, assess how populations may be impacted by threats, and interpret the recovery of diminished populations. Capture-mark-recapture (CMR) techniques represent a powerful approach for estimating such vital rates, but they have been used rarely in studies of tropical amphibians. We use 5 yr of mark-recapture data (2000-2004) to estimate survival probabilities and abundances of the stream-breeding frog species Espadar ana (Centrolene) prosoblepon prior to the arrival of Batrachochytriutn dendrobatidis, the amphibian chytrid fungus. We estimated these parameters for male E. prosoblepon on four streams (Cascada, Guabal, Loop, and Silenciosa) in Parque Nacional Omar Torri jos in central Panama. Across all streams and years, mean annual survival probability was 0.46 (0.41-0.52,95% CI). Abundance varied among streams, with larger population sizes on Loop (78  12 SE) and Cascada (64  4) and smaller population sizes on Guabal (28  3) and Silenciosa (30  2), but showed little difference among years. Streams with different abundances had similar survival rates, and we suggest that availability of overhanging vegetationused for oviposition and male territorieslimits population size. These are the first survival and abundance estimates that exist for this species. They provide a critical baseline for comparison to other healthy populations and for evaluating recovery in sites infected with the amphibian chytrid fungus.
1566064|We analyzed geographic variation in external morphology of the endemic Baja California Nightsnake, Eridiphas slevini. Recently, the subspecies from Isla San Marcos (Eridiphas slevini marcosensis) was elevated to specific status based on the original description of only two specimens. Our results reveal complete overlap in characters used to diagnose Eridiphas marcosensis. Thus, we recognize only one species: Eridiphas slevini. Previously observed variation is explained by a latitudinal trend, with females attaining a higher ventral-scale count at the northern end of the species range. We also examined museum specimens for stomach contents and review the literature for dietary records of this rare snake.
40665006|We describe a new species of scincid lizard of the genus Brachymeles from the Luzon Faunal Region of the northern Philippines. We discovered the new species in the Camarines Norte Province of the Bicol Peninsula (Luzon Island) and Catanduanes Island. Until recently, the new species had been mistaken as Brachymeles talinis, a distantly allopatric yet morphologically similar, large-bodied congener from the central Philippines. The new species is the second-largest known species of Brachymeles and differs from its congeners by numerous external morphological features. It is the eighth known Brachymeles from the Luzon Faunal Region and the sixth pentadactyl species in the genus.
10.2307/1564681|Densities of gopher tortoises were compared with habitat characteristics in scrub and in flatwood habitats on the Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Tortoises were distributed widely among habitat types and did not have higher densities in well-drained (oak-palmetto) than in poorly-drained (saw palmetto) habitats. Fall densities of tortoises ranged from a mean of 2.7 individuals/ha in disturbed habitat to 0.0 individuals/ha in saw palmetto habitat. Spring densities of tortoises ranged from a mean of 2.5 individuals/ha in saw palmetto habitat to 0.7 individuals/ha in oak-palmetto habitat. Densities of tortoises were correlated positively with the percent herbaceous cover, an indicator of food resources. Plots were divided into three burn classes; these were areas burned within three years, burned four to seven years, and unburned for more than seven years prior to the study. Relationships between densities of tortoises and time-since-fire classes were inconsistent.
1566225|Removal of organic sediment from lakes and ponds is an established management technique that is intended to enhance sport fisheries, improve boater access, and increase stormwater capacity. Data on the effects of this management technique on lake ecosystems are limited. Our objective was to determine the effect of mechanical sediment removal on herpetofauna at five sites in northern Florida. We collected a total of 883 individuals of 31 species of herpetofauna excavated by machinery during sediment removal. Across the five sites, the average number of individuals collected was 177 per site (SD = 119, range = 71-310). The most abundant herpetofauna we encountered were aquatic turtles (Trachemys scripta, Chelydra serpentina) and large aquatic salamanders (Amphiuma means, Siren spp.). Mortality from sediment removal operations may have a detrimental effect on herpetofauna populations, especially species that depend on dried lake sediments for aestivation or with limited dispersal abilities.
10.2307/1566121|Headbob displays from 22 adult male Anolis conspersus of three "color morphs" (green, brown, and blue) were videotaped in the laboratory. Frame-by-frame coordinates of the vertical head motions were used to generate display-action-pattern (DAP) graphs. Field observations had revealed that only one type of headbob display ("Type A") was performed when males displayed to nonspecific audiences while moving around their territories ("male-alone context"). During staged male encounters in the lab ("male-male context"), Type A displays and a second type of display ("Type B") were produced. The two types of displays were partitioned into units that were compared among the color morphs. We then transformed the display units with principle components analysis and used one-way ANOVAs to test statistically for differences among the color morphs at the "unit" level. Finally, we used discriminant function analysis to test for color morph differences at the "display" level. Graphical visualization and statistical analyses showed that, like body coloration, the green and the brown morph are more distinctive from each other than either is from the blue morph, although the differences in display units among the color forms are subtle. Given that A. conspersus is a member of the seven-species Anolis radiation on Jamaica, we compare the structure of one of its displays (Type A) with that of its closest relative, Anolis grahami. Last, we speculate on the possible origin of the unusual display structure observed in the A. conspersus Type B display.
10.2307/1564360|Eggs of the loggerhead sea turtle, Caretta caretta, often fail to hatch. Infertility and embryonic mortality were investigated as sources of egg failure, showing that standard methods of estimating infertility of eggs produce overestimates. High species diversity of bacteria within eggs or the occurrence of the same bacteria in both females and their eggs was correlated with lower hatching success. Comparisons of hatching success were made among natural nests and two commonly used methods of egg relocation. Eggs relocated to polystyrene incubators had higher hatching success than did eggs reburied in other beach sites. Eggs in undisturbed natural nests had lower hatching success than relocated eggs. Thus, egg relocation is an effective conservation method, provided sites are chosen carefully.
1566091|The Shenandoah Salamander (Plethodon shenandoah), known from isolated talus slopes on three of the highest mountains in Shenandoah National Park, is listed as state-endangered in Virginia and federally endangered under the U.S. Endangered Species Act. A 1999 paper by G. R. Thurow described P. shenandoah-like salamanders from three localities further south in the Blue Ridge Physiographic Province, which, if confirmed, would represent a range extension for P. shenandoah of approximately 90 km from its nearest known locality. Samples collected from two of these three localities were included in a molecular phylogenetic study of the known populations of P. shenandoah, and all other recognized species in the Plethodon cinereus group, using a 792 bp region of the mitochondrial cytochrome-b gene. Phylogenetic estimates were based on Bayesian, maximum likelihood, and maximum parsimony methods and topologies examined for placement of the new P. shenandoah-like samples relative to all others. All topologies recovered all haplotypes of the P. shenandoah-like animals nested within P. cinereus, and a statistical comparison of the best likelihood tree topology with one with an enforced (Thurow + Shenandoah P. shenandoah) clade revealed that the unconstrained tree had a significantly lower -In L score (P < 0.05, using the Shimodaira-Hasegawa test) than the constraint tree. This result and other anecdotal information give us no solid reason to consider the Thurow report valid. The current recovery program for P. shenandoah should remain focused on populations in Shenandoah National Park.
10.2307/1564219|We compare samples of Desmognathus monticola taken independently at two nearby localities in southwestern North Carolina. Larger adult body sizes are attained by both sexes at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in the Nantahala Mountains than at Wolf Creek in the Cowee Mountains. The juvenile period appears to be longer in the former population, resulting in larger sizes at maturation in both males and females. The proportion of older males is greater at Coweeta than at Wolf Creek, suggesting higher male survival in the former population. Clutch sizes are lower at Coweeta than at Wolf Creek, even though Coweeta females are larger. We suggest that the population differences in body size may represent differences in age at maturation rather than differences in growth rates. The pattern of variation in life history parameters suggests that extrinsic survival probabilities differ between the sites, with Coweeta representing a safer environment for D. monticola than Wolf Creek.
10.2307/1563807| Body temperatures (T<sub>B</sub>s) of timber rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus) were recorded in a natural hibernaculum in northeastern New York by radiotelemetry through the winter of 1979-1980. Overall mean T<sub>B</sub> from September through May was 10.5C (4.3-15.7C, N = 81 records). There was no significant difference between mean T<sub>B</sub>s of individual snakes, but there was a significant difference between months. Mean rate of T<sub>B</sub> decline was 0.5C/wk through February; in March, T<sub>B</sub> stabilized at 4.3C after which the T<sub>B</sub> rose by 0.6C/wk in April and May. Emergence occurred in mid-May at a T<sub>B</sub> of ca. 9C. The profile of body temperatures over the 9-month period reflected profiles of surface soil and air temperatures. 
41415319|The high frequency of various kinds of phenotypic abnormalities in some local amphibian populations has long been a puzzle. In this paper, we report malformations in the populations of two species of frogs, Pelophylax saharicus and Discoglossus pictus, inhabiting water bodies created by an artificial dam in an area devoted to intensive agriculture in the northeastern part of Tunisia. More than 35% of recently metamorphosed and young froglets in P. saharicus, and 25% in D. pictus, display morphological abnormalities that can be distributed in 18 types involving limbs, spine, eyes, or skin. Although we did not investigate the cause of these malformations, the unusually high malformation rate (33.3%) in these populations, as compared to conspecific individuals from other, noncultivated areas, points to an environmental disturbance.
4092847|A new species of Cyrtodactylus is described from lowland forest of southern Peninsular Malaysia. It differs from all other Cyrtodactylus by having a unique suite of characteristics involving coloration and scalation. This is the third species of amphiban or reptile restricted to the southern portion of the Malay Peninsula.
4092912|A single display may be used in more than one context and, as such, may convey different information to different receivers. Tail displays in lizards are often performed in several contexts, and appear to have many functions that vary both within and between species. We examined the function of tail displays in a small scincid lizard, Carlia jarnoldae, capable of tail autotomy. We quantified the use of these displays by resident males by observing them in one of four controlled contexts: alone, with a conspecific male, with a conspecific female, or with a predator. We also compared the number of resident versus intruder males that performed tail displays. We found that resident males performed tail displays in all experimental contexts, but most frequently in the presence of a conspecific male and a predator. In contrast, intruder males almost never performed tail displays. The results suggest that tail displays may play important roles in male social interactions and in signaling to predators.
10.2307/1563003|Structural and staining similarities between the mast cells and the granular acidophilic cells of the connective tissue of snakes, such as acidophilia of cytoplasmic granules and the localization around blood vessels and nerves bundles, are presented. A rapid and efficient method for discriminating both types of these cells by the use of routine staining techniques (hematoxylin-eosin and/or Masson's Trichrome) and metachromatic reaction in serial sections, was used in this study for 5 different species of snake.
1566163|We analyzed relationships between presence and absence of seven amphibian species and characteristics of breeding ponds (physical, vegetation, substrate, spatial and surrounding habitat variables) at a protected montane area in Central Spain. We used classification trees for description and prediction of amphibian selection of breeding sites. Some factors identified in our models represent general preferences of the species, whereas others are consistent with demographic processes, including recent expansions and local declines of some species, that had been previously detected in the area. We discuss implications of a detailed knowledge of local habitat determinants for conservation.
10.2307/1565362|We report reproductive characteristics (clutch frequency, clutch size, egg and hatchling sizes) of the island lizard Podarcis lilfordi, studied in the laboratory. Individual females produced two or three consecutive clutches, composed of 2-4 eggs with an average mass of 0.63 g. Both clutch size and average egg mass were independent of female body length, and did not differ between the first and subsequent annual clutches. Among-clutch differences in egg mass were negatively correlated with clutch size, and this trade-off is independent of female size. Larger clutches were also composed of less elongated (i.e., rounder) eggs than are smaller clutches, suggesting that limitations posed by the females' body volume, rather than by restrictions of energy availability, induce the phenotypic trade-off between egg size and numbers. Egg shape was also related to female size: larger females laid shorter but wider eggs than smaller individuals, suggesting that egg width is constrained by the width of the female's pelvic girdle. Relative to other European lacertids with similar adult female body length, P. lilfordi produces clutches that are composed of very few, but extremely large eggs.
10.2307/1564107| The taxonomy and distribution of Trachemys decorata (Barbour and Carr) and Trachemys stejnegeri vicina (Barbour and Carr) from Haiti and Repblica Dominicana are discussed. External morphology is examined by multivariate and univariate statistics. Two morphotypes are reported, supporting continued recognition of two taxa which are distinguished by head and shell markings, coloration, and scute measurements. Addition of localities and reappraisal of old records indicate that the two forms of Trachemys on Hispaniola are entirely allopatric. /// Se discute la taxonoma y distribucin de Trachemys decorata Barbour y Carr y Trachemys stejnegeri vicina Barbour y Carr de Haiti y la Repblica Dominicana. La morfologa externa es examinada utilizando estadstica multivariada y univariada. Se reportan dos morfotipos, manteniendo reconocimiento continuo de dos taxa, los cuales se distinguen por las marcas de la cabeza y la concha, coloracin y medidas de las placas. Localidades adiciomales y reapreciasin de antiguos reportes indican que las dos formas de Trachemys en la Hispaniola son totalmente aloptricas. 
10.2307/1565958|The relationship between the annual cycle of energy storage, in the form of abdominal fat bodies, and reproduction was studied in lowland and subalpine populations of the viviparous skink, Niveoscincus ocellatus. This species displays an unusual asynchronous reproductive pattern in which male and female preparations for reproduction are separated temporally, thereby providing an opportunity to clarify our understanding about the energy demands of squamate reproduction. Abdominal fat bodies in both sexes showed distinct annual cycles that were positively correlated with resource availability, peaking in summer. In males, fat body mass was correlated positively with testes development and negatively with plasma testosterone concentrations and mating behavior. This is in contrast to the pattern observed in species with synchronous breeding cycles, where there is generally a negative relationship between testis size and lipid storage. We concluded that N. ocellatus is able to produce spermatozoa and develop abdominal fat reserves concurrently, and therefore testis size is unlikely to be constrained by energetic costs. In contrast, mating behavior appears to rely on stored energy, even though this results in reduced fat reserves for winter hibernation. Female fat bodies were smallest in midspring, coinciding with the end of vitellogenesis and early pregnancy. Vitellogenesis and early pregnancy appear to be energetically expensive and are reliant on stored energy in this species. Large fat bodies at the end of pregnancy in both populations are surprising given the reported high costs of reproduction. Two factors may contribute to this: resource availability may be greater in late summer, and the energetic costs associated with pregnancy appear to be highest in the early to midstages of gestation.
4498620|Marginal teeth of iguanine lizards have been studied to some extent, but some aspects of tooth growth remain poorly known. Growth of marginal teeth in Ctenosaura similis is described based on examination of 22 dry skulls. The number of premaxillary teeth remains constant; the number of maxillary and mandibular teeth increases allometrically; and there is no correlation between number of pterygoid teeth and size. Ontogenetic changes in tooth morphology probably are related to ontogenetic shifts in diet. Larger individuals have large fanglike anterior marginal teeth, which might represent an adaptation for consumption of fleshy plant material and occasional carnivory. Other genera of iguanine lizards are primarily herbivorous throughout life; thus, carnivory and the related ontogenetic changes in tooth morphology are derived features within the iguanine clade.
41515010|We present a cytogenetic survey of the basal bufonid genus Melanophryniscus that covered 14 of the 25 species currently recognized, representing the three phenetic species groups: M. moreirae, M. stelzneri, and M. tumifrons. All species presented a diploid chromosome complement constituted by 11 bi-armed chromosome pairs (2n = 2x = 22; FN = 44). Some remarkable differences were observed between species groups: chromosome pair 4 was metacentric in species of the M. tumifrons group (also with a distinctive C-positive block) but submetacentric in the M. stelzneri group and M. sanmartini (M. moreirae group); pair 5 was submetacentric in M. sanmartini and metacentric the rest. Chromosome secondary constrictions and silver-stained nucleolar organizer regions were located either in pair 5, 7, or 8 in the M. tumifrons group, M. sanmartini and M. krauczuki (M. stelzneri group), and M. stelzneri group, respectively; and pair 7 was relatively larger in M. sanmartini and M. krauczuki. Studied cytogenetic characters support the M. tumifrons group and suggest a close relationship between M. krauczuki and M. sanmartini. These results call for a reassessment of species relations within Melanophryniscus under an inclusive phylogenetic study.
1565872| A new dendrobatid frog to the genus Colostethus is described from the Cordillera El Sira, an isolated mountain ridge in the upper Amazon basin of central Peru. It has bright yellowish dorsolateral stripes thus resembling Colostethus exasperatus, Colostethus sp. (cf. exasperatus), and Colostethus nexipus, all from the upper Amazon basin of Ecuador and Peru. In morphology, the new species is most similar to Colostethus mcdiarmidi from the eastern Andean slopes of Bolivia and Colostethus alessandroi from the eastern Andean slopes of Peru. The new species can be distinguished from all these taxa on the basis of coloration including the color of the ring around pupil in life, adult male size, length of Finger I relative to Finger II, and toe webbing extension. The advertisement call and aspects of the skeleton of the new species are described. /// Se describe una especie nueva de dendrobtido del gnero Colostethus de la Cordillera El Sira; una formacin montaosa aislada en la parte central de la Amazona peruana. La especie nueva presenta una franja dorsolateral amarillenta, semejante a la franja en Colostethus exasperatus, Colostethus sp. (cf. exasperatus) y Colostethus nexipus. Todas ellas de las cuencas altas de la amazona de Ecuador y Per. Morfolgicamente, la nueva especie es ms similar a Colostethus mcdiarmidi de las laderas orientales de los andes de Bolivia y a Colostethus alessandroi de las laderas orientales de los andes del Per. La especie nueva puede ser distinguida de todos estos taxa, bsicamente, por su coloracin incluyendo el color en vivo del anillo alrededor de la pupila, tamao del macho adulto, largo del Dedo I palmar con relacin al II y extensin de la membrana interdigital en los dedos plantares. Se describe el llamado de advertencia y el esqueleto de la especile nueva. 
43287395|The Cerro Azul Formation of Argentina has yielded one of the highest diversities of squamate reptiles for the upper Miocene of South America including tupinambine teiids (Tupinambis sp.), colubrids, and viperids. Here, we describe new remains of Tupinambis sp. and Colubridae from this Formation as well as the first records of teiine teiids and boid snakes. The teiine represents the oldest record of this subfamily in South America. The squamate assemblage of the Cerro Azul Formation is consistent with the mammalian fauna in supporting the interpretation of a Chacoan-type palaeoenvironment for the upper Miocene of Central Argentina.
10.2307/1563009| Five subspecies of Phymaturus from Argentine Patagonia are identified: P. patagonicus patagonicus Koslowsky, P. patagonicus indistinctus subsp. nov., both from Chubut, P. patagonicus somuncurensis, subsp. nov. from Rio Negro, P. patagonicus zapalensis subsp. nov. from Neuqun, and P. patagonicus payuniae subsp. nov. from Southern Mendoza. Their morphological and ecological features are described according to their widespread but isolated distribution. Quantitative immunological analyses emphasize the close affinities of the 5 proposed subspecies and their more distant relationships to P. palluma which is sympatric with P. patagonicus in Mendoza and Neuqun. 
10.2307/1565091|We examined the effects of caudal autotomy on terrestrial and arboreal locomotory performance using European wall lizards (Podarcis muralis) from an established population in Cincinnati, Ohio. Tail loss significantly increased running speed and distance travelled but markedly decreased arboreal locomotor performance (speed and distance). The effects of tail type (original, unbroken vs. regenerated, previously broken) seldomly were significant before autotomy but became more markedly apparent following tail removal. Significant interactions between tail type and autotomy indicated that individuals possessing original or regenerated tails responded differently to tail loss. Whereas original tails were associated with superior locomotor performance before tail loss, individuals that had possessed regenerated tails before autotomy ran fastest and farthest and traversed an arboreal substrate fastest after their tails were removed. These results suggest that lizards that have been previously subjected to caudal autotomy are able to learn by experience how to compensate for the absence of a tail and, accordingly, traverse an arboreal substrate faster -- even after their tail has regenerated and is subsequently autotomized again. The importance of these trends is discussed in light of foraging and escape mode postulates.
10.2307/1562702|Efts, adults and recently metamorphosed larvae of Notophthalmus viridescens were offered to a variety of potential predators, usually simultaneously or in alternating succession with plethodontids and ambystomatids. Recently metamorphosed larvae were consistently refused by birds, usually refused by Thamnophis sirtalis, occasionally refused by Bufo americanus, and usually eaten by Chrysemys picta and Chelydra serpentina. Efts were accepted and eaten by 3 of 5 Procyon lotor and by Rana catesbeiana but were refused by birds on sight, by Thamnophis sirtalis, and by 2 Procyon lotor. Adults were eaten by Rana catesbeiana but were refused by Thamnophis sirtalis and by birds. Chrysemys picta ate the ventral surface and viscera of dead adult N. viridescens but were reluctant to eat their dorsal surfaces, where poison glands are concentrated. The responses of predators are discussed in terms of the presumed aposematic (efts) and cryptic (adult) coloration of N. viridescens.
10.2307/1564505|A new species of Phyllonastes (P. heyeri) is named from the Andean ridges in the Huancabamba Depression in southern Ecuador and northern Peru. A similar species is described as a new species of Phrynopus (P. bagrecito) from the Andes of Cuzco, Peru. Based on the similarities in skeletons, Phyllonastes may share a common ancestry with frogs of the Phrynopus peruvianus group. An additional record is provided for Adelophryne adiastola (Amazonas, Colombia).
1566093|The Trelew Member of the Sarmiento Formation (early Miocene) at Gaiman, Chubut province, Argentina, is one of the most prolific South American Cenozoic localities for squamatan remains. Within the lizards, at least three teiids have been cited, but the material has never been described. In this paper, mainly fragmentary dentaries and maxillae from this site are identified as belonging to the genus Tupinambis. These constitute the earliest record of this extant teiid genus. Tupinambis has a wide range of distribution through South America but is presently absent in the Gaiman area. Its occurrence in the early Miocene of Patagonia indicates warmer and more humid climatic conditions than today.
10.2307/1563257| Specific relationships are augmented for three sibling species of the sexlineatus group of the genus Cnemidophorus (C. inornatus: biparental, C. uniparens: uniparental, and C. velox: uniparental) by analyses of variation in sympatric populations. Sympatric contacts total seven for C. inornatus and C. uniparens in Arizona, Chihuahua, and New Mexico, one for C. uniparens and C. velox in central Arizona, and one for C. inornatus-C. uniparens- C. velox in central New Mexico. These contacts occur in ecotonal habitats between desert-grassland (C. uniparens), plains grassland (C. inornatus), and pinyon-juniper woodland (C. velox). Variation in taxonomic characters analyzed by standard statistical methods for single frequency distributions indicates that C. inornatus generally has lower values for scales around mid-body (SAB), scales between the paravertebral light stripes (SPV), higher SPV/SAB  100 and lower numbers of femoral pores (FP) than C. uniparens. Cnemidophorus velox, on the other hand, has higher values for SAB, SPV, and SPV/SAB  100 than does C. uniparens. Of the three species, C. velox tends to have the lowest values for interlabial scales (ILS) and the highest ones for preanal scales (PAS), whereas both C. inornatus and C. uniparens resemble each other in these characters. Samples of both uniparental species tend to be less variable than those of C. uniparens. Where sympatric, C. uniparens and C. velox are quite distinct in color pattern, with C. uniparens having essentially six stripes and C. velox, seven. Cnemidophorus inornatus most commonly has seven stripes, but both six and eight-striped individuals also occur. In features of scutellation, C. inornatus is the most distinct with granular postantebrachial and mesoptychial scales. The postantebrachials and mesoptychials of C. velox are essentially intermediate between those of C. inornatus and C. uniparens, but more closely resemble the enlarged, angular scales of C. uniparens. No males identified conclusively as C. uniparens or C. velox were found, although three male specimens similar to C. uniparens were obtained. These specimens and an associated female were taken from areas of sympatry, and may well represent hybrids between C. uniparens and C. inornatus. As yet, there is no evidence for hybridization between C. inornatus and C. velox. 
10.2307/1565452| Three species of Colostethus were found at 1800 m in the cloud forest of the Pacific slopes of the Cordillera Occidental of Colombia, including C. abditaurantius, C. fraterdanieli, and a new species. Sonagrams are given for all three species. Chromatic sexual dimorphism in C. abditaurantius is described. Range extensions derived from material in the Coleccin de Anfibios y Reptiles of the Universidad del Valle are given for C. lehmanni, which is placed in the Cordillera Occidental and in southern Colombia. The C. ramosi group is named for the clade delimited by the synapomorphy of black, apparently glandular tissue on the ventral surface at the distal end of the upper arm and often extending distad along the inner surface of the lower arm (=black arm band) in adult males. /// En estudios herpetolgicos a los 1800 m en un bosque nublado de la vertiente del Pacfico de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia, se encontraron tres especies de Colostethus: C. abditaurantius, C. fraterdanieli, y una nueva especie. Se presentan sonogramas para las tres especies. Se describe el dimorfismo sexual cromtico de C. abditaurantius. Con base en los ejemplares examinados de la Coleccin de Anfibios y Reptiles de la Universidad del Valle, se reportan ampliaciones de los lmites de distribucin de C. lehmanni, que se registra en la Cordillera Occidental y en el sur de Colombia. Se nombra el grupo C. ramosi para el clado delimitado por la sinapomorfia de tejido aparentemente glandular negro en la superficie ventral de la parte distal del brazo, frecuentemente extendindose distalmente por la superficie interior del antebrazo (=banda negra del brazo) en machos. 
41415307|We studied ontogenetic shifts in sexual dimorphism and female reproduction in the Reeves's Butterfly Lizard, Leiolepis reevesii (Agamidae), from Hainan, southern China. The smallest reproductive female was 84 mm snout-vent length (SVL). The largest female and male were 136 mm and 166 mm SVL, respectively. Sexual dimorphism in head size and tail size was evident in adults, with adult males having larger heads and longer tails than did adult females of the same SVL. Head size relative to SVL was greatest in hatchlings and smallest in adults, with juveniles in between. Tail length relative to SVL was shorter in hatchlings than in juveniles and adults but did not differ between juveniles and adults. Females produced a single clutch of 2-8 eggs per breeding season stretching from mid-April to mid-July. Clutch size, egg mass, and clutch mass were all positively related to female SVL. Egg mass was negatively correlated with clutch size when holding female SVL constant, and egg length was negatively correlated with egg width when holding egg mass constant. Larger females increased reproductive output primarily through production of more and larger eggs (and hence heavier clutches). Males are the larger sex in L. reevesii presumably because (1) the selective pressure toward increased male size is strong; (2) the selective pressure toward increased female size is comparatively low; and (3) somatic growth is more likely to be constrained by reproduction in smaller females because of a negative correlation between relative clutch mass and SVL.
10.2307/1564334|This research investigated the intrinsic male mating capacity of the salamander Desmognathus ochrophaeus, where mating capacity is defined as the ability to deposit at least one spermatophore during a sexual encounter. In the first experiment, males were simultaneously presented with two females. Only 10% of the males tested deposited more than one spermatophore in this situation, indicating a low potential for multiple insemination under conditions of excess female availability. In the second experiment, a male was paired with a different female each night for five nights. The majority of males tested (87%) deposited a total of only one or two spermatophores over this period. No male deposited more than one spermatophore during any one sexual encounter. In the third experiment, the time interval between two successive sexual encounters was varied from no nights to three nights. A period of recovery of three nights was required if the same number of males were to deposit spermatophores during both encounters. These data indicate that the intrinsic mating capacity of male D. ochrophaeus is limited. It is suggested that the availability of some non-sperm component(s) of spermatophores limits their rate of production.
4498564|Rhacophorus georgii is a poorly known species from southeast Asia. The morphology and habitat of oviposition and the tadpole of Rhacophorus georgii are described, and counts of ovarian egg compliments reported. Tadpoles were located in water pools in cavities of tree trunks in the Lambusango Reserve, Buton Island, southeast Sulawesi. The tadpole generally conforms to a lentic, benthic morphotype, with an anteroventral mouth, somewhat depressed body and notably elongated tail. Foamy egg masses were located attached to the trunks of trees, 1-3 cm above water-filled tree cavities. Ovarian egg complements recorded were 29-108. These findings make a significant contribution to the knowledge of the frog fauna of Sulawesi.
4092922| A new species of Clelia Fitzinger, 1826, is described on the basis of 37 specimens. It differs from all other Clelia by having two loreals and a higher number (21 vs. 19) of dorsal scale rows in the neck region. The species is probably endemic to the Bolivian inter-Andean dry valleys. /// Una nueva especie de Clelia Fitzinger, 1826 es descrita sobre la base de 37 especimenes. Se diferencia de todas las otras Clelia en presentar dos loreales y un nmero ms alto (21 vs. 19) de hilas de escamas en la regin nucal. La especie muy probablemente es endmica para los valles secos interandinos de Bolivia. 
4092901| Summer Lake State Park, De Baca County, New Mexico, is the only known locality where three pattern classes of diploid, parthenogenetic Aspidoscelis tesselata (Sumner C, Simmer D, and Simmer E) coexist in syntopy. Reciprocal skin transplants confirmed that the pronounced phenotypic differences between Sumner C and Sumner E represent postformational genetic changes rather than separate hybridization origins. Sumner D is meristically indistinguishable from Sumner C and is considered to be a recent mutational derivative of the latter. In contrast, Sumner E is distinctly different from Sumner C in multivariate meristic characters and several important life-history characteristics. Discordant patterns of phenotypic variation characterize many geographically disjunct groups of A. tesselata classified as pattern class E, thus defying a cohesive diagnosis. Therefore, based on the evolutionary species concept (ESC), we consider Sumner C and Sumner E to be divergent clonal groups in the same species. We contrast this example with a parthenogenetic complex on the Yucatn Peninsula in which formal recognition of Aspidoscelis maslini and Aspidoscelis cozumela can be accommodated under the ESC. 
25599216|As remaining longleaf pine forests become increasingly fragmented, wildlife management becomes a daunting task, especially for rare and relatively unstudied taxa such as the Black Pine Snake (Pituophis melanoleucus lodingi). Appropriate management for P. m. lodingi depends on our understanding of the ecology of this subspecies; consequently, there were two main objectives of this study: to address questions of spatial ecology for P. m. lodingi on a rangewide scale; and to employ small mammal trapping within home ranges of telemetered snakes to investigate the relationship between prey density and spatial ecology. Pituophis melanoleucus lodingi exhibited large home ranges (MCP, Minimum Convex Polygon home ranges, were 92-396 ha), frequently crossed roads, and average (nonzero) movement distance for these snakes was 338 m per location event. Core home ranges of telemetered P. m. lodingi were characterized by significantly greater abundances of hispid cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus) and significantly higher total small mammal biomass. By better defining the relationship between spatial ecology and prey dynamics for P. m. lodingi, land managers will be better equipped to manage and conserve remaining populations of this longleaf pine specialist.
10.2307/1563506|Five pattern classes (A, B, C, C<sub>1</sub>, D) of Gambelia wislizenii are recognized and described, including their ontogenetic development and sexual dimorphism. Each pattern morph characterizes or predominates in populations of a given physiographic region. Populations occurring in the northern desert basins (e.g. Lahontan and Bonneville) are polymorphic, with up to 30% of a local sample belonging to pattern classes other than that typical for the region. Polymorphism is low or nonexistent in Gambelia samples from Baja California, the Sonoran and Chihuahuan deserts. Historical and genetic events are postulated to explain the difference in variability between northern and southern populations. The Mojave desert populations are the most polymorphic, possibly due to genic influx from four surrounding northern basin and southern desert populations. The various pattern morphs of Gambelia appear to be cryptic in their respective habitats. Distinct whitish crossbands in pattern class A disrupt body form, an effect best suited to shrub-grass associations. The reticulate pattern of class D lizards conceals the animal in relatively dense Artemisia-Atriplex shrub associations of northern deserts. The punctate pattern of the class B morph and the dorsal white dots exhibited by class C and C<sub>1</sub> lizards are considered alternative modes of concealment in relatively exposed, sandy habitats.
10.2307/1564995| A deme of Eleutherodactylus coqui was followed from 1979 to 1993 at El Verde, Puerto Rico, to determine seasonal and annual variation in numbers and activity patterns. All visible frogs and predatory spiders in a 50  2 m transect in the forest were counted for three consecutive nights semi-monthly for two years, then annually or biannually thereafter for a total of 255 evening counts. Ten all-night counts were made at five different times of the year to determine time of maximal activity during the night. Population size varied seasonally, with numbers increasing from June until December followed by a gradual decline until May. The number of adults varied from 1 to 29/100 m<sup>2</sup>, whereas the number of juveniles varied from 0 to 221/100 m<sup>2</sup>. The maximum single count of all frogs was 244. Counts of >100 juveniles occurred during October through January in the years 1979 to 1982, and in 1989. A marked drop in the numbers of frogs occurred in 1984; from 1979 to 1983, 3-50% of the counts yielded 15 adults whereas the maximum count from 1984 until 1989 was 11 adults. The drop in numbers was correlated with an increased number of periods of days with 3 mm of rain. Over the period 1979 to 1989, the number of frogs observed was negatively correlated with the longest dry period during the previous year. Population size began to decrease in 1983 and never regained prior levels although numbers were increasing early in 1989 before Hurricane Hugo. Juveniles apparently cannot survive extensive drought, and extended dry periods may be lethal to adults who are inhibited from feeding because of potential desiccation. Predatory ctenid spider populations crashed two years following the decline of frog populations, then disappeared following the hurricane as did other arthropod predators. Rather than total monthly or annual rainfall, it is the distribution of the rain that is important to these subtropical wet forest species. 
10.2307/1563641|The Mullerian glands of adult male caecilians, which are derived from the undifferentiated Mullerian ducts, secrete many constituents similar to those found in the semen of birds and mammals. These include fructose, acid phosphatase, and mucopolysaccharides. The pH of the secretion is similar to that of semen. Caecilians reproduce terrestrially using intromission and internal fertilization. It is likely that the secretion of the Mullerian glands provides fluid and metabolites for use in sperm transport since an aquatic medium for reproduction is obviated. Since part of the mammalian prostate is lined with epithelium of Mullerian duct origin, and the prostate secretes certain of the constituents of semen, it is possible that the caecilian condition is a primitive state in the evolution of accessory reproductive glands which facilitate terrestrial reproduction.
10.2307/1566178| The Bolitoglossa macrinii species group (restricted geographically to southern Oaxaca and southwestern Guerrero, Mxico) is a monophyletic assemblage of five species, B. macrinii, Bolitoglossa riletti, Bolitoglossa hermosa, Bolitoglossa oaxacensis sp. nov. and Bolitoglossa zapoteca sp. nov. DNA sequences totaling 1164 base pairs for the mitochondrial genes 16S ribosomal RNA and cytochrome b were analyzed to generate a phylogenetic hypothesis for the relationships within the group. Our hypothesis is in agreement with previous morphological and allozyme analyses. Divergence within the group is great (to 18.6% for cytochrome b, to 7.0% for 16S rRNA) and two clades are well supported: one including B. riletti, B. hermosa, and B. zapoteca and the other including B. macrinii and B. oaxacensis. These clades likely diverged beginning in mid-Miocene times. We describe two new species, B. oaxacensis, for inland Oaxacan populations previously assigned to B. macrinii, and B. zapoteca for the easternmost populations of the clade. The new species are diagnosed by less interdigital webbing, distinctive coloration (each with subdued or no white spotting but differing from each other in pattern and hue) and by extensive differentiation in allozymes (B. oaxacensis) and mitochondrial DNA sequences (both species). The new taxa are the third and fourth species of Bolitoglossa endemic to the State of Oaxaca. /// El grupo de Bolitoglossa macrinii (limitado geogrficamente al sur de Oaxaca y el suroeste de Guerrero, Mxico) es un conjunto monofiltico constituido por cinco especies, B. macrinii, Bolitoglossa riletti, Bolitoglossa hermosa, Bolitoglossa oaxacensis sp. nov. and Bolitoglossa zapoteca sp. nov. Se analizaron secuencias de ADN con un total de 1164 pares de bases de los genes mitocondriales 16S ARN ribosomal y citocromo b con objeto de generar una hiptesis filogentica sobre las relaciones de los miembros del grupo. Nuestra hiptesis concuerda con anlisis previos de morfolgicos y aloenzimas. La divergencia dentro del grupo es alta (hasta el 18.6% en el citocromo b, y hasta el 7.0% en el 16S rRNA). En nuestros anlisis existe apoyo para dos clados: uno que incluye a B. riletti, B. hermosa, y B. zapoteca, y otro que incluye a B. macrinii y B. oaxacensis. Estos dos clados probablemente comenzaron su divergencia a mediados del Mioceno. Se describen dos especies nuevas, B. oaxacensis, que incluye las poblaciones del interior de Oaxaca previamente asignadas a B. macrinii, y B. zapoteca que integra las poblaciones ms orientales del clado. Las especies nuevas se diferencian por su membrana interdigital reducida, su coloracin distintiva (ambas sin moteado blanco, o con ste casi borrado, aunque difieren entre s en el tono y el patrn general de coloracin), y por su clara diferenciacin aloenzimtica (B. oaxacensis) y de ADN mitocondrial (ambas especies). Los nuevos taxa son la tercera y cuarta especie de Bolitoglossa endmicas del Estado de Oaxaca. 
10.2307/1565327| Intersexual differences and annual cytological changes in presumptive gonadotropin-producing cells (gonadotropes) were examined immunohistochemically in mid-sagittal sections of the pituitary gland of adult Hynobius nigrescens by the use of a monoclonal antibody against bullfrog luteinizing hormone -subunit (LH). Total immunoreactive areas for LH and profiles of the pars distalis in the mid-sagittal plane of the gland were estimated with an image analyzer. Gonadotropes consistently were distributed in the pars distalis near the median eminence and the pars intermedia in both sexes throughout the year; an intersexual difference was found in their distribution pattern. Gonadotrope cells other than these consistent ones distributed in the peripheral region of the pars distalis frequently were observed in females, but not in males. The proportion of gonadotropes among all pars distalis cells, as well as the mean area and number of gonadotropes, was significantly greater in females than in males throughout the year. In males that had a typical aquatic-phase morph and actively exhibited reproductive behavior, both area and number of gonadotropes, as well as profile estimates of pars distalis size, were the greatest of all monthly values. In females, gonadotrope cells increased in area and number from July-January during the terrestrial phase of the nonbreeding season. This increase was concurrent with the development of ovaries. This consecutive increase and development may explain the absence of a second oogenic phase during early spring. 
1565763|In a rocky outcrop in the municipality of Diamantina, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, two species of Tropidurus (Tropidurus hispidus and Tropidurus montanus) are found syntopically. We studied their ecology and resource use by assessing their food habits, thermal biology, microhabitat use, and time of activity. Lizards of both species were active throughout the day and were recorded predominantly on rocky surfaces. Lizards of both species ate mainly arthropods but also consumed some plant material. Tropidurus hispidus ate a greater proportion of plant material (mainly flowers) than T. montanus, whose diet was dominated by ants. We conclude that both T. montanus and T. hispidus have considerable overlap in resource use.
41515017|The intensification of modern agriculture may impact amphibian populations through habitat loss and the direct and indirect effects of the pesticides upon which it relies. The increased homogeneity of modern agricultural landscapes may be detrimental in times of extreme low and high temperatures associated with climate change, as refuge abundance and habitat connectivity decrease. In this study, we evaluated the impacts of the herbicide glyphosate and subsequent intense drought on the Common Tree Frog, Hypsiboas pulchellus, inhabiting an agricultural landscape. We examined a series of organismic indices (stomach content index, hepatosomatic index, body fat index, gonadosomatic index, condition factor) as well as biomarkers of oxidative stress (hepatic catalase activity and reduced glutathione [GSH] content), exposure to contaminants (hepatic gluthatione-S-transferase activity), and genotoxicity (frequency of micronuclei). No significant differences were observed in the parameters measured when comparing frogs sampled before, 2, and 15 days after glyphosate exposure. However, anurans sampled in the same site two months later, when a drought was at its peak, presented a decrease in stomach content and hepatosomatic index, as well as an increase in hepatic catalase activity, hepatic GSH content and micronuclei frequency in peripheral circulating erythrocytes. Our findings demonstrate that drought is challenging to these anurans in this environment as evidenced by an apparent reduction in food intake and oxidative stress.
10.2307/1563776|The diel activity and microhabitat preference of Triturus vulgaris and T. cristatus were studied outdoors in central Norway during summer (adults) and autumn (larvae) using aquaria and photocell equipment. Although aquatic adult newts in high latitudes are generally crepuscular or nocturnal animals, they also exhibit diurnal activity, especially the males. Larvae are normally diurnal, but metamorphosing T. vulgaris larvae showed only slight rhythmic activity. T. cristatus larvae exhibited a phase shift to nocturnal activity in late autumn. The exact time for peak activity during day and night is not only dependent on the 24 h light/dark cycle, but also on the light/temperature conditions throughout the day. Aquatic adults of T. cristatus are mainly bottom living, while adult T. vulgaris spend much of their time in the open water. The larvae show an opposite pattern. This microhabitat specialization probably helps to reduce competition for food, and also reduces cannibalism.
4498535|We analyzed the feeding ecology of four Thoropa miliaris (Anura, Cycloramphidae) populations from the Atlantic Rain Forest in Brazil. The diet was composed mostly of invertebrates, especially ants, beetles, grasshoppers, caterpillars, and spiders. Plant consumption was considered incidental because of its low frequency. Ants were the most frequent (range 70-100%) and numerous (range 54.9-63.8%) dietary items. In terms of volume, ants were the principal item at two localities (26.1% and 47.6%), being also important items for the other two areas (19.3% and 21.9%). Grasshoppers (20.1%) and beetles (22.8%) had the largest volume for two populations. There was a significant relationship of prey size and volume with frog jaw width in three of the four areas. Only in one area was this relationship not found, probably because of the high frequency with which small ants and termites were ingested. Many of the dominant prey taxa of T. miliaris were similar to those of other rain-forest frogs.
1565759| Cnemidophorus abaetensis and Cnemidophorus ocellifer occur in sympatry in Bahia State, Brazil. We evaluated the extent to which these species differed in their activity, active body temperature, and in their relationship with the thermal environment. During March to May of 2000, mean body temperature during activity of C. abaetensis was 36.7  1.7C ( SD), while that of C. ocellifer was 36.5  1.8C. The activity cycle of the two species was different, although activity peaked for both species in the morning. This may be because of structural differences in the vegetation of the microhabitats used by the two species. Cnemidophorus abaetensis used more shaded environments than C. ocellifer, and this difference in exposure may have allowed longer activity. Segregation in spatial resource use between these two Cnemidophorus may facilitate coexistence of such closely related species. 
4092940| Aspects of the ecology of the semiarboreal lizards Enyalius bilineatus and Enyalius brasiliensis were studied in a montane Atlantic forest region of Esprito Santo State, southeastern Brazil. Individuals of E. bilineatus were collected mainly in a coffee plantation, whereas E. brasiliensis was found only in the forest proper. Enyalius brasiliensis was significantly larger (up to 106 mm snout-vent length, SVL) than E. bilineatus (up to 90 mm SVL). Both species were sexually dimorphic in body size, with females larger than males. The two species consumed a broad spectrum of prey but differed quantitatively in their diet composition. Ants and orthopterans dominated the diet of E. bilineatus, whereas E. brasiliensis preyed mainly on cockroaches and caterpillars. Clutch size of E. bilineatus varied from 2-6 (mean = 4.4) and that of E. brasiliensis from 8-14 (mean = 11.5). Ecological differences between the two species may result in differential susceptibilities to habitat perturbation, with E. bilineatus being more tolerant of disturbed areas and perhaps even benefitting from anthropic action, unlike the forest-dependent E. brasiliensis. 
10.2307/1563611|The order of appearance of skull bones in Bufo boreas is described. Skull bones appear in the following sequence: exoccipitals, parasphenoid, frontoparietals, premaxillae, prootics, squamosals, angulares, dentaries, septomaxillae, maxillae, nasals, pterygoids, prevomers, palatines, quadratojugals, mentomeckelians, columellae, and sphenethmoid. Overall skull developmental patterns in B. boreas did not differ greatly from those in other generalized frogs; however, differences were noted in the specific developmental patterns of the frontoparietal, exoccipital, columella, and sphenethmoid. Differences in overall developmental patterns were noted when comparisons were made with Xenopus laevis, Ascaphus truei, Osteopilus septentrionalis, Smilisca baudinii, and Triprion petasatus. Comparisons among all of the species studied to date indicate several instances of fusion of, or loss of ossification centers in the skull of Bufo boreas. A comparison of osteogenesis in field-collected and lab-reared B. boreas revealed that even though growth patterns and sequence of appearance is the same in both groups, head bones develop significantly earlier in toads collected in the field. Head bones also developed earlier in toads collected in the Owens Valley of eastern California than in the San Fernando Valley of southern California.
10.2307/1565297|Two hundred twenty five prey items were identified from the stomach contents and faeces of museum specimens, roadkills, and live Calloselasma rhodostoma collected throughout Southeast Asia. Overall, this snake was found to eat a broad range of vertebrate and invertebrate prey, but exhibited strong intraspecific variation in its diet. Ontogenetic variation was evident in all regions, typically expressed as a transition from predominantly ectothermic prey (arthropods, amphibians, and/or reptiles) to endothermic prey (mammals and birds), although the opposite trend occurred in parts of Thailand. Among snakes of similar size, significant geographic variation emerged in the proportions of different prey taxonomic classes constituting diet. Sexual variation in prey type was also detected and feeding behavior changed according to reproductive status: gravid female pitvipers ceased feeding, and adult males appeared to fast during the mating season. Possible reasons for intraspecific variation in feeding ecology are discussed.
40983602|Male and female African Clawed Frogs (Xenopus laevis) produce calls and engage in dueting in both silt-filled ponds and laboratory aquaria. Previous research has established that males produce different answer calls in response to receptive (11-12 Hz click rate) and nonreceptive (click rate of 4 Hz) female calls. In the present study, in addition to male answer calls, male phonotropism behaviors were measured for the first time during playbacks of natural female rapping and ticking calls as well as synthetic stimuli consisting of ticking calls with 90-msec interclick intervals (ICIs) and rapping calls with 250-msec ICIs. Also, the results show that males approach a loudspeaker significantly more often in response to rapping calls and remain longer in the proximity of the speaker. Moreover, males produce answer calls more frequently in response to female rapping calls and produce few answer calls in response to female ticking calls. Synthetic ticking calls with 90-msec ICIs evoked an intermediate phonotaxis response, whereas synthetic rapping calls with 250-msec ICIs evoked the same level of phonotaxy as do natural ticking calls. These results show that male phonotaxy is strongly, although not entirely, determined by the rhythmic characteristics of female calls, whereas antiphonotaxy appears to be determined by female call rhythm alone.
10.2307/1564500|Field work was carried out on the thermal ecology of the lizard Japalura polygonata ishigakiensis in the subtropical forest on Iriomote-jima Island, the Ryukyu Archipelago, southern Japan. A positive correlation between body temperatures and air temperatures was recognized and the slope of the regression of the former on the latter was almost unity irrespective of season. These data and absence of any thermoregulatory behavior emphasize the extent of thermal passivity for this species. These eurythermic lizards were active throughout the day as long as light conditions permitted, even on days with cloud cover and fine rain.
4498565|Amphibians exhibit high rates of evaporative water loss that can affect their distribution, movements, and patterns of habitat use. Forest clearcutting alters habitat and results in environmental changes such as canopy removal and leaf litter loss that may promote drier microclimates in harvested clearcuts. Subsequently, clearcutting has been shown to generally reduce amphibian abundances and richness. We investigated the role of substrate cues in habitat differentiation between clearcuts and forests in juvenile Southern Toads (Bufo terrestris) and Eastern Spadefoot Toads (Scaphiopus holbrookii) in laboratory experiments. Neither B. terrestris nor S. holbrookii exhibited a preference for a single substrate when offered the choice between forest soil and clearcut soil. However, S. holbrookii significantly preferred forest substrate over clearcut substrate when forest litter was added to the forest soil. The affinity for forest litter exhibited by juvenile S. holbrookii suggests that the availability of suitable microhabitats may be an important determinant of S. holbrookii distributions and may explain previously reported habitat associations in field studies.
4498573|The influence of trap placement on capture rate is poorly documented in herpetological studies and requires consideration, because optimizing trap sets can increase detectability of target species and improve capture rates generally. We conducted pitfall trapping for four species of terrestrial lizard in duneland, shrubland and farmland on Kaitorete Spit (South Island, New Zealand). Over 4,800 trap-days, 536 captures of 401 lizards were made. Five microhabitat factors were measured and tested for their ability to influence capture rates of Oligosoma maccanni and Oligosoma nigriplantare polychroma. Generalized linear mixed models revealed that the strongest overall influence on capture rate was the distance separating pitfall traps from the nearest cover (the greater the distance, the lower the capture rate). Weaker, positive influences on capture rate included the amount of vegetation cover surrounding traps and the presence of divaricating shrub and vine species, with some correlations between variables. Capture rates of O. maccanni and O. n. polychroma were highest in duneland and farmland, respectively. Our results show that simple measures such as placing pitfall traps close to cover, will improve capture rates for at least some species of New Zealand endemic skinks. Where such relationships are known in advance, trap placement may be deliberately manipulated to increase capture rates and standardized between sites to improve the validity of using capture rates as indices of relative density. Further research is needed to assess the effect of trap placement for other species and in relation to other factors that influence capture rates.
10.2307/1563777|Call characteristics of Rana (Babina) holsti, R. (B.) subaspera, and Rana adenopleura, were analyzed with sound spectrographs. The calls of the two species of the subgenus Babina were basically similar, consisting of one short note with several harmonic bands. Call characteristics of the two species of Babina suggested their close phylogenetic relationship, whereas Rana adenopleura was judged to be remote from the species of Babina, notwithstanding the similarities in some morphological features. The population of R. adenopleura from Iriomotejima, Ryukyu Archipelago, had calls different from a Taiwan population, suggesting a taxonomic differentiation from the latter.
10.2307/1563870|The tetraploid treefrog, Hyla versicolor, possesses larger cells on the adhesive digital pads than does its diploid sibling species, H. chrysoscelis. Examination of these cells with scanning electron microscopy shows apical surface areas to differ by a factor of 1.46 between the two species, which may be translated to a relative volumetric ratio of 1.77. This is comparable to the 1.8 ratios previously reported in comparisons of blood and sperm cells, mating call pulse rates and DNA content per cell of the two species. A strong correlation between cell size and ploidy is found in these frogs, the two species being discerned by this criterion 79% of the time.
10.2307/1564700|Cyclicity and frequency of reproduction, fecundity variation, and correlations between body size and fecundity in the parthenogenetic blind snake Ramphotyphlops braminus were studied on the basis of captive observations of 49 individuals and dissection of 98 fresh dead specimens from the Ryukyu Archipelago. Ovulation commenced in mid May and oviposition occurred from mid June to mid July. At all adult snout-vent length's (SVL), the mean number of enlarged ovarian follicles was greater than the mean number of eggs laid. Some follicles may be retained in the ovaries or become atretic during ovulation. Clutch size inferred from the number of enlarged follicles therefore could be overestimated. Relative clutch mass (RCM) was somewhat greater than the mean RCM of henophidian and caenophidian species. In R. braminus, clutch size was significantly correlated with SVL, whereas RCM was not, as in most other snakes. This might suggest the presence of particular factors of selection operating on RCM of R. braminus as well as other snakes.
10.2307/1562737|Two new subspecies of the anguid lizard genus Diploglossus are described from Isla Saona and Ile de la Tortue, two of the satellite islands of Hispaniola, West Indies.
4498575| We investigated the effects of incubation temperature (29C, 31C, and 33C) on total length (TL) and body mass (BM) of Caiman latirostris, a crocodilian with temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD), at hatching (N = 180) and in a sample of hatchlings (N = 40) after one year of raising. Size at hatching was strongly clutch-specific. Animals incubated at 31C (100% females) were larger than at 29C (100% female) and 33C (100% males). Absolute growth to one year was higher for females (eggs incubated at 29C and 31C) than for males (eggs incubated at 33C). The possibility that constant 33C incubation temperature had compromised embryological development cannot be rejected. If so, it confirms that high incubation temperatures can have long-lasting effects on posthatching growth. If not, possible advantages of females growing more rapidly than males are discussed. 
10.2307/1564496|Responses interpreted as luring were seen in six specimens of Ceratophrys ornata. Both hind feet were often involved simultaneously and were held in a vertical position so that the toes were visible over the frog's rear when viewed frontally. The frogs were offered various prey items in sight but out of reach, and predatory responses were recorded for a ten-minute period. Putative luring responses were more frequently emitted to anuran and lizard prey than to cricket or rodent prey, and responses of Ceratophrys differed from those of other leptodactylid predators. Odontophrynus and Caudiverbera did not exhibit luring responses, but their pedal movements suggested that displacement behaviors suitable for elaboration into the display of Ceratophrys might be widespread.
10.2307/1564795|A lineage of lygosomine skinks endemic to Sri Lanka is diagnosed and given generic rank with the name of Lankascincus. The group consists of six species, three of which are described as new. Brief accounts are provided for each species, and there is a key to aid their identification.
10.2307/1564762|Cranial remains of European middle Miocene-Recent natricine snakes demonstrate with high probability that the living species Natrix natrix is a direct descendant of the Neogene species N. longivertebrata. Evolutionary changes observed in the N. longivertebrata-N. natrix lineage mainly consist of gradual modification of two basicranial morphological patterns, while other skull characters remain invariant. Data from members of this postulated lineage, as well as data derived from some other European snake fossils, support the hypothesis that Miocene snakes differed little from their recent descendants osteologically, and provide additional indirect evidence that the origin of many living ophidian genera may have taken place before the Paleogene/Neogene boundary.
40060466|We investigated the underlying mechanism of coexistence of two sympatric Japalura lizards (Japalura swinhonis and Japalura polygonata xanthostotna). We examined the differences in resource use along three resource dimensions: time, space, and diet. Specifically we tested two ecomorphological hypotheses. Correspondence exists between: perch habitat and limb morphology, and diet and head morphology. The species with shorter forelimbs would perch on narrower surface. The species with larger heads would consume larger or tougher prey. The results showed that the two species did not divide resources by temporal partitioning. Spatially, the two species used similar macrohabitats. However, female J. swinhonis, perching lower and on narrower surfaces, differed from other groups in perch habitats. However, male J. swinhonis and J. p. xanthostoma, despite size and shape differences, were similar in perch habitat. In addition, high diet overlap was detected both intra- and interspecifically despite the presence of significant differences in head sizes. In conclusion, male J. swinhonis and J. p. xanthostoma used largely overlapping resources and therefore, might be potential competitors if resources are limited. We suggest that there was a trade-off between fighting ability and maneuverability because of morphological differences that allowed the coexistence of the two species. Although male J. swinhonis, being larger, may have better fighting ability, J. p. xanthostoma could maneuver around tree trunks and branches to search for prey and avoid fighting more easily.
10.2307/1565154|The Taiwan colubrid snake Oligodon formosanus feeds almost exclusively upon the eggs of other reptiles. Snakes that specialize on the eggs of birds usually swallow eggs whole then crush them. Oligodon instead uses enlarged, blade-like rear maxillary teeth to make repeated slashes in the leathery egg shell, inserts its head, and swallows the yolk. The mechanics of cutting involve cycles of extreme displacement of the maxillary bone, whose blade-like teeth are swung in arcs to make ever deeper slashes in the shell until a slit is formed. The cycles during cutting involve protraction, engagement, and retraction of the palatomaxillary arch of one side while the contralateral jaws maintain a continuous hold on the egg surface. The slit is enlarged by repeated cutting motions until the snake can push its head through this opening and into the interior of the egg, where it swallows the yolk and young embryo. The basic feeding behavior of colubrids has been modified in O. formosanus in two ways. First, the reciprocating, unilateral pattern has become repeating and unilateral. Second, palatomaxillary arch displacements characteristically arising during deglutition in other colubrids arise earlier in feeding by O. formosanus during egg opening. The egg-eating specializations of O. formosanus give it access to an energy rich food (yolk) and to a wider range of foods (small to large eggs) than are available to generalized snakes of similar size.
40665010|The Giant Gartersnake (Thamnophis gigas) is restricted to wetlands of the Central Valley of California. Because of wetland loss in this region, the Giant Gartersnake is both federally and state listed as threatened. We conducted mark-recapture studies of four populations of the Giant Gartersnake in the Sacramento Valley (northern Central Valley), California, to obtain baseline data on abundance and density to assist in recovery planning for this species. We sampled habitats that ranged from natural, unmanaged marsh to constructed managed marshes and habitats associated with rice agriculture. Giant Gartersnake density in a natural wetland (1.90 individuals/ha) was an order of magnitude greater than in a managed wetland subject to active season drying (0.17 individuals/ha). Sex ratios at all sites were not different from 1: 1, and females were longer and heavier than males. Females had greater body condition than males, and individuals at the least disturbed sites had significantly greater body condition than individuals at the managed wetland. The few remaining natural wetlands in the Central Valley are important, productive habitat for the Giant Gartersnake, and should be conserved and protected. Wetlands constructed and restored for the Giant Gartersnake should be modeled after the permanent, shallow wetlands representative of historic Giant Gartersnake habitat.
40060570|A new species of Atractus is described from Serra do Surucucu, a mountain slope at 1,000 m in the Guyana Shield, State of Roraima, Brazil. This species, only known by females, is diagnosed from all congeners by the following combination of characters: 17/17/17 smooth dorsal scale rows, without apical pits; 200-207 ventral scales; 25-26 subcaudal scales; moderate sized loreal, contacting second and third supralabials; seven supralabials, third and fourth contacting orbit; seven infralabials, first three contacting chinshields; moderate size, 222-388 mm SVL; short tail (7.7-8.8% snout-vent length); dorsal color pattern, in preservative, uniform chocolate to dark brown, with two conspicuous light paraventral lines, and a light incomplete occipital collar; venter immaculate creamish-white; tail uniform black; five maxillary teeth. We compared the new species with all currently recognized cis-Andean Atractus, and its affinities with Atractus alphonsehogei, Atractus caxiuana, Atractus collaris, Atractus gaigeae, Atractus limitaneus, and Atractus zidoki are discussed on the basis of putative morphological synapomorphies. /// Uma espcie nova de Atractus  descrita da Serra do Surucucu, uma elevao montanhosa de 1000 m no Plat das Guianas, estado de Roraima, Brasil. Esta espcie, conhecida somente por fmeas,  diagnosticada de todos seus congneres pela seguinte combinao de caracteres: 17/17/17 sries de escamas dorsais lisas, sem fossetas apiciliares; 200-207 escamas ventrais; 25-26 escamas subcaudais; loreal de tamanho moderado, contatando a segunda e terceira supralabiais; sete supralabiais, quarta e quinta contatando a rbita; sete infralabiais, trs primeiras contatando as geniais; tamanho moderado, 222-388 mm do CRC; cauda curta (7.7-8.8% comprimento rostro-cloacal) em fmeas; padro de Colorao dorsal em preservative variando de chocolate a marrom-escuro, com linhas paraventrais claras conspcuas e colar occipital claro incompleto; ventre creme-esbranquiado; cauda negro uniforme; cinco dentes maxilares. Ns comparamos a nova espcie com todas as Atractus cis-Andinas atualmente reconhecidas e suas afinidades com Atractus alphonsehogei, Atractus caixuana, Atractus collaris, Atractus gaigeae, Atractus limitaneus e Atractus zidoki so discutidas fundamentado em possveis sinapomorfias morfolgicas.
10.2307/1564933|The reproductive cycle of the lizard Sceloporus torquatus was determined using data obtained from field caught and museum specimens. Males exhibit testicular recrudescence during late summer and maximal testicular volumes occur during September and October. Similarly, females begin vitellogenesis in late summer, culminating in ovulation during November or December. Females are pregnant throughout the winter months with birth in April or early May. Average clutch size is 9.7 young. Neonates of both sexes are born early in summer, achieve adult size within five months and are thus capable of reproductive activity the first fall after birth. This study adds to the data that indicate that fall reproductive activity is the common reproductive strategy among viviparous lizards of the genus Sceloporus.
41515047|Two intergeneric hybrid snakes (Pituophis catenifer sayi  Pantherophis vulpinus) are described from the midwestern United States; one collected in south central Iowa and the other from southeastern Minnesota. Both specimens are morphologically intermediate between the putative parental species P. c. sayi and P. vulpinus. Hybrid origin was verified by comparing DNA sequence data from the hybrids to the putative parental species. Both hybrid specimens possessed P. c. sayi mitochondrial DNA haplotypes. Examination of the nuclear gene Vimentin (intron 5) showed both specimens were heterozygous at most variable sites confirming their hybrid origin. These snakes represent only the second and third confirmed instances of naturally occurring intergeneric hybridization among squamate reptile species.
25599188|Multiple paternity is widespread among reptiles in general and turtles specifically. However, its frequency is highly variable even among closely related species. Paternity is an important component of the genetic mating system of a species, and it can provide insight into the social mating system of the species. I investigated the occurrence and frequency of multiple paternity in a population of Blanding's Turtle (Emys blandingii), a rare freshwater species. A high frequency of multiple paternity was detected in this population, with 13 of 16 (81%) clutches showing evidence of siring by multiple males at one locus and nine of 16 (56%) at two or more loci. Multiply sired clutches received approximately equal contributions by both, and rarely three, sires. Therefore, polyandry appears to be the most common reproductive strategy for females in this population. Evidence was also found to suggest that sperm storage between years may occur in this species. The high frequency of multiple paternity observed here suggests that multiple mating may be beneficial to females and/or their offspring. Further research is needed to determine whether this is the case and, if so, how females may benefit from multiple matings.
23326900|The skeletal adaptations of Amblyrhynchus cristatus (Marine Iguanas) are of particular interest based on their amphibious lifestyle, which is unique among living lacertilian squamates. The well-known ecological data are applied to new bone histological findings, which revealed expected and unexpected congruencies. The cortical bone matrix consists of avascular lamellar-zonal bone tissue type. The geometrical disposition of the growth marks (i.e., their spacing) shows an unusual pattern for lizards: the growth cycles maintain a constant thickness until the growth is terminated, which is marked by the development of the external fundamental system (efs). Minor resorption processes within the inner periosteal cortical region and the occurrence of these thick growth cycles in A. cristatus result in high mean bone compactness values. The reported life-history data from ecological studies and the hypothesized annuality of the growth cycles indicate that this first decline in annual bone deposition rate is not congruent with the attainment of sexual maturity. In contrast, this event might be indicated by other histological changes in the growth record of A. cristatus, which they share exclusively with their sister group, Conolophus subcristatus (Land Iguana). The bone matrix of the growth zones and annuli differ in their thickness, their color in polarized light, and vary slightly in the amount and shape of osteocyte lacunae in both A. cristatus and C. subcristatus. These well-recognizable growth zones and annuli of the growth cycles change their thickness abruptly within the reported time frame of the attainment of sexual maturity in A. cristatus.
10.2307/1563543|Laboratory experiments were conducted using toads, Bufo terrestris, and treefrogs, Hyla cinerea, as predators and honeybees, Apis mellifera, as models. Bees from which the stinging apparatus had been removed served as mimics. Model and mimic bees were offered randomly with the models at frequencies of 10%, 30%, and 50% to the toads and 10%, 20%, and 50% to the treefrogs. The corresponding percentages of the model-mimic population eaten were 53.6%, 35.3%, and 19.8% (toads) and 29.6%, 17.4%, and 7.0% (treefrogs). The frequencies of bees eaten as a function of percent models in the prey population can be described by the mathematical model of predation presented previously (Huheey, 1964, 1976). Predator memory values (n) of 8.0 (toads) and 28.7 (treefrogs) were obtained. Various factors affecting the behavior of the predator with respect to the value of n are discussed: toxicity vs. distastefulness, alternate prey, and predator strategy. It is concluded that n is better viewed as a risk-taking strategy on the part of the predator than as a simple memory parameter.
10.2307/1564499| Twelve green sea turtles, Chelonia mydas (57 g-8.6 kg), were heated and cooled in air and water (15C  35C  15C). All live turtles heated faster than they cooled. Thermal time constants () were calculated and combined with time constants from the literature. Regression equations were calculated for 9 turtles from 139 g to 115 kg. Formulas (with mass, M, in kilograms) in water were  <sub>w</sub>=12.0M<sup>0.54</sup> and  <sub>c</sub>=21.8M<sup>0.65</sup> for warming and cooling respectively. Values for air (250 cm sec<sup>-1</sup>) were  <sub>w</sub>=34.0M<sup>0.33</sup> and  <sub>c</sub>=53.4M<sup>0.53</sup>. Dead turtles heated and cooled at the same rate in water and may be described as  <sub>d</sub>=44.2M<sup>0.76</sup>. Heart rates during warming exceeded heart rates during cooling at the same body temperature in air and water. Heart rates (HR) could be described by linear regression equations of the form Y = m + b. Warming and cooling regression equations for turtles in air were HR<sub>w</sub> = 3.19T - 22.1 and HR<sub>c</sub> = 0.23T + 5.7, respectively (T is temperature in C). Similar values in water were HR<sub>w</sub> = 3.19T - 13.8 and HR<sub>c</sub> = 0.375T - 0.178. Green sea turtles show a larger heart rate hysteresis than any other reptile thus far tested and are able to warm in a smaller fraction of the time required to cool than any other reptile tested. Evaporative water loss (EWL) was determined for 12 turtles at 35C (30% Rh). Water loss was correlated with mass as g hr<sup>-1</sup>=5.01M<sup>0.65</sup>. Skin resistance to water loss (R<sub>s</sub>) was 16.7 sec cm<sup>-1</sup> for live turtles and 20.7 sec cm<sup>-1</sup> for dead ones. 
41415311|The influence of the presence of nonlethal predators on antipredator defense behavior and metamorphic traits was studied in the toad Bufo melanostictus. Tadpoles reared with caged predaceous tadpoles of Hoplobatrachus tigerinus delayed metamorphosis and also emerged at a smaller size compared to those in a predator-free environment. Different predaceous cues (kairomones, alarm cues and dietary cues, derived after feeding the predator with conspecific prey) induced increase in stationary phase and swimming speed and decrease in swimming spurts and time used for feeding. The intensity of defense behaviors varied with the cue. They were more intense in response to cues of predators fed on conspecific prey item. The response to alarm cues or kairomones or predators fed on heterogeneric tadpole species was similar but lower in magnitude compared to that elicited in response to predators fed on conspecific prey item. Most intense defense behavior in response to the odors of the predator that consumed conspecific members is possibly caused by a combined effect of kairomones, alarm, and dietary cues. The findings suggest that B. melanostictus tadpoles are capable of assessing levels of prdation risk and modulating the intensity of their defense behavior in accordance with the perceived threat. Interestingly, despite longer larval period, size at metamorphosis of the toadlets was smaller in the presence of caged predator.
10.2307/1563762|Bufo kavirensis sp. n. is described from seven specimens from the Kavir desert in Iran and compared with Bufo viridis and other species of the genus.
10.2307/1562889| Body temperatures of active animals in the field range from 22.3 C to 33.9 C with a mean of 28.1  0.9 C. Various types of behavioral and physiological responses to temperature occur above the voluntarily tolerated range. The maximum temperature at which S. quoyi can survive indefinitely is approximately 1 C above the highest body temperature observed in the field; above that level, survival decreases with increasing temperature. There is no significant effect of season, sex or size on high temperature survival. The lethal limit is affected by acclimation but not by season, sex or size. Survival at temperatures close to 0 C is inversely related to body size. The lethal minimum for small lizards was -2.5 C; body temperatures of larger lizards did not go below 0 C till after death had occurred. The preferred temperature of acclimated animals, as measured in a laboratory gradient, is lower in continuous darkness than in continuous light. Body temperatures maintained in a gradient are 1.6 C to 3.5 C higher than the mean body temperature in the field, depending on the gradient's lighting conditions. 
10.2307/1565721|Winter aggregations have been shown to occur in wild and laboratory populations of some species of lizards. The tree lizard, U. ornatus, was observed in experimental conspecific aggregations during the winter season. It was postulated that these aggregations occur because of limited over-wintering areas, and/or limited access to areas better suited for thermoregulation. The social system of U. ornatus has been well studied. These studies, however, have been restricted to the spring/summer activity season and shed little light on any social interactions that may occur during the over-wintering period. This study showed that in semi-natural enclosures where suitable over-wintering areas were not limited, U. ornatus formed aggregate groups. It was shown that this species preferentially forms winter aggregations in south-facing crevices as opposed to north-facing ones. Neither summertime social status nor sex of individual lizards had a bearing on their location within a given aggregation.
10.2307/1565292|Responses to intruders and the dear enemy phenomenon were examined in female tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) in southern New Mexico. Females of this species have recently been shown to exhibit strong territorial behavior. Staged intruder tests were performed throughout the activity season on two age classes of female lizards, first-year and second-year or older females. These tests were carried out to ascertain if significant variation in aggressive behavior occurs between age classes and across reproductive condition. Tests were carried out during the pre-reproductive, reproductive, and post-reproductive periods of the summer activity season. Older females performed significantly more aggressive behaviors when in the pre-reproductive condition than younger females, but all females were highly aggressive when in the reproductive (gravid) condition. These behaviors decreased in both groups after eggs were laid. Dear enemy recognition was tested for the first time in female lizards. No significant differences were found in the mean number of aggressive behaviors performed toward neighbors or toward strangers.
10.2307/1564613|Pattern and sequence of ossification throughout the skeleton of Lacerta agilis exigua Eichwald are described in detail and compared with those of Lacerta vivipara Jacquin. Comparison of timing of ossification allows the identification of skeletal compartments which may shift the timing of onset of ossification relative to each other while preserving the sequence of ossification within each compartment. Pattern (shape and location of appearance) and sequence of ossification may be developmentally correlated with underlying structures such as brain growth and differentiation of the jaw adductor muscle system. The delayed ossification of the dermal skull roof in lepidosaurs is identified as a paedomorphic trait of that group which may have allowed the evolution of mesokinesis in non-fossorial lizards.
10.2307/1565537|We observed adult-like display behavior in newly hatched frillneck lizards, Chlamydosaurus kingii, including hand waving and erection of the frill. Hatchlings were placed together in groups of four for a week at a time and a measure of dominance was scored with respect to gaining access to a basking site. In most cases, the hatchlings were ordered non-randomly with respect to the optimum basking site, suggesting a hierarchy among the lizards. Plasma androgen concentrations were measured in hatchlings and lizards of both sexes of age classes ranging from hatchlings to three or more years old. Hatchling dominance was not related to plasma androgen concentrations, sex, or body size, but there was a positive correlation between dominance and mass gained over the six weeks of observations. Plasma androgen concentrations were low in all age and sex groups except adult males three or more years old, although two-year-old males had slightly elevated concentrations. A few (8%) two year old males had scars, presumably from intraspecific fights, but many (46%) males three or more years old had scars. No females or males younger than two years old were scarred.
10.2307/1562924|Daily and annual activity cycles, reproductive potential, population dynamics and social relationships of the turtle Clemmys guttata in southeastern Pennsylvania are presented with observations on food, feeding, movements, predation, parasites, algal relationships and shell abnormalities. Comparisons are made with Chrysemys picta, the other populous turtle in the study area.
10.2307/1563261|Detailed accounts on variation, distribution, and relationships of three Hispaniolan species of Leiocephalus (L. schreibersi, L. semilineatus, L. pratensis) are given. L. schreibersi is compared with the two related Bahaman species L. inaguae and L. arenarius. The generic status of L. pratensis (formerly "Hispaniolus" pratensis) is discussed. Extended accounts of sympatry between Hispaniolan Leiocephalus are compared with sympatry in the Cuban members of the genus, and it is suggested that the diversity of Leiocephalus (eight species) in Hispaniola in contrast to five species in Cuba may be due to the fact that some of the Hispaniolan species have penetrated into higher elevations whereas only one of the Cuban species has done so; the Cuban species are overwhelmingly lowland or lower montane slope inhabitants. Additional diversity on Hispaniola is probably due to the complex geological history and present physiography of that island.
10.2307/1564469|Male Eumeces laticeps develop bright orange head coloration during the spring breeding season, when they fight with other males and engage in sexual behavior with females. Outside the breeding season the head color fades and the sexual and agonistic behaviors cease. Intraperitoneal implantation of testosterone propionate in Silastic capsules restores the bright orange head coloration and activates courtship and agonistic behaviors in castrated males.
10.2307/1564856|Wright and Lowe (1968) and Cuellar (1977) suggested that parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus can survive only in isolation from their bisexual congeners because the latter would otherwise eliminate the parthenoforms through competition and/or destabilizing hybridization. Data from studies of the parthenogenetic clone LAR-A of the Cnemidophorus laredoensis subgroup suggest this hypothesis is not correct. The bisexual species C. gularis occurs at 24 of the 39 sites at which LAR-A has been found, and neither form is consistently more abundant than the other at syntopic sites. The literature documents many cases where parthenogenetic whiptails coexist with their bisexual congeners, suggesting parthenoforms do not require isolation as previously believed. One of two things must be happening to allow parthenoforms to coexist with bisexuals: (1) competition and destabilizing hybridization do not occur; or (2) these processes do occur but some other factor counteracts their effect. At present, too little data exist to evaluate which of these alternatives is correct. However, analysis of lizard diets at three sites of syntopy and data reported in studies of other parthenoforms are used to advance testable hypotheses in the hope of stimulating future research.
40983649|A new scansorial species of Cophixalus is described from lower montane mossy rain forest in the Moro and Moran areas of Southern Highlands Province in Papua New Guinea. It can be distinguished from all other Cophixalus species in New Guinea by the combination of relatively small size (15.2-19.2 mm snout-vent [SVL]; N = 10), possession of a single distinct spiniform tubercle on the upper eyelid and a series of spiniform tubercles on the hind limb, tuberculate skin, well developed discs on all digits except the first finger, absence of distinct brown or back lateral markings on the head, and a call consisting of 26-33 musical peeping notes.
1566083|The reproductive modes for Smilisca puma, Smilisca sila, and Smilisca sordida are reported for the first time. Smilisca puma has the generalized reproductive mode of anurans with eggs deposited as a surface film in lentic water. Smilisca sila and S. sordida have the basin construction reproductive mode. Smilisca sila constructs an open depression and deposits eggs within the depression. Basins of S. sordida consist of three types: (1) basins with eggs attached to the substrate (AE); (2) basins with eggs floating on the surface of the water (FE); and (3) eggs buried beneath the substrate. Length of AE basins was, on average 10% longer than FE basins. The area in which eggs were buried was about 1.5 times greater in basins with buried eggs than other basins. Eggs of S. sordida are also deposited in streams indicating that basin building is a facultative behavior for this species. The frequency of basin types varied spatially and temporally during the reproductive season. More basins were constructed on islands than on stream banks. Open basins were the most common type of basin observed during the middle of the reproductive season, whereas eggs deposited in the absence of basins only occurred at the beginning of the reproductive season.
40983593|Tadpoles of two sister species of Ameerega are described. Tadpoles of Ameerega prvula can be distinguished from those of A. bilinguis based on slight differences in their oral disc structure and configuration of the tail fin. Both tadpoles have a tooth row formula 2/3 that is typical for many Ameerega, Epipedobates, and Allobates species. The two species differ in the relative length of the second lower tooth row (P-2). Ameerega parvula tadpoles have a slightly longer P-2 than P-l row, whereas the P-2 row of A. bilinguis tadpoles is shorter than their P-1. The upper fin at midtail is slightly wider than the lower fin in A. parvula, whereas the lower fin is slightly wider than the upper fin in A. bilinguis tadpoles. Both tadpoles can be discriminated from those of sympatric species based on color and oral disc morphology. However, the oral disc morphology of Ameerega tadpoles provides no synapomorphic characteristics to distinguish Ameerega tadpoles from other dendrobatoid genera. Se describen los renacuajos de dos especies hermanas de Ameerega, Los renacuajos de Ameerega parvula pueden distinguirse de los de A. bilinguis en base a diferencias sutiles en la estructura del disco oral y configuracin de la aleta caudal. Ambos renacuajos tiene la frmula de filas dentales 2/3, tpica de muchas especies de Ameerega, Epipedobates y Allobates. Las dos especies se diferencian en la longitud relativa de la segunda fila inferior de dientes (P-2); sin embargo, los renacuajos de A. prvula presentan la fila P-2 ligeramente ms larga que P-1, mientras que la fila P-2 de los renacuajos de Ameerega bilinguis es ms pequea que P-1. En los renacuajos de A. parvula la aleta superior en el medio de la cola es ligeramente ms ancha que la aleta inferior, mientras que en A. bilinguis la aleta inferior es ligeramente ms ancha que la superior. Los renacuajos de ambas especies pueden distinguirse de aquellos de otras especies simptricas, en base al color y a la morfologa del disco oral. Sin embargo, la morfologa del disco oral de los renacuajos del gnero Ameerega no poseen caracteres sinapomrficos que permitan distinguirlos de otros gneros de dendrobtidos.
10.2307/1563037|Karyotypes were studied in 3 species of Antillean Anolis. A. blanquillanus has 2n=36 with 12 metacentric macrochromosomes, 24 microchromosomes, no obvious sex chromosome heteromorphism. A. nubilus has male 2n=29, and an X<sub>1</sub>X<sub>2</sub>Y sex chromosome system. It is identical in karyotype to neighboring species of the bimaculatus species group. A. monensis has male 2n=29 with an X<sub>1</sub>X<sub>2</sub>Y sex chromosome system, but details of morphology are different from nubilus. A. monensis is karyotypically indistinguishable from A. cooki of Puerto Rico, and it is argued that monensis is most closely allied to cooki and not to cristatellus as previous literature implied. Some field notes are presented for all 3 species. Display behavior confirms the close relationship between A. blanquillanus and A. bonairensis.
25599236|We studied the reproductive characteristics of sympatric populations of Sceloporus formosus scitulus, Sceloporus omiltemanus (Phrynosomatidae), and Mesaspis gadovii (Anguidae) at the Omiltemi forest reserve (Guerrero, Mexico). Males are larger and reach larger body sizes at reproductive maturity and are more colorful than females in both Sceloporus, whereas males are smaller than females and reach sexual maturity at similar body sizes in M. gadovii. These species are single brooded and follow a common pattern of annual reproductive activity. The reproductive activity of females and males of the three species is seasonal; vitellogenesis is initiated in late summer and continues in autumn/rainy season, gestation occurs throughout the winter/dry season, and parturition occurs in early spring. All three species have intersexual synchrony in reproductive activity. In spite of similar reproductive schedules, some subtle features related to the length of each of the reproductive stages could be observed. Sceloporus formosus scitulus has a more extended reproductive season, and large females start vitellogenesis earlier than do small ones. Males have a prolonged reproductive activity and a short nonreproductive season. In contrast, the reproductive cycle of the other two species is defined by shorter reproductive season and less intrasexual asynchrony for both sexes than found in S. f. scitulus. The seasonal pattern of reproduction shared by these three species is characteristic of other viviparous lizards at high elevations in tropical and subtropical latitudes of Central and South America, being convergent for different lizard families. This convergence in reproductive patterns suggests a common evolutionary response to environmental factors associated with montane habitats, whereas specific differences observed within species are attributed to the particular evolutionary history of each taxon.
4092983|A new species of rhacophorid of the genus Polypedates is described on the basis of three adult males and a metamorph from Kerala State, southwestern India. The new species is related to Polypedates cruciger from Sri Lanka, Polypedates pseudocruciger from the Western Ghats of India and Polypedates maculatus from northern Sri Lanka and mainland south Asia. It is diagnosed by the following characters: adult male SVL to 55.1mm; unpigmented nuptial pads on dorsal surfaces of Fingers I and II; vomerine teeth set obliquely between choanae; fingers with rudimentary webbing; no dermal fold along forearm; webbing on Toe III reaching disks at tip of digit; absence of a conical lingual papilla; skin of forehead free; snout lacking a dermal flap; heel lacking a cutaneous spur; and a dark hour-glass-shaped pattern on dorsum.
10.2307/1563499|Subadult Rana arvalis and R. temporaria did not segregate in forest and meadow habitats. Adult frogs did segregate, R. temporaria being comparatively more often found in forest habitats. In meadow habitat, females of R. arvalis were found higher up in the vegetation than males. No such dimorphism was conclusively demonstrated for R. temporaria. It is suggested that the fact that the forest was structurally less complex (the herb stratum was more sparse there than in the meadows) was responsible for the near-exclusion of adult R. arvalis from this habitat.
10.2307/1564741|Large samples of frillneck lizards, Chlamydosaurus kingii, were measured from two sites approximately 150 km apart in the Northern Territory of Australia. Frill size increases linearly with SVL up to a SVL of 103 mm. At larger SVLs frill size continues to increase linearly, but with a greater slope. This inflection point corresponds to the SVL at which the gap between the two halves of the frill closes. The relationship between neck length and SVL is a simple line without an inflection point. Jaw length and head width show an allometric pattern that is similar to frill length, but the inflection point corresponds to a SVL of approximately 204 mm. The significance of this change in slope is unclear because this SVL does not correspond to any known ecological or morphological factors. Compared to females, male lizards have significantly larger frills, longer jaws, and wider heads for a given SVL. Males also have a longer frill for a given head width. Morphological differences exist between the two sites: at one site the frill length, jaw length, and dry season masses of large males are greater for a given SVL than those of large males at the other site, but at the second site the lizards of both sexes tend to have wider heads. The differences between the sexes with respect to frill and head sizes are consistent with the use of these structures for intraspecific displays, but the significance of the differences between the two sites is not known.
10.2307/1565172| Breeding of Hyla elegans was monitored from August 1991 to July 1992 at a temporary pond in Ubatuba, State of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. Males began to call as they entered the chorus, and defended their calling sites from other males, at times with physical interactions. Females, however, were not aggressive toward either males or other females. We found a positive correlation between the numbers of females and males in the chorus, but no significant correlation between OSR (number of reproducing females/number of reproducing males) and the number of males present. OSR was highly male-biased; on average, there were 10 males for each female; this low OSR may explain low average mating success of males. Females chose males as mates freely, and males did not attempt to intercept females approaching other males. Males in amplexus were larger and heavier than unmated, calling males. In addition, snoutvent lengths of males and females in amplexus were positively correlated, and males were, on average, 0.81 the length of females. Experimentally paired males and females with smaller or larger ratios of SVLs had a lower percent of fertilization than pairs near the population average. 
10.2307/1562888| A collection of snakes taken in citrus groves at Middlesex, Stann Creek District, British Honduras, consists of 232 specimens representing 24 species. Amastridium veliferum is new to British Honduras, and Dendrophidion vinitor, Pliocercus elapoides, Sibon nebulata, and Tropidodipsas sartorii have been reported only once or twice from the country. The fauna is almost identical with that of the rainforests of southern EI Petn, Guatemala. The short faunal list, in comparison with other tropical forest localities, and extreme relative abundance of a few species, probably result from agricultural modification of the forest habitat. 
10.2307/1563844|The relative frequencies of naturally occurring tail losses in twelve species of central Chile Liolaemus are reported. It was found that percentages vary between 23.8% and 77.2%. In an attempt to explain these differences, percent tail losses was correlated with an estimate of time exposed to predators (size of the lizards), with an estimate of intraspecific susceptibility to predators (sexual dimorphism), and with percent occupation of conspicuous perches. Partial correlation analysis exhibited statistical significance only with the latter variable, thus suggesting that visibility to predators could be causally related to tail losses. A last cautionary word is offered, indicating that frequency of tail losses is not a measure of predation pressure, but of successful escapes after at least one close encounter with a predator.
10.2307/1563942|Morphological variation of the South American lizard genus Kentropyx is discussed, with particular emphasis on the Amazonian distributed calcarata species group. Ecological and zoogeographical data are analyzed. Analysis of geographic variation of meristic characters, in conjunction with color and striping pattern variation, supports the recognition of three Amazonian species of Kentropyx with small dorsal scales. A dramatic morphological change is noted for Kentropyx calcarata, and it is suggested that the morphological divergence might be an example of character displacement.
10.2307/1565323|The reproductive behavior and movements of arribada nesting olive ridley turtles (Lepidochelys olivacea) were studied during the 1990 and 1991 nesting seasons (September through November) at Nancite Beach, Santa Rosa National Park, Guanacaste, Costa Rica. Females that normally emerge synchronously once a month on Nancite Beach to oviposit delayed oviposition in response to a period of very heavy rainfall. Females retained oviducal eggs for 63 days and emerged synchronously to oviposit at Nancite Beach after the rain had ceased. Egg retention in L. olivacea appears to be an adaptation which enables delayed oviposition when environmental conditions are unsuitable and may also facilitate reproductive synchrony. We suggest that preovipositional arrest of developing embryos may have occurred while oviducal eggs were retained.
10.2307/1564878|Shaw's black-backed snake, Liophis melanotus, occurs in northern Colombia and Venezuela, Trinidad, and Tobago. Geographic variation of morphological characters and the color pattern of this colubrid species is assessed. A total of 198 individuals were examined. No sexual dimorphism was found in any character using Student t tests. Variation within 24 character states was significant between the Colombian, Venezuelan, and Trinidad-Tobago samples. Two new subspecies (L. m. lamari and L. m. nesos) are described, based upon a multivariate analysis of the 24 character states and color pattern.
10.2307/1564179|The season of sexual activity in Mauremys caspica rivulata in Israel extends from fall till the succeeding spring (September-May). The intensity of sexual activity peaks in mid winter, at the time of lowest ambient temperature, shortest day length and maximum rainfall. The fact that mating activity may start prior to the rainy season suggests that rain is not a key factor in the initiation of the behavior. The pattern of the testicular cycle in M. c. rivulata is typical of temperate-zone turtles. The testes enlarge during summer and the epididymides contain spermatozoa throughout fall, winter and spring. The only apparent evidence relating sexual behavior with parameters of the male gonadal cycle was the correlation between the time and intensity of mating activity and the epididymal cycle. Accordingly sexual activity commences following the first appearance of spermatozoa in the epididymides and peak activity occurs at the time of maximum spermatozoa storage in the epididymides. It is thus possible that the epididymal cycle is involved in the stimulation and control of sexual activity. The data suggest that temperate-zone turtles have inherently the same pattern of sexual activity but that temperature in addition to its role as a key factor in the stimulation of the gonadal cycle (shown by others) may act as a major environmental factor which limits the behavior and determines the local pattern of annual sexual activity.
10.2307/1563375|Forty-two species of reptiles known to occur in The Gambia are listed together with notes on habitat and behavior. Two of the species in the list are for the first time recorded north of the rain forest limit in West Africa. Gallery forest in The Gambia acts as a faunal refuge for reptiles and other animals whose distribution otherwise is confined to tropical rainforest.
10.2307/1562982| Changes in fat body weights, total body fat and reproductive activity were studied in Sceloporus occidentalis in the central Sierra Nevada, California at 1500 m and 2200 m elevation. At 1500 m adult females have a mean SVL of 72.0 to 75.5 mm, and at 2200 m range in SVL from 75.0 to 77.5 mm. Emergence of adults begins in early April and is complete by the end of April at 1500 m; at 2200 m adults first appear in late May or early June, depending upon weather. Activity of adults lasts until the latter part of September at 1500 m but at 2200 m most adults have disappeared before the middle of September; at 1500 m adult activity lasts ca. 6 months and at 2200 m 4.5 months. Total body fat for males at the two elevations is nearly the same in the spring, and very low after reproduction; but males before hibernation at 1500 m have means of ca. 0.5-0.6 g total body fat and inguinal fat bodies of 0.4 g, and at 2200 m ca. 1.0 g total body fat and fat bodies of ca. 0.8 g. Total body fat of females at 1500 m is ca. 0.8-0.9 g before ovulation in the spring, 0.5 g after egg-laying (in July) and 0.8 g before hibernation; and at 2200 m preovulatory total body fat is 1.4 g, after egg-laying 0.8 g, and 1.2+ g before hibernation. Fat bodies of females fluctuate in approximately the same manner as does total body fat, but individuals vary greatly in fat body size at any given time. Females' liver fat levels decline as ova develop: in early spring (when ova are 3-4 mm) livers have ca. 0.1 g fat at 1500 m and more than 0.6 g at 2200 m. Prior to egg-laying, mean liver fat (of females) is nearly undetectable at 1500 m and less than 0.1 g at 2200 m. Liver fat increases after egg-laying. Ovulation starts at 15 May (1500 m) and 30 May (2200 m); and egg-laying occurs from 18 June-19 July (1500 m) and 26 June-10 July (2200 m). Newly hatched young were first seen on 15 August (1500 m) and 17 August (2200 m). Clutch size is 11.3 (0.41) at 1500 m and 13.4 (0.57) at 2200 m; the combined mean is 12.0 (0.35). A single clutch is laid annually; second clutches are probably very unusual. The difference in total body fat in early spring in females at 1500 m and 2200 m is nearly the same as the difference in fat content of an average clutch of eggs at 1500 m (11.3 eggs) and at 2200 m (13.4 eggs). It is suggested that the greater size of adult females at 2200 m is a means of accumulating more fat so as to lay larger clutches of eggs. It is also suggested that the major function of fat stores in females is the production of eggs. During hibernation, calculated fat loss at 1600 m was 0.018 KCal/gm body weight/month (males) and 0.006 KCal/gm body weight/month (females). At 2200 m the loss was 0.04 KCal (males) and 0.01 KCal (females). 
10.2307/1563944|In 1981 an epidemic among larval amphibians caused by the bacterium Aeromonas hydrophila extirpated the larval population of Rana sylvatica in a Rhode Island vernal-autumnal pond and in enclosures within the same pond. Diseased R. sylvatica exhibited emaciation, petechial hemorrhages, and a loss of normal feeding and escape behaviors. Larval Ambystoma maculatum sharing enclosures with R. sylvatica experienced greater mortality than those in enclosures with no R. sylvatica in both 1981 and 1982. However, survivorship of A. maculatum with R. sylvatica in 1981 was statistically lower than that with R. sylvatica in 1982, a year when no epidemic occurred. A. maculatum larvae which died from the disease were severely edemic and had petechiae. Other species in the pond (larval Hyla versicolor and adult Rana catesbeiana) suffered no observable mortality from the disease although petechiae were noted in both. The epidemic may have contributed to a severe reduction in breeding effort by R. sylvatica in the affected pond three years after the epidemic. Mass mortality due to disease in populations of larval amphibians is sometimes difficult to document and may occur more frequently than previously thought.
41415271|Exposure to altered conductivity can negatively impact many freshwater system inhabitants, including bacteria, plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates. Several studies have shown increased conductivity to affect amphibian behavior and ecology. Comparatively fewer studies have taken a physiological approach to understanding the effects of altered conductivity in amphibians. This study used laboratory experiments to assess conductivity effects on stress hormone (corticosterone) levels in Jefferson Salamander (Ambystotma jeffersonianum), Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica), and Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor) larvae. Prey consumption (only in A. jeffersonianum) and survival (in all species) also was examined after exposure to increased conductivity (0, 2,000, 4,000, and 8,000 ppb). There was a significant positive effect of increased conductivity exposure on baseline corticosterone levels in A. jeffersonianum after 1-week exposure. Exposure to increased conductivity did not influence baseline corticosterone levels in R. sylvatica and H. versicolor or confinement-induced corticosterone levels in all three species. Prey consumption in A. jeffersonianum was significantly negatively associated with increased conductivity (4,000 and 8,000 ppb). No mortality occurred in any species as a result of exposure to increased conductivity. These results suggest that exposure to increased conductivity can be a powerful environmental Stressor for amphibians, despite having species-specific effects on corticosterone levels.
10.2307/1563086|A new species of Telmatobufo is named from samples collected in the Pelada mountains, Valdivia, Chile. The first larval specimens of the genus were found and are mountainstream type tadpoles which are distinctive among leptodactylid frogs. They offer no immediate clues on the relationships of the genus.
10.2307/1564619|Observations on the foraging activity and diets of four sympatric rainforest lizards were used to test previous generalizations based mainly on studies on lizards from arid areas. In contrast to lizards studied in arid areas, an ambush predator (Uranoscodon superciliosa, Iguanidae) eats more hidden and slow moving prey than the most active forager (Kentropyx calcarata, Teiidae). Plica umbra (Iguanidae), an ant specialist, has similar foraging intensity to Anolis punctatus (Iguanidae) and is more active than U. superciliosa, which are generalist insectivores. Plica umbra does not have the behavioral and morphological adaptations for myrmecophagy that commonly occur in desert lizards. Uranoscodon superciliosa also does not specialize on large prey, as predicted for extreme "sit-and-wait" lizards in tropical rainforests. Differences in the consequences of foraging mode for the diet of lizards between arid and forest areas may be affected by differences in the availability of prey and their distribution in the environment.
10.2307/1565631|External morphology, internal oral anatomy, and chondrocranial anatomy were examined for tadpoles of Hyla geographica from the Amazon rainforest, Brazil, and Hyla semilineata from the Atlantic rainforest, Brazil. Here, we provide morphological larval data to help diagnose these closely related species. Scanning electron microscopy analysis of buccal morphology showed the most distinctive features between these species: the distance between the lingual papillae in the buccal floor of H. geographica is three times greater than that distance in H. semilineata, and the relative size of the lingual papillae in H. geographica is less than half their size in H. semilineata. Although the chondrocranium of both species is identical, and the external morphology of the larvae of both taxa is very similar, they differ greatly in size at most developmental stages. A multivariate analysis of covariance, corrected for stage and size, also showed a significant difference between morphometric measurements of the two species. These differences support the existence of two separate taxa.
43287357|Variation in personality traits is observed commonly in many taxa but has been rarely studied in amphibians. We tested whether individual Bullfrog tadpoles exhibit personality, behaving consistently across multiple trials, and differently from conspecifks. From video footage of individual tadpoles in a familiar (home) environment and a novel environment (open field), we obtained measures of their level of activity, boldness, and exploration behavior over multiple trials. We found that activity level did not differ consistently between individuals. Boldness was moderately repeatable and exploration highly repeatable within individuals across trials, but only exploration varied significantly among individuals. These findings provide evidence of typical personality traits in tadpoles and support the value of Bullfrog tadpoles as model organisms in personality research.
10.2307/1565800|The materials and energy invested in each egg by most oviparous reptiles represent the majority of total parental investment in offspring. For Natator depressus from eastern Queensland, Australia, the shell contributed approximately 5%, the albumin 45%, and the yolk 50% to the total egg mass (74 g). Water averaged 79% of the total egg mass. Lipids averaged 29% of the total dry mass of the egg and 35% of the yolk dry mass. Eggs of N. depressus contained a high proportion of yolk lipids and water, with greater "parental investment" than those of nonmarine turtles. Approximately 26-27% of lipids in the egg was used for embryogenesis, whereas 73-74% was transferred to the entire hatchling. Initial yolk lipid in the residual yolk was approximately 30-37% but varied with incubation environment. Residual yolk lipids are likely to be used as the immediate energy source for the hatchlings.
10.2307/1565419|I constructed Von Bertalanffy growth curves for a population of crested newts (Triturus cristatus) in northern France. Data were collected through capture-recapture of individually recognized newts over a six year period. The assumption that year to year growth diminishes with size following a linear negative relationship was tested and could not be rejected. Observations on seasonal growth were used to estimate average size of one year old juveniles. Inclusion of these data increased the precision with which the parameters in the Von Bertalanffy model were estimated. The parameter defining growth curve shape was not convincingly different for males and females. Asymptotic body size was significantly larger for females than for males. Comparison with growth curves estimated from published data indicated significant differences between populations, with slower growth and smaller size at maturation in Norwegian T. cristatus than in French T. cristatus.
10.2307/1564121|Differential habitat utilization by size classes of map turtles, Graptemys geographica, was examined in the Raystown Branch of the Juniata River, Pennsylvania. A total of 924 captures or sightings was made of 92 males, 76 females, and 11 juveniles. Significant positive relationships were found between size (carapace length) and four variables: distance from shore, water depth, surface current and swimming speed. Medium-sized turtles were pushed off basking sites by large turtles significantly more often than the inverse. Relative swimming speeds, basking interactions, and predator avoidance may all play a role in size-related differential habitat utilization.
10.2307/1565264|Examination and dissection of 216 museum specimens of two species of amphisbaenians (the shovel-snouted Monopeltis anchietae and round-headed Zygaspis quadrifrons) from southern Africa provided data on morphology, sexual dimorphism, reproduction, and dietary habits. The two species differed considerably in absolute size, in body proportions (e.g., head width relative to snout-vent length), and in the degree of sexual dimorphism in these traits. In the relatively heavy-bodied Monopeltis both sexes attained similar body lengths, but females had wider heads than conspecific males. Conversely, in the thin-bodied Zygaspis, females attained larger body sizes than conspecific males, and there was no sexual dimorphism in head size. Clutch sizes were small in both species (means of 2.4 neonates in Monopeltis, 3.3 eggs in Zygaspis) and were not correlated with maternal body size. Termites were the most common prey for both taxa, but a wide variety of other soft-bodied invertebrates (beetle larvae, caterpillars) was also consumed. The two species differed in dietary composition, mean prey size, and in the numbers of prey items per stomach. Stomachs of Monopeltis contained more prey items than stomachs of Zygaspis (means of 72.2 versus 13.0 prey items), and prey ingested by Monopeltis were larger than those of Zygaspis. In Monopeltis, there was a significant positive correlation between predator size and prey number, but larger lizards continued to feed on relatively small prey. The reverse pattern was found in Zygaspis. The substantial differences in trophic biology between these two taxa and other sympatric fossorial reptiles, suggest that adaptations to fossoriality do not constrain ecological diversity within burrowing squamates.
10.2307/1563496|Eremias andersoni is a new species from Descht-i-Kevir desert (Iran). It differs from the closely related psammophile species E. fasciata, E. lineolata and E. scripta by the absence of uninterrupted rows of granules between frontal and frontoparietal shields.
4092895| We describe a new species of Lampropeltis from the Pacific versant of the Sierra Madre Occidental in western Mxico based on external morphology, scutellation, and molecular data. This species appears to be closely related to Lampropeltis pyromelana and Lampropeltis mexicana. Divergence may have resulted from geographic isolation on the west side of the Continental Divide in the Sierra Madre Occidental and subsequent adaptation to a unique ecological region. /// Describimos una nueva especie de Lampropeltis para la vertiente de Pacifico de la Sierra Madre Occidental en el oeste de Mxico, basado en morfologa, escamacin y datos moleculares. Esta especies aparentemente esta muy cercanamente relacionada a Lampropeltis pyromelana y Lampropeltis mexicana. Aislamiento geogrfico del lado oeste de la divisin continental de la Sierra Madre Occidental y adaptaciones consecuentes, pudieron haber dado resultado a la divergencia de otra taxa en esta regin nica. 
10.2307/1564858|The extirpation of Guam's forest avifauna has been attributed to the accidental introduction and subsequent irruption of the brown tree snake, Boiga irregularis. However, recent dietary studies of this nocturnal arboreal snake indicate that it now preys primarily on lizards, not birds. We evaluated the effect the snake has had on Guam's lizards by contrasting lizard communities on Guam with those on adjacent snake-free islands and by comparing the extant lizard communities on Guam with those that were present before the snake arrived. Both comparisons revealed radical reductions in abundance of Guam's native nocturnal lizards and the extirpation of several species. The effect of the snake on diurnal lizards (skinks) is more equivocal. Skinks are still common on Guam, but several species no longer exist on the island. Identification of causes of these extirpations is complicated by the snake's elimination of an important avian skink predator, the concurrent irruption of a shrew, and the effects of predation and competition between the native skinks and an introduced skink.
4093015|Bothrops mattogrossensis occurs in open wet habitats in the Pantanal of western Brazil. As part of a series of studies focusing on how ecological characters evolved in the genus Bothrops, we gathered information on diet, reproduction, and morphology for B. mattogrossensis using museum specimens. Bothrops mattogrossensis has a generalized diet (anurans, small mammals, lizards, snakes, and centipedes), a plesiomorphic character in the genus Bothrops. We found no evidence of an ontogenetic shift in diet from ectothermic to endothermic prey, as observed in other species of Bothrops. Feeding frequency is high (68.8%) compared to other Bothrops spp. Reproduction is seasonal, with a vitellogenic period concentrated at the end of the dry season. Fecundity is relatively high, with clutch size varying from 18-37. Females are significantly larger in snout-vent length and have significantly shorter tails and relatively larger heads than males. Although mostly terrestrial, B. mattogrossensis is relatively slender and has a longer tail than other terrestrial Bothrops, possibly an adaptation for climbing into vegetation during seasonal floods.
23327194|Our objective was to examine breeding dispersal, burrow-use characteristics, and burrow habitat selection by Crawfish Frogs (Lithobates areolatus) in two distinct vegetation types (open grasslands and a mosaic of forest and transitioning grasslands) in southeastern Indiana, from March to August 2009 and 2010. We captured 14 frogs at their breeding ponds and tracked them to their burrows using radio telemetry. Once we identified their burrows, we compared habitat metrics at the burrows to random locations. We used an information-theoretic model selection approach to approximate the parsimony of logistic regression models comparing the habitat features of burrows to random, available sites. Frogs dispersed a straight-line average distance of 215 m and used an average of four burrows. They generally did not change burrows after June. Our top model included covariates for the number of burrows, canopy cover, and a site covariate. Our results suggested that habitat selection by Crawfish Frogs occurred hierarchically; in mixed grassland/forest habitats, they first selected areas with low canopy cover, and then selected areas with many available burrows. To manage habitat for Crawfish Frogs, we recommend preventing woody encroachment and reducing canopy cover in grassland areas occupied by Crawfish Frogs. Additionally, areas with a large number of burrows appear to provide the most suitable Crawfish Frog habitat.
40983595|Many prdation risk factors operate similarly in closely related taxa, but ecological and other differences among prey species may expose them to different risks in similar circumstances. We compared escape responses by the syntopic lizards Sceloporus jarrovii and S. virgatus to similar risk factors: perch height, predator approach speed, predator persistence, and direction of predator turning. Flight initiation distance (predator-prey distance when escape begins) decreased as perch height increased in both species but was shorter in S. virgatus. Sceloporus jarrovii fled except when perch height was above 2 m., but S. virgatus often did not flee even at low perch heights. These differences may reflect lower detectability of S. virgatus, which is difficult to detect on shaded sides of tree trunks and typically escapes without climbing out of reach. Flight initiation distance was greater for the faster and second of two approaches in both species. Sceloporus jarrovii fled more frequently than S. virgatus when a nearby investigator turned away from, but not toward, a lizard. At low perch heights and when a nearby predator moves, the larger S. jarrovii is warier than S. virgatus, which may rely relatively more on crypsis than escape. Similarity of responses to some risks by both species might reflect retention of ancestral behaviors or convergence. Escape differences seem to occur when risk operates differently due to ecological differences, suggesting that aspects of escape may be molded by natural selection with at least partial independence, resulting in escape strategies suitable to the ecologies of each species.
1566084|We compared activity, diving behavior and response to prey by Dermochelys coriacea and Chelonia mydas during their first 8-10 weeks of development. We reared juveniles in the laboratory and, at two-week intervals, released them in the ocean for a brief trial. Each turtle towed a device used to measure its dive profile. All turtles swam throughout their trials, but D. coriacea swam more slowly than C. mydas. Dermochelys coriacea dives had V-shaped profiles and older turtles made longer and deeper (up to 18 m) dives than younger turtles. Chelonia mydas dives were usually shallow (<6 m) and consisted of three (V, S, and U) profiles. Older C. mydas made dives that were longer but only slightly deeper than those of younger turtles. Dermochelys coriacea fed throughout the water column exclusively on gelatinous prey Aurelia, ctenophores, and unidentified gelatinous eggs. Chelonia mydas fed near the surface on floating Thalassia and Sargassum or at shallow depths on ctenophores and unidentified gelatinous eggs but ignored large jellyfish (Aurelia). Thus, early in development the two species overlap in foraging area and in diet. However as D. coriacea grow they dive deeper where prey assemblages probably differ from those in shallow water where C. mydas feed. These distinct behavioral trajectories probably cause the niches of D. coriacea and C. mydas to separate spatially very early in their development.
10.2307/1566122| Male giant bullfrogs Pyxicephalus adspersus exhibit paternal care through construction of channels that guide tadpoles to larger bodies of water. We found the following. These channels (which may exceed 15 m in length) make available cooler water to broods in the rapidly drying breeding puddles that frequently reach critically high temperatures. Eggs of P. adspersus exposed to temperatures above 38C died, a temperature reached in a third of the puddles measured. In contrast, tadpoles readily survived temperatures above 38C, and experiments showed that tadpoles can survive the highest temperatures recorded at the puddles. Males actively defended their offspring against predators and were sometimes killed while performing this behavior. Survival of eggs and larvae in territorial broods was roughly twice that of broods in nonterritorial breeding arenas. The large cost of paternal care in the giant bullfrog is therefore offset by strong fitness gains. We suggest that channel construction and predator defence, crucial for tadpole survival, can be performed most efficiently by large-bodied parents, explaining why males (not the smaller females) perform parental care. 
4498591|The formation of amphibian population structure is directly affected by predation. Although aquatic predators have been shown to have direct negative effects on larval salamanders in laboratory and field experiments, the potential impacts of gape-limited fish on larval salamander growth has been largely underexplored. We designed an enclosure experiment conducted in situ to quantify the effects of gapelimited Brook Trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) on larval Northwestern Salamander (Ambystoma gracile) growth. We specifically tested whether the presence of fish too small to consume larvae had a negative effect on larval growth. The results of this study indicate that the presence of a gape-limited S. fontinalis can have a negative effect on growth of larval A. gracile salamanders.
40060497|We describe a new species of lizard of the genus Liolaemus from northwestern Chubut Province, Argentina. This new species belongs to the fitzingerii group and is easily distinguished from other members of the group by a combination of morphological and genetic characters. The new species is diagnosable in showing the following combination of characters: dorsal pattern with a conspicuous vertebral band, presence of pre- and postscapular spots, prominent neck folds, and analysis of DNA sequence data from 810 base pairs of the cytochrome b gene (~4% sequence divergence from its sister taxa Liolaemus fitzingerii). The fitzingerii complex now includes three described species, all restricted to Patagonia, and the new species described here is endemic to a small lowland area in central Patagonia. /// Describimos una nueva especie de lagartija del gnero Liolaemus para el noroeste de la provincia de Chubut, Argentina. La nueva especie pertenece al grupo fitzingerii y es fcilmente distinguible de otros miembros del grupo por una combinacin de caracteres morfolgicos y genticos. La nueva especie es diagnosticable con la siguiente combinacin de caracteres: diseo dorsal con banda vertebral conspicua, presencia de manchas pre y post escapulares, pliegues del cuello prominentes, y anlisis de datos de secuencia de ADN de 810 pares de base del gen citocromo b (~4% de divergencia de secuencia de su taxa hermano Liolaemus fitzingerii). El complejo fitzingerii incluye ahora tres especies descriptas, todas restringidas a Patagonia. Al presente, la nueva especie es endmica de un rea pequea rodeada por colinas en Patagonia central.
4092977|Vocal advertisement by male anurans can make considerable demands on an individual's energetic reserves and innate physiological resources. In this study, we tested for a relationship between calling and locomotory performance in male Gray Treefrogs, Hyla versicolor. Male vocal activity was monitored in choruses assembled in an artificial pond and call duration and pulse effort used as calling performance metrics. Swimming distance served as our measure of locomotory performance. When males were compared within experimental choruses, there was no tendency for the male that produced the longest calls to swim further than the male that produced the shortest calls. Rather, the opposite was true. When these same males were ranked based on their pulse effort, we found that the male with superior calling performance also performed better in the swimming test than the male that gave fewer total pulses. There was no significant relationship between male condition (weight relative to length) and either calling or swimming performance. We hypothesize that pulse effort, which shows more stability within males under dynamic acoustic situations in choruses than call duration, may better reflect limitations of the cardiovascular and respiratory system than does call duration.
10.2307/1564530|We assessed the relative effectiveness of pitfalls, single-ended, and double-ended funnel traps at 12 replicate sites in sand pine scrub using drift fence arrays. Pitfalls captured fewer species but yielded more individuals of many species and higher average species richness than funnel traps. Pitfalls and funnel traps exhibited differential capture bias probably due to differences in behavior or morphology. More surface-active lizards, frogs, and small semifossorial herpetofaunal species were captured in pitfalls whereas captures of large snake species were restricted to funnel traps. Double-ended funnel traps captured twice as many large snakes as single-ended funnel traps. All three trap types yielded similar estimates of relative abundance of lizards and frogs but not snakes. Estimates of relative abundance of large snakes were higher for double-ended funnel traps than pitfalls or single-ended funnel traps. Pitfall and funnel traps yield complementary results, and choice of type(s) depends on target species and sampling goals.
10.2307/1563644|Fossils recovered from the Lower Miocene (Arikareean) Cabbage Patch Formation of southeastern Montana include four vertebrae that can be assigned to the genera Plethodon and Aneides, family Plethodontidae, although species identification is not possible. Discovery of these fossils corroborates views based on indirect paleobiological evidence that these genera were widely distributed in Central North America in early Tertiary times.
40060472|We surveyed all four extant North America populations of introduced Podarcis (Podarcis muralis and Podarcis sicula) for helminths and hematozoans; both parasite groups infect these lizards in their native European habitats. We found only small numbers of helminths and no hematozoans. We conclude that either these two Podarcis species did not bring many parasites with them, appropriate intermediate hosts are lacking, or that these populations have not been in North America long enough for new parasite faunas to become established.
10.2307/1563071| A virginal, captive raised female Python molurus bivittatus, 347 cm long and weighing 29 kg, mated with a 297 cm, 14.5 kg male. About 114 days after mating, 35 eggs were laid, 34 of which were fertile. The female remained coiled around the eggs for 56 days until they hatched. Intermittent contractions of her body began several hours prior to egg laying and stopped the day after the eggs hatched. Three weeks prior to egg laying, the mean body temperature of the snake was 3.1C higher than that of the substratum. For 46 days after the eggs were laid, the body temperature increased further to 33-33.5C in the morning and 34-34.5C in the evening for 46 days with a mean body-substrate temperature differential of 6.2C. During the last ten days of incubation, the body temperature gradually decreased and reached the normal level of slightly above ambient temperature at the time the eggs hatched. Four of the eggs were removed immediately after laying. Two of these contained 8.3 cm long, living embryos. The other two were incubated artificially at 33.5-34.5C and 95% relative humidity. One of these was opened after 25 days incubation yielding a fetus 28.9 cm long that weighed 17.8 gm. The fourth egg hatched at the same time as those incubated by the female. One of the naturally incubated eggs was opened at 47 days and contained a fetus which was 58 cm long and weighed 100.5 gm. Two fetuses died near term, and two hatchlings had congenital anomalies. Normal young, hatched from the remaining 27 eggs, had an average length of 72 cm and an average weight of 125.5 gm after the first shed. 
40060522|The analysis of stomach contents can shed light on patterns of prey availability and foraging habits of a predator; however, recent studies have shown the potential bias in dietary studies resulting from differential digestion rates of various prey items. The stomachs of 286 Nile Crocodiles (17-166 cm snout-vent length) were lavaged over a two-year period. Taking prey residence times into account, the contents were examined for prey eaten within 24 h. Crocodylus niloticus has a similar ontogenetic shift in diet to that of other crocodilians. Yearlings consumed primarily aquatic insecta and arachnida. As crocodile size increased (juveniles), the diet became more diverse including Crustacea, amphibia, and fish. The largest size class (subadults) consumed primarily fish. Yearlings fed consistently throughout the year; however a higher proportion of empty stomachs occurred within the juvenile and subadult size classes during the winter months. Seven species of nematodes were found within the stomachs, four of which represent new geographic records.
10.2307/1563846|Anolis cybotes of Hispaniola is a member of the predominantly Puerto Rican Anolis cristatellus series based upon osteological interpretation. Albumin immunological distance data suggest that the closest relatives of A. cybotes are not members of the cristatellus series, but are other Hispaniolan anoles assigned to various, supposedly distantly related series, according to the osteological interpretation. This is one of several examples within Anolis of apparent discordance between the osteologically defined groups and groups that can be defined by genetic criteria. We suggest that the classification of Anolis may need critical re-evaluation.
10.2307/1566123|Conservation plans for amphibians often focus on activities at the breeding site, but for species that use terrestrial habitats for much of the year, an understanding of nonbreeding habitat use is also essential. We used radio telemetry to study the postbreeding movements of individuals of the only known population of dark gopher frogs, Rana sevosa, during two breeding seasons (1994 and 1996). Movements away from the pond were relatively short (< 300 m) and usually occurred within a two-day period after frogs initially exited the breeding pond. However, dispersal distances for some individuals may have been constrained by a recent clearcut on adjacent private property. Final recorded locations for all individuals were underground retreats associated with stump holes, root mounds of fallen trees, or mammal burrows in surrounding upland areas. When implementing a conservation plan for Rana sevosa and other amphibians with similar habitat utilization patterns, we recommend that a terrestrial buffer zone of protection include the aquatic breeding site and adjacent nonbreeding season habitat. When the habitat is fragmented, the buffer zone should include additional habitat to lessen edge effects and provide connectivity between critical habitats. For our study site, we recommend a 1000-m buffer zone around the primary breeding site and each of two other potential breeding ponds.
10.2307/1564935|This paper documents changes in the size of a breeding population of Yosemite toads, Bufo canorus, over 20 years at Tioga Pass, California. Surveys of B. canorus numbers in breeding aggregations were made yearly from 1971 to 1982, and less systematic observations were made from 1983 to 1991. Six other populations in the eastern Sierra Nevada were surveyed occasionally from 1973 to 1990. The total number of marked males entering the largest breeding pools at Tioga Pass declined nine-fold from 1974 to 1982. The mean number of toads found in daily searches during breeding also dropped over the 20 year study. Similar declines occurred at smaller breeding sites throughout Tioga Pass Meadow and at the six other populations. In 1990 we found evidence for continued reproduction by B. canorus at all but one location (Sylvester Meadow), although reproduction was minimal at Tioga Pass. No single source of mortality was responsible for all the declines. We interpret the decline in our study populations as caused primarily by drought, disease, and predation. Spring snow depths in 1976, 1977 and 1987-1991 were below the 62 year average, resulting in low tadpole survival. The death of adults from disease at Tioga Pass, and from predation at another site (Mildred Lake) also contributed to the declines. Although habitat destruction and localized human activities were not major factors, some natural variables responsible for the declines may have had anthropogenic components.
10.2307/1565896|Multivariate analysis of snake microhabitat has historically used techniques that were derived under assumptions of normality and common covariance structure (e.g., discriminant function analysis, MANOVA). In this study, polytomous logistic regression (PLR), which does not require such assumptions, was developed to model habitat use patterns from snake radiotelemetry data. Two case study examples were used: the copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix) in a forested habitat in Chesapeake, Virginia, and the cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus piscivorus) in a wetland habitat in Virginia Beach, Virginia. The model was developed based on grid-cell counts of the habitat used by adult snakes that were radiotracked for a minimum of one activity season (early spring through late fall). In addition to PLR modeling, a nonparametric MANOVA procedure based on ranked data from presence versus random sites was developed for comparative purposes. Although results were similar in terms of variables chosen by the models, nonparametric procedures lack predictive power, and conclusions drawn from them are sometimes questionable or difficult to interpret. Polytomous logistic regression provides a useful alternative to traditional modeling approaches that require ancillary data from random sites; PLR requires data only from sites used by snakes, and was developed based on use-intensity categorization. Suggestions for model implementation (e.g., in a GIS) are discussed.
1565782|The scincid genus Tropidophorus is diagnosed by a suite of derived morphological characters, one of which is newly recognized: the corners of the eyelid form within one scale instead of between two. This character occurs elsewhere only in the distantly related Cophoscincopus and may be related to semiaquatic habits of both taxa. For Tropidophorus, we also report a novel arrangement of supraciliary scales in some species, which is potentially useful in inferring intrageneric relationships; a deeply bifurcated hemipenis, confirming the taxon as a member of the Sphenomorphus group of lygosomine skinks; further details of the taxonomic and sexual occurrence of postanal pores in the genus, and the presence of a pale iris, which contrasts with the dark iris of most other members of the Sphenomorphus group. We also note patterns of endemism in the genus and an unusual disjunction in the distribution.
10.2307/1564739|Loggerhead sea turtles nesting in Florida sometimes deposit their clutches on urban beaches. This study was undertaken at a city beach to determine correlations between physical variables and where nests were placed. Over a four year period, the distribution of nests on the beach was statistically identical. Nesting density variation at particular sites was unrelated to offshore depth profiles or to beach width, but was strongly correlated with the presence of tall objects (clusters of mature Australian pine trees and rows of multi-storied condominiums) located between the beach and the city. There are no reports that females nest preferentially in front of tall objects (dune or vegetation) at natural rookeries. The response may be unique to urban rookeries where the nesting habitat is exposed to artificial lighting. Tall buildings and trees shielded the beach from city light, with the magnitude of the effect (and the number of nests) positively related to object elevation. Planting vegetation and reestablishing dunes on urban beaches may be effective methods for attracting nesting turtles to these sites.
25599183|All animals studied to date exhibit sleep or sleeplike behavior, but sleeping animals are at risk because they are generally unaware of and unresponsive to the environment. Selection should favor animals that make good trade-offs between sleep attributes (e.g., location, timing, duration) and predation risk; in other words, sleep should be facultative. The few studies that document sleep plasticity in response to predation risk have focused on endothermic vertebrates. We tested the hypothesis that a representative ectothermic vertebrate, the Desert Iguana (Dipsosaurus dorsalis), exhibits behavioral sleep plasticity in response to predation risk. We found a reduction (>50%) in total sleep time during daylight when Desert Iguanas were exposed continuously to a Sidewinder (Crotalus cerastes) in a laboratory setting. During asynchronous eye closure (ASEC) bouts, the eye of the iguana distant to the Sidewinder was more often closed, whereas the proximal eye was more often open, suggesting unihemispheric sleep (which has not been confirmed yet in reptiles) to maintain vigilance. Desert Iguanas spent more time aboveground and less time within their burrows when the Sidewinder was present. Snake activity was minimal, with movements occurring just 1.1% of the time, suggesting that iguanas were not merely responding to a moving object. Our findings suggest that Desert Iguanas will forgo sleep and remain vigilant when the potential for predation is increased. These findings illustrate the importance of ecology in shaping the behavior and probably the associated physiological and neurological attributes of sleep in ectothermic vertebrates.
10.2307/1563246| The Puerto Rican lizards Anolis gundlachi and A. cristatellus are parapatric. The former is restricted to the upland rainforest interior. The latter is widespread in the lowlands and is found in open upland areas. The two species were maintained in simulated winter rainforest conditions (16C, high humidity, photoperiod LD 12: 12) for 19 days with ad lib feeding. All A. cristatellus either died or lost weight, while all A. gundlachi survived. We conclude that A. cristatellus may be physiologically excluded from rainforest regions because of low temperature intolerance. 
40060449|Bite force capacity is a directly related performance correlate of head shape and is an integrative measure of performance in capturing and handling prey, fighting, and mating, especially for males. We investigated head shape and bite force dimorphisms in a small semifossorial lizard (Elgaria coerulea) that exhibits females-larger sexual size dimorphism (FL-SSD) in some populations but not in others. Specifically, we explored how body size, head shape, and bite force compare between the sexes relative to any dimorphisms in body or head size in a coastal population of E. coerulea. Female larger-SSD was confirmed for this population, but it contrasted with males-larger sexual dimorphism in head size (ML-SDHS). Males also had greater bite force than females of similar size. The secretive habit of E. coerulea hampers observations of behavioral interactions among conspecifics. However, it is expected that lizards with FL-SSD will have ML-SDHS if males with greater bite force win fights with other males over access to mates and/or if greater bite force increases copulation success.
4092898|Four new species of Cnemaspis are described from the Mentawai and adjacent archipelagos along the northwest to the southwest coast of Sumatra, Republic of Indonesia, and one each from Simeulue, Nias, Siberut, and Enggano. These populations were allocated by earlier workers to Cnemaspis kandiana (Kelaart, 1852), a Sri Lankan highland endemic. The high levels of endemicity of the fauna of these islands have been attributed to their geographical isolation, historical lack of aridity, and effects of glacial emergence of the Sunda Shelf caused by its maritime climate.
10.2307/1563803| Cloacal and environmental temperatures of 512 wild spotted turtles, Clemmys guttata, from southeastern Pennsylvania were recorded during various phases of their normal activities: basking, feeding, moving in water or on land, dormant in water of both high and low temperatures, and courtship, mating and nesting. The mean cloacal temperature for activity was calculated as approximately 20.16C and the normal activity range 3-32C. Cloacal temperatures were closely correlated to those of the environment during all activities. Males fed and were otherwise more active than females in waters of cooler temperatures (P < 0.05), but this was probably due to females remaining active longer into the warmer parts of the annual cycle. Clemmys guttata are often active at water temperatures of about 5C in early spring. They become dormant when water temperatures reach about 30C in June, and also shift their diel activity cycle from afternoon to morning as summer approaches. Feeding begins when water temperatures reach 14C. Reproductive activity may occur at cloacal temperatures as low as 8C in water of 8.5C. Clemmys guttata behaviorally thermoregulate by basking in cooler weather, and by burrowing into the soft bottom of a waterway or entering muskrat burrows and lodges to avoid extreme hot and cold conditions. 
25599237|At least 25,000 playa wetlands exist in the Southern Great Plains, and most are embedded in cropland-dominated watersheds, resulting in sediment-induced alterations in hydrology and potential contamination from agricultural chemicals. These stressors have been hypothesized or shown experimentally to affect the development and function of the immune system of amphibians. We hypothesized an association between land use and immune function in playa amphibians. We compared body mass index (body mass/SVL), spleen mass index (spleen mass/SVL), and splenocyte count index (splenocyte count/SVL) in three developmental stages (tadpoles, metamorphs, juveniles) of Spea bombifrons and Spea multiplicata collected from playas embedded in either cropland or native grassland watersheds. Body mass indices of S. bombifrons and S. multiplicata tadpoles collected from grassland playas were 39% and 29% greater, respectively, than those from cropland playas. Similar responses were observed for spleen mass and cellularity in both species, as spleen mass indices and spleen cellularity indices of S. bombifrons tadpoles from grassland playas were 330% and 1,000% greater, respectively, than for tadpoles collected from cropland playas. Spleen mass and cellularity of S. multiplicata also were influenced by land use, but unlike S. bombifrons, differences were of a lower magnitude and more consistent across developmental stages. This is the first field study to link habitat alteration with altered immune system development in amphibians.
10.2307/1564123|The bullfrog, Rana catesbeiana, achieved an average adult density of 9.1 per linear kilometer in the lower Colorado River between Laguna and Morelos dams, Arizona-California, during the summer of 1981. Significantly greater numbers of frogs were observed in transects with 50% or more bank cover provided by reeds (Phragmites australis and Arundo donax), and/or less than 50% open bank. Food habit analyses added new records of muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) and rattlesnake (Crotalus atrox), to prey items of the bullfrog. We compare bullfrog breeding behavior in riverine and lentic populations.
41415241|Corucia zebrata (Scincidae) is endemic to the Solomon Archipelago and widely distributed across the island group. Corucia is evolutionarily distinct and diverged from its nearest relatives about 30 MYA. Little is known about its life history, basic ecology, or behavior in the wild. We conducted a six-week study of movement patterns of C. zebrata on the island of Ugi to determine home-range sizes and overlap among conspecifics. Twenty-five lizards were fitted with radio transmitters and were followed for periods of 5-38 days. Telemetry results indicated that the average home range over the period studied was equivalent to the canopy of one tree. Radio-tagged individuals were located more often in the canopy than on the trunk of the tree, where humans typically search for the lizards. The home range is smaller than expected for a similar-sized herbivorous lizard occupying a terrestrial habitat, but the small home range is consistent with results from other arboreal animals. The study increased our knowledge of the behavior and habitat preferences of an ecologically unusual lizard species. We noted that conventional survey methods, searching tree trunk habitats, have low detection probability, an important consideration for further ecological studies of the species, in particular for the purpose of assessing its conservation status.
40060523|The use of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) as a measure of developmental instability, and its relationship to stress and fitness, is highly controversial. Here, we present results from a preliminary study comparing levels of asymmetry in various characteristics between two island populations of the Italian Wall Lizard (Podarcis sicula), one of which was recently founded. We relate individual asymmetry to several measures of physiological performance. Levels of FA varied clearly among the traits studied. Repeatability of FA estimates was high for meristic traits but low for metric traits. Levels of FA were on average higher in the newly founded population. We found a significant decrease in exertion (time until exhaustion by continuously chasing) with increasing levels of fluctuating asymmetry (i.e., more symmetric individuals had a higher exertion). Speed of locomotion showed a positive trend with increasing FA. No relationship was found between individual levels of FA and bite force. These results suggest that FA estimates, based on the accurate measurement of several traits, may be useful in explaining differences in developmental stability and physiological performance at the individual and population level.
41415284|Recent literature on foraging in Hawksbill Sea Turtles in the Caribbean region concludes that prey selectivity is a combination of preference for certain prey species and their local abundance. In this study, prey selectivity patterns were measured in five juvenile Hawksbill Sea Turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) aggregations in the Culebra Archipelago, Puerto Rico, and the hypothesis that juvenile Hawksbill Sea Turtles exhibit selectivity for certain prey items independent of their environmental availability was tested. Hawksbill Sea Turtles showed positive selection for the corallimorph Ricordea florida, which was rare in all four study sites, and for the alga Lobophora variegata, that was abundant in one site. Turtles exhibited low preference for the sponge Chondrilla nucula, the most common prey item in both diet samples and the environment at all study sites. Low preference for this sponge corresponds to its high availability in the environment. Turtles also exhibited low preference for the sponge Cinacy relia sp. and the branching anemone Lebrunia danae. That juvenile hawksbills exhibited strong positive selectivity for rare items indicates that diet selection is not necessarily related to the abundance of the items in the environment. In addition, spatial variability in diet composition among Hawksbill Sea Turtles in the Culebra Archipelago indicates plasticity in their foraging habits.
10.2307/1563093|Large samples of larval Pseudotriton ruber were taken from populations in the Blue Ridge Mountains of North and South Carolina. Data on the larval phase were obtained through analyses of frequency distributions of snout-vent lengths. Hatching takes place in late autumn and winter, following a presumed autumn egg-laying period. Metamorphosis occurs in late spring and early summer of the third year, upon completion of a larval period of 27-31 months. The larval growth rate varies seasonally, and is higher in the warmer months. Annual larval survivorship is estimated to be 50 per cent. A survey of the meager literature suggests only slight variation in these aspects of the life cycle for widely separated populations of P. ruber.
10.2307/1564828|A new species of Oreolalax is described from southwestern Sichuan, China. The species is distinguished from its many congeners in Sichuan by its small size (males = 50 mm SVL), smooth dorsum, and its black-spotted body. Unlike all other congeners, tadpoles of the new form have black spots on the body and tail.
10.2307/1564763| The status of the American alligator in a man-made reservoir in South Carolina was determined through the use of mark-recapture and mark-resighting techniques. Results were compared to studies conducted during the 1970s to determine changes in population size, population structure, and number of nests. Over the last 14 years the number of alligators in Par Pond has more than doubled (from an estimated 110 to 266), and the size structure of the population has shifted from one with a high proportion of large adults to one with a high proportion of juveniles (1.8 m). The sex ratio of animals captured from 1986-1989 (2.6 male: 1 female) was similar to that found in the 1970s (3.2:1; Murphy, 1977). The number of nests and the number of successful nests was variable among years, ranging from no nests in 1986 to 8 nests in 1988 for an average of 4.0 nests per year, an increase from the 2.3 observed during the 1970s. Overall, the alligator population in Par Pond appears to be quite healthy, showing an overall average annual exponential rate of increase (r.p.a) of 6% and a juvenile r.p.a. of 10%. It is expected that the population will continue to increase in size, but that the average annual exponential rate of increase will decrease as the carrying capacity of Par Pond is reached. 
41415244|How habitat edges affect the spatial dynamics of snakes has become an increasingly popular subject because of a massive increase in anthropogenic edges in many landscapes. Here, we used a novel randomization-based procedure to examine patterns of edge association for the Timber Rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) within upland forest in St. Louis County, Missouri. For each set of locations, the minimal distance from each location to the nearest edge feature was measured, averaged, and compared to an expected null distribution of average minimal distances (AMDs) under the assumption that points are randomly located with respect to edges. The significance of the observed value was estimated by determining the proportion of AMDs from the randomized set that were equal to or less than the observed average distance. Results indicated considerable variation from year to year in test results for individuals, resulting in variation in the results of combined significance tests for subgroups (i.e., males, females, and gravid females). Although results for different edge types were not compared statistically, our results indicated that individuals were found most frequently in nonrandom proximity to fence edges. In general, results were consistent with previous studies of habitat selection in midwestern snakes, which failed to find a consistent association between snakes and edges.
10.2307/1563548|A population of leafnose snakes from Isla Monserrate, Gulf of California, Mexico was recently described as Phyllorhynchus arenicolus Savage and Cliff. The nomenclatorial status of this population has since been questioned but without supportive evidence. This population was electrophoretically compared with populations of P. decurtatus on the peninsula of Baja California and with a population on a landbridge island, Isla San Marcos. The genetic comparisons based on the gene products of 29 presumptive loci do not support recognition of the Isla Monserrate population as a valid species. It is recommended that the insular population be referred to P. decurtatus arenicolus.
10.2307/1565143| Character variation was analyzed with univariate and multivariate methods in populations of Bothrops from the Andean piedmont (N = 37) and nearby upper llanos (N = 19) communities of western Venezuela in an area of suspected sympatry between Bothrops atrox and B. asper. In an atrox-asper affinity gradient created with four currently-used specific diagnostic characters, 80% of the specimens were intermediate, and no character suite or single character separated the snakes into two discrete taxonomic units. Specimens from these populations represent one species, B. atrox, rather than two sympatric ones. Character variation in these populations is complex, and a summary table of sexual, ontogenetic, and geographical relations to variation of 13 characters is presented. An elevational and geographical trend exists in several size-independent characters; a greater frequency of rectangular to trapezoidal blotches, tendencies to heavier ventral mottling, and higher interocular number are observed in the piedmont population than in the llanos, where trends to contrasting character states occur. These character states are discordant in specimens of each population. We hypothesize that such phenotypic differentiation is related to different biotic selection regimes associated with the llanos and piedmont communities. A previously described species, Bothrops isabelae Sandner-Montilla, from this area in Venezuela is recognized as a synonym of Bothrops atrox. Results from our study suggest that such comprehensive populational studies have more potential than a traditional range-wide variational approach for resolution of the atrox-asper problem. /// La variacin de carcter se analiz con mtodos univariate y multivariate en las poblaciones Bothrops del piedemonte andino (N = 37) y en comunidades prximas a los llanos superiores (N = 19) de la parte occidental de Venezuela, en un rea de supuesta simpatry de Bothrops atrox y Bothrops asper. En una pendiente de afinidad atrox-asper creada con cuatro caracteres diagnsticos especficos usados actualmente, 80% de los especimenes eran intermedios y ninguna serie de carcter o carcter individual separada las serpientes en dos unidades taxonmicas distintas. Los especmenes de estas poblaciones no representan dos especies simptricas sino ms bien, una sola, Bothrops atrox. La variacin de carcter de estas poblaciones es compleja, y se presenta una tabla sumaria de las relaciones sexuales, ontogenticas, y relaciones geogrficas con variacin de 13 caracteres. Se observa una tendencia altitudinal y geogrfica en varios caracteres de dimensin independiente, de modo que se da una proporcon ms grande de especmenes con manchas rectangulares/trapezoidales, con tendencias a manchas ventrales y un nmero ms elevado de interoculares en el piedemonte que en la poblacin de los llanos, donde se observan tendencias a condiciones de carcter opuesto. Estos caracteres son discordantes en cada poblacin. Suponemos que estas diferencias pueden estar relacionadas con presiones de seleccin asociadas con las comunidades de los llanos y del piedemonte. Una especie descrita anteriormente, Bothrops isabelae Sandner-Montilla, de este rea de Venezuela se reconoce como un sinnimo de Bothrops atrox. Los resultados de nuestro estudio sugieren que estudios comprensivos de poblacin tienen ms potencial que un enfoque tradicional de variacin de rea para resolver el problema atrox-asper. 
10.2307/1563168|In crocodilians, reflexes of the eye, external auditory meatus and external nares are activated at submergence. Observations of the reflexes of the eyelids and external auditory meatus of immobilized Caiman sclerops to rising and lowering water levels and squirts of water into the eye and external auditory meatus demonstrated a dependence of external auditory meatus opening and closure on eyelid opening and closure. Analysis of filmed observations of changing water levels showed that tension developed in the lower eyelid was paralleled by movement in the inferior ear flap; e.g. closure of the lower eyelid resulted in movement of the inferior ear flap to close the external auditory meatus. These results support the notion of a mechanical dependence of external auditory meatus width change solely upon the movement of the lower eyelid.
43287309|The Eastern Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis) is a large, completely aquatic salamander native to the eastern United States. Hellbender populations have experienced numerical declines and range contractions over a large geographic area, but few demographic data are available to allow biologists to diagnose specific causes of the declines. We estimated survival of Hellbenders in Indiana using radio telemetry. We monitored 21 adult eastern Hellbenders during July 2008-October 2009 and documented three mortalities. Using a known-fate model, we estimated annual survival as 0.804 (0.089 SE). This estimate is lower than expected for a long-lived species and signals the continued decline of Hellbenders in Indiana. Estimates of survivorship such as this provide baseline data for translocation programs and are useful in parameterizing population models.
10.2307/1564221|Morphoclines for the front and rear limb bone configurations in the sand-swimming lizard genus Lerista trace only a very narrow pathway through morphological space. The morphoclines are generally finely-graded and linear, except for one mutually exclusive pair of osteological configurations in the manus and one in the pes. These alternative states plus the occurrence of adult configurations not seen in the development of generally primitive tetrapods suggest that limb reduction in Lerista is not simply the global truncation of a primitive developmental sequence. A circumstantial argument is made for the functional significance of at least some of the observed morphology: the condition of near or complete absence of the front limb in conjunction with the retention of two toes on the rear limb is common in Lerista and two other skink lineages inhabiting fine, loosely-consolidated sand. The various configurations in the Lerista morphoclines are disproportionately represented by species; this may reflect speciation opportunities in various habitats. Numbers of postsacral vertebrae are not sexually dimorphic. Coefficients of variation of postsacral vertebrae exceed those for presacral vertebrae, reflecting inversely the relative functional importance of the two parts of the vertebral column. In interspecific comparisons, the number of phalanges in the pes is positively correlated with the number of phalanges in the manus and negatively correlated with the numbers of presacral and postsacral vertebrae. Functionally, this reflects the supplementary relationship between the modalities of limbed locomotion (phalanges) and the complementary relationship between the modalities of limbed and trunk locomotion (vertebrae).
10.2307/1564389|This study describes diel variation in differences between head and body temperatures of garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis, T. elegans) at a communal den in spring. Snakes emerged with low oral and cloacal temperatures but rapidly reached normal activity temperatures and maintained those temperatures with only a slight decline during the day. Oral temperatures were frequently much higher than cloacal temperatures during the heating phase, but were only moderately higher thereafter. The occurrence of "head basking" behavior suggests that differences between head and body temperatures are in part the result of activities of the snakes and not just the passive result of differential warming rates due to differences between size of head and body.
40060521|Crocodilians communicate with each other using stereotyped acoustic and visual signals that convey reproductive, territorial, and other information. I mapped 14 such behavioral characters onto a phylogeny of seven crocodilian species to determine behavioral homologies, under the assumption that such behaviors are heritable. The results indicate that the following are ancestral behaviors for Alligatoridae + Crocodylidae and, therefore, were present by the Late Cretaceous: intraegg vocalization; juvenile distress calls; circling during courtship; head-emergent tail-arched posture; snout lifting; head slapping; inflated posture; narial geysering; bubbling; mutual snout-rubbing; and rubbing the snout on the dorsal surface of an intended mate. Ancestral (Late Cretaceous) courtship behaviors of the clade included circling, narial geysering, bubbling, mutual snout rubbing, and rubbing the snout on the dorsal surface of the intended mate. The headslap-roar is an ancestral advertisement display for the clade represented by Crocodylus acutus, Crocodylus moreletii, and Crocodylus intermedius and was present by the Pliocene. The behavior of many crocodilian species has been little studied, and it is possible that the picture presented here will change with the addition of data from more crocodilian species.
10.2307/1565248| The holotype of Stenocercus marmoratus is redescribed, and morphological variation is documented for this poorly known tropidurid lizard. Stenocercus marmoratus has a more extensive distribution than previously thought and inhabits subhumid habitats of the Andes from Cochabamba, Bolivia to northernmost Argentina. Dumril and Bibron are the authors of the name marmoratus and not D'Orbigny as believed by some revisors of this species. A key to the genus Stenocercus in Bolivia and Argentina is provided. 
10.2307/1564251|Many field studies of lizard behavior have reported that males perch higher than females. Some workers have suggested that this difference is a means of eliminating competition between the sexes for food items when food is scarce (food-competition avoidance hypothesis). Other workers have suggested that sexual differences in social behavior, e.g., male territoriality, are responsible (social-role hypothesis). To test these hypotheses, pairs of tree lizards, Urosaurus ornatus, were placed in outdoor enclosures and provided daily with excess food. Their heights on 2-m tall cinder-block posts were recorded throughout the morning hours every 30 min for nine days during and for nine days after the reproductive season. The males perched an average of 29 cm higher than the females during the reproductive season (a significant difference), but only 17 cm higher during the post-reproductive period (not significantly different). Most of the reduction in distance between the sexes was due to the increased perching height of the females. I interpret these data as supporting the social-role hypothesis, and provide several suggestions to explain the increase in perch height of the females after the breeding season.
10.2307/1563871| In arid habitats surface activity of spadefoot toads (Scaphiopus) is restricted to short periods following rains; the rest of the year is spent inactive underground. Therefore the perception of favorable conditions for emergence is critical to their survival. The environmental factors that may influence the emergence of Scaphiopus couchi and S. multiplicatus were studied. Low frequency sound (probably below 100 Hz) was the only primary emergence cue we identified for S. couchi. This stimulus alone was sufficient to elicit emergence from dormancy in deep burrows as well as from shallow summer burrows. These toads were extremely sensitive: less than 0.5 mm (0.02 in) of rain elicited 95% emergence from shallow summer burrows in roofed enclosures where no water reached the soil. Vibration from an electric motor consistently induced nearly 100% emergence from dormancy under very arid conditions-15% relative humidity, 30C air and soil temperatures, and -15 atmospheres soil moisture tension. The only other factor that had a discernible effect on emergence was soil temperature below about 20C, which inhibited the response to sound. Increasing soil temperature and wetting the soil to less than saturation failed to break dormancy in the absence of a sound stimulus. 
10.2307/1565121| Nineteen samples of Cnemidophorus tigris gracilis (119 clutches) and 11 samples of C. t. septentrionalis (127 clutches), covering latitudinal and elevational gradients of approximately 8.3 and 1669 m, were used to examine the relationship of clutch size with body size of reproductive females and elevation, latitude, and mean annual precipitation of collecting sites. Of the four independent variables, body size and elevation had significant linear relationships with clutch size. Reproductive females of C. t. septentrionalis have larger bodies and produce larger clutches, on average, than reproductive females of C. t. gracilis. The difference in clutch size remained significant when body size was held constant in an analysis of covariance, but became nonsignificant with elevation as the covariate. In general, C. t. gracilis occupies lower elevational habitats, while the range of C. t. septentrionalis includes higher elevations. The simultaneous presence of yolked ovarian follicles and oviductal eggs in two individuals from southern populations of C. t. septentrionalis suggests a retained potential to produce multiple clutches. We conclude that the production of one relatively large clutch per season in C. t. septentrionalis rather than several smaller clutches (sensu C. t. gracilis) represents a phenotypically plastic response to elevation (climatic regimen) rather than being genetically fixed in this taxon. 
10.2307/1564908| The reproductive patterns of Tupinambis rufescens have not been described. The present study had three objectives: (1) to describe the reproductive and fat body cycles of T. rufescens from our study site in the dry chaco of Argentina; (2) to elucidate and analyze the distribution of sizes at which female T. rufescens reach sexual maturity; and (3) to discuss the conservation implications of the reproductive cycle of T. rufescens. Oviductal width increased significantly after females reached 320 mm SVL, and we presumed the increase was due to stretching of the oviducts in females that had been gravid. Seventy-eight percent of the females >319 mm snout-vent length (SVL) and 84.3% >349 mm SVL possessed oviducts >3.5 mm wide, our criterion for indicating a female had reproduced, while only 6.9% of the females <320 mm SVL had oviducts wider than 3.5 mm. Additionally, all the oviducts >3.5 mm wide were convoluted, while all the narrower oviducts were straight or striated. The reproductive and fat body cycles of T. rufescens at our study site were characteristic of lizards from seasonal environments, and appeared closely tied to the onset of the rainy season and increasing spring temperatures. Mature females exhibited significantly longer ovaries in November than in other months, and nesting was observed in November and December. The average clutch size was 21.4, and the smallest female we found with eggs was 330 mm SVL. Testis mass was significantly greater in November than in other months, and declined slightly throughout the activity season. Some gonadal development in males presumably occurred while the lizards were inactive during winter. Fat body volume was tightly linked to the gonadal cycle of both males and females. Females apparently allocated fat stores to developing eggs, while males probably used fat stores for spermatogenesis or for meeting the energetic demands of mate seeking. Large numbers of Tupinambis are exploited for their skins, and this study provides life history information needed to develop scientifically-based management plans, for example, the size distribution of reproductive females, the timing of reproduction, and clutch size. Based on our analyses, management strategies aimed at harvesting adults and subadults could be evaluated because the proportions of the harvest comprised of adults can be reliably determined. We recommend that strategies aimed at classifying harvests according to adults and subadults use 350 mm SVL as a cut-off point for mature females. /// Los patrones reproductivos de Tupinambis rufescens no han sido descritos. El presente estudio tuvo tres objetivos: (1) describir los ciclos reproductivos y de cuerpos grasos de T. rufescens de nuestro sitio de estudio en el chaco semirido de Argentina; (2) determinar y analizar la distribucin de tamaos a los cuales las hembras de T. rufescens llegan a la madurez sexual; y (3) discutir las implicaciones de manejo que tienen ciclos reproductivos de T. rufescens. El ancho del oviducto aument significativamente en hembras >320 mm largo hocico-ano (LHA), supuestamente debido al estiramiento de los oviductos en hembras que fueron grvidas. Setenta y ocho porciento de las hembras >319 mm LHA y 84.3% >349 mm LHA tuvieron oviductos >3.5 mm, nuestro criterio para indicar que una hembra se ha reproducido, mientras solo 6.8% de las hembras <320 mm LHA tuvieron oviductos >3.5 mm. Los ciclos reproductivos y de cuerpos grasos de T. rufescens en nuestro sitio de estudio fueron tipicos de lagartos de ambientes estacionales, correlacionados con el comienzo de la poca lluviosa y al aumento de las temperaturas durante la primavera. Las hembras maduras mostraron ovarios significativamente mas largos en noviembre que en los otros meses, y la nidificacin fue mayor en noviembre y diciembre. El tamao de postura promedio fue 21.4 y la hembra mas pequea que encontramos con huevos medi 330 mm LHA. El peso testicular fue significativamente mayor en noviembre, y desminuy durante diciembre hasta marzo. Aparentemente ocurri desarrollo gonadal en machos durante el periodo de inactividad de los lagartos en el invierno. El volumen de cuerpos grasos se encuentra estrechamente vinculado al ciclo gonadal de machos y hembras. Las hembras aparentamente asignaron las reservas grasas al desarrollo de los huevos, mientras los machos probablemente usaron la grasa para espermiogenesis o para alcanzar las demandas energticas de buscar pareja. Grandes nmeros de Tupinambis son explotados debido a su piel, y este estudio provee informacin necesaria para desarrollar modelos de manejo racional, por ejemplo la distribucin de tamao de hembras reproductivas, el periodo de reproduccin y el tamao de postura. Recomendamos que estratgias de manejo con el objeto de cosechar adultos y subadultos usan 350 mm LHA como limite para clasificar hembras maduras. 
10.2307/1564642| We studied the excavation and nesting behavior of pine snakes (Pituophis m. melanoleucus) in the New Jersey Pine Barrens from 1977-1989. Females excavate a tunnel and nest chamber for egg laying. Females initially make slight depressions in the sand (pre-test holes, 22%), then construct small test holes (16%), and finally excavate long tunnels leading to nest burrows (62%). Test holes and nests did not differ in most external characteristics (dump pile size, entrance size), although they did differ in soil moisture at the end of the tunnel, mean tunnel length, and number of turns. Mean clutch size was 9.5  0.3 (range 4-16), and was related to female snout-vent length (r = 0.60, P < 0.001). 
10.2307/1564442|Growth of box turtles (Terrapene c. carolina) in a bottomland forest in Maryland was studied over a period of years (1944-1981). A bivariate analysis of age related growth showed that between 8 and 13 yr, male turtles grew at an average rate of 6.7% per yr in carapace length, whereas females grew at 5.3% per yr. Both males and females grew considerably more slowly between 14 and 19 yr, males at 2.3% per yr and females at 3.4% per yr. Growth slowed still more in the twenties. Growth in the six other dimensions that were measured provided additional comparisons. Allometric analysis of the different carapace and plastron dimensions showed that among males length increased proportionally more than either width or height and that width increased more than height. Among females, only the greater increase of length than of width was statistically significant. Fully grown males were larger than females in all dimensions except height. Differences from the normal scutal pattern occurred in 16.8% of fully grown males and 18.4% of the females.
1566099|Eastern Fence Lizards (Sceloporus undulatus) in middle Tennessee are commonly parasitized by chiggers (Acari: Trombiculidae), but little is known about the ecological significance of this host-parasite system. Thus, I sampled S. undulatus and their habitats monthly to determine the seasonal pattern in chigger abundance and infestation intensity. Chigger abundance was low (mean = 1.8 chiggers) in the spring (April and May), eightfold higher throughout the summer, and declined sixfold in the fall (September and October). In general, infestation intensities on S. undulatus (males, females, and juveniles) followed the same pattern except that mean infestation intensity of males declined during the summer in spite of persistently high chigger abundance. The results of this study suggest that seasonal changes in chigger abundance are a major factor influencing infestation intensities on S. undulatus.
10.2307/1565263|Loggerhead sea turtles (Caretta caretta) nest in numerous substrate and beach types within the Ten Thousand Islands (TTI) of southwest Florida. Nest-site selection was analyzed on 12 islands within this archipelago. Physical characteristics of beaches were recorded to identify the relatedness of these variables and to determine their importance for nest-site selection in C. caretta. These characteristics included ordinal aspect, beach length, height of canopy, beach width, overall slope (beach slope and slope of offshore approach), and sand samples analyzed for pH, water content, organic content, shelliness (% of calcium carbonate content), and particle size (8 size classes). All physical variables, as well as nesting densities and locations, were included in a tree regression model to examine nest-site selection. In the TTI, loggerheads use wide beaches (>8.5 m) that inherently have less slope and, secondarily, wide beaches that have less shells (low amounts of calcium carbonate; >8.5 m) in the nesting substrate. In addition, C. caretta nest sites were located within or in close proximity to the supra-littoral vegetation zone of beaches in the TTI.
1566139| Like many Neotropical frogs, a number in the genus Eleutherodactylus have declined or gone extinct in the past two decades. However, the extent of Eleutherodactylus population declines is unknown. Our objective was to identify a good method for monitoring the density of Eleutherodactylus populations to assess the extent of declines. We did this in two ways. First, we compared two methods of directly estimating density, closed population capture-recapture analysis and distance sampling, and one method of indirectly estimating density, visual encounter surveys, for multiple Eleutherodactylus species at three sites in Ecuador. We then conducted a power analysis to estimate the power of our current sampling design to detect declines. Distance sampling estimates of density were biased low compared to capture-recapture estimates. When we corrected this bias, distance sampling estimates became imprecise. Estimates of density from visual encounter surveys were also imprecise. In contrast, capture-recapture estimates were fairly precise and most likely unbiased. Moreover, capture-recapture analysis had the most power to detect declines, although even with capture-recapture analysis, power was low with only five years of sampling. We conclude that capture-recapture analysis is a good method for monitoring Eleutherodactylus density over time, but the sampling area and/or the number of sampling occasions should be increased from the area and number of occasions used here in order to increase sample sizes and therefore power. /// Como muchas especies de ranas y sapos neotropicales, varias ranas en el gnero Eleutherodactylus han disminudo en nmero o se han extinguido en las ltimas dos dcadas, pero no se sabe en que magnitud han disminuido. Nuestro objetivo fue identificar un buen mtodo para monitorear la densidad de poblaciones de Eleutherodactylus y de esa forma evaluar la magnitud de sus disminuciones. Esto lo hicimos de dos maneras. Primero, comparamos dos mtodos para estimar la densidad directamente, capturarecaptura para poblaciones cerradas y el muestreo de distancia, y un mtodo para estimar densidad indirectamente, registro de encuentros visuales en transectos, en varias especies de Eleutherodactylus en tres sitios en Ecuador. Luego hicimos un anlisis de poder para estimar el poder estadstico de nuestro diseo de muestreo actualizado para percibir disminuciones. Los clculos del muestreo de distancia tenan un sesgo a la baja comparados a los clculos de captura-recaptura. Cuando corregimos este sesgo, los clculos de muestreo de distancia se volvieron imprecisos. Tambin, los clculos de registro de encuentros visuales en transectos fueron imprecisos. Los clculos de captura-recaptura fueron medianamente precisos y probablemente no tuvieron sesgos a la baja o a la alta. Adems, el anlisis de captura-recaptura tena el poder estadstico ms alto para percibir disminuciones, aunque el poder fue bajo despus de cinco aos de muestreo. Concluimos que el anlisis de captura-recaptura es un buen mtodo para monitorear la densidad de Eleutherodactylus a travs del tiempo, pero el rea de muestreo y/o el nmero de ocasiones de muestreo deben ser incrementados en relacin al rea y el nmero de ocasiones que usamos para aumentar tamaos de muestras y poder. 
10.2307/1565961|We report a phylogenetic analysis of approximately 1330 bases of mitochondrial DNA sequence for eight species of the Anolis roquet series (Anolis aeneus, Anolis bonairensis, Anolis extremus, Anolis griseus, Anolis luciae, Anolis richardi, Anolis roquet, Anolis trinitatus). These data contain 410 characters that are parsimony informative for the A. roquet series plus three outgroup species. A parsimony analysis of these data, combined with previously published allozymic data, reveals a single most parsimonious tree with strong support for seven internal branches. Anolis bonairensis and A. luciae are sister taxa and together form a sister taxon to a group containing the other species. Relationships among A. griseus, A. trinitatus, and a clade containing the remaining species are unresolved. Within the latter clade, A. richardi is the sister taxon to a group containing A. aeneus, A. extremus, and A. roquet, with the latter two species being sister taxa. Reanalysis of previously published allozymic data produces no conflicts with the mtDNA tree for well-supported branches. Parsimony analysis of the combined allozymic and DNA data gives a tree identical in topology to the tree resulting from the DNA analysis alone. In contrast to earlier studies, our phylogenetic analyses indicate that neither the small-bodied (A. aeneus, A. trinitatus) nor the large-bodied (A. griseus, A. richardi) species form monophyletic groups.
1566048| Herein is described a new species of leptodactylid frog from Pedra Azul, Municipality of Domingos Martins, State of Esprito Santo, southeastern Brazil. The new species is a member of the genus Megaelosia, and is characterized by large size; fold of fifth toe not reaching outer metatarsal tubercle; snout rounded in dorsal view and slightly protruding in lateral view; tympanum moderately small; finger tips with scutes fused to the subunguis and toe tips with a pair of scutes free of the subunguis; dorsal skin texture smooth; skin of the flanks without large granules; belly and throat predominantly gray with many, small yellow blotches; and distinct bilateral vocal sacs in males. The tadpole is described. The new species is the northern limit for the genus Megaelosia, and reinforces the high endemism and richness of the anuran fauna from Santa Teresa region, State of Esprito Santo, Brazil. 
10.2307/1566112| Four amphibian species were found on an isolated pramo (3300-3600 m) in the central part of the Cordillera Occidental of Colombia. The single salamander species is proposed as a new species of the Bolitoglossa palmata group, and the two Eleutherodactylus species are described as new. One of these appears to be a member of the E. leptolophus group. Centrolene buckleyi, a widespread species in the northern Andes, was also found. /// Se encuentra cuatro especies de anfibios en un pramo asilado (3300-3600 m) en la parte central de la Cordillera Occidental de Colombia. La nica especie de salamandra se nomina como una especie nueva de grupo de Bolitoglossa palmata y dos especies del gnero Eleutherodactylus se nominan como especies nuevas. Una de las cuales parece una especie del grupo E. leptolophus. Centrolene buckleyi, una especie de distribucin muy amplia, tambin se encontr. 
10.2307/1563533|The structure of the hyobranchial skeleton in some burrowing lizards and snakes is analyzed and compared. Anniella is shown to retain hypohyal processes. In Dibamus the hypohyal processes are specialized to support an anterior extension of the aditus laryngis. The only lizards having lost hypohyal processes are those of the genera Acontophiops and Typhlosaurus. These lizards approach primitive and advanced snakes respectively in hyoid structure, and support the view that the hyoid cornua of the alethinophidian hyobranchium correspond to elongated posterolateral limbs of the basihyal which replace the first ceratobranchials. The hyoid of Lanthanotus bears no special similarity to that of snakes.
10.2307/1564702| A new species of Anolis with smooth midventral scales is described from the southernmost ridge of the Northern Highlands of Chiapas physiographic region, Chiapas, Mxico. The new species is a medium-sized anole with most of the diagnostic characters of the A. schiedii group. The new species differs, however, from all species placed in this group by having narrower digital pads, terminal phalanges of the digits remarkably elongated relative to the penultimate ones, a well-developed dewlap in females, and 24 presacral vertebrae, and by attaining a slightly larger body size. The latter three characters are shared with A. johnmeyeri. The new species is compared with other species with smooth midventral scales in Mxico and northern Central America, and its potential inclusion in the A. schiedii group is also discussed. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Anolis con escamas medioventrales lisas de la serrana ms meridional de la regin fisiogrfica de las Tierras Altas del Norte de Chiapas, Chiapas, Mxico. La nueva especie es de tamao medio, y posee la mayora de los caracteres diagnsticos del grupo A. schiedii. La especie nueva difiere, sin embargo, de todas las especies asignadas a este grupo por tener laminillas digitales ms angostas, dgitos con las falanges terminales notablemente alargadas con respecto a las penltimas falanges, abanico gular bien desarrollado en las hembras, y 24 vrtebras presacras, y por alcanzar un tamao corporal ligeramente mayor. Los tres ltimos caracteres son compartidos con A. johnmeyeri. La nueva especie se compara con otras especies de escamas medioventrales lisas en Mxico y el norte de Centro Amrica, y se discute tambin su inclusin potencial en el grupo A. schiedii. 
4092978| Social behavior of Hypsiboas albomarginatus was studied in the Atlantic rain forest, Municipality of Ubatuba, in the north coast of the State of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. Vocalizations of H. albomarginatus are described, including contexts in which they were emitted and temporal and spectral parameters differentiating advertisement from aggressive calls. Dominant call frequency was inversely correlated with male length and body mass but not with environmental temperature. Number of pulses per note was not correlated with any variable, and advertisement call amplitude was influenced by temperature and time. During chorus aggregation, males interacted acoustically by emitting advertisement calls in antiphony, or by emitting aggressive calls. Some disputes among males culminated in physical combat; males performed kicks and slaps on rivals' heads, in an apparent attempt to dislodge rivals from perches. Visual signals were also displayed during conflicts between males, contributing to an escalation of aggressive behavior. Visual signals were not recorded during courtship between males and females but may help in the accurate localization of the signaling male during aggressive interactions. 
1565843|Snakes usually exhibit seasonal variations in movement patterns, home-range size and habitat use. This study evaluates the seasonal variation in movement rates, home-range size, habitat use, and microhabitat use by male Lataste's Vipers (Vipera latastei) in northern Portugal using radio-telemetry. Estimates of movement rate revealed short movements (5.4 m/day) and small home range size (0.24 ha) throughout the year, except in September when there was an increase in both movement rates (21.5 m/day) and home-range size (1.52 ha). Male vipers used different habitats and microhabitats during the year: forested areas for hibernation, open forest with bushes for foraging, and in the proximity of water in the summer.
4498618|Introduced American Bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) have established breeding populations in several provinces in China since their introduction in 1959. Although Bullfrogs are viewed as a potentially important predator of Chinese native anurans, their impacts in the field are difficult to quantify. We used two experiments to examine factors likely to mediate Bullfrog predation on native anurans. First, we examined effects of Bullfrog size and sex on daily consumption of a common Chinese native (Rana limnocharis). Second, we examined whether Bullfrogs consumed similar proportions of four Chinese natives: Black-Spotted Pond Frog (Rana nigromaculata), Green Pond Frog (Rana plancyi plancyi), Rice Frog (R. limnocharis), and Zhoushan Toad (Bufo bufo gargarizans). We found that larger Rana catesbeiana consumed more R. limnocharis per day than did smaller R. catesbeiana, and that daily consumption of R. limnocharis was positively related to R. catesbeiana body size. When provided with adults of four anurans that differed significantly in body size, R. catesbeiana consumed more individuals of the smallest species (R. limnocharis). However, when provided with similarly sized juveniles of the same four species, R. catesbeiana did not consume any species more than expected by chance. Our results suggest that body size plays an important role in the predatory interactions between R. catesbeiana and Chinese native anurans and that, other things being equal, smaller species and individuals are at greater risk of predation by R. catesbeiana.
10.2307/1563292| Two new Sphaerodactylus of the difficilis group are described, one from the Sierra de Ocoa in the Repblica Dominicana, the other from the extreme western tip of the Tiburon Peninsula in Haiti. 
4092999|We explored the association between Van Dyke's Salamander (Plethodon vandykei) and hydrologic condition, geomorphology, and vegetation structure in headwall seeps in the Cascade Range of Washington State. After conducting salamander surveys and measuring habitat characteristics at 40 seep sites from July to August of 2002, we modeled occurrence of P. vandykei at three site scales: between seeps, within seeps, and between microhabitat sites. We ranked a priori models using Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC). Using logistic regression, with presence and absence as the response, we found best approximating models for the occurrence of P. vandykei at the three site scales is predicted by hydrological and geological habitat characteristics. Between seeps, the probability of the occurrence of P. vandykei increased with increasing proportions of seep face having both dry and sheeting hydrology, and increasing proportions of seep face > 5 m high. Within seeps, the probability of the occurrence of P. vandykei was negatively associated with seeps where total overhead cover was > 25%. Between microhabitat sites, the probability of the occurrence of P. vandykei was positively associated with increases in the percent cover of small cobble, small gravel, and bedrock. P. vandykei appears to be associated with habitats that maintain cool thermal and hydric conditions favorable for a species that is sensitive to heat and desiccation due to physiological constraints.
10.2307/1563458|The four species of Denisonia are small, heavy-bodied, nocturnal elapid snakes. Dissection of 414 museum specimens provided data on body sizes, reproductive cycles and food habits. All species attain similar body sizes (30-40 cm SVL), and sexual size dimorhpism is negligible. Litter sizes are low (4-7) and offspring measure approximately 12 cm SVL at birth. Two eastern Australian species (devisi and maculata) feed almost entirely on frogs, whereas the western species (fasciata and punctata) feed only on reptiles, especially agamid lizards. These differences probably reflect geographic differences in prey availability, but must also involve differences in foraging strategy: the western Denisonia feed on sleeping diurnal reptiles, whereas the eastern denisonia feed on active nocturnal animals. The east-west dichotomy is consistent with morphological data suggesting that the eastern and western species-pairs within "Denisonia" are only distantly related.
40060534|We describe a new species of the Taeniophallus occipitalis group from eastern Amazonia, Brazil. This species appears to be closely related to T. occipitalis from which it differs in color pattern, hemipenial morphology, and number of ventral and subcaudal scales. Characters that distinguish the new species from all other species of Taeniophallus are the following: (1) 15-15-15 or 15-15-13 rows of dorsal scales; (2) eight supralabials; (3) nine infralabials; (4) 168-192 ventral scales; (5) 64-86 subcaudal scales; and (6) distinctive hemipenial morphology (e.g., presence of a large spine in medium-basal region on the asulcate side of the organ). Taeniophallus occipitalis exhibits a wide variety of geographically restricted color patterns, as well as variation in scale counts, making the study of this snake confusing, warranting more study.
10.2307/1565905|We describe the reproductive cycle of a population of the viperine snake (Natrix maura) in the Ebro Delta rice fields. This area is characterized by seasonal changes in water levels that strongly affect seasonal aquatic prey availability. Viperine snakes emerged from hibernation in March and mating occurred from April to June, using sperm stored by males overwinter. Spermatogenesis was postnuptial and sperm mobilization from testes to spermiducts occurred in August. Variation in the lipid content of fat bodies suggests that both mating and spermatogesis are energetically costly. Vitellogenesis was prenuptial as follicular growth occurred after emergence from hibernation. Gravid females were found in July and August. Clutch size was similar to other viperine snake populations, but spermatogenesis and vitellogenesis were delayed in the Ebro Delta population. These interpopulational differences may be related to variation in prey availability. Variation in the lipid content of fat bodies supports this hypothesis. In April, both males and females showed few lipid reserves, and vitellogenesis was delayed to the extent that females were gravid in August. In contrast to other snake species, variation in food availability did not affect the proportion of reproductive females or clutch size.
4092953| Herein is described a new species of hylid frog from low elevations in the Atlantic Rain Forest, along the southern coast of the State of Rio de Janeiro and northern coast of the State of So Paulo, Brazil. The larvae and the site of reproduction are also described. It is a medium-sized species of the genus Hyla and is included in the Hyla albofrenata group by virtue of having lime green color of the body, orange-red iris without bicolored ring, voices sounding like drops of water falling into an empty bottle, and inhabiting mountain stream forests. The new species is very similar to Hyla albofrenata, from which it can be separated by its smaller size, larger calcar, length of the femur and tibia larger than the snout-vent length (SVL), by the clear coloration of the iris, morphology and coloration of the tadpole, and geographic distribution. The new species is also similar to Hyla ehrhardti from which it can be separated by having longer legs, presence of the calcar developed, presence of a supra-anal crest, color of the iris and northern distribution. It can be easily distinguished from Hyla arildae, Hyla musica, and Hyla weygoldti by possessing a curved and short supratympanic fold, by having a well-developed calcar and by its smaller SVL. 
10.2307/1565506|I studied the microhabitat use of two narrowly sympatric Sceloporus lizards, Sceloporus occidentalis and S. undulatus, to evaluate the relationship between microhabitat features and microenvironmental temperature, and to determine if interspecific differences in microhabitat use could be related to differences in thermoregulation. Sceloporus undulatus were found on, or near, taller rocks and in rockier microhabitats than were S. occidentalis. Sceloporus occidentalis were found closer to trees and shrubs, and in microhabitats with larger trees and shrubs than those of S. undulatus. Principal components analysis indicated that the major source of variation in lizard microhabitats reflected these interspecific differences. Sceloporus occidentalis moved closer to trees or shrubs, and were found near large trees and shrubs at higher ambient temperatures. Variation in these microhabitat features had a significant effect on the environmental temperatures experienced by S. occidentalis. Sceloporus undulatus did not appear to thermoregulate by selecting variable features of the structural microhabitat, but thermoregulated on a finer scale by moving between the exposed and shaded portions of large rocks. Interspecific differences in thermoregulatory behavior exhibited a profound influence on interspecific microhabitat differences.
41415270|Two morphologically distinctive, monotypic genera of Australian agamid lizards, Moloch and Chelosania, are of uncertain relationship to the main Australian arid zone radiation, the amphiboluroids. We report that the karyotypes of both Moloch horridus and Chelosania brunnea are both 2n = 36 with six pairs of macrochromosomes and 12 pairs of microchromosomes. This is probably the plesiomorphic karyotype for agamids, and different to the 2n = 32 karyotype (10 pairs of microchromosomes) that is a synapomorphy of the amphiboluroids. This finding supports recent DNA sequencing studies of Australian agamids that find an early origin and independent branching position for these two genera. Both genera therefore seem to have no special relationship with the amphiboluroids, indicating colonization of the arid habitats by more than one lineage of agamids at an early stage of their diversification on the Australian continent.
10.2307/1564318|We studied sexual and individual variation in habitat use by pine snakes, Pituophis melanoleucus (5 males, 5 females), in the New Jersey Pine Barrens. Both sexes were found in pine-oak forests. Habitat selection varied by sex and individual, with males using logs and bark extensively while females often were found under oak leaves. For over 50% of the observations snakes were near blueberry or pitch pine, although males were near blueberry twice as frequently as females. There were no sexual differences in activity patterns, but individuals differed in habitat use and activity. Some snakes remained in only one habitat, whereas others moved between habitats.
10.2307/1564793|The ecology of the crocodilian Paleosuchus trigonatus was studied for 8 years in central Amazonian rainforest using mark-recapture and radio telemetry methods. The population dynamics of the species is mainly influenced by the high survival rates of adults. In this unhunted population, juvenile mortality rates and age at sexual maturity do not appear to be important variables affecting adult densities. Estimated minimum ages at reproduction are 11 years for females and 20 years for males. Juveniles have high rates of dispersal and soon leave natal areas. Adults are sedentary, and in the case of males, are territorial. Adult females have small home ranges that are contained within the home range of at least one male. The limited data indicate that females are more tolerant of conspecifics than are males. Adults have extremely cryptic behavior and cannot be studied by conventional survey methods used for other crocodilians, or in the 1-2 year time frame imposed by most granting agencies. Estimates of the biomass of adults in our study area (34.4-59.6 kg/km<sup>2</sup>) indicate that P. trigonatus has by far the highest biomass of any large predator in the central Amazonian rainforest.
1565869| Sixty-nine telemetered Phrynosoma mcallii from the Colorado Desert in California were relocated for up to nine months to examine activity patterns, home-range sizes and overlap, distance traveled between relocations, and onset and duration of hibernation. Total area used by the lizards ranged from 651-59,237 m<sup>2</sup>. Males had significantly larger mean summer home ranges and traveled significantly further than females. The duration of winter dormancy for eight telemetered lizards was 85  8 (mean  SE) days. Nearly all telemetered lizards were underground by mid-November and emerged as early as late December. Telemetered P. mcallii were out in the open or underneath a shrub throughout the day during spring and fall. They retreated into burrows to escape the midday summer heat. When out in the open, males perched on an elevated surface 19.0% of the time, whereas females perched 4.3%. Telemetered lizards exhibited considerable overlap among their home ranges; males shared 11% of their home ranges with females, whereas females shared 42% of their home ranges with males. 
1566101|Previous toxicological and immunology assays have strongly suggested that a neurotoxic component is present in the venom of the Tiger Rattlesnake, Crotalus tigris. However, there has been no direct identification of this neurotoxin. We obtained 18 blood samples from Arizona C. tigris and analyzed them by PCR and DNA sequencing using primers specific for the acidic and basic subunits of Mojave toxin. All 18 samples demonstrated the presence of both subunits. Venom collected from five of the 18 snakes that provided blood samples were additionally tested for the presence of Mojave toxin with monoclonal antibodies. These anti-Mojave toxin antibodies recognized all five venoms. We conclude that, at least for the Arizona snakes sampled, the neurotoxin in C. tigris is Mojave toxin. Additional sampling and testing is necessary to determine the complete geographic distribution of Mojave toxin and Mojave toxin subunits in C. tigris populations.
10.2307/1563669|The two Cryptophis species are moderate-sized (up to 1 m length) nocturnal venomous snakes of northern and eastern Australia. Examination of 600 museum specimens provided data on body sizes, sexual size dimorphism, reproductive cycles and food habits. Males attain larger body sizes than females in C. nigrescens, but not in C. pallidiceps. Both species are viviparous, with a mean litter size of four. Parturition occurs in late summer (Feb.-Mar.) in southern populations, but may be earlier in snakes from tropical areas. Relative clutch mass averaged 60% in captive C. nigrescens, and offspring averaged 152 mm SVL and 2.3 g mass at birth. Male combat was recorded in C. nigrescens. Both Cryptophis species feed on reptiles, especially scincid lizards (89% of all prey items found). A wide range of skinks is taken, but most are diurnally-active forms. Like many other Australian elapids, Cryptophis forage nocturnally for sleeping skinks. The absence of frogs from the diets of such elapids is a consistent but puzzling phemonenon. Relative eye size in Cryptophis is similar to that in other nocturnal elapids.
10.2307/1563353|Sympatric populations of Plethodon wehrlei and Plethodon cinereus located in Doddridge County, West Virginia, were studied to determine if moisture is a factor in habitat partitioning between these two species. Absolute humidity data showed that P. wehrlei was found in a less moist habitat than P. cinereus. In addition, the water holding capacity of the soil taken from the P. wehrlei habitat was lower than that of P. cinereus soil. Laboratory dehydration experiments showed that the upper limit for percentage of moisture (weight) loss was higher in P. wehrlei than in P. cinereus. That rate at which body moisture was lost was less in P. wehrlei than in P. cinereus.
10.2307/1564053|Amphibians and reptiles were captured in nine Maine peatlands using drift fences and pit traps. Traps were operated from April to September. Animals were trapped in eight types of vegetation (lagg, forested bog, wooded heath, shrub heath, moss-Chamaedaphne, pools, streamside meadow, and shrub thicket). In 8733 trap nights, 2182 individuals of 12 amphibian and one reptilian species were caught. Anurans represented 94% of all captures, salamanders 5%, and snakes <1%. Numbers of species ranged from 5 to 10 per vegetation type, and evenness ranged from 0.21 to 0.78. Rana sylvatica was the most abundant species in five vegetation types and comprised 59% of all captures. Rana clamitans was the most abundant species in two vegetation types, and the second most abundant species in four types, comprising 30% of all captures. Average capture rates of each species ranged from 0.1 to 146.8 per 1000 trap nights, and average capture rates in each vegetation type ranged from 95 to 485 per 1000 trap nights. Juveniles comprised 82% of all captures, and were most abundant in July and August.
10.2307/1564582|Studies of snake demography usually involve the estimation of litter size and neonate size, but potential sources of variation resulting from the methods used to obtain this information are rarely considered. Using data from four populations of Thamnophis elegans, we found that estimates of litter size obtained by holding gravid snakes in captivity were less variable when dead young or undeveloped eggs were included rather than excluded; we recommend that all components of litters be reported in future studies. Litter sizes obtained by palpation of gravid snakes in the field were similar to estimates from captive births in two of three populations we examined, but not the third. There was some evidence that litters from longer-term captives were more likely to contain dead young, and, in one population, smaller young. Access to substrate heat by gravid snakes was correlated with smaller progeny in another population. In general, captive-born snakes were smaller than neonates born in the field, but some growth may have occurred in the latter. Factors that might influence the size of snakes born in captivity are temperature, feeding level of mother, and stress; in order to minimize their potential effects, we recommend that gravid snakes be held for as short a time as possible.
43287303|Crocodilians show a broad plateau of thermal independence for sustained activity. It has been hypothesized that this reflects a performance breadth necessary for carrying out ecologically important behaviors across a range of ambient temperatures. Here, we swam Saltwater Crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) in a thermally controlled flume at 23, 28, and 33C and recorded oxygen consumption (VO) before and after swimming activity. Ambient temperature altered spontaneous VO in a positively linear manner, but there was no significant difference in the distance the crocodiles would swim voluntarily. Excess postexercise oxygen consumption (EPOC) increased 10-fold between swimming trials at 28 and 33C, and the anaerobic debt took 3 times longer to clear at the higher temperature. The results show that, although C. porosus demonstrated a broad thermal breadth for swimming performance, a higher degree of anaerobic metabolism was required to sustain activity at the upper limits of the thermal plateau. Why crocodiles should choose to sustain an anerobic debt rather than reduce their swimming activity when exposed to high experimental temperatures is perplexing, but the study findings provide a physiological rationale for some of the diel and seasonal activity patterns observed in wild crocodilians.
4498539| Hyla camposseabrai Bokermann, 1968, was described based on specimens obtained at Maracs, State of Bahia, Brazil. It was subsequently considered as a subspecies of Hyla x-signata Spix, 1824, and currently it has been considered a synonym of Scinax x-signatus (Spix, 1824). In this paper, the status of the species is revalidated and the new combination Scinax camposseabrai is established. 
40060543|Body size and growth in Bullsnakes (Pituophis catenifer sayi) in the western Nebraska Sandhills were studied from 1987 to 1999. Body size of females was not significantly different from that of males, although the largest individuals were males. Based on eggs hatched in captivity, and size class and recapture data in the field, Nebraska Bullsnakes hatch at about 33 cm snout-vent length (SVL), grow about 32 cm SVL in their first year, and reach an average adult size of 108 cm SVL. Comparisons of these data with those in the literature suggest that hatchling size, adult size, and juvenile growth rate generally decrease with increasing latitude and longitude; however, these conclusions are limited by the dearth of data from southern populations. Nevertheless, with few exceptions, possibly the result of incomplete sampling, these patterns are also generally reflected across North American Pituophis populations.
10.2307/1564962| Hatchling dispersal was measured from 1989-1991 in two populations of the side-blotched lizard, Uta stansburiana, in central California. Hatchlings from eggs incubated in the laboratory were released on site and were recaptured throughout the summer and the following spring. Median dispersal was approximately five times greater at Los Baos than at Del Puerto Canyon, and was likely due to different spatial distributions of microhabitats. Body size did not affect dispersal distance at either site despite an experimental increase in the range of hatchling body sizes. At Del Puerto Canyon in the summer, dispersal distances were greater in males than in females, but were not affected by the time of hatching. At Los Baos in the summer, dispersal distances were greater in males and late season hatchlings. Most trends were not significant in the spring at either site. Overall, there were large overlaps in dispersal distributions for all factors studied indicating a large stochastic component to lizard dispersal. 
10.2307/1563800|A new species of Odontophrynus from 2200 m altitude in the Sierra de Famatina, Argentina, is described. Morphological as well as cytogenetic features differentiate the new species, O. barrioi, from the populations of the O. occidentalis group.
10.2307/1565667|The beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum) is a large diurnal predator that feeds predominantly on juveniles in vertebrate nests and eggs. Bird eggs constitute a special problem for predators as the energetic content is shielded by a hard calcareous shell. Still, eggs of ground nesting birds such as quail constitute a large part of the diet of Heloderma horridum. We investigated the mechanics of the egg eating behavior in H. horridum. We examined the morphology of the feeding system, measured egg toughness, and calculated bite forces of H. horridum. Additionally, we videotaped feeding sequences and simultaneously recorded the activity patterns of the jaw muscles. Egg eating behavior consists of a fixed behaviorial pattern including five distinct stages: approach, piercing, uptake, crushing, and swallowing. Two of these (piercing and crushing) can be directly related to the egg eating behavior in H. horridum. The piercing stage consists of several bites during which the anterior teeth are used to puncture (but not crush) the egg. Next, during the crushing stage the egg is crushed within the oral cavity (no longer any tooth contact). Based on our results, we conclude that behaviorial adaptations and subtle modifications of the motor patterns during feeding are present in H. horridum which allow the lizard to be an efficient ovophageous predator.
10.2307/1563248|Investigation of the gross anatomy, histology and histochemistry of the alimentary canal of Gehyra mutilata (Wiegmann) shows it to conform to the basic reptilian plan. The gastric glands contain only one type of cell while the duodenum lacks Brunner's glands. The structure of the gut reflects the gecko's dietary habit.
10.2307/1565116|Breeding amphibians in the boreal peatlands of northern Minnesota encounter a mosaic of water quality: acidic bog sites (pH < 4.5), fen sites (pH > 5.0), and marginal fen sites (pH 4.5-5.0). Laboratory and field work demonstrated that peatland amphibians (Rana sylvatica, R. pipiens, Pseudacris triseriata, P. crucifer, Hyla versicolor, Bufo americanus, Ambystoma laterale) are differentially tolerant of bog water. Embryonic development is arrested or hatching is inhibited in bog water, and larval growth and survival are negatively affected. Rana sylvatica, the most tolerant species tested, successfully hatched in bog water at large oviposition sites (>65 egg masses) when water temperatures were relatively warm. Rana sylvatica was the only peatland species to develop successfully at marginal fen sites. Amphibian survival through metamorphosis was not observed at bog sites. All species successfully reproduced at fen sites. Embryos and larvae of R. sylvatica from a northern Minnesota peatland were more tolerant of bog water than R. sylvatica from a circumneutral southern Minnesota marsh. Breeding peatland amphibians used fen sites to a greater extent than toxic bog sites, although fen was less common (70% bog: 30% fen). Evidence suggests that fidelity to natal fen sites rather than specific individual avoidance of bog water is the primary mechanism of habitat selection. The toxicity, distribution, and age (3000 years old) of bog habitats in the Minnesota peatlands make bog water an important influence on the distribution and abundance of resident amphibians.
10.2307/1563106| The ecology and behavior of sympatric populations of Cnemidophorus guttatus and Cnemidophorus deppei living on a recently burned area of coastal sand dunes near Lerdo de Tejada, Veracruz, were studied during June and July 1964. C. deppei apparently prefers the open areas of grassy vegetation between dunes; C. guttatus prefers to remain in close association to the dense thickets, but there is some spatial overlap in the distribution of these lizards. Foraging behavior consists of surface patrolling, digging and peering beneath debris, and climbing low vegetation. Foraging pressure is apparently intense. C. guttatus may have a selective advantage because of its ability to climb to heights of 6 feet in search of food, notably lepidopteran larvae. Much of the activity of these lizards consists of digging either in search of food or in burrow construction. Burrows are used for escape and as places of refuge during unfavorable surface conditions such as rain. Speed is important as an escape mechanism in both forms. A preferred body temperature near 40 C is suggested from an inadequate sample. C. deppei may prefer a slightly higher body temperature than C. guttatus. Copulation of C. deppei is described and an apparent premating sequence of C. guttatus is depicted. During the latter the male C. guttatus literally traces the path of the female, attempting to maintain body contact by nipping and nudging her or by resting astride her dorsum whenever possible. Copulation of C. guttatus was not observed. A large male C. guttatus may chase another male that ventures too close, but there is no evidence of territorality in either species. 
10.2307/1565507|Genetic variation of 33 enzyme loci was analysed electrophoretically in 32 populations of the plethodontid genus Hydromantes from southern France, northern and central Italy, and Sardinia. Eight taxa were recognized, included in three groups: from the mainland, eastern Sardinia, and south-western Sardinia, respectively. In the mainland area, two semispecies were detected: H. italicus and H. ambrosii (sensu stricto), as well as a third species: H. strinatii (combinatio nova), previously included within H. ambrosii. Eastern Sardinian populations correspond genetically to three species: H. flavus, H. supramontis, and H. imperialis. In south-western Sardinia, two genetically differentiated but morphologically very similar groups were found within H. genei, whose specific status remains doubtful. The distinctness of a number of subspecific taxa (H. italicus gormani, H. i. ligusticus, H. i. argentatus, H. i. bonzanoi, H. genei funereus), is not supported by genetic evidence. Data from two contact zones in Italy indicate that taxa showing comparable levels of genetic differentiation (i.e., H. italicus-H. ambrosii s. s. and H. ambrosii s. s.-H. strinatii, both pairs with Nei's D about 0.4) have not reached the same level of reproductive isolation. On the basis of available data, attempts are made: (1) to interpret the present pattern of geographic distribution of European Hydromantes studied; (2) to explain their genetic relationships.
4092906|Osteological characters are used to infer the phylogenetic relationships of the Venezuelan toad, Bufo sternosignatus. The species does not have a ventrolateral process on the quadratojugal, a synapomorphy for the especies of the B. typhonius clade and is associated to B. humboldti a species of the B. granulosus group.
10.2307/1563067| Anolis gadovii and Anolis taylori are medium-large, saxicolous anoles of southern Guerrero, Mxico. The first named species is confined to a small area near Tierra Colorada, about 50 km inland, the second is limited to the immediate Coast Range in the vicinity of Acapulco. For both the habitat is on steep, wooded slopes with piles of large, loose boulders. Compared with other anoles, these are relatively stenothermic and tolerant of high temperatures, with a preferendum between 29 and 30C (at least for A. taylori). The habitat of A. gadovii, especially, is xeric, and during the dry season the anoles tend to stay deep in the rocks where temperature remains low and humidity is high. In both species reproduction is suspended during the drier part of the year and by the beginning of the rainy season in July the propulation consists essentially of adults. In areas of favorable habitat with high population density of A. taylori many home ranges were found to overlap. Favorite perches and look-outs were used by a succession of individuals with frequent territorial contests. Males of A. gadovii and A. taylori are about the same size, females of A. gadovii are somewhat smaller, and females of A. taylori are markedly smaller. Anolis dunni, a non-saxicolous species living at somewhat higher altitude, is like A. taylori in many of its characters, and is annectent to other montane species. 
40983645|Physiological color change and geographic variation in coloration are well documented in several squamate lineages, having presumably evolved for cryptic, sexual signaling, and thermoregulatory functions. Only 11 snake species have demonstrated physiological color change, although anecdotal reports suggest it may be present in additional species. We describe color variation and physiological color change in island and mainland populations of Boa constrictor using full-spectrum reflectance spectrometry. We employed principal components analysis (PCA) summarizing the spectrometry data into two axes that describe the brightness (PC1) and chroma or relative intensity of particular wavelengths (PC2). Boas from island and mainland localities exhibited physiological color change, and this change occurred on a diel cycle. Boas from both locations were lighter at night and darker during the day. The magnitude of the color change differed between our two PC axes. Although change in brightness was similar for boas on the islands and the mainland, the change in chroma was greater in boas from the mainland. Color also varied seasonally; boas were lighter in color and reflected more long-wavelength light during the wet season than during the dry season in Belize. We suggest that a fundamental hormone cycle (melatonin/melanophore stimulating hormone, MSH) present in a wide variety of vertebrates, underlies the physiological color change in snakes. If this is true, color change may be more widespread than previously realized, and the perceptual bias of the human vision system may have caused researchers to discount its presence in snakes.
10.2307/1566192|A mark and recapture study was carried out from 1990-1992 for a population of Gekko hokouensis in the southern part of Okinawajima Island, Ryukyu Archipelago. Gonadal states were also examined for 389 preserved specimens from the central part of the island. Results indicate that this species breeds from April to August and that females may lay eggs more than once during a breeding season. Young appeared from July to November, and hatchlings, although they grew somewhat in autumn, scarcely grew in winter. Their growth rate dramatically increased during the next spring and summer. Although some hatchlings grew to the minimum maturity size (43 mm in snout-vent length in both sexes) by the end of the next breeding season, others required a second year to reach maturity. There were no sexual differences in juvenile growth. After reaching maturity, however, growth rate of females was significantly greater than that of males. This seems to account for the significantly greater adult SVL in females than in males.
10.2307/1563242| The variation, distribution, and taxonomy of the neotropical whipsnake Masticophis mentovarius (Dumril, Bibron, and Dumril) are discussed. The species Masticophis mentovarius consists of five subspecies. Changes in taxonomic status includes relegation of the previously monotypic Masticophis striolatus to a subspecies of M. mentovarius, and resurrection of the trivial name variolosus for an insular subspecies. Differences between M. mentovarius and M. flagellum (Shaw) in sympatric areas are discussed. Only morphological taxonomic characters are utilized. Aspects of color pattern and scutellation are considered with regard to ontogenetic and geographic variation. A lectotype is designated for M. m. striolatus. 
10.2307/1563567|Specimens for this study were collected in the ecotonal regions between tropical deciduous forest and arid thorn scrub in southwestern Tamaulipas. This taxon is not common in riparian habitats. Captive breeding behavior for four pairs of Agkistrodon bilineatus taylori was observed between September and February. Young were born between June and November. Male combat behavior typical for several members of the genus Agkistrodon was observed on several occasions among five different pairs of captive male specimens. One instance resulted in death for one of the participants. Young are less colorful than adults; dramatic ontogenetic color changes exist in this taxon. Females typically have more ornate patterning and interstitial markings than do males. Both sexes become nearly black as old adults. The LD<sub>50</sub> for A. b. taylori venom is 47 micrograms (I.P.) per 20 gm mouse.
1565865|Bothrops moojeni is a member of the atrox group that occurs in central and southeastern Brazil and adjacent Paraguay and Argentina. We describe habitat use, diel and seasonal activity, biometry, feeding habits, and reproduction of B. moojeni, based on field studies and analysis of 207 preserved specimens. Bothrops moojeni predominantly uses riparian vegetation in the Cerrado (central Brazilian savannas), such as gallery forests and adjacent wet grasslands, although they occasionally use drier interfluvial areas. Sexes are dimorphic in snout-vent length, relative tail length, relative mass, and relative head length. Main prey types were mammals, frogs, and lizards. There is an ontogenetic dietary shift from ectotherms to endotherms. Prey-predator mass ratio ranged from 0.008-1.079, and prey mass was positively correlated with predator mass. Although prey absolute mass was positively correlated with snake mass, large snakes did not eliminate small prey from their diets. There was an ontogenetic decrease in prey relative mass. Females consumed more endothermic prey than males, and this difference probably reflects size differences. The reproductive cycle is lengthy and seasonal, with recruitment restricted to the rainy season. Fecundity is positively correlated with female body size. Life-history characters of B. moojeni are similar to those of other members of the atrox group, even though B. moojeni occurs in the Cerrado, a drier and more seasonal biome.
25599232|Amphisbaenians are important predators of tropical ecosystems, yet the ecology of most species is poorly known. We studied the reproduction and diet of two species of amphisbaenian from the Brazilian Cerrado. Also, we investigated whether snout-vent length is sexually dimorphic and whether differences existed in the soil depth at which the two species were found. Adults of Leposternon polystegum were larger than adults of Amphisbaena ibijara. Male L. polystegum were larger than females, but A. ibijara did not show sexual dimorphism. Amphsibaena ibijara individuals were encountered significantly closer to the surface than individuals of L. polystegum, although there was some overlap in the soil depth used between species. Termites and larvae Coleoptera predominated in frequency of occurrence and termites in number of prey in juveniles and adults of both sexes in A. ibijara. In the diet of juvenile L. polystegum individuals, there was no dominant prey group. In male L. polystegum, ants and earthworms occurred most frequently, and termites and ants were most important numerically. In females, earthworms and ants dominated in frequency of occurrence and in number of individuals, respectively. The mean number of prey items in stomachs of A. ibijara was high and did not differ either ontogenetically or sexually. In L. polystegum, the mean number of prey items in stomachs was low. We showed that the diet of A. ibijara at Urbano Santos did not differ between sexes or size classes, whereas in L. polystegum there is a small shift in these aspects.
1566063|Although there are many accounts of the diversity of algae consumed by anuran larvae, growth and digestive responses of tadpoles fed algae have been poorly studied. In this study, growth rates and digestive abilities of larval bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) fed monospecific algal diets were investigated. The four algal species used in feeding trials were Selenastrum capricornutum, Microcystis incerta, Anabaena flosaquae, and Ulothrix coniferricola. The filamentous blue-green alga Anabaena flos-aquae was the only alga that promoted growth in tadpoles and was digested more thoroughly than the other algae. Ability of tadpoles to digest nuisance, bloom-forming algae such as Anabaena has important implications in freshwater resource management. Such results also contribute to a better understanding of the roles tadpoles play in nutrient cycling, their potential to combat eutrophication, and their influence on primary productivity in freshwater ecosystems.
10.2307/1564313|Range extensions for the eastern hognose snake, Heterodon platirhinos, are compared to known and new data from eastern New England: Rhode Island, Massachusetts east of the Worcester County line, and New Hampshire. The species is unknown from coastal islands; reasons are suggested. The disjunct New Hampshire population occupies inland sandy habitats dominated by white pine (Pinus strobus). Albino and melanistic specimens occur.
43287372|The Golden Toad of Monteverde (Cranopsis periglenes), Costa Rica is arguably the "poster child" for the global amphibian decline crisis. Of the known drivers of amphibian declines, it has been hypothesized that the emerging infectious disease, chytridiomycosis, caused by the fungal pathogen, Batrachochytriutn dendrobatidis, led to the toad's extinction. The aim of this study was to test whether the last collected and curated C. periglenes specimens were infected with B. dendrobatidis. Fifteen preserved C. periglenes were swabbed for the presence of B. dendrobatidis, three of which were the last ever collected (April 1982). All skin swabs were tested for B. dendrobatidis with a specific qPCR assay and found negative for B. dendrobatidis. Either the zoospore loads from the specimens fell below detection limits, or the tested specimens were not exposed to B. dendrobatidis at the time of collection. This study highlights the importance of collecting noninvasive, field swabs from living amphibians even those facing decline.
10.2307/1564798|Nine species of lizards are sympatric in cerrado habitats in the state of Mato Grosso, Brazil, including one polychrid (Anolis meridionalis), three tropidurids (Tropidurus etheridgei, T. cf. montanus, and T. spinulosus), one scincid (Mabuya frenata), two teiids (Ameiva ameiva and Cnemidophorus ocellifer), and two gymnophthalmids (Micrablepharus maximiliani and Pantodactylus schreibersii). Lizard diversity is lower than that reported for caatinga or lowland rainforest. Most striking in the cerrado lizard fauna is the lack of gekkonids, which are common in other Brazilian habitats studied. The Iguania clearly separate by microhabitat, and microhabitat differences are partially reflected in diets. There is little similarity in habitat use by the primarily arboreal Iguania and the strictly terrestrial teiids and gymnophthalmids. Teiids and gymnophthalmids often occur in the same microhabitats, but the large differences in size among species generally result in utilization of different prey types and/or sizes. Ameiva ameiva and Cnemidophorus ocellifer are very similar in habitat use and prey types, but do not overlap in body size and take prey of very different sizes. Electivity analysis of prey volumes suggests sample size bias as well as a bias based on lizard body size differences. The largest species, A. ameiva, accounts for most of the prey taken by the lizard assemblage. Eight of the nine species are oviparous; the other, Mabuya frenata, is viviparous with extended gestation and typical South American Mabuya matrotrophy. As in other Brazilian lizard assemblages studies, a diversity of life history patterns is evident with each species being more similar to closely-related species in distant and different habitats than to unrelated sympatric species.
25599245|Despite decades of research, there is still little known about the natural abundances and ecological importance of stream salamander larvae in eastern North America. Widely used methods for sampling larvae and estimating population densities can be significantly biased, which may have implications for monitoring efforts and studies addressing the effects of salamanders on stream processes such as nutrient dynamics. We compared the efficacy of two methods of capture, passive leaf litter trapping and dip netting, and performed mark-recapture (M-R) on larvae occurring in three adjacent streams. There was a significant size bias associated with at least one of our capture methods. Leaf litter traps captured a higher proportion of larger individuals (>15 mm SVL), whereas dip netting yielded a greater proportion of the smaller size class (15 mm). Density estimates were 1-2 orders of magnitude greater than estimates provided by other studies; however, count indices were comparable to those previously reported. Density estimates from M-R ranged from 23-169 salamander larvae per m, which was remarkably consistent with estimates of 75-137 larvae per m from a contemporaneous study using nearly identical methodology in Appalachian streams in North Carolina. The coefficient of variation for mean density estimates generated from M-R was greater than that detected with count data, indicating that the use of replicated counts without adjustment for detection may be less effective for measuring spatial and temporal variation in larval stream salamander numbers.
10.2307/1565355|A five year field and laboratory study of the southern rubber boa (SRB) in the San Bernardino Mountains of southern California provided data on the capture, size, sexual dimorphism, age classes, and reproduction of this state listed subspecies. The use of artificial cover substantially improved capture success. Juvenile, subadult, and adult age classes were described. Mean total length and weight of live measured adult females were significantly greater and mean tail length (% total length) was significantly less than for males. Adult females also tended to have greater percentages of tail tip scarring and shortening than males. There was no sexual dimorphism in these characteristics among neonates, and the neonatal sex ratio was female biased. Total weight loss in gestating females averaged 47% of initial weight, the components being young and ova 28.3%, body reserves 15.3%, and combined embryonic membranes and fluids 3.3%. Relative clutch mass was 0.369. In these respects, the SRB was notably similar to boas from northwestern Oregon, differing primarily in its smaller body size and lighter color.
10.2307/1565445| A new species of the minute leptodactylid frog genus Phyllonastes is described from humid montane forests in Departamento de Cochabamba, Bolivia. The new species has two phalanges in the fourth finger, distinguishing it from P. heyeri and P. lynchi, both of which have three phalanges. From the other species with two phalanges, P. lochites and P. myrmecoides, the new species differs mainly by lacking a tympanum. The specimen USNM 257845 from Yungas de Cochabamba might belong to the new species, but additional material is needed to confirm this point. The destruction of Bolivian cloud forests can lead to the extinction of endemic amphibian species with restricted distributions. /// Se describe una especie de Phyllonastes de los bosques de niebla de La Siberia y Sehuencas, Departamento de Cochabamba, Bolivia. La nueva especie posee slo dos falanges en el cuarto dedo de la mano, lo que la distingue de P. heyeri y P. lynchi, que tienen tres. De las otras especies con dos falanges, P. lochites y P. myrmecoides, difiere principalmente por la ausencia de tmpano. El ejemplar USNM 257845, de la zona de los Yungas de Cochabamba (provincia Chapare) podra pertenecer a la nueva especie, pero se necesita material adicional para confirmarlo. La destruccin de los bosques de niebla bolivianos puede llevar a la extincin de especies de anfibios endmicas con reducidas reas de distribucin. 
4498542|Early studies of genetic variation in the Red-Bellied Newt, Taricha rivularis, revealed only small amounts of genetic differentiation among populations. However, these studies sampled only a limited portion of the range of the species. To address this gap in our understanding, we measured genetic variation in T. rivularis using allozymes (45 loci) and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) cytochrome b sequences (366 base pairs). With the goal of surveying broadly for levels of genetic variation, four populations were sampled, three in the southern portion of the range, and one at the northern end of the range. Allozyme divergence throughout T. rivularis was low, with a maximum Nei's genetic distance of
23327190|Widespread amphibian declines and habitat fragmentation, coupled with advancements in tracking, have sparked increased emphasis on studying movements and the use of terrestrial habitats by amphibians. Pealara Natural Park, Sierra de Guadarrama, Central Spain, provides habitat for a number of amphibians that use upland sites. In response to increased pressure on habitat in this region by tourism, we used 4 months of radiotelemetry data for 17 adult Common Toads (Bufo bufo) to characterize the terrestrial movements, assess the factors influencing these movements, and determine the distribution and cover characteristics of summer refugia for these toads. We found that: 1) movements were most pronounced following the breeding season in June, and adults made movements of up to 470 m away from breeding sites, 2) movements were not influenced by basin size, climatic variables, or the sex of the individual, 3) the amount of terrestrial habitat used by toads ranged from 245 m 2 to 2.5 ha, and 4) within these areas toads most often used rock piles and juniper patches (Juniperus communis nana) as cover during the summer. Our study emphasizes the importance of considering terrestrial landscapes when developing conservation strategies, and we suggest that a buffer of minimal development extending 550 m from the shoreline of each natal pond be considered when conservation plans are developed for Common Toad habitat in Pealara Natural Park.
10.2307/1564854|Larvae of Ranidella signifera and Litoria ewingi are common members of tadpole communities of temporary ponds in southeastern Australia, where odonate larvae are the major predators. In field surveys, R. signifera was found more often on the pond substrate than was L. ewingi. This difference in habitat choice was documented further in laboratory aquaria, including a simulated pond edge. For both species, substrate use increased in the dark phase of a 12:12 photoperiod. In the laboratory, L. ewingi suffered heavier predation from the corduliid odonate Hemicordulia tau, a benthic predator, than did R. signifera. Predation on L. ewingi, but not on R. signifera, declined as water depth increased, implying that L. ewingi use the water column to escape benthic predators. Overall predation rate was greater in the dark phase when the predators were more active, and when tadpoles used the substrate more.
41415268|We describe a new species of Luperosaurus from the Luzon faunal region, northern Philippines. The new species is most similar to, and has long been confused with, Luperosaurus cuntingii from Luzon Island but differs from this and all other Luperosaurus by numerous characters of scalation, color pattern, and a suite of variables related to its small body size. The new species has been recorded at four localities along the eastern seaboard of Luzon and on Camiguin Norte, a small island just northeast of Luzon; it may also occur on Polillo and Lubang Islands. Data from our recent survey work suggest that some Luperosaurus species may be adapted to low elevation, coastal forest and that these species may now be encountered rarely now because this habitat type is so severely imperiled by centuries of deforestation and near complete development of virtually all Philippine coastlines.
25599231|Hawksbills have been the focus of conservation efforts over several decades and their status in the Caribbean is continuously being evaluated. Surprisingly, it appears that the island of Guadeloupe hosts one of the largest Hawksbill populations in this region, highlighting the importance of making the most recent data available for the purposes of wildlife management. Numbers of nesting females and other biometric data collected over eight nesting seasons are presented as well as a number of biological observations unique to this population. A total of 452 females were tagged, 89 of which were thought to have been previously tagged, and 58 remigrants (turtles tagged in previous seasons) were observed. Four of the remigrants were seen in three different nesting seasons, and one was seen in four. Mean minimum curved carapace length was 87.9 cm, and mean clutch size varied significantly between two study years (2002: 137  26 eggs; 2004: 159  29 eggs). One turtle laid a clutch of 276 eggs, the largest ever recorded for a Hawksbill. The initial estimate of the nesting population in Guadeloupe is encouraging and perhaps is a sign of increasing numbers in the wider Caribbean region. This information is important when considering the status of this endangered species, and these data need to be easily accessible to the conservation community.
10.2307/1564048|Variation in dominant frequency, pulse rate, and duration of advertisement and release calls was investigated in populations of Bufo woodhousii australis and B. w. woodhousii. Temperature had a significant influence on all three advertisement call variables in both populations. The positive relationship between pulse rate and temperature was similar in both populations, as was the negative relationship between call duration and temperature. Although temperature-adjusted call durations were equal, adjusted pulse rates were slightly but significantly different between the two populations. When adjusted for body temperature, dominant frequency was the only call variable significantly (negatively) correlated with snout-vent length in either population. The two populations differed in adjusted dominant frequency but not in the negative relationship between frequency and snout-vent length. Analysis of temperature related variation in release calls was not possible, and the two populations differed significantly only in mean pulse rate. It is suggested that sympatric congeners may have influenced divergence in advertisement call frequency among subspecies of B. woodhousii.
10.2307/1562925|Sampling of adults from 7 semi-isolated proximate montane populations of the chorus frog, Pseudacris triseriata, in northcentral Colorado revealed significant differences in the phenotypic and allelic frequencies of the genes for dorsal coloration. All but two of the 21 paired Chi-square comparisons for phenotypes showed significance at the 0.01 level and all but one of the comparisons for allelic frequencies showed significance at the same level.
43287380|With improvements in taxonomic resolution in recent years, the Amazon basin is increasingly recognized as containing restricted-range taxa and areas of endemism. For many of these taxa, rivers delimit their geographic distributions and separate sister species. Among most lizards the geographic pattern is not clear. We attempt to determine the existence of cryptic diversity in the Spectacled Lizard Leposotna osvaldoi by analyzing the geographic variation in its morphology. We specifically tested whether the Rio Madeira, Rio Puras, Rio Aripuan, and Rio Roosevelt delimit differentiated lizard forms. Using multivariate analysis, we detected that males of L. osvaldoi have larger heads than females but females have longer bodies. Large rivers, such as the Rio Puras and Rio Madeira, do not play a significant role in the geographic variation of L. osvaldoi. However, specimens from two localities on opposite banks of the upper Rio Aripuan occupy the lower and upper ranges of variation in L. osvaldoi and are distinct from all other specimens analyzed. This unusual pattern differs from one of the main river hypothesis predictions, which is that similarity between individuals on opposite river banks should increase with decreasing barrier strength. We hypothesize that the differences in river dynamics between the lower and upper Rio Aripuan during mid-Miocene through the Pleistocene could explain our results, although phylogeographic evidence is lacking to support such a hypothesis. The elucidation of recent and ancient processes that shaped diversity in Leposotna could provide important clues to understand the formation of the megadiversity of Amazonia.
10.2307/1564648|A series of Tenuidactylus geckos were collected from the foothills of the Sulaiman Range, northwestern Dera Ghazi Khan District, Punjab, Pakistan. The gecko is a new species belonging to the caspius group of species. It is described and compared with all known geckos from Pakistan. A key for its identification from its congeners in the caspius group is presented. Observations on its reproduction, ecology and geographical distribution are recorded.
10.2307/1562786|Stomach contents of 218 Blanchard's cricket frogs were analyzed relative to frog size, reproductive status, size of fat bodies, sex, and date. Food consumption was found to be greater in larger frogs, reproducing frogs, frogs with small fat bodies, female frogs, and June-July frogs. Experiments on rate of food passage through the stomach were conducted on 181 additional cricket frogs. Handling was found to inhibit digestion but in large cages constructed in the frogs' natural environment, food passed through stomachs in 8 hours. All frogs in their natural environment fed throughout the day and night and only 4 were found with empty stomachs during the study. Annual consumption of food by lowa cricket frogs was estimated.
10.2307/1562928|The pH and electrolytic composition of the plasma of several species of reptiles from Presidio Co., Texas, were investigated. Sodium, chloride and bicarbonate ions constitute over 80 per cent of the osmotically significant components of the plasma of these reptiles. Sodium ions constitute 91 per cent of the plasma cations. Bicarbonate and chloride ions account for 83 per cent of the total plasma anion concentration. The variability between the plasma electrolytes of these experimental animals was lowest for potassium. Data on plasma electrolyte levels is provided for the first time for Kinosternon flavescens, Cnemidophorus exsanguis, Crotalus molossus and Pituophis melanoleucus.
23327178|Recent studies predict that several lineages of tropical animals are at particular risk given current estimates of global climate change. Yet, much uncertainty exists on the effects of climate shifts in ectothermic species from cool temperate regions such as Patagonia. In this study, we focus on the impact of environmental temperature on growth, age at sexual maturity, and life-span of the Patagonian gecko Homonota darwini. Skeletochronological methods were used to assess the bone growth rates of individuals from three populations at different geographic and temporal scales: two populations from Chubut (warm site; 1941 and 2010) and one population from Ro Negro (cold site; 19971998). Populations displayed similar bone arrangement and the growth patterns fit a von Bertalanffy curve. Three populations attained reproductive size at a minimum age of 3 yr, but at the cold site two specimens were shown to mature in 4 yr. We found no differences in juvenile growth rates in body size or bone zone width between juveniles of 1 to 3 yr of age from the 1941 warm site and the 2010 warm site. However, these traits appeared to be higher at these two warm sites than at the cold site, which is consistent with the climatic differences among the three localities. Our results suggest that higher temperatures positively affect growth, denoting that global warming might benefit H. darwini, especially the southern populations.
10.2307/1564554|Only one isolated population of the chicken turtle (Deirochelys reticularia) is known to occur in Virginia. Data collected from 1989 to 1992 by mark-recapture and radio-telemetry studies indicated that the population is small, with possibly fewer than ten adults remaining. Virginia chicken turtles inhabit interdunal swales that have seasonal water fluctuations. Results of radio-telemetry studies revealed that some chicken turtles will leave drying wetlands and aestivate on land during the summer months. All radio-tagged turtles hibernated terrestrially. Although the population exists within a state park and natural area, only one-fifth of the original habitat is protected, whereas the remaining portion was destroyed by development outside the park boundaries. A conservation management plan should include protection for the interdunal ponds and significant terrestrial use areas, protection for the turtles from highway mortality, and incorporation of hydrologic data and historic habitat availability.
41415249|Knowledge of the osteology of species of the Leptodactylus melanonotus group is limited. Nevertheless, osteological characters are useful to diagnose species to, to propose phylogenetic relationships, to understand patterns of morphological evolution, and to predict biological function associated with morphology. Here, we describe the whole osteology of Leptodactylus podicipinus; we have special interest in osteological and morphometric characters whose interpopulational and intersexual differences can be related with fossorial habits. Individuals from the Pantanal, Brazil, were compared with L. podicipinus from northern Argentina and central and southern Paraguay by analyzing morphometric and osteological characters. The quantitative data revealed sexual dimorphism in tarsus length in the specimens from the Pantanal. The observed interpopulation osteological differences could not be associated with burrowing habits. Osteologically, L. podicipinus is intermediate between the members of the Leptodactylus fuscus group, which is more specialized for digging, and the generalized L. melanonotus, Leptodactylus latrans, and Leptodactylus pentadactylus groups.
10.2307/1564446|The dorsal scale microdermatoglyphic patterns of 104 species of snakes were photographed under the scanning electron microscope to determine whether such patterns exhibit variability on the area of the scale generally overlapped by its cephalad neighbor. Nearly all species were found to have a distinctive pattern at the base of the scale, which grades into the apical pattern over a short zone of transition. These basal patterns had been largely overlooked in the past as they were difficult to isolate. Several species of snakes were found to have distinctive neonatal microdermatoglyphic patterns covering the entire scale which are similar to adult basal patterns. The taxonomic utility of these patterns was assessed, and found to be significant, particularly in those taxa where morphotypic gradients can be constructed.
10.2307/1564740|At several locations on an urban nesting beach, loggerhead hatchlings emerging from their nests did not orient toward the sea. The cause was city lighting which disrupted normal seafinding behavior. Observations and experiments were conducted to determine why females nested where hatchlings were exposed to illumination, and how hatchlings responded to local conditions. In some cases, females nested late at night after lights were turned off, but hatchlings emerged earlier in the evening when lights were on. In other cases, the beach was shadowed by buildings directly behind the nest, but was exposed to lights from gaps between adjacent buildings. In laboratory tests, "urban silhouettes" (mimicking buildings with light gaps) failed to provide adequate cues for hatchling orientation whereas natural silhouettes (those without light gaps) did. Adding a low light barrier (simulating a dune or dense vegetation) in front of the gaps improved orientation accuracy. The data show that hatchling orientation is a sensitive assay of beach lighting conditions, and that light barriers can make urban beaches safer for emerging hatchlings. At urban beaches where it may be impossible to shield all luminaires, light barriers may be an effective method for protecting turtles.
10.2307/1562800|The ancestor of Egernia appears to have entered Australia from New Guinea in Pliocene times when lowered sea level placed the 2 land masses in contact. The rainforests of northern Queensland seem to have formed a "pool" from which populations expanded during glacial periods. It is suggested that expansion along the eastern and western sides of the Great Dividing Range resulted in the formation of several species pairs. Continuation of this expansion westward to Western Australia resulted in further species formation. Other possible major sources of speciation are isolation of populations in north-western Australia, Tasmania and the mountain ranges of central Australia. It is suggested that the expansion of populations from the rainforest "pool" has resulted in the formation of the species groups, while expansion to other areas has resulted in the differentiation of species within these groups.
10.2307/1562950|New fossil records for Kinosternon are reported. K. flavescens and K. subrubrum are now known from the Upper Hemphillian Saw Rock Canyon local fauna, Seward County, Kansas. K. flavescens is also reported from the Aftonian Sand Draw local fauna, Brown County, Nebraska, and from the Cottrell locality of the Rexroad local fauna, Meade County, Kansas. Variation in thickness of the hyo- and hypoplastron is shown to occur in the two Kinosternon species. K. flavescens from the Sand Draw local fauna has a distinctly thicker plastron than its Recent counterpart while the Cottrell locality specimens appear intermediate in thickness. K. subrubrum from the Saw Rock Canyon local fauna has distinctly thinner plastral elements than its Recent counterpart. K. flavescens from the Sand Draw local fauna and K. subrubrum from the Saw Rock Canyon local fauna are both substantially north of the present distribution of these species in the Plains region.
40060536|We completed a taxonomic revision for the New Zealand Copper Skink (Cyclodina aenea) species complex using morphological and molecular data. Two new species are described on the basis of several morphological characteristics, with the specific status of each species supported by mitochondrial sequence data (ND2). We also redescribe C. aenea. One of the new species is restricted to the Poor Knights Islands, whereas the distribution of the other new species is limited to northernmost region of Northland. Both new species exhibit significant genetic divergence from C. aenea (~13.5% sequence divergence), indicating that each species has evolved in isolation from C. aenea for a substantial period of time.
10.2307/1562977|Chromosomes of 22 species of Papuan Litoria and six Nyctimystes have been examined. With one exception, all have been found to have a haploid chromosome number of 13. The exception is L. infrafrenata with a haploid number of 12. The karyotype of this species is reported in detail and it is suggested how it may have been derived from the more primitive number of 13.
10.2307/1564792|A new technique of attaching transmitters to snakes was used to study movements of the colubrid Coluber viridiflavus in central Italy. The transmitter and battery were encased in polyesteric resin, hand-shaped, and then attached dorsally to the body behind the cloaca by two nylon threads, each strung through a rubber tube, inserted transversely under the dermis. This external attachment of the transmitter is feasible and overcomes the problems encountered with forced ingestion or surgical implantation. A preliminary analysis of the movements of 11 snakes radiotracked at different times for two years revealed that Coluber viridiflavus has a monofocal activity pattern, characterized by loops radiating out from a permanent den used also as a hibernaculum. Males make longer and longer-lasting loops than do females, but in both sexes loop length and duration also depend on season.
41515032|In Puerto Rico, the number of nonnative Green Iguana, Iguana iguana, has increased and the species has proliferated throughout the island. Reports on diet in the iguana's native range indicate exclusive herbivory, but observations in their nonnative range occasionally include animal materials. The aim of our study was to determine the diet and trophic level of I. iguana in Puerto Rico using gut content and stable isotopic analysis of muscle tissue (tongue and leg). We found significant differences in the isotopic signature between leg and tongue tissue, which may be related to differing strategies for allocating nutrients during muscle formation. The isotopic analysis of N and C showed little enrichment of both muscle tissues from that of their diet, demonstrating that I. iguana is primarily an herbivore. However, gut contents provided evidence for a first report of I. iguana eating crabs (Uca spp.). The gut contents consisted primarily of black mangrove leaves (Avicennia germinans), suggesting higher impact of herbivory on this species of mangrove. Another plant species of interest found in the gut was Brazilian pepper, Schinus terebinthifolius. We suspect that I. iguana may be a disperser of this aggressive invasive plant in Puerto Rico. Our study indicates that I. iguana impacts the native flora and fauna in Puerto Rico, and that the ecological role of this species in introduced ranges warrants further investigation.
10.2307/1564479| Radiotelemetric studies of snake behavior often have been based on few animals, monitored in single study areas for short periods of time. A four-year study involving three widely separated study areas, in which 44 blacksnakes (Pseudechis porphyriacus) were radio-tracked for an average of 90 days each, revealed unexpectedly high variability in habitat use, activity levels, daily movements and activity ranges. Significant variation was documented among individual snakes, between sexes, among seasons, among years, and among study areas. The only characteristic that showed little variation was activity temperature range: active blacksnakes maintained body temperatures of 28 to 31C over a variety of seasons, study areas, and ambient temperatures. This constancy was apparently achieved by varying behavioral characteristics, especially activity levels and times. Activity ranges varied from 0.02 ha to over 40 ha in different snakes, and were larger in males during the mating season. Reproductive activity declined or ceased in two populations during a severe drought. The behavioral flexibility exhibited by P. porphyriacus makes it difficult to describe "typical" behavior for this species, and suggests that many previous radiotelemetric field studies of snakes should be interpreted with caution. 
10.2307/1562731|Hyla wandae is described from the western edge of the Colombian Ilanos. It seems most closely related to Hyla staufferi, H. parkeri, and H. squalirostris, from which it differs in structural features and color pattern. The mating call of H. wandae is a distinctive series of loud, harsh, regularly repeated notes.
10.2307/1564444| The oviduct of Ambystoma mexicanum is composed of three gross morphological regions: an anterior infundibulum, a middle convoluted region and a posterior terminal region. Histologically, the oviduct is composed of a luminal mucosa, a lamina propria, a circular muscle layer, and an outer serosa. The infundibulum is thin walled and has a highly folded mucosa. The mucosa is composed of low columnar ciliated cells anteriorly, whereas both ciliated and secretory cells occur in the posterior infundibulum. The lamina propria and circular muscle layer are reduced in thickness, although tubular glands of the lamina propria occur posteriorly. The middle convoluted region is thicker walled than the infundibulum but has lower mucosal folds. The mucosa is composed of low columnar ciliated cells anteriorly, and tall columnar ciliated and secretory cells posteriorly. The glands of the lamina propria are tubular and form the major portion of the wall's thickness. The size and quantity of the glands diminish posteriorly. A thin layer of connective tissue and circular smooth muscle surrounds the glandular tissue. The posterior region is short and straight, with increased mucosal folding composed of tall columnar epithelia of both ciliated and secretory cell types. Few tubular glands are observed. Thick layers of connective tissue and circular smooth muscle form the bulk of the wall. Melanocytes are scattered near the tubular glands and blood vessels. /// El oviducto de Ambystoma mexicanum est formado por tres regiones morfolgicas: un infundibulo anterior, una regin media circunvoluta y una regin posterior. Histolgicamente el oviducto est formado de una mucosa, una lmina propia, una capa de msculo liso circular y una serosa. El infundbulo tiene una pared delgada y ampliamente plegada. La mucosa est compuesta anteriormente de clulas columnares bajas, en tanto que posteriormente se presentan clulas ciliadas y secretoras. La lmina propia y la capa muscular circular son delgadas, pero posteriormente hay un incremento en las glndulas tubulares de la lmina propia. La regin media circunvoluta tiene una pared ms gruesa que la infundibular y sus pliegues son ms bajos. La mucosa est compuesta anteriormente por un epitelio de clulas columnares ciliadas bajas y posteriormente por clulas columnares ciliadas altas y clulas secretoras. Las glndulas de la lmina propia son tubulares y constituyen la mayor parte de la pared. El tamao y la cantidad de glndulas disminuye posteriormente. Una capa delgada de tejido conectivo y de msculo liso circular rodea al tejido glandular. La region posterior es corta y recta con incremento en los pliegues de la mucosa, est compuesta por un epitelio de clulas columnares altas de dos tipos: ciliadas y secretoras. Se observan escasas glndulas tubulares. Capas gruesas de tejido conectivo y msculo liso circular forman la mayor parte de la pared. Se encuentran melanocitos dispersos cerca de las glndulas tubulares y los vasos sanguneos. 
41415259|We describe a new species of semiarboreal frog in the genus Gephyromantis from midelevation rain forests of the Marojejy Massif in northeastern Madagascar, which, according to previously published molecular data, forms a clade with Gephyromantis ambohitra, Gephyromantis asper, and Gephyromantis spinifer. The new species is morphologically most similar to G. ambohitra but differs by its advertisement call and a high genetic distance in mitochondrial DNA. Considering intensive recent logging activity in Marojejy National Park, we propose an IUCN status of Vulnerable for this new species.
1565778| A new species of bufonid toad in the genus Melanophryniscus, from the province of Misiones, northeastern Argentina, is described. It is included in the stelzneri group and is most similar to Melanophryniscus atroluteus than to any other species. Melanophryniscus sp. nov. is distinguished, by having a uniformly brown dorsal coloration, numerous white spots along the mandibular arch; the pupil surrounded by a golden ring; the iris gold, finely spotted with dark brown; and the frontoparietal fontanelle widely exposed anteriorly. Moreover, the advertisement call of the new species is noticeable longer than the call of M. atroluteus and has a higher dominant frequency. The Melanophryniscus species present in Misiones are discussed and several areas of syntopy are reported. /// Se describe una nueva especie de anuro bufnido del gnero Melanophryniscus, procedente de la provincia de Misiones, noreste de Argentina. La nueva especie se incluye en el grupo stelzneri, y es ms similar a Melanophryniscus atroluteus que a cualquier otra especie. Melanophryniscus sp. nov. se distingue por poseer una coloracin dorsal castao oscuro uniforme, la pupila rodeada por un anillo dorado, el iris dorado, finamente manchado de castao oscuro, y la fontanela frontoparietal ampliamente expuesta anteriormente. Adems, el canto nupcial de la nueva especie es notablemente ms largo que el canto de M. atroluteus y posee una frecuencia dominante ms alta. Se discuten las especies de Melanophryniscus presentes en Misiones y se reportan diversas reas de sintopa. 
41415237|The infrared organs of boas, pythons, and pit vipers are true eyes that function not by a photochemical reaction but on the basis of heat generated in the receptors (called terminal nerve masses, TNMs), by electromagnetic radiation. In the pythons and pit vipers, the pit opening acts as the aperture of a pinhole camera, a virtual lens that permits the receptors to encode the movements of an infrared source sufficiently for the brain to form an image. Many boid snakes possess TNMs identical to those of the pythons but lack an opening that could serve as a lens. All TNMs are irrigated by a dense capillary network that serves as a heat regulator, mimicking the role of the photochemical cycle in the lateral eyes. Thus, the pits are an integral part of the snakes' visual system, which makes use of the longer waves of the electromagnetic spectrum for which there are no appropriate photoreceptive pigments in nature; they do everything the eyes do. They are definitely not, as they have often been treated, a "sixth sense," useful only for the detection and acquisition of prey. Just as the world that most insects see includes both the visual and the ultraviolet spectra, so the world that boas, pythons, and pit vipers see includes both the visual and the infrared spectra.
10.2307/1564851|The female reproductive cycle of the viviparous lizard Cordylus p. polyzonus in the southwestern Cape Province, South Africa, is described. A winter/spring vitellogenic period (June-October) with ovulation occurring in late spring (November) was exhibited. Embryonic development occurred throughout summer and early autumn with parturition in April. Females produced 1-3 embryos and clutch size was positively correlated with female body size. During pregnancy the ovaries contained corpora lutea, the quantity corresponding with the number of developing embryos. Ovarian follicles remained small and translucent during pregnancy. In the post-partum months of April and May, ovarian follicles were undeveloped and the presence of corpora albicantia was characteristic. Oviductal growth was initiated just prior to ovulation and oviducts were hypertrophied throughout pregnancy. Liver and fat body masses peaked during late vitellogenesis and both variables were positively correlated with the ovarian cycle. The onset of vitellogenesis coincided with declining environmental temperatures and photoperiod.
10.2307/1565302| Mabuya frenata is a relatively common skink in the region of Valinhos, So Paulo State, Southeastern Brazil, an area with a highly seasonal climate. The activity, thermal ecology, habitat use, and diet of this species were studied in the vincinity of Valinhos. Lizards were active throughout daylight periods, but the activity pattern differed among seasons, being more uniform in the rainy season than in the dry season. The mean body temperature of active M. frenata was 31.6  3.2 C and was correlated with air and substrate temperatures, although direct insolation may also be an important heat source for this lizard. Unlike environmental temperatures, the mean activity temperature of M. frenata did not differ among seasons, which, combined with field observations, suggests that this lizard thermoregulates. The microhabitat preferred for M. frenata was granitic boulders. The diet included a great variety of arthropods, although termites were the dominant items. The diet of M. frenata did not differ between sexes nor among seasons and was related to prey availability in the environment. 
10.2307/1565931|Female Physalaemus enesefae prefer long calls, low and average dominant frequency calls, and calls repeated at short intercall intervals over short calls, high dominant frequency calls, and calls repeated at long intercall intervals. I tested the hypothesis that males modify their vocal behavior when faced with potential competitors in ways that make them more attractive to females and that the more attractive the competitor, the greater the modification. In playback experiments, I examined the responses of males to the same stimuli used to test female responses: long and short calls, calls with low or high dominant frequency, long and short intercall intervals, and average calls for all traits. Among the variables analyzed, only the intercall interval was modified in the presence of the experimental stimuli. Males significantly reduced the intercall interval (called at a faster rate) in response to all experimental calls, compared with that when vocalizing alone, except in response to short calls and to long intercall interval calls. Males did not respond differently to calls of average and above average attractiveness. There was no difference in the intercall interval in response to average and above average attractive stimuli. However, the intercall interval in response to unattractive calls was significantly longer than that in response to calls of average attractiveness. The results partially support the hypothesis: males modify their spontaneous calling behavior when faced with a competitor but do not show finely tuned graded responses in relation to the attractiveness of the competitor.
10.2307/1563382| A northermost subspecies of Liolaemus kingi from the isolated Somuncur tableland is described. Its general relationship with the Patagonian Liolaemus kingi group of tropidurine lizards is discussed. 
10.2307/1564101|Two endemic brown frogs, Rana longicrus and R. sauteri, occur in Taiwan. R. longicrus lives in northern lowlands and breeds in still water during December and January. Its tadpole is of a generalized type. R. sauteri lives in the central mountainous regions and breeds in streams and ponds from October to April. It lays fewer and larger eggs than does R. longicrus. Its tadpole has a large abdominal sucker with which it clings to rocks in streams. Almost all artificial hybrids between female R. longicrus and male R. sauteri died at gastrula or neurula stages; only a few survived to late larval stages. All of the hybrids between female R. sauteri and male R. longicrus died as early gastrulae. R. sauteri is unique among the brown frogs in its larval morphology and habitats, and these characters suggest some relationship to the genus Amolops.
41415288|The Blue-spotted Salamander (Ambystoma laterale) and the Jefferson Salamander (Ambystoma jeffersonianum) are both part of the Jefferson complex that also includes unisexuals of various ploidy levels and genome composition, referred to as genomotypes. Female unisexuals reproduce mainly through gynogenesis, but ploidy elevations, translocations, recombinations, intergenomic exchanges, and genome replacement also have been documented. The objective of this study was to obtain information on the geographical distribution of genomotypes and the distribution of genetic diversity in southern Qubec, Canada. To do so, we examined populations of the Jefferson complex from five sites, including one site from a city and the other sites from protected areas. Genetic analysis using mitochondrial DNA and six microsatellite loci were performed. Results revealed that genomotype frequencies vary greatly, because some populations were mainly composed of A. latrale, whereas unisexuals were clearly predominant in other populations. Diploid, triploid, and putative tetraploid unisexuals were found in some of the populations. One of the populations analyzed seems to be composed only of LJ unisexual salamanders, raising questions about the mode of reproduction used in this population. Finally, the population located in an urban environment presents a low genetic diversity, and we propose hypotheses to explain this finding.
10.2307/1563107|New data on variation in biometrical features and color patterns of Bombina variegata are presented. Eight forms are distinguished according to the amount of yellow and black on the ventral body surface. The amount of coloration varies from a continuous yellow field to a continuous black one with all possible intermediates. Toads with a predominantly yellow ventral surface are more frequent in the southern parts of the species range. Toads with a predominantly black undersurface are more frequent in the northern parts of the species range. It is believed that the eight described color forms are due to random mutations but their geographic variation and frequency seem to be under environmental control.
10.2307/1564957|Angulate tortoises (Chersina angulata) were probably introduced onto Dassen Island, South Africa, at the beginning of this century. Historical records indicate distance from the mainland appears to prevent emigration from, or immigration to, this island population. We estimated population size and density using a mark-recapture method, and determined sex ratio and population structure in 1978 and again in 1989. These figures were compared with published values for a mainland population. Population sizes and sex ratios did not differ significantly between 1978 and 1989: density was 31.2/ha and 34.2/ha, and sex ratios were 1:1.18 and 1:1.17 in favor of males, respectively. In both years the population showed a preponderance of adults. However, mean and maximum adult body size was greater in 1989. The island population was similar to the mainland population in terms of sex ratio and density, but differed in that there were proportionately more large males and females on the island. Factors that might cause an increase in size of island tortoises include predation on different sized tortoises by mainland compared with island predators. Reduced competition on the island and the potential effects of isolation may also affect body size. We suggest that the limits to the size of the island tortoise population will be primarily determined by numbers of breeding penguins and rabbits, whose activities remove vegetation used by tortoises for food and cover.
4092971|Extension and retraction of the throat fan or dewlap is one of the most conspicuous aspects of display behavior of male Anolis lizards. Although dewlap display plays a role in species recognition, signal detection, and even predator defense, the importance of the male dewlap in male mating success in nature has not been established. The present study tested whether the display of the dewlap by males of Anolis sagrei affected the mating success of free-ranging males. We compared the number of males that copulated and their copulation rates between two groups: experimental males that were surgically prevented from extending their dewlaps and control males that were sham treated. Experimental and control groups did not differ significantly in the proportion of males that copulated or in copulation rate. These results do not support the hypothesis that the male dewlap affects male mating success in A. sagrei. If the male dewlap does have an effect on male mating success in this species, then the effect was too subtle to be detected by our study.
4498572| Otago Skinks (Oligosoma otagense) are some of New Zealand's largest and most rare lizards. The movements and home ranges of these skinks were investigated using radio-telemetry at the Redbank Reserve near Macraes Flat, Central Otago, New Zealand. Thirteen Otago Skinks were tracked from December 2003 through April 2004 for 26-111 days. There was no significant difference in the distance or frequency of movements between sexes. Home ranges estimated for all individuals using the 100% Minimum Convex Polygon method varied from 200-5,400 m. Male home ranges were significantly larger than female home ranges, and nongravid females had significantly larger home ranges than gravid females. There was a considerable amount of home-range overlap and interaction between individuals. Human capture of skinks, the most common method for the monitoring this species, increased the frequency of movements. Capture-induced disturbance caused skinks to increase the frequency of movements in the days immediately following the event. The results of this study will be used in the future conservation management of the Otago Skinks. 
23326899|Tails serve multiple functions in salamanders: energy storage, courtship, antipredator defense, and respiration. Differences in life history strategies between males and females may generate sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in tail length. However, the contribution of tail length to SSD is relatively unstudied. Because the basal member of the desmognathan salamander Phaeognathus hubrichti shows SSD in tail dimensions (females have long, thin tails compared to the shorter, thicker tails of males), we hypothesized that other desmognathans may follow the same pattern. We took standard morphological measurements, aged, and sexed 342 Desmognathus quadramaculatus (the largest species of Desmognathus) and 244 Desmognathus aeneus (one of the smallest species) to determine whether SSD in tail length followed the same pattern as in P. hubrichti. Neither Desmognathus species showed SSD in tail length and the trends were in opposite directions. Males of both species had significantly wider tail diameters than the females. Females had a significantly longer distance between limbs than did males. We also found that all three species differ in resource allocation to different body parts as they mature. This suggests that life history traits, and behavioral and ecological requirements, have a stronger influence on body size than does phylogeny in this group of salamanders.
43287398|Careful examination of morphological characters, color patterns, and advertisement calls strongly supports the placement of Dendropsophus allenorum (Duellman and Trueb, 1989) (Cuzco Reserve Frog) into the synonymy of Dendropsophus timbeba (Martins and Cardoso, 1987) (Cardoso's Treefrog). Um exame cuidadoso dos caracteres morfolgicos, dos padres de colorao e dos cantos de anncio suportam fortemente que Dendropsophus allenorum (Duellman e Trueb, 1989) deva ser considerado um sinnimo jnior de Dendropsophus timbeba (Martins e Cardoso, 1987).
40060558|Dispersal occurs when an individual leaves its natal area or home range, travels through adjacent areas, and then establishes a new home range where it will attempt to reproduce. Previous studies have suggested that subadults (i.e., hatchlings and juveniles) are the main agents of dispersal among introduced populations of Mediterranean Geckos, Hemidactylus turcicus. We derived a testable hypothesis for subadult dispersal in Mediterranean Geckos. In September 2006, we conducted tethering experiments to test the prediction that adults act aggressively toward subadults. From June to October 2006, we conducted 18 mark-recapture samples to test predictions of perch height occupancy and relative presence of adults and subadults at buildings and areas between buildings (i.e., transient habitats). As predicted, subadults occupied lower regions of buildings than adults, and subadults were disproportionately abundant in transient habitats. Apparently because of small sample size, there was no difference in the relative presence of adults and subadults at recently occupied buildings (i.e., arrival habitats). Our results supported the hypothesis that hatchlings were the main agents of diffusion dispersal within our study population and suggested that hatchling dispersal may be motivated by hostile encounters with adults. It was also clear that Mediterranean Geckos attempt to disperse from buildings more frequently than previously suggested.
4092966|We present the first data collected in situ on clutch and egg size for the Mountain Chameleon (Chamaeleo montium). In addition, we examine within and among clutch variation and its relationship with female body size. We caught wild females from January to June 2003 and held them until egg deposition. We collected morphometric data on females and clutches immediately post-egg deposition. Of the 49 reproductive females, the smallest measured 65 mm snout-vent length (SVL), the largest 90 mm SVL (mean = 75.4 mm). Clutch size varied from 3-12 (mean = 6.5) and mean relative clutch mass = 40%. Female post partum mass was positively correlated with clutch mass and egg number. Female mass (in grams) was not significantly related to relative clutch mass but was weakly correlated with egg volume. There was consistent size uniformity of eggs within and among clutches.
41415296|An external fundamental system (EFS) is a form of bone microstructure present in the outermost cortex of long bones in animals that have attained skeletal maturity. It indicates an effective cessation of any significant periosteal growth (i.e., growth in circumference or girth). Although an EFS has been noted in several reptile taxa, the idea that reptiles grow continually throughout their lives remains popular. Examination of femoral bone microstructure from captive American Alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) reveals parallel-fibered tissue terminating periosteally in an EFS, thus confirming determinate growth in another reptile taxon. The results of this study have several important implications for both modern and fossil tetrapods: first, because many birds, nonavian dinosaurs, pterosaurs, and basal pseudosuchians all produce an EFS, it can be concluded that determinate growth is a shared characteristic of Archosauria; second, because the captive alligators were not senescent, an EFS should not be associated with "old age" when interpreting growth histories of extinct animals; third, if no EFS is present, this should not immediately suggest indeterminate growth but rather that skeletal maturity was not attained prior to death. In addition, this study highlights the need for more osteohistological studies to establish exactly how widespread determinate growth is within both extinct and extant members of Sauropsida, because this form of growth may be the rule rather than the exception.
40060563|Herein I synonymize the ranid frog Platymantis rhipiphalcus, from New Britain, with Platymantis boulengeri, from the same island. The four mensural characters originally used to separate these frogs covary continuously with body size, and sex is highly correlated with body size, with females much larger than males. Consequently, no features other than size separate these presumptive species, and specimens described as P. rhipiphalcus merely represent males and juvenile females of P. boulengeri. Males of P. boulengeri are here recognized as such for the first time, which leads to the discovery that this species has the most extreme sexual size dimorphism yet reported for any anuran. Female body length averages >3 times that for males, and female body mass averages >40 times that for males. The physical mechanics of reproduction in a species exhibiting such extreme size dimorphism are unknown but will certainly merit future investigation.
10.2307/1563210|Caloric content per gram of lizard egg yolk does not differ significantly among 6 genera of lizards. Mean content (ash uncorrected) in 80 determinations was 6160 cal. The ratio of wet egg weight to wet body weight was comparable to the same ratio for dry materials. Both ratios can be useful measures of reproductive effort although estimates for viviparous and oviparous lizards may not be comparable.
10.2307/1565210|We redescribe Physalaemus spiniger and describe its tadpole and its reproductive modes. This species has the following three alternative reproductive modes: (1) foam nest on pond and feeding tadpoles in pond (the typical mode for the genus Physalaemus); (2) foam nest on humid places on the forest floor near a pond, and feeding tadpoles in pond; (3) foam nest on water accumulated on the axils of terrestrial bromeliads and feeding tadpoles in pond. These last two modes were not included in the reviews of reproductive modes in anurans. The vocalizations of P. spiniger are described and compared with the vocalizations of P. nanus, a sibling species.
40983657|Distasteful, noxious, and toxic secretions from skin glands have been demonstrated to play important antipredatory roles in amphibians. Previous studies suggest that the Long-toed Salamander (Ambystoma macrodactylum), a widely distributed urodele found near the northern limit of its range in northern British Columbia, is distasteful to predators. The source of this distastefulness has not been exclusively identified. Our objectives were to isolate the skin secretions of the Long-toed Salamander through electrical stimulation of its granular glands and bioassay this secretion for antipredatory effects with crayfish. Previous studies suggested that proteins play an important role in these secretions; therefore, we tested for their presence and utility. The feeding response of crayfish to control food pellets was compared to pellets incorporating raw salamander skin secretions and to pellets incorporating boiled secretions. Significantly more crayfish consumed the control pellets than the raw skin secretion pellets, indicating unpalatability of these skin secretions. Thus, skin secretions appear to have an important antipredatory function. Skin secretions tested positive for presence of proteins, but the feeding response of crayfish to raw and boiled secretions was not significantly different, indicating that proteins were either only partially denatured by boiling, or are not exclusively responsible for the antipredatory nature of the secretions. A very low concentration of secretion was required to illicit a significant antifeedant response in crayfish, and we discuss the possible implications of this in relation to a proposed dual function of the Long-toed Salamander's granular glands in nutrient storage and the energetic requirements of an amphibian in its northern range.
10.2307/1564314| Eastern box turtles (Terrapene c. carolina) in a Maryland bottomland forest were studied over a period of years (1944-1981). Home ranges of 51 males averaged 146  SD 48 m long and 105  SD 38 m wide; ranges of 52 females averaged 144  SD 52 m long and 100  SD 38 m wide. An approximation of average home range size, based on an ellipse, is 1.20 ha for males and 1.13 ha for females. Sizes of home ranges of individuals did not differ significantly between 1945 and the full term of their captures (x = 14 yr) (AOV; P > 0.05). Mean distance between capture sites, which provides an index to range size, was not significantly different among the years of 1945, 1955, 1965, and 1975 (AOV; P > 0.05). Geographic centers of ranges of 77 males in the bottomlands showed no significant (AOV; P > 0.05) change for 46, and change over relatively short distances (x = 57  SD 23 m) for the others. Among 70 females, there was no significant change for 46 and change over short distances (x = 61  SD 24 m) for the others. Changes in location were more frequent between 1965 and 1975, a period of pronounced population decline, than between previous decades (significant only for females,  <sup>2</sup>; P < 0.025). Hibernation sites ordinarily (21 of 23 individuals) were within the normal bottomland range; hibernation sites of different years were near each other (all of 4 individuals). In contrast, nesting sites were far distant, extending the home range by 400-700 m, but those of different years were near each other (6 individuals). Mating partners occupied broadly overlapping or contiguous ranges (35 records). Interactions between males (18 records) were identical to courtship behavior, and are believed not to represent territorial aggression. 
10.2307/1563436| The remote Tomellin Canyon of southeastern Puebla and northcentral Oaxaca is inhabited by two distinctive gonochoristic whiptail lizards (genus Cnemidophorus). The giant whiptail lizard C. sacki, which is one of the largest species of Cnemidophorus, is associated with brushy arroyos, the margins of river flood plains, and canyon slopes with trees and shrubs. The diminutive whiptail lizard C. parvisocius, which is one of the smallest species of Cnemidophorus, prefers open canyon flats with cactus tangles, agave, and island-like groves of small trees. These species are marginally syntopic only along the interface of mesic habitats and xeric habitats. C. sacki (snout vent length of gravid females, x = 111.9 mm) has one of the largest clutch sizes (x = 5.9, range 3-10, N = 34) and C. parvisocius (snout vent length of gravid females, x = 59.4 mm) has the smallest clutch size (x = 1.8, 1-4, N = 85) reported for species of the sexlineatus group. Clutch size to snout vent length regressions for both species lie along the same regression slope indicating that differences in clutch size can be explained in part on the basis of differences in body size. Large body size in C. sacki is correlated with a reduction in the number of individuals per unit area and an increase in clutch potential. Small body size in C. parvisocius is correlated with an increase in population density and a decrease in clutch potential. The majority of yearly neonates in both species appear to attain sexual maturity in less than one calendar year. 
10.2307/1564683| We observed the social behavior of a high-elevation population of the lizard Sceloporus jarrovi on Mt. Graham in southeastern Arizona during August 1985, the month prior to the fall breeding season when territoriality should be intense. This population displayed lower levels of female territoriality than reported elsewhere for this species. Aggressive levels of resident females as measured in staged encounters were significantly lower than male aggressive levels. Display and feeding rates showed significant between-sex variation, also. Home ranges of adult males and females did not differ in size but were significantly larger than home ranges of juveniles. Home range sizes in adult females at high elevation were significantly larger than those at low elevation. Overlap between female home ranges was much higher than overlap between male home ranges. The large number of overlapping females per male (x = 3.75  2.4) made determination of potential mating opportunities difficult. Some variation in behavioral patterns may result from the different demography of high elevation populations (delayed maturity, smaller effective population size) relative to low elevation populations. Intraspecific variation may strongly affect the selective pressures on social structures and reproductive success patterns. 
10.2307/1564262|Seasonal and ontogenetic variation in the diets of Aneides flavipunctatus and three sympatric plethodontids (A. lugubris, Batrachoseps attenatus, and Ensatina eschscholtzii) were studied at three localities in northwestern California. A wide variety of prey was eaten by the four species, but 75-95% of the total food volume at any one season and location was contributed by Diplopoda, Coleoptera, Isoptera, Hymenoptera, Diptera, and Collembola. In A. flavipunctatus, total food volume per stomach increased with standard length to about 50 mm, then leveled off. The mean number of prey per salamander stomach declined with increasing body size and with the progression of the winter rainy season, but there was no seasonal change in total food volume. Sympatric plethodontid species exhibited considerable dietary overlap, but differed in their mean and maximum prey size. Analysis of stomach contents suggests that these species do not feed indiscriminately: larger salamanders appear to select larger prey, and to ignore most small prey. Interspecific, ontogenetic, and seasonal differences in feeding are discussed in the light of predictions derived from an existing theoretical model of optimal foraging by a "Sit-and-Wait" predator.
10.2307/1565201| Atelopus tricolor from the Cordillera Oriental in southeastern Peru is redescribed on the basis of the syntypes and new material. A lectotype is designated. Fresh material of Atelopus from adjacent Bolivia is assigned to this species. The examination of the types of A. rugulosus from southeastern Peru and A. willimani from Bolivia leads to the conclusion that both are junior synonyms of A. tricolor. A comparison with the holotype of A. erythropus from southeastern Peru revealed that it is probably not conspecific with A. tricolor, but a sympatric taxon. Atelopus spumarius andinus differs from A. tricolor in size and is elevated to the species level. /// Se redescribe Atelopus tricolor de la Cordillera Oriental del sudeste de Per, basndose en los sintipos y en material reciente, y se designa un lectotipo. Ejemplares recientemente colectados en Bolivia se asigna a esta especie. El examen de los tipos de A. rugulosus, del sudeste de Per, y A. willimani de Bolivia, lleva a la conclusin de que ambos son sinnimos posteriores de A. tricolor. La comparacin con el holotipo de A. erythropus, del sudeste de Per, revela que probablemente no es conespecifico con A. tricolor, sino que una especie simptrida. Atelopus spumarius andinus difiere de A. tricolor por su tamao y es elevado a nivel de especie. 
25599214|Takydromus sikkimensis was named in 1888 by A. Gnther on the basis of an 1872 description of grass lizards from Sikkim by F. Stoliczka. Subsequent workers have not considered this species valid and have even doubted the occurrence of Takydromus in Sikkim. We confirm the occurrence of grass lizards in the lower Teesta valley of Sikkim. These are consistent with the description of T. sikkimensis and are distinguishable from all other congeners on the basis of having 12 rows of enlarged ventral scales across midbody, three pairs of chin shields, 3-6 femoral pores on each thigh, and color pattern lacking stripes, spots, or ocelli. Because the type specimens are lost, and because there has been a persistent confusion regarding the identity, and even the existence, of the taxon described by A. Gnther as T. sikkimensis, we designate a neotype to stabilize the use of the revalidated name.
10.2307/1565120|At a New York study site, Plethodon cinereus was 4-5 times more abundant in beech than in hemlock forest. We evaluated the effect of soil chemistry of these two forest types on sodium balance in this salamander. Soil extracts were produced by treating samples of the soil humus and mineral layers with distilled water, artificial rain water at pH 3, or artificial rain water at pH 5. The chemistry of soil extracts varied with forest type and soil layer. Sodium efflux was measured in salamanders exposed to these extracts before and after lowering the pH to 3. Efflux rate constants were greater in salamanders confined on mineral layer derived extracts than on humus layer derived extracts, but did not vary with forest type. Differences in dissolved organic carbon in the test solutions may partially explain the observed differences in efflux rate constants. In all cases, efflux rate constants were elevated when the pHs of solutions were decreased to 3, indicating that even in solutions of complex chemical make-up, pH strongly affects the osmoregulation of this terrestrial salamander.
10.2307/1565717|I observed 123 instances of aggression in 100.7 h among basking emydid turtles (Trachemys scripta, Pseudemys concinna, Graptemys pseudogeographica, and G. ouachitensis). No consistent pattern occurred in heterospecific interactions with regard to outcomes. Larger turtles "won" (i.e., caused or resisted displacement) in 70% of all interactions, and initiators won 80%; in all, 61% were won by larger, initiating turtles. Larger turtles displaced smaller turtles into the water more often than the reverse. Larger turtles also elicited avoidance behaviors from smaller turtles that were not elicited from larger turtles by smaller turtles. The hypothesis that smaller turtles assess and avoid larger turtles was suggested by (1) the lower rate of initiation by smaller turtles, (2) the turning away response that was observed only in smaller turtles, and (3) the fact that smaller turtles sometimes voluntarily displaced themselves when larger turtles emerged from the water or advanced toward them on a substrate, but the reverse was not observed. Alternatively, inherent aggressiveness may be a function of body size in these species.
10.2307/1565997|Observations on post-breeding movements of radio-implanted green frogs (Rana clamitans) revealed that frogs made repetitive forays away from and back to breeding ponds before final migrations to overwintering sites away from the pond. We used a drift fence and radio-transmitters to test the hypothesis that these movements were related to preoverwintering foraging and not overwintering site selection. Movements were oriented directly to habitats away from the pond, the terrestrial habitats had more food than those closer to the pond edge, and frog mass increased during forays away from the pond but declined at the pond. Foray directions were not correlated with migration direction and were considerably shorter than migration distances to overwintering sites. An intense, late season, foraging period is probably necessary for the green frog to rebuild lipid reserves following breeding and to prepare for overwintering.
10.2307/1564395|The distributional status, and patterns of external and genetic variation in Elaphe bairdi are reviewed and compared with Elaphe obsoleta. Low-level hybridization between the two taxa, as inferred from morphological criteria, is confined to a distinct geographic and ecological region in central Texas. The two parapatric taxa are otherwise morphologically distinct. Genic data from an electrophoretic survey demonstrate no fixed electromorph differences between E. bairdi and E. obsoleta, and the geographic distribution of alleles at three putative loci suggest remnants of widespread allelic distributions in the common ancestral lineage. There is some ambiguous evidence of genetic introgression, but the overall genic/morphological information indicates that E. bairdi has undergone differentiation in isolation from an E. obsoleta precursor, and has since secondarily re-established geographic contact with descendant populations of E. obsoleta in the present zone of parapatry.
1565755|Research on amphibian movement patterns can aid in strengthening amphibian conservation strategies. Yet for many species, there remain substantial gaps in our knowledge of such movement patterns. From 1999-2002, we documented movement patterns to and from breeding pools of both adult and juvenile Rana sylvatica LeConte (Wood Frog) and Ambystoma maculatum Shaw (Spotted Salamander) by using drift fence arrays at three restored vernal pools in Maine to lend insight into conservation strategies for these two species. Adults and juveniles of both species exhibited nonrandom movement at breeding pools directed preferentially from and toward closed-canopy forested habitat. Marked male, female, and juvenile R. sylvatica were recaptured at 30 m, 150 m, and 300 m from the pool in the surrounding terrestrial environment. Most terrestrial recaptures occurred within the forested wetland habitat to the north of the pool. Median snout-vent lengths (SVL) of recaptured juvenile R. sylvatica were progressively larger at greater distances from the pool. Number of juveniles emerging from the pool was positively correlated with number of juveniles recaptured two days later at 30 m, four days later at 150 m, and six days later at 300 m. Male R. sylvatica were 98% faithful to their breeding pools from 2001-2002, whereas female R. sylvatica were 88% faithful. Male and female A. maculatum were 100% faithful to their breeding pools during the same period. Both species' (adult and juvenile) nonrandom movement toward forest upon leaving breeding pools suggests that quality of adjacent terrestrial habitat is relevant to both juvenile and adult pool-breeding amphibians. High levels of pool fidelity observed in these two species emphasize the importance of conserving vernal pools and mitigating for pool-losses on-site if the nonbreeding habitat is still available. Correlations between amphibian migrations and weather variables varied between years and species, suggesting emigration, immigration, and dispersal may be associated other environmental variables in conjunction with temperature and precipitation. However, heightened activity of both species (adults and juveniles) in response to temperature and precipitation can inform the timing of monitoring efforts and conservation strategies aimed at protecting migration routes.
23327161|We describe adult morphology, advertisement call, and natural history aspects of a new frog species from riparian habitats alongside intermittent headwater streams in southwestern Cerrado, the second largest biome in Brazil. Presently known from three localities in Mato Grosso State, the new species belongs to the Proceratophrys cristiceps group. It is characterized mainly by small size (adult snoutvent length approximately 46 mm), snout rounded in dorsal view and obtuse in lateral view, absence of flared lips, dorsal skin granular, and absence of both postocular swellings and prominent palpebral appendages. The advertisement call of the new species consists of a single note with 1925 pulses. Calls are repeated at mean intervals of 0.7 sec. Mean dominant frequency is 1,250.2 Hz, with ascendant modulation.
4498524|The natural history of Prairie Kingsnakes (Lampropeltis calligaster calligaster) is largely unknown because of their secretive nature. We radio-tracked 10 adult Prairie Kingsnakes (six males, four females) for one complete active season to determine activity patterns and habitat use in an area in Illinois that included forest, grassland, agricultural fields, and roads. The active season extended from approximately April to mid-October. Home ranges of males averaged over four times larger than those of females and usually included the individual's hibernation site. Males and females had similar activity levels throughout the season, with no differences in frequency of movement or distance traveled per move. Snakes were underground at least 73% of the 574 times they were relocated, suggesting most activity is nocturnal. Collectively, kingsnakes completely avoided agricultural fields and showed a preference for grasslands, but females were strongly associated with grassland edges along roads. This association with roadside edges, and failure of Prairie Kingsnakes to cross roads, suggests that roads may be barriers to movement-an observation consistent with recent evidence that roads can be barriers to movement, negatively affecting snakes in ways other than via direct mortality.
10.2307/1563505|Information on caloric, ash and water content of 19 lizard and 4 snake species is presented. Although differences were apparent between species and populations in calories/mg ash-free dry-weight (AFDW), these were obscured by differences in total clutch and body calories. It is suggested that means for all species eggs (6537 cal/g AFDW) and bodies (5562 cal/g AFDW) may be applied to future lizard energetic studies. Formulae are presented for conversion of weight to caloric data, and for conversion of weight (wet or dry) ratios (clutch/total) to caloric ratios (clutch/total).
40060525|Two new species of the genus Phyllodactylus are described based on material collected in the southern portion of Departamento de Amazonas, Peru. Both species are well differentiated from all other South American Phyllodactylus based on characteristics of their morphology. In the case of one species, its large adult size and lack of well-defined rows of strongly keeled scales differentiate it from other Phyllodactylus, whereas in the second species, the presence of an enlarged postanal scale is diagnostic. Both species were collected in the xeric Balsas region of the upper Maraon Valley, and exhibit some similarities to other assemblages of sympatric Phyllodactylus in South America. The Balsas region is an area of endemism that warrants further attention from systematists and conservation biologists. /// Dos nuevas especies del genero Phyllodactylus son descritas basndose en material colectado en la porcin sur del Departamento de Amazonas, Per. Ambas especies poseen caracteres morfolgicos bien definidos que los diferencian de las dems especies de Phyllodactylus de Sudamica. Para el caso de la primera especie, esta se diferencia por su talla adulta y carecer de filas bien definidas de escamas fuertemente killadas, en comparacin a otros Phyllodactylus, y en la segunda especie, el carcter diagnostico es la presencia de una escama postanal alargada. Ambas especies fueron colectadas en la rida rea de Balsas en la cuenca alta del Maran, y exhiben cierta similitud a otros grupos de Phyllodactylus simptricos de Sudamrica. El rea de Balsas, es una zona de endemismos con gran potencial en el estudio de la sistemtica y biologa de la conservacin.
10.2307/1563322| The eggs and hatchlings of the spiny chuckwalla, Sauromalus hispidus, are described for the first time. Twenty eggs (from a clutch of 21) had a mean size of 28.6 mm (25-30 mm)  43.8 mm (41-46 mm) and 15 hatched after 94-99 days incubation. The mean SVL of the hatchlings was 72.4 mm (69-77 mm). Coloration and pattern of the hatchlings are described. 
10.2307/1563012|A new genus Dasamia is described to accommodate the species Mabuya rugifera and M. multicarinata which differ significantly from all other members of that genus. Some tentative conclusions are drawn about the evolution of the new genus and the related genera Dasia and Emoia.
10.2307/1564049|Detailed studies of the distribution and habitat use of the endemic Texas snake Nerodia harteri were conducted from 1979 to 1987. The Brazos water snake N. h. harteri is restricted to the upper Brazos River drainage; it is found in about 303 km of stream plus two reservoirs, Possum Kingdom Lake and Lake Granbury. The Concho water snake, N. h. paucimaculata occupies 396 stream-km in the Concho-Colorado River drainage, and about 25 km of lake. As such, Harter's water snake has one of the smallest ranges of any North American snake species. Medium to large, flat rocks on an unshaded shore for hiding places and rocky shallows for feeding grounds appear to be important for juveniles. There is an ontogenetic habitat shift in N. harteri that may also be common in many other Nerodia. We found that adult N. harteri are not restricted to rocky riffles in flowing rivers but can inhabitat a much wider range of habitats in pools and lakes. Several sections of both the Brazos and Colorado rivers are uninhabited by N. harteri, apparently because juvenile habitat is lacking or scarce. Riffles are more isolated on the uninhabited stretches, and they may be too far apart to recolonize after catastrophic local population extinctions. Past dam projects have eliminated populations of Nerodia harteri through habitat destruction by inundation and siltation. Fragmentation of populations may also prevent recolonization after local extinctions. A major dam being constructed on the Colorado River near Stacy, McCullough County, will inundate about 18% of the known habitat of Nerodia h. paucimaculata and perhaps degrade another 8% or more. A unique agreement whereby the dam-constructing authority will construct artificial habitats and fund biological studies could ameliorate the negative effects of the dam and reservoir on populations of the Concho water snake.
10.2307/1563066|Observations were made of a group of Pituophis melanoleucus lodingi to determine characteristics of ecdysis and correlating factors. Length of pre-molt period in 30 observations of five juveniles varied from 5-14 days. Eyes were opaque from 2-14 days, and clear from 0.7 days before ecdysis, which occurred six times while the eyes were still opaque. Eyes were opaque a mean total of 78% of the pre-molt period. Ecdysis occurred at a frequency of 15-50 days (mean interval 27 days in 23 observations). Mean intermolt interval for males was longer than that of one female. A seasonal variation in interval length is correlated with higher summer temperatures, increased feeding activity, and increased growth rates. Mean intermolt interval for three adults observed was 29 days, but was characterized by extreme variability (17-49 days in six observations), with no obvious correlations with temperature or feeding activity.
10.2307/1565085|This study analyzes the geographic variation of skull morphology in the green turtle, Chelonia mydas, including the eastern Pacific population sometimes recognized as C. agassizii. One hundred and forty-five skulls from six nesting sites (Comoros, Seychelles, Ogasawara [Japan], Galapagos [Ecuador], Tortuguero [Costa Rica], and Guyana) were measured. Samples from Comoros, Seychelles, and Guyana were greater in absolute skull length than those from Ogasawara, Tortuguero, and Galapagos. Discriminant analyses showed that four of the six local samples could be completely or nearly completely classified correctly. Comoros and Seychelles samples were not discriminated. The Galapagos sample was completely separated from other samples by a canonical discriminant analysis, and this result indicates distinctness of the eastern Pacific population. The Galapagos sample, however, was not differentiated from the others by any character dimension relative to skull length. From these results, we support the recognition of the eastern Pacific population as a distinct subspecies, C. mydas agassizii, but not as a distinct species.
4498550| Seasonal variation in activity patterns of reptiles is accompanied by physiological and behavioral adjustments that influence their ecology and life history, and overwinter survival may be an important factor limiting a species' northern range extension. A northern population of Wood Turtles (Glyptemys insculpta) in Ontario, Canada was surveyed in fall 2004, and a subset of adults was radio-tracked every 7-12 days during the winter of 2004-2005 to examine thermal aspects of overwintering. We predicted that Wood Turtles would use hibernacula that protect them from freezing and predation. Temperature data loggers indicated that turtle body temperatures and hibernacula temperatures remained near OC from 2 December 2004 until 3 April 2005. During the same period, air temperatures fluctuated substantially and reached a maximum of 10.5C (on 30 March 2005) and a minimum of less than -40C (on 21 January 2005) with a mean of -8.3C. Turtles did not select specific water temperatures nor did they use distinct structures (e.g., root hollows, logjams, and holes in the riverbank) for overwintering but instead rested relatively exposed on the riverbed at a depth of approximately 1 m and at a mean distance of 1.0 m from the riverbank. Surprisingly, turtles made small movements during winter (0.1-10.0 m between radiolocations), typically against the river current and in a direction parallel to the riverbank. Average winter home-range size was 7.1 m. Our findings raise questions about why turtles move during winter; we suggest possible answers and future lines of investigation to address these questions. 
4498623|We report the discovery of a 2n = 30 karyotype race in the Australian diplodactyline gecko Diplodactylus tessellatus. The new chromosome race has four large metacentric pairs and 11 acrocentric pairs, a unique complement among diplodactyline geckos. Three karyotypic races are now known from D. tessellatus. One retains the ancestral Diplodactylus 2n = 38 all-acrocentric karyotype, whereas the 2n = 30 and the 2n = 28 races appear to have been derived from a 2n = 38 karyotype via fusion of four or five pairs of acrocentrics. Diplodactylus tessellatus and its relatives in the Diplodactylus vittatus species complex are now known to possess five different diploid number complements; 2n = 38, 36, 34, 30, and 28, more variation than any other diplodactyline gecko genus or species group for which data are available.
1566137|Historical records and recent studies indicate that populations of the Copperbellied Water-snake (Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta) are in decline. Reduction in range and fragmentation of populations are largely based on human activities, primarily through alteration of shallow wetlands. We conducted a comparative study of habitat use to determine why N. e neglecta may be more vulnerable to human-induced changes than sympatric congeners. Nerodia erythrogaster neglecta were observed primarily along shorelines with gentle slopes near very shallow water and often used herbaceous vegetation, logs, grasses, and sedges substrate categories. Nerodia sipedon pleuralis used habitat most similar to N. e. neglecta. Although N. s. pleuralis were observed to be more aquatic and were more often found in open water, they showed the same close association with shorelines and basking substrates as N. e. neglecta. Nerodia rhombifer is the least selective in habitat use of the three species and is the least similar in habitat use to N. e. neglecta in this study. As a whole, the results of this study support previous research that suggests N. e. neglecta is a seasonal habitat specialist. The extensive destruction of seasonal wetlands in the Midwest may thus have a greater impact on N. e. neglecta than their sympatric congeners.
10.2307/1563585| Antisera to the slowly-migrating albumin of Rana ridibunda and to albumin of Rana perezi (a morphologically, electrophoretically and immunologically homogeneous sample from the Camargues region of southern France) were used in microcomplement fixation experiments to examine serum albumins from 50 individual Rana collected in Spain and France in 1974. The immunological distance from the R. perezi albumin to three samples of R. ridibunda albumin averaged 35, while the distance of 33 individual R. perezi samples averaged 54 from the slowly-migrating R. ridibunda albumin. Serum albumin samples from 13 R. ridibunda  R. perezi hybrids averaged 11 ID units from the albumin of R. perezi, 7 from the albumin of R. ridibunda. Electrophoretically, the albumins of R. lessonae, R. perezi, and the two albumins of R. ridibunda appear to be separated by equally sized steps. Immunological data indicate that parallel but unequal shifts in mobilities have occurred among these four albumins; the immunological differences associated with the different steps vary by a factor of 30. Rana ridibunda  R. perezi individuals examined extend the known range of such hybrids within France to the southeastern tip of the Bay of Biscay, and provide the first Spanish records from this area and from near Zaragoza in the Mediterranean-draining Ebro River Valley. 
10.2307/1565893|We studied diets, sexual dimorphism, and reproductive biology of six taxa of poorly known African blindsnakes (Rhinotyphlops lalandei, Rana mucruso, Rana schlegelii petersii, Rana schlegelii schlegelii, Typhlops bibronii, and Typhlops fornasinii) by dissection of 649 preserved museum specimens. Females matured at larger sizes than conspecific males, and the degree of sexual size dimorphism was most extreme in the large heavy-bodied R. s. schlegelii. Reproduction was highly seasonal in temperate-zone T. bibronii and R. lalandei, with vitellogenesis in spring, oviposition in late summer, and hatching in autumn. All species were oviparous, with mean clutch sizes of four to 25 eggs. Clutch sizes were strongly correlated with maternal body size in T. bibronii and R. lalandei. African Rhinotyphlops and Typhlops fed mainly on larvae and pupae of ants (88-97% of prey items for five of the six species), but adult termites were also eaten. Only R. mucruso fed on termites to a significant degree (38% of prey items). All species fed infrequently on large numbers of small prey (mean number of prey per stomach = 80.4, range 1-927 items). Remarkably, although they attain almost 1 m in length, the world's largest blindsnakes, R. schlegelii and R. mucruso, fed on relatively small termites and ant brood. Collectively, our data show that typhlopid snakes have remarkably conservative diets, supporting the idea that the peculiar skull morphology of the Typhlopidae is an adaptation to feeding on small, clumped, immobile prey. Our findings support the hypothesis that the binge-feeding strategy of typhlopid snakes (rapid ingestion of prey, low feeding frequency, and large meal size) evolved to minimize the time spent inside ant nests and, thus, to reduce the risk of prey-inflicted injuries.
10.2307/1562886|The area of intergradation between the two populations of R. floridana is confirmed. The patterns of variation of small demes on adjacent sand ridges indicate that these demes are not reproductively isolated. The reduction of midbody segments can be explained by a form of scale fusion. The explanation that a reduced number of body annuli results from an increase in annulus width in relation to body length appears unacceptable.
10.2307/1566117|Morphological variation of 508 hatchling alligators from three lakes in north central Florida (Lakes Woodruff, Apopka, and Orange) was analyzed using multivariate statistics. Morphological variation was found among clutches as well as among lakes. Principal components analysis was used to determine the proportion of the variation attributable to shape as opposed to size. Shape accounted for 42% and 36% of the variation among individuals and clutches, respectively. Linear discriminant analysis with cross-validation was performed to determine whether the clutch from which an individual came or the lake from which a clutch came from could be predicted. Success of predicting clutch membership varied from 67% for Lake Apopka to 74% for Orange Lake. The lake from which a clutch was obtained could be predicted with a success rate of 49%. The optimal subset of measurement variables, obtained from stepwise discriminant analysis, was used to illustrate the morphological variation among clutches and lakes in a scatterplot of the first two canonical variables. Assuming factors such as genetics, nutrition, age, size, and stress affect hatchling morphology, one would suspect hatchlings from the same clutch to be more similar than hatchlings from different clutches. Likewise, we suggest that a lake effect could be the result of intrapopulational similarity of environmental factors, such as food and resource availability, nutrient levels, contaminant levels, and parental lineage (genetics). We hypothesize that demographic and environmental influence on the maternal contribution to the embryonic environment, rather than genetic influence, is responsible for the observed pattern of morphological variation.
10.2307/1564853|Relationships among North American plethodontid salamanders have been the subject of numerous molecular studies. In particular, immunological investigations of albumin evolution using the quantitative technique of micro-complement fixation have provided insights into relationships between the genera Ensatina and Plethodon, as well as within Plethodon. However, examination of relationships within eastern Plethodon has been hindered due to lack of antisera from a representative of each species group. An antiserum to albumin from P. wehrlei (wehrlei group) was produced and compared to all available Plethodon antigens. With this antiserum, all currently recognized species groups of eastern Plethodon (glutinosus, cinereus, welleri, and wehrlei) are now represented in a reciprocal matrix of immunological distance values. Phylogenetic trees derived from these data indicate that the welleri and glutinosus groups are sister taxa, and cluster with the wehrlei group; the cinereus group is the most distant within the eastern Plethodon. This topology conflicts with that based on electrophoretic and morphological data, which suggest that the glutinosus and wehrlei groups are sister taxa. A close examination of the albumin immunological data shows that the rate of albumin evolution within eastern Plethodon has been variable, and therefore these data may be less reliable for phylogenetic reconstruction in this taxon.
1566140|Habitat destruction and fragmentation are often cited as primary causes for declines in reptile and amphibian populations. Smaller habitat patches constrain population size resulting in increased extinction risk caused by stochastic processes. However, patch size also may affect populations in a deterministic manner. We used mark and recapture techniques to examine effects of patch size on demographics of the Florida Scrub Lizard (Sceloporus woodi). We examined populations in eight scrub habitat patches that differed in size but were similar with respect to other habitat characteristics. Abundance, survivorship, and recruitment were positively associated with patch size for both sexes. Individual growth rate increased with patch size for males but was negatively associated with patch size for females. Although our data indicate that patch size strongly affects demographics of scrub lizards, mechanisms responsible for these patterns are unknown. We discuss conservation implications of area-sensitive demography for local and regional populations. In particular, we suggest caution when constructing metapopulation models that assume homogenous survival and fecundity rates for all patches regardless of patch size.
10.2307/1562976|A new species of Eleutherodactylus was discovered in southwestern Puerto Rico. This species is the first New World anuran reported to be ovoviviparous. E. jasperi is an obligate bromeliad-dwelling species, restricted to a small area with dense bromeliad growth. It is distinguished from all other Puerto Rican Eleutherodactylus by color and lack of prevomerine teeth. Metamorphosed embryos, prior to birth, are located in a distended section of the reproductive tract. Three to six eggs mature at a time, and gravid females have been found from April to August.
10.2307/1564151| In Suriname swamp-borderd river parts usually have higher caiman (Caiman crocodilus) densities than forest-bordered river parts. In the Coesewijne River area, caimans showed a preference for shallow water. Most juveniles and subadults were found in a section with much aquatic vegetation, Zeekoe Creek. This tributary drains a large grass-swamp, which is an important nesting area. It is shown that the high caiman density was mainly caused by the high number of juveniles born in the area. Caimans over three years of age were generally equally distributed between the main river and the tributary although some seasonal differences were apparent. With receding water levels these caimans left the tributary, or they moved to deeper parts; with rising water levels many caimans entered the creek and finally dispersed into the inundated swamp. At the start of the dry season about 52% of the subadult and adult caimans and 68% of the second year caimans returned to the location they were found before the rainy season. Caimans were rather sedentary; the longest distance between two recordings was 3 km. 
25599189|Rhinella spinulosa is a toad common in rivers, streams, and steppe wetlands where they face a variety of insect predators. Rhinella spinulosa tadpoles are known to be unpalatable to dragonfly naiads at some developmental stages. In this paper, we studied susceptibility of R. spinulosa tadpoles to predation by two species of predators, water bugs (Belostoma bifoveolatum, Belostomidae) with piercing-sucking mouth parts and dragonfly larvae (Rhionaeschna variegata, Aeshnidae) with chewing mouth parts. We conducted feeding trials to test the effectiveness of tadpole chemical defenses against water bugs. We also performed behavioral and choice experiments to study whether tadpole behavior influences their vulnerability to predators, and whether R. variegata has the capacity of discern between palatable (stages 38-45) and unpalatable tadpoles (stages 24-26). Rhinella spinulosa tadpoles, when fully palatable, responded by reducing their activity levels in the presence of dragonfly larvae but did not alter their behavior at unpalatable-early stages. Chemical defenses were not effective against the sucking predator (B. bifoveolatum) and no changes in tadpole activity were observed. Selectivity experiments revealed the ability of dragonfly larvae to distinguish between unpalatable and palatable tadpoles. Inducible (behavior) and constitutive (toxins) defenses observed in R. spinulosa tadpoles and the transition between them could result in an important survival mechanism in response to variable predator risk in the habitats in which they co-occur.
40983600|Understanding how potential predator cues and habitat features affect prdation of turtle nests is important because nest predators can influence the demographic structure of turtle populations. We constructed artificial turtle nests in an area used by nesting Painted Turtles (Chrysemys pieta) to investigate the relative importance of visual and olfactory signals (both natural and anthropogenic) and edge effects on nest prdation. Overall, 34% of the simulated nests displayed evidence of prdation. Neither rocks or ags used to mark nests (visual and olfactory cues left by researchers) nor slough water (an olfactory signal inadvertently shed by nesting turtles) significantly influenced prdation rates. Instead, predators (most likely raccoons) located artificial nests based solely on surface soil disturbance and proximity to habitat edges. These results suggest that predators use key natural cues (as opposed to anthropogenic markers) and habitat edges to locate Painted Turtle nests, as noted in prior observational studies at this site. These findings provide useful experimental insights into the impact of anthropogenic markers, surface soil disturbance, and habitat edges on nesting turtles and their predators.
10.2307/1564533|We studied the effects of tail loss on dominance relationships of captive male Anolis sagrei. Densities of free ranging male and female anoles were measured and used to establish the number of individuals to be placed in experimental enclosures. We placed two male and three female brown anoles in each of four outdoor enclosures. We observed males establish dominance and quantified aggressive interactions between the paired individuals. Territory size of the dominant male was determined by the minimum convex polygon method. After the dominance relationship between males was established, a portion of the dominant male's tail was removed. To simulate natural conditions, males were returned to their enclosures immediately after tail removal. We also measured the level of aggressiveness, and territory size of the dominant male after tail removal. Males that were dominant before tail removal remained dominant and did not change in aggressiveness after removal. Territory size of dominant males before and after tail removal did not differ. Our findings suggest that tail loss may be of minor consequence to an individual Anolis sagrei once it has established a territory. If tail autotomy resulted in a loss of territory and thereby, loss of reproductive opportunities, then benefits accrued from tail autotomy (increased survivorship) would be discounted by the diminished reproductive output.
1565748|Call surveys are used widely to assess distribution and abundance of anurans. The durations of these surveys often are based on convenience rather than on empirical analysis. Knowing how frog detection varies with survey duration is valuable for designing sampling schemes, yet few studies have examined the relationship between survey duration and detection efficiency. We conducted call surveys for frogs in central Texas to assess effects of survey duration on detection efficiency. We controlled analytically for temporal and environmental covariates that had the potential to confound our assessment of survey duration. Cumulative detection efficiency of all species was 94% for 15-min surveys and did not increase appreciably with longer durations up to 30 min. Detection efficiency for number of species was significantly higher for 15-min surveys than it was for 5-min surveys, and the variability of detection efficiency decreased with increasing survey duration. Detection efficiency for number of calling individuals of Acris crepitans and Rana sphenocephala did not differ among 5-, 10-, and 15-min surveys. Of the temporal and environmental covariates examined, only the year in which a survey was conducted was significantly associated with detection efficiency for number of species. None of the covariates was significantly related to detection efficiency for A. crepitans or R. sphenocephala. When sampling resources such as time and personnel are limited, knowledge about detection efficiencies is essential for allocating survey effort.
41415330|Public concern for the humane treatment of animals in research has led to specific guidelines for appropriate treatment of study organisms. Field research poses special challenges that Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees find difficult to address based on existing guidelines. Toe clipping is a common but contentious example whose use has been called barbaric and whose efficacy has been questioned. We provide a brief review of the ethical bases for such positions, the legal framework they have engendered, and the scientific evidence regarding the impacts of the practice. Leading philosophical views vary but tend to focus on the suffering or distress of individual animals, primarily vertebrates. The law has adopted this individual-centered view. Biologists, in contrast, tend to more wholistic views that focus on populations and ecosystems. Scientific studies of the impacts of toe clipping, most of them relatively recent, have become increasingly sophisticated statistically. Most show little impact of toe clipping on study animals, the exception being the likelihood of recapture of toeclipped individuals in some frogs. If unaccounted for, effects of methodology can bias scientific findings. The few studies focusing on physiological indicators of distress show no increase resulting from toe-clipping. Thus, toe clipping of reptiles and amphibians meets legal and ethical expectations and should remain acceptable where it meets study needs. Biologists have long been concerned about the possible ethical implications of their methods. Philosophical inquiry has been beneficial in improving our understanding of these methods, but the need of biologists for better philosophical elaboration of ecological ethics has only partially been addressed.
40983659|A recent study showed that populations of the threatened Florida Sand Skink had limited loss of genetic diversity over the past 60 yr as a consequence of anthropogenic fragmentation. This study assumed that 60 yr represents 30-37 generations for the Florida Sand Skink, but a new evaluation of mark-recapture data shows that 60 yr represents only about 15 generations. This result suggests that too little time may have passed to observe the full genetic consequences of contemporary anthropogenic fragmentation in the Florida Sand Skink and reinforces similar results from other species. We suggest that snapshots of existing genetic variability in fragmented populations are limited in their ability to predict the evolutionary fate of a species unless life-history attributes of the organism are taken into account.
1565790|The Swamp Skink, Egernia coventryi, is an uncommon species that inhabits wetlands and swampy heaths in predominantly coastal regions of southeastern Australia. We examined museum specimens to quantify the diet, reproduction, and sexual dimorphism of E. coventryi. The mean SVL of both adult males and females was 85-86 mm, and individuals attain sexual maturity at about 72-74 mm SVL. Although the sexes did not differ in body size (SVL), males have longer and broader heads than females, both in terms of absolute head size and head size relative to body size. Females ovulate in September and October with parturition occurring in late January or early February. However, not all adult females collected during the breeding season were pregnant, suggesting that female E. coventryi may not always breed annually. Litter size in E. coventryi ranged from 1-4, with a mean litter size of 2.6. Egernia coventryi is omnivorous and a largely opportunistic forager, with spiders (found in 16 of 47 individuals, 34%), beetles (26%), lepidopterans (17%), ants (11%), hemipterans (9%) and aquatic amphipods (9%) the most common animal prey items found in the alimentary canals of individuals. However, plant materials (e.g., fruits/berries, seeds, other vegetation) also were found in the stomachs of the majority of the specimens (66%). Sloughed skin (26%) and the tail fragment of another E. coventryi were found in the alimentary tracts of preserved specimens. The majority of specimens (76%) were infested with endoparasites, with one specimen containing 130 nematodes, although the mean number of nematodes per specimen was 8.87.
10.2307/1566016|Lizards in the Anolis bimaculatus group from the northern Lesser Antilles have played an important role in theoretical and empirical developments in ecology, behavior, and evolution over the last four decades. Despite intense interest, the lack of a formal phylogenetic analysis for the bimaculatus group has limited comparative and historical evolutionary analyses. Here we present a phylogenetic analysis of species relationships within the bimaculatus group based on separate and combined analyses of mitochondrial DNA and previously published allozyme data. These analyses indicate that (1) the wattsi group of small anoles is a basal, well-supported monophyletic group; (2) the large anoles A. bimaculatus and A. leachi are not sister species--rather, there is a well-supported sister relationship between A. bimaculatus and A. gingivinus; (3) the A. marmoratus complex from the Guadeloupean archipelago is deeply differentiated and paraphyletic, with A. sabanus, A. lividus, and possibly A. oculatus nested within it; (4) the phylogenetic position of A. leachi is not well resolved, but a combined analysis of mtDNA and allozyme data favor placing A. leachi as the sister taxon to the (A. marmoratus, A. lividus, A. sabanus, A. oculatus) group; and (5) the phylogenetic position of A. nubilus remains uncertain pending additional data. The proposed phylogeny elucidates the evolutionary history and biogeography of the bimaculatus group and allows a reassessment of the character displacement and taxon cycle/loop hypotheses.
10.2307/1563583|The ability of female mountain dusky salamanders to recognize their own egg mass following experimental isolation ranging from 0 to 96 h was tested in the laboratory. Egg recognition and clutch fidelity did not differ between isolation groups, nor was it affected by the number of days that a female had been attending her eggs. Females with developmentally advanced clutches spent significantly less time in the presence of eggs than did those with less developed clutches, but this is considered to be an artifact of prolonged confinement and frequent handling in the laboratory. Females were not inclined to approach their own eggs first during two choice trials. Nevertheless, as a group, females spent a significant percentage of the test period with their own eggs, and most were in the presence of their own clutch within 24 h. An olfactory hypothesis for clutch recognition is presented and a set of experiments is described which tests the importance of non-clutch odors during the nest selection process.
10.2307/1562907| Scanning electron microscopy of the outer surface of midlateral scales of 51 species of Sceloporus ( of those now known), representing all 15 groups (as of Smith, 1939) of the genus, suggests that dermatoglyphics are of no apparent diagnostic value at higher taxonomic levels in the genus Sceloporus, but may be very useful at the subspecies, species and species-group levels. Microornamentation of scale surfaces is seemingly unidirectional in evolution. Three variables are useful in systematic considerations in Sceloporus: degree of concavity of Oberhautchen cell surfaces, degree of overlap of cell boundaries, and degree of loss of spinules and reduction of surface pits; cristae occur in those species with the greatest cell-surface cavitation. All species examined exhibit Oberhautchen cell boundaries, much the same in size and shape. Dense spinulation, flat cell surfaces and lack of imbrication are primitive character-states in Sceloporus. 
43287363|Snakes within the genus Thamnophis (Gartersnakes and Ribbonsnakes) are often found in sympatry throughout their geographic distributions. Past work has indicated that some sympatric species within this genus may hybridize, but research of this nature is limited. We attempted to determine whether hybridization occurs between two Thamnophis species native to the upper midwestem United States: Common Gartersnake (Thamnophis sirtalis) and the Butler's Gartersnake (Thamnophis iutieri). We sampled snakes (n = 411) across 26 locations in Wisconsin, including sites where both species coexist and sites where only Common Gartersnakes are found. We conducted genetic analyses on tissue collected from individuals field-identified as Common Gartersnakes or Butler's Gartersnakes. To verify the results of our field-collected data, we analyzed tissues from juvenile snakes (n = 4) suspected to be the offspring of a Common Gartersnake and a Butler's Gartersnake that were housed together in a captive situation. Of the field-collected snakes analyzed, eight snakes were consistent with expected Common  Butler's Gartersnake hybrids. All four of the captive offspring' analyzed resolved as putative hybrids, corresponding with our field-collected samples. Butler's Gartersnake is a globally rare species, endemic only to the upper midwestem United States. Studies involving the potential for hybridization between common and uncommon species are useful from a conservation perspective. The low incidence of hybridization we observed would indicate that hybridization between these species is uncommon. Further research investigating rates of hybridization would help assess any potential threat posed by outbreeding between common and rare gartersnakes in this region of the United States.
10.2307/1563243|A photographic, mark-recapture study of the Blue Ridge dusky salamander, Desmognathus ochrophaeus, revealed that at least some females oviposit during the spring and summer on an annual basis. Females exhibited a propensity for the same segment of the reproductive habitat during successive years. The adaptive value of this behavior is discussed.
10.2307/1563642|Three known techniques, variations of visual search and capture by hand or nets, and two potential techniques utilizing electroshocking were evaluated for their effectiveness and efficiency in capturing hellbenders (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) in the Allegheny River drainage, northwestern Pennsylvania. Under conditions of controlled sampling effort, the two electroshocking techniques accounted for 78.2% of the 87 individuals captured. Hellbenders appeared to exhibit no ill effects or differential displacement from electroshocking. Unlike the other techniques, the success of electroshocking was independent of the study site and time of day.
4092925|We studied the cryptic fossorial legless lizard (Anniella pulchra) in a 1.57-ha area of sand dune on the coast of central California. This is the largest and most dense population of A. pulchra (N = 3,582;
4093012|Paleontological and geological evidence suggest that the distinctive endemic skink Eumeces longirostris could potentially be as old as continuously emergent land on the Bermuda seamount (approximately > 1-2 million yr). The species has experienced sustained evolutionary stasis for at least the past 400,000 yr, during which time there has been no perceptible change in skeletal morphology. The tortoise Hesperotestudo bermudae is known from a single fossil from interglacial period marine isotope stage (MIS) 9-approximately 300,000 yr ago. A viable population of tortoise on Bermuda could be reconciled with the geological record and the lack of any other fossils of the species to date if tortoises colonized the island at or after the end of the maximal sea-level rise of interglacial MIS 11, evolved during the single glacial episode of MIS 10, and become extinct as a result of the interglacial sea-level rise of MIS 9, a period of about 100,000 yr. Such rapid evolution and extinction has a close parallel in the giant tortoises of Aldabra Island in the Indian Ocean.
1566069|Uta stansburiana and Elgaria multicarinata occur on several California Channel Islands, and recent introduction of some populations has been suggested because of similarity in life-history traits and body size to mainland populations. We sequenced representatives of each species from mainland southern California and some of the islands on which they occur. For each species, cytochrome b sequence divergence is low across the narrow geographic area sampled. Analyses of 14 haplotypes of U. stansburiana suggest long-established residency on Santa Catalina and San Clemente Islands but more recent arrival on San Nicolas and Santa Cruz Islands. Analyses of eight haplotypes of E. multicarinata suggest these lizards may have been recently transported to San Nicolas Island.
40665001|We compared sexual dimorphism of body and head traits from adult lizards of populations of Gallotia caesaris living in ecologically different habitats of El Hierro and La Gomera. Males had larger body sizes than females, and sexual size and shape dimorphisms were greater in a population from La Gomera than in three populations from El Hierro. Multivarate analyses of variance, using linear and shape-adjusted traits, showed that the populations differed significantly in body and head traits, with pileus (head) width, snout-vent length (SVL), and body mass the main traits contributing to the differences. Males had larger SVL, heads, and limbs than females in all populations, but SVL relative to a shape index (calculated as the geometric mean of several body parameters) was larger in females than in males. Moreover, shape-adjusted hind-limb lengths were significantly shorter in lizards from the more densely vegetated habitats than in those from the less vegetated ones. The magnitude of sexual dimorphism was larger for relative limb length and head depth in the populations with less vegetation than in those with more vegetation. Our data suggest that morphological differences between populations reflect local adaptation to habitat structure.
10.2307/1563319|Ctenotus quinkan sp. nov. is known only from the sandstone country between Laura and Cooktown, Queensland. Ctenotus rawlinsoni sp. nov. has been collected only from the coastal heaths between Cooktown and Cape Flattery, Queensland.
41415317|Species that exhibit extreme traits can provide valuable insight into the evolution of those traits. Bitis schneiden has the smallest body size of all vipers, reportedly reaching a maximum length of 254 mm. We studied size, sexual size dimorphism, and growth in a population of B. schneiden from the Northern Cape Province, South Africa to better understand these traits in the smallest viperid. We weighed and measured 285 snakes (124 males, 101 females, 60 juveniles) over three austral summers. We recorded a maximum body length of 251 mm and body mass of 38 g. Mean adult female body length (207.4  27.6 mm) was longer than mean adult male body length (191.6  20.2 mm). As predicted, female snakes were heavier bodied than males of the same length, had shorter tails, and had relatively larger heads. Growth rate was rapid and did not appear to differ among the sexes. Individuals reach mean adult body length in approximately 2.2 years, and male snakes are likely to reach reproductively mature size in approximately 10 months. We suggest that sexually dimorphic traits have evolved primarily through fecundity selection for females. Additionally, we propose that the evolution of small body size in B. schneidert is a result of the selective thermoregulatory, foraging, and predator avoidance advantages gained by being small enough to shuffle into sandy substrates.
40060518|We studied litter size, size at birth, and relative litter mass (RLM) in two populations of the crevice-dwelling lizard Xenosaurus platyceps: one located in a low-altitude tropical forest; and the other in a high-altitude temperate oak forest. We found a significant relationship between female size and litter size. Females from the temperate site produced significantly larger litters in comparison with those from the tropical site after adjusting for female size. Neither a relationship between female size and offspring size nor a difference between populations in offspring size was detected, which suggests that this trait could be either constrained or optimized. RLM showed the same pattern as litter size: Larger females exhibited greater RLM, and this trait showed significantly larger values in the temperate locality. This pattern is explained by evidence that females in the temperate population are producing more young of similar size than those produced by their tropical counterparts. We did not find significant interannual variation in any of the reproductive traits studied. We suggest reciprocal transplant or common garden experiments to determine the genetic and proximal causes of the observed intraspecific variation.
10.2307/1563720|Six rattlesnakes (Crotalus v. viridis) were observed in four experimental conditions designed to assess ability to follow odoriferous mouse trails. If snakes had not struck mice just prior to being exposed to the trails, then no trailing behavior was observed, whereas trails were followed with precision if the snakes struck mice prior to the tests. Striking led to pronounced elevations in rate of tongue flicking, and the magnitude of this effect did not depend upon presence vs absence of mouse trails in the post-strike environment. However, when a trail was present, the high rate of tongue flicking facilitated locating the trail and following it to the mouse carcass positioned at its end. Once a trail was located, the snake confined its head to within 2 cm of the odoriferous cues, and 75% of the tongue flicks were directed to the trail.
10.2307/1565712|Fitness of female reptiles often depends on both the number and size of offspring. I examined clutch size (number of fertile eggs) and offspring size relative to maternal body size in the striped plateau lizard, Sceloporus virgatus, under conditions of natural and experimental variation in water and food availability. Under all environmental conditions, larger females produced more offspring. In the year with higher levels of precipitation, path analysis indicated a direct positive effect of maternal size on offspring size and a significant trade-off between offspring size and number. Similar nonsignificant trends were found in a year of severe drought. During the drought, females of S. virgatus produced relatively small clutches of large offspring. Food supplementation during the period preceding and including ovulation removed the effect of drought on clutch size and offspring size. Food-supplemented females produced relatively large clutches of small offspring.
10.2307/1563604|During the period 1954 through 1969, studying growth of snakes in the field with a mark and recapture method, I marked 110 Japanese rat snake, Elaphe climacophora (Boie); 34 were recaptured one to six times, with a total of 60 recaptures. However, no hatchlings were recaptured. Growth records of captive snakes from hatchlings up to maturity have been accumulated and growth curves calculated. Growth in total length from 40 cm at hatching, to 46 cm at 3 months, at the end of the first growing season before entering the first hibernation; 75 cm at 15 months; 120 cm at 27 months; and 140 cm at 39 months. Both sexes reach maturity in May of the fourth spring at the age of 3 years and 8 months, and the female lays her first eggs in July of the same year at 3 years and 10 months. The snake attains 180 cm in total length at the age of 10 years.
10.2307/1563372| Litter frogs at two rainforest locations in Panam elect prey in a pattern similar to that found for litter frogs in lowland Per (Toft, 1980) despite differences in the frog fauna between Panam and Per. Species of litter frogs form a continuum from species that specialize on ants and mites, through generalists, to species that avoid ants and mites. Modes of foraging and predator defense and taxa of litter frogs are correlated with position along the continuum. Atelopus and Bufo (Bufonidae) and Dendrobates (Dendrobatidae) are poisonous, searching foragers which eat many small prey, primarily ants and mites, per day. Colostethus (Dendrobatidae) eat ants, but to a lesser degree, and have a more sedentary foraging behavior than Dendrobates. Eleutherodactylus (Leptodactylidae) are cryptic, sit-and-wait foragers which eat few large prey per day, with the exception of E. vocator, which eat ants in proportion similar to Colostethus. Evidence within the Dendrobatidae suggests that specialization on ants is derived from a generalized mode of foraging. Ecological correlates of foraging mode in litter anurans are summarized and are generally similar to those in desert lizards. 
1565747| We review the taxonomic status of populations of toads referred to Bufo melanochlorus Cope, 1877, that occur in the wet forests on both Atlantic and Pacific versants of Costa Rica. Populations from Pacific versant of Costa Rica and adjacent Panama are qualitatively diagnosable from all other populations and are described herein as a new species. The taxon B. melanochlorus is restricted to populations in the Atlantic and Montane Slopes and Cordillera Central faunal areas of Costa Rica. /// Revisamos el estado taxonmico de las poblaciones de los sapos referidos a Bufo melanochlorus Cope, 1887. Estos ocurren en los bosques msicos de la vertiente del Atlntico y la vertiente del Pacfico de Costa Rica y Panam. Las poblaciones de la vertiente del Pacfico de Costa Rica y de Panam se pueden diagnosticar de todas las dems poblaciones y aqu se describen como una nueva especie. El taxn B. melanochlorus est restringido a las poblaciones de las reas faunisticas de Costa Rica como el Atlntico, Vertientes Montaosos y la Cordillera Central. 
10.2307/1563742|Between 1973 and 1982 nine populations of the northern leopard frog in the Red Feather Lakes region of Larimer County, Colorado, failed to reproduce. These failures all resulted in extinction of the populations. One area formerly supporting a population was recolonized in 1980, but no frogs were observed at any of the nine sites in 1981 or 1982. Six of the populations went extinct because the breeding ponds dried up. The remaining populations were small enough to be susceptible to random events, but the nature of these events is unknown.
10.2307/1565049|Although intraspecific and interspecific variation in dates of spring emergence is known among snakes, factors affecting such variation are not. Dates of spring emergence from hibernation were recorded for individual wandering garter snakes (Thamnophis elegans vagrans) and prairie rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis) in south-central Wyoming. Due to differing seasons of mating and mating systems of these species, we predicted that male garter snakes, but not male rattlesnakes, would emerge prior to conspecific females. Garter snakes emerged earlier than rattlesnakes, and male garter snakes emerged earlier than conspecific females. Male garter snakes remained near hibernacula where vernal courtship with emerging females was observed frequently. In contrast, spring courtship was never observed among rattlesnakes, and there was no difference between dates of spring emergence of males and females. Thus, predictions concerning associations between emergence patterns and mating systems were supported.
10.2307/1564620|Agalychnis saltator gathers in spectacular breeding aggregations on lianas above temporary swamps. Both males and females descend to breeding aggregations by parachuting and return rapidly to the canopy by hand-over-hand locomotion up lianas. Amplecting males are no different in size from single males, and the sizes of males and females in amplexus are not correlated. Unusual characteristics of this species compared to congeners include egg-laying during daylight hours and laying grey eggs that are packed into moss on lianas. Sources of egg mortality include desiccation, submergence in water, and predation by ants, snakes, and birds. Parachuting and walking may both be efficient locomotor modes that enable frogs to live in the dispersed habitat of the canopy and yet gather in a short amount of time for explosive breeding at isolated ponds.
4092879| In turtles with temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD), estradiol applied to eggs incubated at male-producing temperatures produces female hatchlings. In other vertebrate taxa, estradiol administration during embryogenesis often induces only temporary or incomplete feminization, and sensitivity to estradiol can vary among taxonomic families. In the present study, we treated eggs of Kinostemon scorpiodes and Stemotherus odoratus incubated at male-producing temperatures with estradiol-17 and examined reproductive morphology of offspring. Furthermore, to determine whether sex reversal resulting from estradiol application in turtles with TSD is lasting, we maintained juvenile K. scorpiodes in the lab for up to three years prior to dissection. We found normal ovarian morphology and Mllerian duct development in a significantly greater proportion of the hatchling S. odoratus and juvenile K. scorpiodes that had been treated with estradiol during embryogenesis than in the untreated group. Results further suggest that estradiol-induced sex reversal seen in TSD turtles is both permanent and ubiquitous and may shed light on the evolution of sex-determining mechanisms in vertebrates. 
10.2307/1565900|Varanid lizards often tongue-flick in feeding and social contexts, but little is known regarding their abilities to identify a variety of prey using only chemical cues or to detect pheromones. We studied responses by juvenile Varanus exanthematicus to surface chemical stimuli from several animal taxa, two plant species palatable to herbivorous lizards, and conspecifics, using diluted cologne and deionized water as pungency and odorless controls. In 60-sec trials with stimuli presented on cotton swabs, lizards showed stronger responses to prey stimuli from mouse, cricket, earthworm, and a gekkonid lizard than to control stimuli. These findings suggest that the lizards are able to locate and identify prey from a wide variety of taxa, which would be adaptive for a generalist predator. Only mouse and cricket stimuli induced a greater proportion of individuals to bite swabs than control stimuli. Because these prey were the laboratory diet, biting frequency may depend on familiarity with the prey. Like other tested insectivores and carnivores, V. exanthematicus showed no signs of discriminative responses to plant chemicals. The lizards tongue-flicked in response to conspecific cues at a higher rate than to the odorless control but at a lower rate than to cues from a gekkonid lizard, indicating that conspecific cues were detected and discriminated from prey cues.
4092903|It is generally accepted that bottom-dwelling turtles have a higher ectoparasite load than turtles that bask aerially because of effects of desiccation on ectoparasites, especially with regard to leeches. We compared number of leeches (primarily Placobdella parasitica) on field-caught Common Musk Turtles (Stemotherus odoratus) and Common Map Turtles (Graptemys geographica). The bottom-dwelling species S. odoratus had more than 20 times the number of leeches than the aerial-basking species G. geographica. We then exposed cleaned (leech-free) turtles to leeches in mesocosms (cattle tanks) to measure the rate of colonization. In this experiment, S. odoratus had more than four times the number of leeches as G. geographica after 24 h of exposure, even though G. geographica were unable to bask under these experimental conditions. We suggest that desiccation threat alone does not explain the species-specific differences in leech loads on aquatic turtles.
10.2307/1563327|The gross structure of the subcutaneous lymph sacs was examined in anurans from diverse habitats. There were apparent correlations of large lymph sacs with aquatic habit and of reduced lymph sacs with fossorial habit. It was found that all previous hypotheses concerning the function of the subcutaneous sacs could not explain such correlations. It is proposed that the subcutaneous spaces, in connection with the posterior lymph hearts, renal portal vein and the kidney, form a mechanism for rapidly excreting incoming water.
43287353|We used an occupancy modeling framework to test the relative importance of upland habitat composition (proportion of different types of vegetation and development) and pond characteristics (water chemistry and vegetation) in determining the occurrence of two species of pond-breeding salamanders, the Marbled Salamander (Ambystoma opacum) and Mabee's Salamander (Ambystoma mabeei), in an urban nature reserve in southeastern Virginia, USA. Of 55 ponds surveyed in 2009, we found A. opacum larvae in 17 (30.9%) ponds and A. mabeei larvae in seven (12.7%) ponds. We found a strong positive relationship between A. opacum larval occupancy probability and pH; salamanders were more likely to occupy less acidic waters. Sampled ponds were highly acidic, with pH values ranging between 3.36 and 4.41, but A. opacum occupied only ponds with pH values >3.66. Ambystoma mabeei was more tolerant of the highly acidic conditions and was more likely to occupy larger ponds with fewer trees and scrubs. Landscape-level models were not well supported. Although pond acidification is generally dismissed as a cause of amphibian declines, our results suggest that pH can be an important, species-specific factor in determining occupancy of pondbreeding amphibians.
10.2307/1563608|Resistance to cold was measured in individuals of Thamnophis sirtalis parietalis taken from communal dens near Winnipeg, Manitoba. This resistance was compared to absolute low temperatures and average low temperatures for the spring and fall of 1972, 1973, and 1974. Snakes taken in colder seasons were shown to have longer resistance times when subjected to a stress temperature of - 10 C.
10.2307/1563545|The nesting of Chelydra serpentina was studied along the shore of an impounded riverine marsh in northern New York. Most nesting activity occurred during the first three weeks of June and was equally divided between morning and evening hours. Large females nested earlier in the season than did smaller ones. Clutch size averaged 30.9 eggs/clutch, supporting the belief that this species has larger clutches at higher latitudes. Snapping turtles usually nested in sparsely vegetated, thinly soiled clearings found in association with exposed outcroppings of Precambrian bedrock. Predators destroyed 94% of all nests under study.
10.2307/1563618|A new form, Chalcides levitoni, is described. It is sympatric with Chalcides ocellatus in Southwestern Arabia and is the first species of the ocellatus group to be found in Asia besides Chalcides ocellatus. Among other traits, the new species is readily distinct to the naked eye by head and limbs clearly smaller and ocelli replaced by dull scales where dark parts are much reduced.
10.2307/1563114|Knowledge of Anolis simmonsi Holman, heretofore known from a single adult male and small juvenile from Rio Canoa, Oaxaca, is augmented by an adult female from 20 miles SW San Pedro Juchatengo, Oaxaca, 100 miles distant from the first locality. Anolis macrinii, new species, is described from two old, battered adults from Cafetal Santa Hedvegis, Pochutla, Oaxaca; it is possibly related to Anolis pentaprion Cope. All specimens are in the Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University.
10.2307/1563384|The closely-related snake genera Furina and Glyphodon contain small to medium sized nocturnal species. Dissection of 472 specimens provided data on food habits, body sizes, clutch sizes, growth rates and seasonal schedules of reproduction. All 70 prey items recorded were scincid lizards; Furina species take small diurnal skinks (especially Lampropholis) whereas Glyphodon take larger skinks (especially Sphenomorphus). Females attain larger body sizes than males in Furina species. Clutch sizes average 3 to 4 in Furina, 6 to 10 in Glyphodon. Female reproductive cycles are strongly seasonal in temperate-zone Furina diadema, but aseasonal in tropical Furina. Both sexes of F. diadema attain sexual maturity in the year following their birth.
43287370|Oviposition site selection is an important aspect of reproduction for species such as amphibians that breed in dynamic environments. We examined predictors of oviposition site selection of Spotted Salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) at Cowan's Ford Wildlife Refuge in Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. We conducted egg mass surveys and checked 40 minnow traps for potential predators every 2 days along transects, sampling a subset of all representative habitat within the wetland. Random points were generated for each egg mass to compare microhabitat conditions in areas where egg masses were present versus undetected. We constructed a paired logistic regression model and used Akaike information criterion to rank the associations between oviposition site and water depth, temperature, predator density, and vegetation. Antbystoma maculatum egg mass location was best predicted by deeper water and denser submergent vegetation. Our study suggests that A. maculatum select oviposition sites actively, rather than ovipositing in all available microhabitat, implying that vegetation structure and hydrology of ephemeral wetlands are important for the successful reproduction of this species.
10.2307/1565601|Within and between-population variation differences in size and color pattern traits are described for the lizards Gallotia galloti eisentrauti and G. g. galloti from two different habitats. For males, snout-vent length (SVL), head length (HL), cheek mark length (CML), and the number of ventral patches (NVP) were all greater in G. g. eisentrauti. The first lateral patch (FLPL) was longer in males of G. g. galloti but the number of lateral blue patches (NLBP) did not differ. Considering all traits, male CML and FLPL had the greatest coefficients of variation in both races. Snout-vent length and HL were greater in G. g. eisentrauti females than in G. g. galloti females, while the opposite occurred for NLBP and NVP. Adult male to adult female SVL ratio, a measure of body size dimorphism, was 1.19 for G. g. eisentrauti and 1.21 for G. g. galloti. For most animals, lateral patch color was in the 5 PB (purple-blue) step of the Munsell System Chart, and value and chroma were 3-4 and 6, respectively. ANCOVA of the HL-SVL relationship showed a significant difference between male and female HL in both races; this difference may reflect differences in HL growth. The data are discussed in relation to information on male intrasexual competition.
10.2307/1563685| Observations of a population of Anadia brevifrontalis were made during October and November of 1977 in the Venezuelan Andes. The study site was located in the pramo (alpine-tundra) of the state of Mrida at 3,600 m. Basking and foraging activities occurred between 0930 and 1600 hrs., at an ambient air temperature range of 16.2-25.0 C. substrate temperature range of 19.9-29.2 C, and body temperature range of 15.2-27.4 C. Stomach contents contained 8 taxa of arthropods with larval Coleoptera/Lepidoptera, adult Coleoptera, and Araneae making up the most significant portion by weight. Most females contained yolking follicles or oviducal eggs during October and November as did others, more recently collected, in June and July 1979. The clutch size was two, with the eggs laterally fused and deposited in humus beneath rocks. Some nest sites contained only a pair of eggs, while others were communal. One of two communal nest sites contained eleven egg shells, the other at least 46 intact eggs and 27 shells. 
10.2307/1564861|A new species of leptodactylid frog (Eleutherodactylus) is described from a coastal mangrove marsh at the distal end of the Tiburon Peninsula in Haiti. It is a member of the bakeri series of the subgenus Euhyas, and is distinguished by its high-frequency call and unique reticulate skin texture.
10.2307/1564170|A new species of Colostethus (C. guatopoensis), described from north central Venezuela, is unique by having fully webbed hind feet. Natural history notes on it, C. herminae, and C. bromelicola are presented.
40060500|In reptiles, thermoregulation is important because it alters the rate of many physiological processes. Thermoregulation may be especially important to reproductive females that inhabit regions where the growing season is short, because the amount of thermal energy experienced during the season may limit the amount of energy devoted to egg production. We studied basking behavior of Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta) in Algonquin Park, Ontario, during the period of follicular recrudescence, a time of year when females allocate energy to developing follicles. Based on the notion that females bask (in part) to increase the amount of energy they allocate to developing follicles, we tested whether basking duration was greater in females than in males. Between 14 and 21 August 2003, we found that females basked longer than males on three of seven days, but males never basked significantly longer than females. Within sex, male but not female body size was positively related to basking duration. Our study suggests that the energetic demands of egg production result in an increased basking duration for females in this northern population. Males may bask to reach a certain temperature then return to water because of potential mating opportunities. Future studies should combine body temperature measurements with behavioral observations to elucidate further the reasons for sex-biased basking.
41515018|Chemical signals may communicate information about discrete character states, such as species and sex, as well as continuously varying characteristics that affect mate assessment. Here, we investigate whether body size is assessed from chemical cues of Striped Plateau Lizards (Sceloporus virgatus). Preliminary evidence indicated that males may respond to female chemical cues in a size-dependent manner. Because larger females may be more fecund, we hypothesized that in choice tests, males would prefer chemical cues from larger females. We compared male response to pairs of chemical cues obtained from adult females that differed in body size by~12%. Males did not discriminate between cues based solely on relative body size of the donors, but male preference was correlated with the body size of the larger donor female, indicating that absolute body size also played an important role. The preference scores were positive (indicating a preference for the larger female) only when the pair of donor females was relatively large and were negative (indicating a preference for the smaller female) when the donor pair was relatively small. Thus, males had a stronger chemosensory response to cues from the largest "large" females and the smallest "small" females. Overall, male response was more complicated than expected; we did not find a consistent preference for the cue from the largest female, as was expected based on the selective advantage of mating with larger, more fecund females. We suggest that the chemical composition of the female cue may signal additional information such as reproductive state.
10.2307/1562837|Hemoglobin phenotypes of 121 lizards representing 38 species, 21 genera and 9 families were determined by vertical starch-gel electrophoresis. While certain components were specific to various taxonomic levels, others were common to several families.
10.2307/1562704| A new species of the gekkonid lizard Sphaerodactylus is described from the Repblica Dominicana on the Antillean island of Hispaniola; the affinities of the new species are with S. shrevei, also from the same island, and these two species comprise an endemic species-group of the genus on Hispaniola. 
25599206|A new species of Ctenosaura is described from the Pacific versant of southeastern Honduras (Departments of Francisco Morazn and Choluteca). This species occurs in a restricted area between the ranges of Ctenosaura flavidorsalis (southwest Honduras, El Salvador and southeastern Guatemala) and Ctenosaura quinquecarinata (Nicaragua and Costa Rica). The new species differs from C. quinquecarinata, Ctenosaura oaxacana, and C. flavidorsalis in several scalation and osteological characteristics and coloration pattern. The suggested phylogenetic relationships of the new species are ((C. flavidorsalis + Ctenosaura sp. "southeastern Honduras") + (C. quinquecarinata + C. oaxacana)). The specimens of the new species were mostly found in hollow trees and branches no more than 2 m above the ground. The habitat was dominated by shrub and tree vegetation. This lizard feeds mainly on young leaves and insects. Local people occasionally hunt the ctenosaur for food and consider it to have become rarer in the last two decades, primarily because of habitat loss. /// Una nueva especie de Ctenosaura es descrita proveniente de la vertiente Pacfica del sureste de Honduras (Departamentos de Francisco Morazan y Choluteca). Esta especie habita entre el mbito geogrfico de Ctenosaura flavidorsalis (suroeste de Honduras, El Salvador y sureste de Guatemala) y Ctenosaura quinquecarinata (Nicaragua y Costa Rica). La nueva especie difiere de C. quinquecarinata, Ctenosaura oaxacana y C. flavidorsalis en varias caractersticas de escamacin, coloracin y osteolgicas. La relacin filogennica sugerida es ((C. flavidorsalis + Ctenosaura sp. "sureste de Honduras") + (C. quinquecarinata + C. oaxacana)). Los especmenes de la nueva especie fueron encontrados en los huecos de los rboles a no ms de 2 m del suelo. El hbitat estaba dominado por arbustos y rboles. La gente local caza ocasionalmente esta iguana y considera que esta especie se ha vuelto escasa durante las ltimas dos dcadas principalmente por la prdida de hbitat adecuado.
10.2307/1562793|A large sample of feeding records was obtained for Plethodon wehrlei in Pennsylvania for the summer months. Analysis of these revealed that weevils, insect larvae, centipedes, spiders, and orthopterans comprise the bulk of summer food. The most important single prey species is the introduced European strawberry weevil. Prey frequency varies ontogenetically and through the months of summer. Mites and ants are frequently eaten, but probably contribute little to the salamanders' energy intake.
10.2307/1562981|Aspects of the behavioral ecology of Imantodes cenchoa, I. gemmistratus and I. gentiferus were studied in large glass enclosures and in a greenhouse. Imantodes is crepuscular and nocturnal and 90% of all daylight hours were spent coiled in bromeliads. Emergence from bromeliads can be divided into three stages. Shifting and rearranging of coils and head emergence occurred between 4-0 foot candles (ft-c) in I. cenchoa and between 19-1 ft-c in I. gemmistratus. Emergence of the head and neck outside of the bromeliad occurred between 4-1 ft-c and 14-1 ft-c in I. cenchoa and I. gemmistratus, respectively. Complete emergence occurred between 1-0 ft-c in I. cenchoa and between 3-0 ft-c in I. gemmistratus. Individuals of Imantodes are morphologically adapted to arboreal living and have SVL-weight relationships that allow movement on the distal ends of branches and the bridging of wide gaps between arboreal perches. At night I. cenchoa and I. gemmistratus foraged for food and I. cenchoa fed on sleeping anoles. All species drank water beaded on their own bodies and I. gemmistratus frequently entered pools of water.
1566055|We studied Diamondback Terrapins, Malaclemys terrapin, at Gateway National Recreation Area, New York. We found evidence of nesting terrapins at three locations within the Recreation Area and focused our research on the islands of Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge. Female terrapins nested from early June through early August and oviposited at least two clutches per year. Mean clutch size was 10.9 eggs. Nesting activity increased with daily high temperature and high tide. The greatest number of terrapin nests was found in shrubland, dune, and mixed-grassland habitats, but nest densities were higher on a human-made sandy trail and on sandy beaches. We estimate that approximately 2053 nests were oviposited on the largest island in the refuge in 1999. In 1998 and 1999, we counted 1319 and 1840 depredated nests, respectively, throughout the refuge. Raccoons were introduced into Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge approximately 20 yr prior to this study. Raccoons depredated 92.2% of nests monitored on the largest island during the 1999 nesting season. We also found the carcasses of adult female terrapins that apparently were killed by raccoons as they came on land to nest. This terrapin population may be undergoing demographic changes as a result of the introduction of raccoons.
1565887|I examined sexual dimorphism in the lacertids Gallotia atlantica atlantica and Gallotia atlantica mahoratae from Lanzarote and Fuerteventura Islands, respectively. Mean body size was smaller in G. a. mahoratae than in G. a. atlantica. Sexual size dimorphism was greater in G. a. atlantica than in G. a. mahoratae, but relative size of several morphological traits was not different between the two populations. In both subspecies, head and body traits scaled to SVL, with head size of males having a positive allometry, indicating a disproportionate increase of this trait with the increase in body size. Relative size in hind-limb length was greater in males than in females in G. a. atlantica but not in G. a. mahoratae.
1565881| At the extreme southwestern part of its range in southeastern Arizona, annual surface activity of the Desert Box Turtle (Terrapene ornata luteola) is limited primarily to the three-month summer monsoon. Turtles emerging at the beginning of the monsoon are severely dehydrated. We examined the effects of dehydration on the critical thermal maximum (CTMax) of T. o. luteola. Compared to normally hydrated turtles, the CTMax of dehydrated turtles was depressed about two degrees from 41.0-39.0C. 
4092988|A new bufonid toad is described. The species belongs to the genus Melanophryniscus, and may be the largest species in this genus. Its size and external features (pale green in dorsal surface) resemble those of Melanophryniscus cambaraensis and Melanophryniscus macrogranulosus, from which it differs by the absence of frontal swelling. At present, the new species is endemic to the southern border of the Brazilian Southern Plateau, in central Rio Grande do Sul state.
4498538|Many reptiles exhibit temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) in which the incubation temperature of the egg determines the sex of the embryo. The purpose of the current study was to examine intraspecific variation in temperature sensitivity during TSD. Two aspects of temperature sensitivity were evaluated in the Red-Eared Slider, Trachemys scripta: (1) clutch-specific variation in sex ratios produced at pivotal temperature and (2) variation in clutch sex ratios produced over the nesting season (e.g., early nesting season, midnesting season, late nesting season). Relatively large numbers of clutch sex ratios were examined from two or three time periods (e.g., early nesting season, midnesting season, late nesting season), during each of three nesting seasons. The results indicate that pivotal temperatures vary significantly among clutches, with clutch sex ratios ranging from all male to all female when incubated near the putative pivotal temperature. The results on seasonal variation in clutch sex ratios were more ambiguous. Data from two of the nesting seasons do not reveal significant variation between time periods. During the third nesting season, sex ratios from the first two time periods were not significantly different from one another, but the sex ratios from the very end of the nesting season were significantly different from those of the two earlier time periods. In summary, the results reveal a clutch-specific variation in pivotal temperatures, but the results from the seasonal study of sex ratios did not consistently reveal a shift in sex ratios over each nesting season.
1565824| The reproductive cycle and cycles in fat body and liver mass are described for male and female Sceloporus utiformis from Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico, during 1988 and 1990. These cycles varied among months and between sexes. Males reached sexual maturity at 45 mm snout-vent length (SVL) at an age of seven months. Females reached sexual maturity at 56 mm at an age of nine months. Testes of males began to increase in volume in early May, and maximal testicular activity occurred from June to October. Testis size began to decrease in November and was small in December. Reproductive activity of females occurred between July and March. Gonads of females began to increase in volume in mid-June, and maximal egg production was from August to November. Maximal testicular growth was positively correlated with increasing temperature and precipitation, but not with photoperiod, whereas in females follicular growth was positively correlated with photoperiod but not with temperature and precipitation. Egg production occurred primarily during the wet season and early dry season. Females started to lay their eggs in late July. Mean ( SE) clutch size of oviductal eggs (6.94  0.28) and vitellogenic follicles (7.3  0.3) were not significantly different. Clutch size was significantly correlated with female SVL (r = 0.26, P < 0.05) and varied between years and months, as in other lizard species, presumably reflecting the effects of annual variation in resource availability on females. /// El ciclo reproductivo y ciclos del cuerpo graso y masa del hgado son descritos para las hembras y los machos de Sceloporus utiformis durante 1988 y 1990 en Chamela, Jalisco, Mxico. Estos ciclos variaron entre meses y entre sexos. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) de 45 mm a una edad de 7 meses. Las hembras alcanzaron la madurez sexual a los 56 mm a una edad de 9 meses. Los testculos de los machos comenzaron a incrementar en volumen a principios de mayo, con la mxima actividad testicular de junio a octubre. El tamao de los testculos empez a decrecer en noviembre, y en diciembre fue pequeo. La actividad reproductiva de las hembras ocurri entre julio y marzo. Las gnadas de las hembras comenz a incrementar en volumen a mediados de junio, la mxima produccin de huevos fue de agosto a noviembre. El mximo crecimiento testicular estuvo correlacionado positivamente con el incremento de la temperatura y precipitacin, pero no con el fotoperiodo, mientras que en las hembras, el crecimiento folicular estuvo positivamente correlacionado con el fotoperiodo pero no con la temperatura y precipitacin. La produccin de huevos ocurri durante la estacin de lluvias y a principios de la estacin de secas. Las hembras comenzaron a poner sus huevos a fines de julio. La media ( SE) del tamao de la puesta de los huevos en el oviducto (6.94  0.28) y de folculos vitelognicos (7.3  0.3) no fueron estadsticamente diferentes. El tamao de la puesta estuvo significativamente correlacionado con la LHC de la hembra (r = 0.26, P < 0.05) y vari entre aos y meses como en otras especies que habitan en la regin. 
43287379|AS in other savanna biomes, burns are common in the Cerrado biodiversity hotspot, profoundly affecting its entire biota. We review the direct and indirect effects of fire on lizards and find that previous studies on herpetofauna report little or no direct postfire mortality, likely investigate the immediate effects of prescribed fires upon lizard mortality in three South American Cerrado physiognomies. We also investigate the short-term (12 months) effects of fire on lizard captures in cerrado sensu stricto, the most widespread Cerrado physiognomy. We found no immediate postfire mortality with lizards using burrows and termite nests as prime shelters. Most lizard species displayed narrowed microhabitat use and reduced activity immediately after the fire. Twelve months after the burn, the capture rate of most species increased or remained the same as before the fire, whereas Mabuya nigropunctata (Scincidae) displayed reduced capture rates. With no apparent mortality caused directly by fire, we attribute variation in capture rates to changes in habitat structure. These changes may represent increased food resources or amelioration of microclimatic and structural conditions to the benefit of the majority of lizard species but which can also be detrimental to some species. Our results indicate that lizards are adapted in many ways to fires in the Cerrado.
4092883|The nutritional ecology and digestive physiology of salamanders in the Family Sirenidae remain poorly understood. Although the intestinal contents of these salamanders include herbivorous dietary items, the nutritional significance of such ingested matter is unknown. In this study, we examined gut contents, gastrointestinal structure, and microbial fermentation in wild-caught Greater Sirens (Siren lacertina). Ingested items included aquatic invertebrates, vascular plants, and algae. The guts of these amphibians were not as voluminous or morphologically specialized as in many herbivores, but the posterior intestine was enlarged and exhibited a distinct folding pattern and an ileocolonic valve that may help maintain a symbiotic microbial population. An active microbial fermentation was indicated by relatively high levels of short-chain fatty acids in the medial-posterior and posterior gut regions. This is the first account of gastrointestinal fermentation in the Family Sirenidae and only the second account in the Class Amphibia.
10.2307/1563354|An underground, seminatural hibernaculum was constructed. Various snakes were allowed to enter and exit ad lib. over a three year period. Details of hibernaculum construction and observations on mortality, winter activity and behavior are reported.
10.2307/1562868|To determine the adaptive strategies frogs utilize to exploit tropical seasonal environments, a 10 month study of tadpole ecological interactions was undertaken at the Sakaerat Experiment Station, located approximately 250 km NE of Bangkok. The temporal distribution patterns of larval species occurrence for several ponds show the following: 1) all the species have seasonal reproductive cycles, which are correlated with the unavailability of aquatic habitats during the dry season; 2) the greatest number of species using ponds as larvae correlates with the first time that the aquatic habitats retain water long enough for the larvae to complete metamorphosis; 3) patterns of larval species occurrence in response to the same environmental stimuli are varied; and 4) the occurrence of larval species in any single pond seems due to chance. Food analyses and behavioral observations are compared with niche analyses of overlap based on larval species abundances. Food differences do not add any information to that obtained from occurrence patterns in characterizing larval niches. The frog fauna at Sakaerat divides the total environment spatially and temporally at several levels. The most distinctive partitioning of the environment occurs between the wet (14 species) and dry (3 species) season breeders. The rainy season breeders subdivide the available aquatic environment by: 1) utilizing different ponds within the total environment, 2) occupying a single pond at different times, and 3) dividing up the living space within a pond spatially, rather than by selecting different food categories. All species for which data were gathered have short larval life periods which correlate with the uncertain aquatic habitat due to sporadic rainfall. All of the ponds had a much greater larval biomass at an early time rather than at a later time. Perhaps by having a period of larval activity at the beginning of the wet season, newly metamorphosed frogs are assured of a favorable period of growth before having to survive the dry season. Alternatively, the period of heavy larval usage may occur at the beginning of the pond cycle to avoid heavy predation. The single physical factor of rainfall distribution regulates anuran reproductive patterns in tropical areas characterized by a pronounced dry season. The more northerly the environment, the greater the number of physical factors which control the anuran reproductive patterns.
1565785| Several species of lizards exhibit significant annual variation in reproductive traits; however, most work in this area focused on populations from temperate latitudes or low to medium elevations. We examined annual variation in litter size, neonate size, and relative litter mass in a high elevation (4200 m) population of the viviparous lizard, Sceloporus bicanthalis from the Volcano Nevado de Toluca, Mxico. We found little evidence for annual variation in reproduction in this population. Female body size influenced litter size and litter mass. Relative litter mass in this population (0.47) was among the highest reported for any Sceloporus and may be a consequence of a nearly "annual" life cycle. Mean neonate size was not affected by female SVL or litter size, suggesting it may be optimized in this population. /// En algunos lacertilios se ha registrado una significativa variacin anual en las caractersticas reproductoras, sin embargo, la mayora de estos estudios se han efectuado en poblaciones de latitudes templadas y elevaciones bajas o medias. En el presente estudio analizamos la variacin anual del tamao de la camada, tamao de las cras y masa relativa de la camada en una poblacin de lagartijas vivparas (Sceloporus bicanthalis), que habitan a 4200 m en el volcn Nevado de Toluca, Mxico. Se registr una mnima evidencia de variacin interanual en la reproduccin. La talla de las hembras demuestra una gran influencia tanto en el tamao de la camada como en el peso de la camada. La masa relativa de la camada se encuentra entre los valores ms altos para el gnero Sceloporus (= 0.47), quiz como una consecuencia de un ciclo de vida de tipo anual. Finalmente, el tamao promedio de las cras no se encuentra moldeado por la talla de las hembras o el tamao de la camada, sugirindose por lo tanto, una optimizacin de esta caracterstica reproductora. 
4092913|Radiographic and histologic examination of long bone epiphyses in 25 species of Varanoidea (including one Heloderma species) reveals a qualitative difference in epiphyseal development between small and large species. In small monitor lizards, most of them belonging to the subgenus Odatria, metaphyseal plates tend to disappear completely, with fusion of primary and secondary epiphyseal ossification centers in adults that reach an individual body length close to the maximum known for their species. Epiphyseal fusion results in a complete and irreversible arrest of growth. This observation falsifies the previously accepted conclusion that the monitor lizards as a whole have a continuous growth. Conversely, in larger species, morphologically complete growth plates remain present in most (but not all) specimens, including very large adults. Although this feature is not firm evidence of a continuous growth, it nevertheless suggests that large species maintain active growth during ontogeny over a longer period than small species.
40664956|There is a great need for proactive approaches to avoid amphibian declines. We investigated the possibility that antioxidant stress markers might serve as a proactive measure of physiological stress in anuran tadpoles. Commercially purchased American Bullfrog tadpoles (Lithobates catesbeianus, Gosner stage 36-37) were subjected to 0-(control), 0.1-, 0.5-, 1.0-, and 2.0-mg/L paraquat for 24 h. Liver and muscle (tail clip) tissues were removed and analyzed for catalase, Superoxide dismutase (SOD), general peroxidase, and glutathione reductase (GR) activities. In the controls, there was no significant difference in GR activity in tissues collected from the liver and the tail; however, peroxidase, SOD, and catalase activities ranged from two-to 20-fold higher in the liver than in the muscle tissue. Treatment with paraquat resulted in significant increases in SOD, general peroxidase, and GR activities in the liver tissue, whereas the high constitutively expressed catalase activity remained unchanged. GR activity also increased significantly in the muscle tissue when the tadpoles were treated with 2-mg/L paraquat, but the activities of the other three antioxidant enzymes did not vary significantly from the control values in this tissue regardless of the paraquat treatment. After 24 h of paraquat treatment, all tadpoles at all treatment levels were alive and appeared to be vigorous, suggesting that the bullfrog is very tolerant to paraquat toxicity. It is proposed that this tolerance is caused by the stress-induced increases of antioxidant enzyme activity such as SOD, general peroxidases, and GR, as well as, the high constitutive activity of catalase. These findings suggest that, with refinement and further studies, antioxidant markers may be important indicators of sublethal environmental stress in amphibians.
10.2307/1565598|Adult female ringneck snakes (Diadophis punctatus) collected from a Maryland population during five successive summers laid a total of 50 clutches in which all eggs hatched successfully under laboratory conditions. Mean hatchling mass was not significantly related to female mass or clutch size when each was evaluated in separate analyses, but was significantly related to these factors when they were evaluated in a joint analysis. Mean hatchling masses of 0.6-1 g appear most adaptive; when females are large enough to produce 1 g eggs, the tendency is to produce a larger number of relatively smaller eggs. The relationship of clutch mass to female mass was unaffected by clutch size. Reproductive effort, measured as relative clutch mass (RCM, clutch mass/female mass), increased with age, as indicated by snout-vent length (SVL); also, the relationship of clutch mass to female mass indicated that clutches equaled a larger percentage as female mass increased. Clutch size averaged 3.55 eggs and ranged from 2 to 6. Clutches were laid from 17 June through 21 July (35 d), median 2 July. Clutches hatched during the 20-d interval 8-27 August (median August 18). Larger clutches were laid earlier in the season on average than smaller clutches. Incubation periods for clutches averaged 47 (range 42-51) d. Clutches laid later in the season averaged shorter incubation periods than clutches laid earlier.
4092970|Texas Horned Lizards, Phrynosoma cornutum, were tracked using fluorescent powder to determine exact daily movements. Daily linear movements and daily space use were compared between adult males and females. Lizards that traveled the greatest linear distances also covered the largest areas. In Oklahoma, adults emerge from hibernation in late April and early May and mate soon after-ward. Males traveled significantly greater distances (and covered significantly larger areas in a day) than females in May but not after May. We propose that males move more and cover more area than females early in the mating season to intercept receptive females.
10.2307/1563541|Rate of thermal acclimation was determined for larval Ambystoma tigrinum. Acclimation to an increased temperature as measured by change in Critical Thermal Maxima (CTM) occurred within 36 hours. This is about the same rate as has been shown for adult Ambystoma. There was no significant change in CTM in larvae acclimated to a decreased temperature, indicating either a plasticity of CTM at low temperatures or no response. A measurement of Critical Thermal Minimum would more appropriately measure response to decreased temperatures as no known adaptive advantage would accrue to animals decreasing the CTM in response to reduced environmental temperatures.
41415277|Brachycephalus didactylus, a leaf litter frog endemic to the Brazilian Atlantic rain forest, is considered the world's smallest tetrapod. Currently, there is little information about the ecology of this species. In this study, we estimated the population density and analyzed the diet, sexual dimorphism, and some reproductive aspects of two populations of B. didactylus in Rio de Janeiro State, Brazil. The estimated density was 4.0 and 1.2 ind/100m, suggesting that this is not a locally rare species. However, collecting these frogs may be difficult because of their very small body size (<11.0 mm SVL) and cryptic color pattern. Individuals from the two populations did not differ in body size, but females from one population were significantly larger than were males. In both populations, the most important food items consumed were Acari and Collembola, most of them measuring less than 1.0 mm in length. Females of the two populations had 3.6  1.3 and 2.5  0.8 mature oocytes averaging 1.6  0.5 mm and 1.4  0.5 mm in diameter, respectively. Frogs with direct-development generally deposit a relatively small number of eggs, and this trend is even more extreme in miniaturized species, such as B. didactylus, which probably lays one egg per clutch. Because the body size of females significantly influenced the mean diameter of oocytes, but not the number of oocytes per female, reproductive success is probably associated with the production of relatively large eggs and, consequently, larger froglets, which may confer an adaptive advantage.
10.2307/1565384| Stomach contents of 54 Peltocephalus dumerilianus from the Yagua and Atacavi rivers, Amazonas State, Venezuela, were obtained by stomach flushing. Fruits and seeds, fish, and aquatic plants were the most common food items in the diet; invertebrates and algae also were eaten. The most common plant species in the diet were Mauritia flexuosa, Montrichardia arborescens, Parinari campestris, and Thurnia polycephala. The proportion of animal matter ingested by P. dumerilianus was the highest recorded among South American pelomedusid turtles. Diet composition was not significantly affected by sex or body size. Significant differences in diet were found between turtles from the two rivers, mainly because fruits and seeds were more diverse in diets of turtles from Atacavi River. /// Contenidos estomacales de 54 ejemplares de Peltocephalus dumerilianus ("cabezn"), provenientes de los caos Yagua y Atacavi, Estado Amazonas, Venezuela, fueron obtenidos por medio de lavados en vivo del tracto digestivo. Frutas y semillas, peces y plantas acuticas predominaron en la composicin de la dieta. Invertebrados y algas fueron igualmente consumidos por esta tortuga. Las especies de plantas ms comunes en la dieta fueron Mauritia flexuosa, Montrichardia arborescens, Parinari campestris y Thurnia polycephala. La proporcin de material animal ingerido por P. dumerilianus es la ms alta registrada para tortugas de la familia Pelomedusidae en Sur Amrica. La composicin de la dieta no fue significativamente diferente entre sexos o clases de tamao. Diferencias significativas en la dieta fueron encontradas entre las tortugas provenientes de los dos caos, principalmente como resultado de una mayor diversidad de frutos y semillas en la dieta de las tortugas del cao Atacavi en comparacin a las tortugas del cao Yagua. 
40060491|A new species of the Neotropical frog genus Odontophrynus from coastal regions of Brazil and Uruguay is described. It is included in the americanus species group and has a diploid complement of 22 chromosomes. Odontophrynus sp. nov. is distinguished from the other species of the americanus group by having smaller size, head nearly as wide as long, skin on dorsum bearing small-sized warts, and distinct postorbital and parotoid glands that form a longitudinal ridge. Moreover, the new species has a pair of enlarged postorbital dark blotches around the afore-mentioned glandular ridge and few small-sized dark blotches on the upper lip and forelimbs. Odontophrynus sp. nov. is also characterized by nasals and frontoparietals well separated from one another, frontoparietal fontanelle exposed anteriorly, and the maxillar process of nasals slightly separated from the nasal process of the pterygoids.
4498541|In many lizards, secretions of males are used in social behaviors, but it is almost unknown which specific chemicals are relevant in mediating these behaviors. Moreover, only a few studies have examined whether lizards can actually discriminate between different chemical compounds. We tested for differential chemosensory responses of female Iberian Wall Lizards, Podarcis hispanica, to two lipids (cholesterol and cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol) found in femoral secretion of males, and which previous behavioral studies suggested may be relevant in female mate choice. The higher tongue-flick (TF) rates directed at cotton swabs containing these two lipids indicated that females detected and discriminated these chemicals from a control. There were no significant differences between responses to cholesterol and to the whole natural femoral secretion from males, probably because cholesterol is the major predominant component in secretions of males. The higher TF rates to cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol than to cholesterol indicated that females discriminated these two steroids. Moreover, females seemed able to assess changes in concentration of cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol and responded more strongly to higher concentrations. These results, together with the previous finding of female preference for areas scent marked by males with higher proportions of this steroid in their secretions, might support that cholesta-5,7-dien-3-ol was a "key" chemical that might be used by females to choose potential mates.
10.2307/1565367|We examined the antipredator mechanisms of 19 Australian hylid species (two genera) and 23 myobatrachid species (nine genera). Frogs of 39 of the 42 species exhibited one or more defensive mechanisms (other than escape), including postures, bright coloration, adhesive skin secretions, and/or calls. Defensive posturing occurred in individuals of 38 species, and varied in relationship to morphology and localization of skin glands. Bright colors, when present, typically were displayed during defensive postures. We documented dramatic geographic variation in the antipredator display of one species, Limnodynastes tasmaniensis. Defensive postures were accompanied by secretions from dorsal skin glands. These secretions were sometimes associated with a distinctive odor. Adhesive skin secretions were present in burrowing frogs of three genera. Defensive calls were emitted by most hylids but none of the myobatrachids. We offer a hypothesis of mimicry to explain the behavior pattern of exposing the bold black and white ventral surface in Pseudophryne and Crinia species.
10.2307/1563351|Plethodon neomexicanus (Stebbins and Riemer, 1950) and Aneides hardii (Taylor, 1941) are members of the family Plethodontidae that are endemic to the Rocky Mountains of New Mexico. The active season for both species is mainly June, July, and August. Aneides hardii has a male reproductive cycle about 1 month ahead of P. neomexicanus. No male of A. hardii collected had his vasa deferentia packed with sperm, while the majority of males of P. neomexicanus had sperm-packed vasa deferentia. In P. neomexicanus oviposition occurs every other year, while in A. hardii oviposition may occur every 3 years. In P. neomexicanus mating occurs above ground in July and August and oviposition occurs between mid-August and the following spring. In A. hardii mating occurs below ground by the beginning of the active season, oviposition occurs in June and early July, and hatching occurs by August or early September. In P. neomexicanus one clutch of eggs contained seven eggs, with a range of 6.8 to 7.3 mm in diameter and in A. hardii six clutches averaged 4.7 eggs, with a range of 6.4 to 9.1 mm in diameter.
23327183|Microhabitat selection is critical to thermoregulation in ectotherms, particularly in small-bodied organisms for which low thermal inertia can impose rapid acquisition of thermal equilibrium with the environment. Although thermal microhabitat selection is often included in studies of niche partitioning among lizard species these investigations typically address only adult thermoregulation and, therefore, potentially neglect age classes in which thermal microhabitat selection could be especially consequential. We measured thermal time constants for juveniles of the lizard Anolis carolinensis and compared thermal microhabitat selection of this species with that of an invasive co-occurring congener, Anolis sagrei. In keeping with the exceptionally low mass of these lizards, heating and cooling rates were found to be extremely high and more similar to those of some insects than to other terrestrial vertebrates. On laboratory thermal gradients juvenile A. carolinensis tended to select warmer temperatures than A. sagrei, a pattern that is opposite to that observed for adults of these species. Because the rate of core temperature change was found to be an order of magnitude higher in juveniles than in adults and because the interspecific pattern of temperature selection is categorically different, these results suggest that investigation of juvenile anole thermoregulation could be of particular importance in developing an accurate characterization of resource partitioning among these model species.
10.2307/1562770|Three subspecies of Ambystoma macrodactylum tested in a soil moisture gradient showed slight but consistent differences. Two northern forms, A. m. macrodactylum and A. m. krausei from areas of high precipitation, avoided both extremes but A. m. croceum, from a more arid area, tolerated and selected drier conditions. Breeding adults of A. m. croceum selected higher soil moistures than non-breeding adults. The Ambystoma all selected lower soil moisture conditions than plethodontids previously studied.
4092989|I describe habitat use, diet, and male and female reproductive cycles of Takydromus sauteri, an oviparous grass lizard inhabiting Orchid Island, a tropical island off the southeastern coast of Taiwan. All T. sauteri were observed on leaves of Japanese silver-grass (Miscanthus floridulus) at the forest edge. The diet of T. sauteri consisted mostly of spiders (35.7%) and Hemipterans (14.3%). Two prey categories, spiders and gymnoceratans, numerically dominated the diet. Two lizards' stomach contained plant seeds, and two had eaten roaches. Mean snout-vent length (SVL) of adult males (N = 59) was 64.2 (range: 60.3-73.7) mm and that of females (N = 63) was 67.1 (range: 50.6-76.5) mm. Females exhibited spring and summer vitellogenesis with parturition occurring from February to August. Onset of vitellogenesis showed a negative correlation with mass of female fat bodies. Females produced one to four eggs per clutch, and clutch size was not correlated with SVL. Two clutches were recorded during a single year in some individuals. Male fat bodies exhibited the lowest mass from January to July, coincident with the period of reproductive activity.
41515006|We compared reproduction, diet, and body size of Polychrus acutirostris (Squamata: Polychrotidae) from the Cerrado and Caatinga biomes in Brazil. Because these two biomes have widely different climates, we predicted that lizards in Caatinga would produce smaller clutches in response to rainfall unpredictability. We also expected reproductive timing to differ between biomes, with lizards occurring in the Cerrado producing a single clutch in association with the predictable rains of October-November. Contrary to expectations, clutches had fewer (although larger) eggs in Cerrado. Reproductive period was remarkably similar (peak of female reproductive activity in November), but female reproduction started 1 month earlier in Cerrado. Diet composition was also similar, with the exception of spiders, that exhibited a high index of relative importance in Cerrado but were nearly absent in Caatinga lizard diets. Lizards from both biomes ingested a large proportion of plant material, as well as soft-bodied arboreal arthropods, such as orthopterans, and mostly slow-moving, large arboreal insects. Rainfall predictability in the Cerrado therefore did not influence Polychrus reproduction or diet in the same manner as in other lizard species. The large number of small eggs in the Caatinga suggests that the competitive environment for offspring is either unpredictable or that mortality is high but random. Rain forest Polychrus lizards produce few large eggs, suggesting that the competitive environment for offspring is predictably intense and mortality is non-random. Cerrado Polychrus lizards seem intermediate between Caatinga and rain forest Polychrus lizards, producing fewer and larger eggs than their conspecifics in the Caatinga but relatively more and smaller eggs than rain forest Polychrus species.
23326908|The monophyly of Microhylidae is supported by an overwhelming accumulation of synapomorphic larval features. Despite the distinctiveness of the microhylid tadpole, few studies have focused on larval development. Microhylid larval morphology is usually described and based on standard tables that imply that developmental events at equivalent stages of overall tadpole development are independent from species-specific patterns of developmental timing. Herein, we present additional developmental data based on external morphology and field data on larval growth for the gastrophrynine microhylid Dermatonotus muelleri. We describe internal morphological variation (e.g., skeletal and soft systems) during larval development. The results indicate that the onset of some metamorphic changes occur earlier than those implied in current anuran developmental tables. This study provides baseline information for microhylid species that will allow comparisons of ontogenetic trajectories, heterochronic patterns influencing larval body plan, and the role of larval morphology on the adult microhylid body plan.
41515025|A new species of squeaker frog (Arthroleptis) is described from Ngozi Crater in the Poroto Mountains of southwestern Tanzania. The holotype, and only specimen, was collected 80 years ago but remained undescribed because of past taxonomic confusion relating to large-bodied species of Arthroleptis from eastern Africa. Morphological study, including multivariate analysis of measurement data, indicates that this new species is distinguishable from other species of Arthroleptis, including large-bodied species such as Arthroleptis adolfifriederici, Arthroleptis affinis, Arthroleptis nikeae, Arthroleptis nguruensis, and Arthroleptis tanneri. The new species differs from other described species of Arthroleptis by the combination of its large body size, relatively long toes, and relatively small tympanum. The description of this new species further highlights the biological diversity of the Southern Rift Mountains.
10.2307/1564823| The foods taken by Ameiva ameiva, Cnemidophorus lemniscatus, Kentropyx striatus, and Anolis auratus in the Amazonian savanna at Alter do Cho depend more on the species of lizard than on lizard size. Lizard size affects the size of food items but this has relatively little effect on the types of foods eaten. The effect of body size appears to be similar for both stationary vegetable foods (fruits), and for the total diet, which consist mainly of invertebrates. The occurrence of vertebrates in the diet of the teiids is much less than for the same species in a seasonally inundated Amazonian savanna. 
10.2307/1565080| Anuran amphibians were sampled over a period of 6 yr at a site in seasonal lowland tropical rainforest in southern Amazonian Peru. Three sampling periods were at the beginning of the rainy seasons in 1986, 1989, and 1991; two were in the middle of the rainy seasons of 1986 and 1990, and one was in the dry season of 1989. Temperature and rainfall were recorded throughout all sampling periods. Sampling was done along a system of trails and in four series of quadrats. A total of 5236 individuals of 61 species of anurans was recorded during the sampling period. Analysis of the data on the 20 most abundant species reveals that anuran activity is closely correlated with the occurrence of peaks of heavy rainfall and not total rainfall during a sampling period. There is no compelling evidence for declines in anuran populations at this site. /// -- Se muestrearon los anfibios anuros en un sitio en el bosque lluvioso tropical estacional de tierras bajas en el sur del Per amaznico a lo largo de un perodo de 6 aos. Tres perodos de muestreo fueron en los comienzos de las estaciones de lluvia en 1986, 1989, y 1991; dos a mediados de las estaciones de lluvia en 1986 y 1990, y uno en la estacin seca en 1989. Se registraron la temperatura y cantidad de lluvia a lo largo de todos los perodos de muestreo. El muestreo se realiz a lo largo de un sistema de trochas y en cuatro series de cuadrantes. Se registr un total de 5236 individuos de 61 especies de anuros durante el perodo de muestreado. El anlisis de los datos de las 20 especies ms abundantes revela que la actividad de los anuros est estrechamente correlacionada con la occurrencia de mximos de lluvia torrencial y no con la cantidad de lluvia durante un perodo de muestreo. No existe evidencia convincente de descensos en las poblaciones de anuros en este sitio. 
10.2307/1563011|A survey of the composition and ecology of the herpetofauna of the Fort Apache Indian Reservation was conducted during the summers of 1967-1968. Eleven families, 23 genera, and 39 species comprise the known fauna. The fauna is most diverse in the pinon-juniper habitat of the Upper Sonoran Life Zone and least diverse in the Hudsonian Life Zone. No specimens were collected in Alpine Tundra.
10.2307/1563719|There are two species of Dipsas that occur in Mexico, D. brevifacies and D. gaigeae. In this paper the skulls, lower jaws and musculature, middle precaudal vertebrae, and hemipenes of D. brevifacies and D. gaigeae are compared. In both species there is a pivot joint in the lower jaw that permits rotation of the dentary and its teeth outward from the vertical to a diagonal or almost horizontal position. In the skull of D. gaigeae there is a keel formed by the basioccipital bone that projects downward into the oral cavity. Dipsas brevifacies and D. gaigeae have been reported in the literature to be closely related. Other than a generic relationship, these two species appear not to be closely related. The morphological variation in 86 specimens of D. brevifacies and 22 D. gaigeae is discussed. /// Hay dos especies de Dipsas que habitan en Mexico, Dipsas brevifacies y D. gaigeae. En esta publicacion los craneos, las mandibulas inferiores y su musculatura, las vertebras del cuerpo medio, y los hemipenes de D. brevifacies y D. gaigeae son comparadas. En ambas especies hay un eje de articulacion en la mandibula inferior que permite la rotacion del dentario y sus dientes hacia afuera, de una posicion vertical a una posicion diagonal o casi horizontal. En el craneo de D. gaigeae hay una quilla formada por el hueso base-occipital que se proyecta hacia abajo en la cavidad oral. Ha sido publicado varias veces que D. brevifacies y D. gaigeae estan cercanamente relacionadas. Estas dos especies no parecen estar cercamente relacionadas, excepto por la relacion generica. La variacion morfologica en 86 ejemplares de D. brevifacies y 22 D. gaigeae es discutida.
10.2307/1565513|The lengths and diameters of the limb segments of 105 monitor lizards from 22 species were measured on preserved museum specimens in order to determine whether limb proportions vary in relation to snout-vent length (used as an indicator of overall body size). Scaling exponents (slopes of allometric equations) were estimated for log-transformed species' mean values, using both conventional nonphylogenetic statistics as well as the method of phylogenetically independent contrasts. Both methods gave essentially the same results. All limb segment lengths and diameters scale with exponents exceeding 1.0; thus, larger species of monitors tend to have larger limbs relative to their snout-vent length. Foot length, however, decreases relative to total hindlimb length in larger species. Measures of limb segment diameters scale with greater exponents than do limb lengths; thus, larger species also tend to have relatively thicker limbs. The empirical results on limb shape are consistent with predictions derived from biomechanical models.
10.2307/1564265|The recessus scalae tympani has recently become an important character in the reconstruction of the phylogenetic relationships of higher taxa of reptiles. The subdivision of an originally undivided fissura metotica during ontogeny lends itself particularly well to cladistic analysis. The present paper is an attempt to review the differentiation of the recessus scalae tympani in reptiles in order to elucidate problems of topographic homology and convergent evolution.
10.2307/1563822|The rate of predation of Ambystoma opacum larvae on A. maculatum larvae was shown to vary with the size and density of the predator in the laboratory. An increased density of both the predator and the prey in field enclosures increased the daily mortality rate of the prey A. maculatum, but did not significantly decrease the number of survivors. Intraspecific competition in both species was shown to be density-dependent in the laboratory. The growth of A. opacum was inhibited by an increased density of conspecifics in field enclosures. Interspecific competition was demonstrated in the laboratory and in field enclosures. The data suggest that the two species are probably more affected in nature by the predator-prey relationship than by interspecific competition.
40983604|We fit asymptotic models to growth data of free-ranging Gila Monsters studied near Tucson, Arizona. We used a mixed-effects modeling procedure that allows for unequal numbers of recaptures by accounting for within-individual covariance and models between-individual variation in growth parameters as random effects. A model selection procedure and diagnostic tests indicated that a von Bertalanffy curve with seasonal cessation of growth and a random effect for asymptotic size fit the data best. Young Gila Monsters in our study grew faster than previously reported growth rates from both field and captive animals, and we discuss potential reasons for this discrepancy.
10.2307/1565202| I evaluated how the abundances of two species of forest-dwelling plethodontid salamanders, Plethodon cinereus and P. glutinosus, are related to moisture level and availability of cover by manipulating moisture levels and cover object density on experimental plots. I also investigated how cover and moisture influence the physical condition and activity level of the most common of the two species, P. cinereus. The experiment was a 2  2 factorial design in which plots had either low or high densities of cover objects (rocks, logs, and coarse woody debris) and were either watered by sprinklers two to three times weekly or received no supplemental watering. Nocturnal searches of the plots revealed that watering increased the abundance of juvenile P. cinereus, and increased the activity levels of both juveniles and adults. Increased densities of cover objects resulted in increased abundance of both adult and juvenile P. cinereus. Plethodon glutinosus was more abundant on watered plots and on plots with high densities of cover objects than on unwatered plots and plots with low densities of cover objects. The P. cinereus on plots with high densities of cover objects were of higher mass, adjusted for body length and tail length, than conspecifics on plots with low densities of cover objects. This suggests that the foraging success of terrestrial salamanders is dependent on cover object availability. The findings of this study indicate that moisture levels and cover object availability are both significant factors in regulating abundances of terrestrial salamanders, but that different species and different age-classes of the same species can vary in their responses to these factors. 
10.2307/1562724|Several lines of evidence (distributional, physiological, and morphological) suggest that the brackish water adapted turtle Malaclemys terrapin give rise directly to many or perhaps even most of the different species of the fresh water genus Graptemys. The implication of this hypothesis is that either the various species now referred to Graptemys may represent several closely related but independently evolved genera, or that Graptemys and Malaclemys are congeneric.
10.2307/1564474|Multiple method analyses of allozyme frequency data from all species of the genera Nerodia and Regina, and a representative of the genus Thamnophis, are in close agreement. Nerodia is seen to be composed of three distinct lineages, the taxispilota group, the cyclopion group, and the sipedon group. The sipedon group includes the genus Thamnophis, and thus the genus Nerodia is paraphyletic. The genus Regina is also composed of three lineages, at least two of which appear distinct from Nerodia. Taxonomic rearrangements are suggested on the basis of these findings.
10.2307/1565609|We estimated the annual survivorship of two populations of the asp viper, Vipera aspis aspis, by recapturing known adult individuals in the field over six and nine years respectively. The snakes at the two study sites in the Jura mountains of northwestern Switzerland were active between mid-March and mid-October. Vipera a. aspis is easily captured by hand, has individually recognizable marks and is, therefore, well suited for long-term mark-recapture studies. The maximum likelihood estimates of annual survivorship are about 0.75 in both populations. The probability that a snake will be recaptured in any given year is about 0.4 (habitat A) and about 0.33 (habitat B). Sampling effort within a year had little effect on the probability of recapture. Our best estimate of annual survival of 0.75 for the two habitats combined compares well with other previous estimates in viperids and in V. aspis in particular. We found no detectable differences in the survival rates between sexes even when the two habitats were combined. We found weak evidence that there was a difference in the recapture probability between the sexes. The minimal adequate model for the combined data set suggested that there is a higher probability of recapturing surviving females (0.545) than males (0.331).
10.2307/1563450| The nutritional qualities of four laboratory diets were compared by monitoring the growth and survival of juvenile toads (Bufo woodhousei fowleri). Sixty toads were randomly assigned to mealworm, cabbage looper, cricket, or combination diet groups. Each toad was maintained at 25C and was fed thrice weekly for nine weeks. Overall survival was 80%, and there was no significant correlation with diet. Although all diets were capable of supporting growth, the mealworm diet was markedly superior to the other three. The combination group was second, due largely to growth spurts following mealworm feedings. Most of the observed differences in growth stemmed from the initial 21 day interval. Growth of the toads over the full nine week period increased linearly with prey biomass ingestion. Responses to dietary differences were influenced by differing water contents among these insect prey species. The X- and Y-intercepts of linear regressions of toad growth versus prey ingestion provide useful insights into the energetics of juvenile toads. 
40665002|Identification of postcranial reptile pathology unrelated to trauma on the basis of macroscopic (visual) examination is feasible and effective, as previously documented in mammals, birds, and dinosaurs. Such bone disease is rare in most wild-caught lizards, with the exception of Varanids, and is also more common in crocodilians. This provides a basis for evaluation of the fossil record, suggesting that the most productive epidemiologic analyses would be concentrated in the families, Crocodylidae and Varanidae. A specific form of inflammatory arthritis and vertebral pathology, spondyloarthropathy, is clearly established as the major nontraumatic osseous pathology in lizards (although quite rare in all but varanids) and crocodilians. Calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease seems to represent a secondary phenomenon, apparently limited in distribution to individuals with spondyloarthropathy. Only 9% of individual reptiles with osseous pathology examined lacked a clear diagnosis substantiated by validated observations in human and other animals.
10.2307/1564224|A starch gel electrophoretic analysis of 19 loci in samples from five species of Necturus was conducted to clarify several taxonomic problems. There are two major clades in the genus; seven synapomorphies separate the N. lewisi-N. punctatus clade from that containing N. maculosus, N. beyeri, and N. alabamensis. Within the latter, five synapomorphies distinguish N. maculosus from the remaining taxa. Necturus beyeri and N. alabamensis are genetically distinct and should be considered separate species. We suggest that N. alabamensis, as presently constituted, may represent more than one species.
4498581|Understanding the timing of movement events of pond-breeding amphibians to and from breeding and natal ponds, respectively, is essential to implementing effective conservation and monitoring strategies for this group of vertebrates. In this study, we assessed the emigration timing of newly metamorphosed juveniles of four species of pond-breeding amphibians (Ambystoma maculatum, Ambystoma opacum, Notophthalmus viridescens, and Rana sylvatica) in western Massachusetts from data collected at 14 seasonal ponds during four consecutive years (2000-2003). Results identified emigration "windows" for juveniles of each species during each year and for all years pooled. Additionally, analyses identified considerable intraspecific variation in the timing of emigration among ponds and years for at least three of the four study species. Our results are directly applicable to management strategies (e.g., roadclosures) aimed at minimizing human-related impacts (e.g., road mortality) on populations of pond-breeding amphibians, as well as to mitigation strategies (e.g., maintaining engineered wetlands with an appropriate hydroperiod length) employed in cases of direct habitat loss.
40665014|Exotic plants can make up a major component of the diet for some Desert Tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) in the Moj ave Desert. If introduced plants differ nutritionally from native plants, they may influence the growth and welfare of young tortoises. Minerals available from a native grass (Achnatherum hytnenoides), an introduced grass (Schismus barbatus), a native forb (Malacothrix glabrata), and an introduced forb (Erodiutn cicutariunt) were measured for juvenile Desert Tortoises voluntarily eating singlespecies diets. We offered tortoises weighed amounts of chopped foods daily for  130 days (dry grasses; summer diet) or  90 days (green forbs; spring diet). Orts and feces were collected daily and dried to constant mass, and calcium, phosphorus, and magnesium contents of food and feces were measured and used to calculate nutrient digestibilities. Overall, tortoises gained more minerals from forbs than from grasses. small but significant amounts of phosphorus when eating grasses, which may have contributed to observed decreases in tortoise mass and shell volume on grass diets. There were few nutritional differences between native and exotic forbs or between native and exotic grasses. Comparisons of nutrient availability to estimated requirements for growth by juveniles and for egg production by adult females suggest that phosphorus is more limiting than calcium or magnesium and that calcium may pose a significant osmotic challenge for excretion in this desert species. Management practices that promote availability of forbs could increase growth rates and shell ossification, which would enhance predator resistance of juvenile tortoises.
23327193|Amphibian decline is a well-recognized globally occurring problem. Hypothesized and demonstrated causes of decline are varied and include disease, contaminants, habitat loss, and climate change. Future research and management efforts may be further improved by understanding how different anthropogenic stress factors contribute to amphibian population declines for different species. I used a stochastic, density-dependent population model of the pool-breeding amphibian, Gastrophryne carolinensis, to explore the relative contribution of different simulated stress factors operating individually and in combination on a number of different life-cycle components. The simulations revealed that catastrophic reproductive failure (CRF) as may occur under climate-induced reductions in hydroperiod was a strong driver of extinction risk and that, in the absence of CRF, extinction risks were low (<1%) even under some reduction in recruitment and terrestrial survival for this species. When reductions in vital rates and CRF occurred together, extinction risks increased pointing to the importance of multiple factors as potential drivers of amphibian decline. The results presented here suggest that climate change-induced alterations in hydroperiod may have severe consequences for declines of some amphibian populations. Further, the presence of additional stress factors only serves to increase risk. In addition to the need for studies of stressor effects on components of amphibian life cycles, future research and conservation efforts should consider the interaction of stressors acting on the health of individuals (disease, pollution) and temporal variation in environmental factors such as hydroperiod.
10.2307/1565636| We studied egg production in two Californian populations of desert tortoises, (Gopherus agassizii) in 1992 and 1993. One population inhabited the Desert Tortoise Research Natural Area (DTNA) in the western Mojave Desert, where most of the rain falls in the winter. The second population lived near Goffs, in the eastern Mojave, where annual precipitation is divided more evenly between winter and summer. Due to El Nio conditions, heavy winter rains fell at both sites in both years (1991-1992 and 1992-1993). Consequently, the biomass of spring annuals and annual egg production by tortoises were high in both years at both sites. There were no differences in reproductive output between years so we pooled data for both years to examine the relationship between egg-laying parameters (clutch size and frequency, annual egg production, egg size, etc.) and female size. Variation in annual egg production was due mainly to variation in clutch size, not clutch frequency. Annual egg production per female was lower at DTNA than at Goffs, because some adult females at DTNA did not produce eggs in some years. Females that did lay eggs produced the same number of eggs per year at both sites, even though females at Goffs were smaller (midline carapace length = 214 mm) than females at DTNA (MCL = 234 mm). Despite correction for these body size differences, the eggs produced at Goffs were smaller in all dimensions than eggs produced at DTNA. Smaller eggs and presumably smaller neonates may be related to the greater predictability of summer rain and consequent greater food supply for emergent hatchlings at Goffs. For adult females, food supply probably limits reproduction only during drought years. How can individual females vary their annual reproductive output? Our more extensive data for DTNA tortoises showed that larger females produced larger clutch sizes. In addition, by statistically removing the effects of body size we showed that larger clutches contained smaller eggs. Moreover, larger females produced eggs earlier in the year giving them a better opportunity to produce a second clutch that year. Thus, timing of first clutch was important. Still, much of the variation in reproductive output was not explained. Other characteristics of individuals (e.g., age, genetics, physiological maturity, home range quality, or forage selection) may explain some of the variation in reproductive output. 
10.2307/1564897|Acid tolerance of embryos and larvae was determined for three species of anurans (Rana sylvatica, Rana catesbeiana and Hyla versicolor) from an acid-sensitive area in central Ontario. The lethal pH for embryos of R. sylvatica was 3.5-4.0 and the critical pH, that pH at which survivorship decreases to levels below that found for neutral water, was 4.0-4.5. The lethal pH for larvae was 3.5 and the critical pH was 3.5-3.8. For both embryos and larvae of R. catesbeiana, the lethal pH was 3.5-3.8; the critical pH was 4.0-4.5 for embryos and 4.0 for larvae. Embryos of H. versicolor were relatively acid-tolerant. The lethal pH of embryos was 3.5 and the critical pH 3.8. The lethal pH of larval H. versicolor was 3.8-4.0 and the critical pH 3.5-3.8. Tadpoles of R. sylvatica between stages 21-30 had smaller gut length/body length ratios when raised at pH 4.0 than tadpoles raised at pH 6.3; with continuing development to stages 31-40 this difference was lost. Thus, the acid sensitivity for embryos and larvae of both R. catesbeiana and R. sylvatica from an acid-sensitive region did not differ from the sensitivities for these species elsewhere in their range. However, the acid tolerance for H. versicolor was greater than that found elsewhere in its range.
10.2307/1565332|Three species of Pareas are currently recognized from East Asian Islands--P. formosensis and P. komaii from Taiwan, and P. iwasakii from the Yaeyama Group, southern Ryukyus. In order to reassess definitions and applicabilities of their diagnostic characters and to revise the taxonomy of these poorly known snakes, we compared external and osteological characters as well as distribution patterns among these species. The relative position of the second supralabial and subocular, which had been used previously to distinguish P. komaii from P. formosensis, is actually not a valid basis for subdividing Taiwanese Pareas. Taiwanese specimens were classified into two groups on the basis of the presence or absence of keeled scales in the middorsal region (the other character presumed to distinguish P. komaii from P. formosensis). However, arrangement and degree of development of keels varies considerably within the sample having keeled scales, and there are no other discernible differences between this form and the form that lacks keels. Moreover, distribution of the two forms does not support the previous assumption regarding habitat segregation between P. komaii and P. formosensis. We thus synonymize P. komaii (Maki, 1931) with P. formosensis (Van Denburgh, 1909). On the other hand, the Yaeyama sample is distinct from P. formosensis in having a greater number of ventrals (188-199 vs. 170-186), more elongated skull, etc. This confirms the status of P. iwasakii as a full species.
23326911|In this study we investigate hemipenial variation through ontogeny by preparing specimens of known-aged individuals from captive-bred Plains Gartersnakes, Thamnophis radix, descended from a wild population in northern Illinois, USA. We examined males at two different ages (215254 days, N = 9) and (829867 days, N = 12) to compare both juvenile and adult morphologies. Hemipenis length increased isometrically with tail length, and there were no significant differences detected between right and left hemipenis length or width. In addition, this study is the first to explore variation in hemipenial morphology within and among litters. We found significant litter effects on hemipenis length, on the elevation (but not the slope) of the relationship between hemipenis length and tail length, and on number of basal hooks, suggesting a possible genetic basis to these characteristics. These results highlight the importance of examining multiple males through ontogeny, as well as reporting body-size measurements for all specimens, to obtain an accurate representation of the hemipenis morphology of a species for comparative ecological, taxonomic, and evolutionary studies.
10.2307/1564484|The annual reproductive cycle of an introduced population of wall lizards was determined. Male lizards have a postnuptial pattern of testicular growth, with recrudescence beginning in August following a 1-2 month period of inactivity. Females exhibit ovarian growth following spring emergence and cycle until mid-July. Up to three clutches of 4-5 eggs each are oviposited annually. The timing of reproductive events is similar to that seen in lowland populations of wall lizards in Europe.
40664967|Iguana is a large-bodied clade of extant iguanid including the species Iguana delicatissima and Iguana iguana. Historically, these two species have been diagnosed based primarily on a single external morphological character: presence or absence of the subtympanic plate. We further diagnose both species based on the shapes of skull bones and provide illustrations of the Iguana delicatissima skull.
4093007| We describe a new species of Colostethus from the Pennsula de Paria in northeastern Venezuela. It inhabits the cloud forest of Cerro El Humo at an altitude of around 1000 m. By its morphology, the new species most closely resembles Colostethus bromelicola from the central Venezuelan Coastal Range. It can be confidently distinguished from other Colostethus by a suite of characters, including its dorsal pattern, absence of fringes on fingers, absence of a lingual process, and absence of yellow or orange chest coloration. This description increases to 33 the number of Colostethus species known from Venezuela. /// Se describe un nuevo Colostethus de la Pennsula de Paria en el noreste de Venezuela. La nueva especie habit en las vertientes del Cerro El Humo  altitudes cerca de 1000 m. Morfolgicamente, este estrechamente relacionada con Colostethus bromelicola del tramo central de la Cordillera de la Costa venezolana. Se distingue claramente de las dems especies conocidas para el gnero de coloracin dorsal, ausencia de plieges laterales en los dedos de la mano, ausencia de proceso lingual, y coloracin ventral blanquecina. Con esta se eleva  33 el n mero de especies pertenecientes al gnero Colostethus para Venezuela. 
10.2307/1563453|The interrelationships of the Malagasy iguanids were studied by multidimensional analyses. Seven groups of characters were studied: lepidosis and color, mandibular shape, hemipeneal morphology, male display movements, macrochromosomes, lactic dehydrogenase, and serum proteins. The two genera, Chalarodon and Oplurus, constitute a monophyletic group. O. quadrimaculatus is projected close to Chalarodon. In Oplurus, the rock-dwelling species and the tree-dwelling species each constitute a natural group.
4092992|Although females of oviparous snake species presumably would benefit by modifying their thermoregulatory behavior while gravid, few studies have investigated whether gravid females actually thermoregulate differently than nongravid conspecifics in the field. To this end, we recorded body temperatures
40664964|Red Imported Fire Ant colonies were allowed access in the laboratory to eggs of eight reptilian and one avian species. The ants were allowed to forage on the eggs for approximately one week each after which the eggs were removed from the foraging arenas. Evaluations of the impact of fire ant foraging on the eggs were made daily, and final evaluations were made upon removal from the arenas. Red Imported Fire Ants were not able to penetrate healthy Bobwhite Quail eggs, the only avian species used in this trial. The foraging ants were able to penetrate the eggs of Diamondback Terrapins, Yellowbelly Sliders, Eastern Painted Turtles, and Loggerhead Sea Turtles but were not able to penetrate the eggs of Florida Softshell Turtles or Musk Turtles. The ants were able to enter the eggs of Burmese Pythons and Yellow Rat Snakes. Results from this study suggest Red Imported Fire Ants may have a more prominent role in the decline of native reptilian species than was previously thought. Further studies, especially in the field, are necessary to determine the true impact.
10.2307/1563542|Most, if not all, species of Gastrotheca are seasonal breeders, and females probably reproduce only once annually. Male Flectonotus pygmaeus and Gastrotheca riobambae assist in the insertion of eggs into the brood pouches of females during mating. Incubation time varies from 24 days in Flectonotus pygmaeus to as long as 120 days in Gastrotheca riobambae. In many species of Gastrotheca, females actively aid in the exodus of tadpoles or young from the pouches. The tadpoles of Gastrotheca argenteovirens and Flectonotus pygmaeus hatch in an advanced stage and require only about two weeks until metamorphosis, whereas those of other tadpole-producing Gastrotheca require up to one year to complete larval development. Differences in reproductive behavior among Gastrotheca seem to be correlated with structural constraints of the brood pouch. The behavior of Flectonotus probably evolved independently from that of Gastrotheca.
10.2307/1564993|Geographic protein variation in 26 genetic loci from six samples of Pseudacris brimleyi was analyzed by standard and sequential starch-gel electrophoresis. A single population of P. feriarum was included as an outgroup. In these seven populations, standard methods detected 59 alleles while sequential analysis revealed 31 additional alleles at 14 loci, a 53% increase over the number of alleles using standard methodology. Mean heterozygosity in P. brimleyi increased from 8.5% to 12.0% and the percentage of polymorphic loci increased from 26% to 34%. The four northern populations of P. brimleyi from North Carolina and Virginia are all quite similar to each other genetically, while the two from South Carolina are more differentiated. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that P. brimleyi may have recently expanded its range northward.
10.2307/1565600|The hypothesis that in tropical habitats sit-and-wait lizards should be more affected by seasonal fluctuations in food availability than active foraging lizards (resulting in seasonal reproduction in the former and continuous reproduction in the latter) was investigated using 13 lizard species from six localities at the Brazilian Cerrados and Amazonian Savannas. Using fat body mass as an indicator of food availability, we predicted that active foragers should exhibit larger values of fat body mass than sit-and-wait foragers during the dry season. Contrary to our expectations, sit-and-wait lizards displayed larger fat bodies than active foraging lizards, thus being apparently less affected by dry season reductions in arthropod abundance. We postulated that higher accumulation of fat in sit-and-wait lizards during the dry season results from a higher production efficiency than active foraging lizards, as a consequence of lower maintenance costs, and that reproductive seasonality is not constrained by food limitation.
10.2307/1565985|Lygosoma nototaenia Boulenger, 1914, and Lygosoma albodorsale Vogt, 1932, previously placed in the genus Sphenomorphus, are redescribed from the three known specimens of each (including two new specimens of the latter species) and transferred to the genus Lipinia. The phenotypically similar genus Scincella is distinguished from Lipinia by an apomorphic feature of the secondary temporal scales. A novel phalangeal condition, shortening of the third phalanx of the fourth toe, is identified in Lipinia cheesmanae and Lipinia longiceps.
10.2307/1564705|The introduced house geckos, Hemidactylus turcicus and Cyrtopodion scabrum exist in sympatry in Galveston, Texas. The nightly perch choices of each species in captivity were recorded, first in species-segregated enclosures, then with species mixed. While segregated by species, H. turcicus occupied vertical walls more frequently than ground or rock perches. Cyrtopodion scabrum perched predominantly on rocks. While mixed in the enclosures, the proportion of individuals not visible increased independently for both species, while the proportion of both species occupying their respective preferred perches decreased. Perch heights did not differ between species, regardless of whether the species were segregated or mixed in the enclosures. The observed changes in use of space while in sympatry may be due to competitive interference between these two species, and may reflect the situation in Galveston, where C. scabrum appears to be gradually displacing H. turcicus in areas near the docks, where these two species previously existed in sympatry.
10.2307/1562866|A study of the meatal closure muscle in 30 species of Gekkonidae, including representatives of all 4 subfamilies (after Kluge), has revealed two distinct forms of this muscle. The L-type of muscle, discovered by Versluys in 1898, occurs in all Eublepharinae and Gekkoninae examined except Phelsuma madagascariensis. A loop type of muscle, completely encircling the meatus, is present in the Diplodactylinae. No closure muscle was found in the Sphaerodactylinae.
10.2307/1564415|From late May to mid-September 1982 we investigated habital selection by black rat snakes (Elaphe o. obsoleta) at the Queen's University Biological Station in eastern Ontario. We implanted radio transmitters in 4 male and 3 female snakes and used their daily positions as habitat sampling points. We also sampled the available habitat using randomly selected points. We located the snakes 472 times (>90% success) which produced 107 habitat sample points. All snake sample points were separated into active or inactive based on the length of time the snake remained in that position (less than or greater than 7 days, respectively). During the bird breeding season black rat snakes showed a preference for field habitat although in both the field and deciduous forest the snake points were significantly clustered along the habitat interface. Following the bird breeding season, field and deciduous forest habitats were used in proportion to their availability and the preference for the ecotone was no longer found in field samples. We found only limited evidence of non-random habitat use within habitats with regard to both plant species composition and vegetation structure. Inactive sites were diverse but all were located on the forest-field interface, had open exposure to direct sun and provided shelter for the snakes. We suggest from these results that ideal habitat for black rat snakes is a small scale mosaic of field and forest and that their disappearance from other parts of their range in Canada may be related to the disappearance of such mosaics due to land clearing for agriculture.
1565781| When rapid changes in environmental factors occur in tropical rain forests, anurans may behaviorally alter their vertical microhabitat in response. Friajes are extreme weather phenomena that bring cold southern winds into Amazonia. Five friaje events during 1997 and 1998 in southern Peru were studied to examine whether anuran populations differed between visual encounter surveys conducted on friaje nights versus non-friaje nights. Anuran diversity, species richness, and number of hylid individuals were significantly greater during friajes in Peru. Friajes alter anuran vertical distributions by causing arboreal frogs to descend to lower levels in order to avoid the cold temperatures and desiccating winds associated with friajes. /// Cuando ocurren cambios rpidos en los factores ambientales en bosques tropicales, los anuros pueden ser expuestos a condiciones adversas y necesitan cambiar su microhabitat vertical. Los friajes son fenmenos climticos que traen vientos fros del sur a la Amazona. Cinco friajes durante 1997 y 1998 fueron estudiados en el sur del Per por medio de encuentro visual (VES) para examinar si las poblaciones de anuros fueron diferentes en noches de friaje versus noches sin friaje. La diversidad de anuros, riqueza de anuros y cantidad de individuos hylidos fueron mayores durante friajes en el Per. Friajes afectan las distribuciones verticales porque las ranas aborcolas tienen que bajar abajo para evitar las temperaturas bajas y vientos bruscos. 
1566095|The first shed skins from the same clutch of neonate Corn Snakes (Elaphe gutatta gutatta) and the shed skin of conspecific adults were extracted sequentially with hexane, dichloromethane, and methanol. These solvents extracted more mass from neonate shed skins compared to adults. Gas chromatography of the hexane extract, after saponification of the lipids, showed that the percent of cholesterol was greater in shed skins from neonates, whereas many of the fatty acids were found in greater amounts from adults shed skins. These data show that the first shed skin of Corn Snakes is biochemically different from adults.
10.2307/1564105|Through his imaginative work on the thermal biology of reptiles, Raymond B. Cowles fomented a revolution in thought on the biology of temperature. In this article, I review the development of Raymond Cowles' work on temperature, and show how much of its originality can be attributed to a remarkable theory on the extinction of the dinosaurs.
10.2307/1562957|During a preliminary study of the herpetofauna of the pine-oak forests of eastern Queretaro, Mexico, the second known specimen of the monotypic genus Schmidtophis Taylor was collected. In his description of the genus, Taylor (1949) utilized maxillary teeth decreasing in size posteriorly, absence of an anterior temporal, scale rows of 15-15-15, and mental separated from chin shields by first pair of infralabials, as a basis for not including the specimen in the genus Chersodromus. Since Taylor's description, one species of Chersodromus has been described by Zweifel (1954), but subsequently placed in the genus Tropidodipsas by Scott (1967). Based on the variation occurring in these characters among the genus Geophis (Downs, 1967), we provisionally place Schmidtophis as a junior synonym of Chersodromus thus establishing a second species of the latter genus to be known as Chersodromus rubriventris (Taylor).
10.2307/1565394|Malaclemys (the diamondback terrapin) and Graptemys (map turtles) are closely related emydid taxa that at times have been considered congeneric. Wood (1977) offered a novel interpretation of their evolutionary ties, suggesting that various subspecies of Malaclemys gave rise directly to many species of Graptemys. Although this paraphyletic view of Malaclemys has not been widely accepted, neither has it been subject to rigorous phylogenetic analysis. The ideal character set for analysis should exhibit variation appropriate to resolve relationships within Malaclemys, among Graptemys, and between both genera. Here we report such a data set composed of DNA sequences for the mitochondrial control region and cytochrome b gene. Thirty-two equally parsimonious trees were generated from the sequence data, all of which depict Malaclemys and Graptemys as distinct, monophyletic clades. Thus, our molecular phylogenies clearly refute Wood's hypothesis that Malaclemys is paraphyletic with respect to Graptemys.
10.2307/1566120| Few published studies have detailed comprehensively the correlations between plasma steroid hormone peaks and the timing of reproductive events in male squamate reptiles. We examined the patterns of plasma testosterone (T), estrogen (E) and progesterone (P4) concentrations in males of the viviparous blue-tongued skink, Tiliqua nigrolutea, throughout the annual cycle. Plasma T concentrations varied throughout the annual cycle, peaking at 10.9  3.00 ng ml<sup>-1</sup> during spermiogenesis, coincident with agonistic male-male interactions, but falling prior to the mating period. Mean plasma T concentrations were basal (2-3 ng ml<sup>-1</sup>) during reproductive quiescence. Mean plasma E concentrations were significantly elevated (778.0  120.00 pg ml<sup>-1</sup>) during the mating period but basal (< 300 pg ml<sup>-1</sup>) both before and after mating. Mean plasma P4 concentrations peaked during the mating period (1.1  0.17 ng ml<sup>-1</sup>) and declined significantly after mating. We propose a potential role for E and P4 in the stimulation of male reproductive behavior during the mating period. 
10.2307/1565205|We studied variation in reproductive traits among 789 red-eared sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans) from three sites in west-central Illinois from 1994 to 1996. Overall, mean clutch size ranged between 12.5 and 15.1 eggs, mean egg mass per clutch ranged between 10.03 and 11.68 g, and mean relative clutch mass (clutch mass/spent body mass) ranged between 0.079 and 0.097 for nine site-year cohorts. Maternal body size was the most important source of variation in all measures of reproduction because larger females laid larger eggs and larger clutches than smaller females. Reproductive output independent of body size was greater in 1995 than in 1994 or 1996. Clutch size and egg size varied similarly among years at each site. Overall, clutch mass in 1995 was 15.8% and 17.8% greater than clutch mass in 1994 and 1996, respectively. This variation in reproductive output was primarily due to changes in egg number rather than changes in egg size, consistent with theories of egg optimality. Turtles at one site produced relatively small but relatively more eggs per clutch than turtles from the other two sites. This pattern persisted despite varying amounts of energy devoted to reproduction from year to year. However, an egg size-clutch size trade-off could only be weakly demonstrated among nine site-year cohorts. Geographic variation was confirmed for clutch size, which decreased with decreasing latitude, but not for egg mass and plastron length.
40060484|Reproduction can impose "costs'' associated with the burden of carrying developing embryos or eggs. Numerous studies using squamate reptiles have documented a reduction in locomotor performance related to reproduction. Recently several experimental studies have attempted to determine whether the reduction in locomotor performance is physical or physiological. However, no consensus has been reached, and there is evidence that effects are species specific. In addition, no previous studies have documented whether the reduction in performance is consistent from year to year. For this study, we measured the endurance performance on a motorized treadmill of Side-Blotched Lizards (Uta stansburiana) during their natural breeding season over two years. Our goals for this study were to determine (1) to what degree reproductive state reduces endurance, (2) whether females recover endurance capacity quickly (evidence of physical burden only), and (3) whether the change in performance associated with reproduction is consistent from year to year. Results from 812 trials over two years revealed a general decrease in endurance capacity associated with reproductive state such that females with shelled eggs were only able to run 80-85% as far as nongravid females. This decrement in performance is not related to relative clutch mass, suggesting a physiological effect. However, post-reproductive females recovered to nongravid levels of endurance within ~12 h of oviposition, suggesting the decrement in performance was physical. Results were qualitatively similar in both study years indicating that changes in locomotor performance associated with reproduction may be consistently imposed from year to year.
10.2307/1565585| Hemibungarus japonicus (sensu lato) is a highly polymorphic member of the Oriental coral snakes distributed in the central part of the Ryukyu Archipelago of Japan and on Taiwan. We analyzed morphological variation of this taxonomically confusing species for the first time on the basis of samples from almost the whole range of its distribution. Results revealed a distinct divergence between populations of the central Ryukyus and Taiwan. For the Ryukyu populations, three subspecies were recognized on the basis of prominent geographic variation in coloration--H. j. japonicus (Gnther, 1868) from Amamioshima and adjacent islets, H. j. boettgeri (Fritze, 1894) from Tokunoshima, Okinawajima and a few islets adjacent to the latter, and H. j. takarai subsp. nov. from Kumejima and several other islets north and west of Okinawajima. In Taiwan, two distinct species, H. hatori (Takahashi, 1930) and H. sauteri (Steindachner, 1913), are recognized on the basis of their distinct coloration, nearly distinct ventral counts, and parapatric distribution. 
4498604|Species-abundance distributions often form a log series curve with a few common species and a large proportion of rare species. Niche apportionment and random processes such as dispersal and local extinction are reflected in the structuring of abundance ranks among species within a community. Bottomland hardwood forests of the southern United States have high biotic production because of flood pulses that bring in nutrients. The assemblage of snakes in these environments is diverse both in terms of diet and morphology. In this habitat, the high levels of some resources should be involved in the abundance ranks of the most common species, but other factors (e.g., body size) may be important in the abundance ranks of the less common species. We examined the abundances of snakes in a 2300-ha bottomland deciduous forest in northeastern Texas. Fourteen total species were recorded, but only in one year were all species collected. Three semiaquatic species, Thamnophis proximus, Nerodia erythrogaster, and Agkistrodon piscivorus were the most common. These three species eat fish and amphibians that are concentrated in ephemeral pools, but their foraging methods differ. Several other species had intermediate abundances and a wide variety of diets. Smaller and heavier species did not have lower abundances, and we suggest that, although poor dispersal ability may be involved in the rarity of some species, there are likely several factors involved. We hypothesize that both niche characteristics and random processes are involved in producing the stair-step appearance of the abundance ranks of these snakes.
4092886|Because polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) persist in the environment and are lipophilic they can accumulate in wildlife. Little is known about accumulation or effects of PCBs in anurans; therefore, we chose them for study at a PCB contaminated Superfund site. We wanted to determine which anuran species and life stages were the best indicators of PCB accumulation in outfalls (drainage ditches) flowing from the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant (PGDP), Paducah, Kentucky, and how PCB accumulation might affect individuals. We measured PCBs (Aroclor 1260) in captured adult anurans of various species. A total of 60 adults of six different species were captured among all study sites. Juvenile anurans had greater concentrations of PCBs than adults (P < 0.001); however, there were no differences in PCB accumulation among species in either adults (P = 0.103) or juveniles (P = 0.584). The results of this study indicate that juvenile anurans accumulated greater concentrations of PCBs compared to adults collected from the same stream locations and that juveniles appear to be useful indicators of PCB contamination in aquatic systems. No adverse effects were observed in captured anurans.
10.2307/1564561|The spermathecae of the salamander Ambystoma tigrinum are simple tubuloalveolar exocrine glands in the dorsal and lateral walls of the cloaca. In laboratory-raised individuals, the glands are slender cords of epithelial cells at 1 yr and production of 160-400 nm apical, electron-dense secretory granules occurs at 1.5 yrs. More extensive synthesis of secretory products (granules 250-450 nm) is evident at sexual maturity, which can occur at 2 yrs. The glycoprotein secretion is synthesized prior to the breeding season and compacted into the electron-dense granules. Secretory material contained in the granules dissociates and is transferred to vacuoles during the breeding season. The vacuoles and their contents are exocytosed into the lumen during oviposition, perhaps serving to flush sperm from the spermathecae. Oviposition follows within two days of mating in A. tigrinum, and this condition is hypothesized as the plesiomorphic state for duration of sperm storage in the spermathecae of salamanders.
1565750|A central issue in comparative biology is identifying the relative importance of historical (phylogenetic) versus present-day (ecological) factors in shaping phenotypic traits of organisms. Herein, we investigate effects of sex, ontogeny, and season on diet of Epipedobates flavopictus, a species restricted to open landscapes in central Brazil. Based on prey frequency, number, and volume, the most important prey categories were ants, termites, beetles, spiders, and orthopterans. Prey number and volume increased significantly with snout-vent length (SVL), and the consumption of termites also increased with SVL. There were few effects of sex and season upon diet composition, average prey number, or average prey volume, all independent of SVL. Reproductive females consumed larger prey, in great numbers, likely to increase energy uptake. As is true for most congeners, as well as species of closely related genera, ants are an important component in the diet of E. flavopictus. However, in contrast to its forest relatives, E. flavopictus consumes large amounts of termites, revealing the influence of prevailing ecological conditions. The small volume of ants in the diet of E. flavopictus and the high toxicity of its skin are not in agreement with the hypothesis of a causal relationship between skin toxicity and ant consumption.
25599210|Pseudis platensis, like Pseudis paradoxa, is a Neotropical aquatic frog with a giant tadpole. Despite being one of the few anuran species whose larvae grow larger than adults, knowledge of its larval development is limited to prometamorphic stages. This study describes qualitative and quantitative variation through P. platensis larval development, including descriptions of various traits (lateral line, oral disc, vent tube, limbs) and their transformations during metamorphosis. We found similarities with the development of other anurans at larval stages up to the end of prometamorphosis but not with their metamorphic stages. For this species, we described key features to characterize 13 ontogenetic stages as follows: four for prometamorphic larval morphologies, eight stages covering metamorphic changes, and one defining the posmetamorphic adult stage. At the end of prometamorphosis, tadpole body size in P. platensis is similar to adult size, but the tail shows extra development. Unlike most anurans, the disappearance of two larval traits (i.e., vent tube and tail) is delayed until later in metamorphosis. Larval development of P. platensis exhibits unique features not reported for other anurans and offers a model to study developmental and evolutionary aspects of anuran metamorphosis.
10.2307/1565262| We examined summer use of American alligator (Alligator mississippiensis) nests by nesting turtles, principally Florida redbelly turtles (Pseudemys nelsoni), in lakes Okeechobee, Apopka, Griffin, and Jesup during 1986-1991 and in three other wetlands in peninsular Florida for 3 yr. Other turtle species recorded using alligator nests were Apalone ferox, Kinosternon sp., and Sternotherus odoratus. In the seven wetlands, 26.6% of 1586 occupied (i.e., active) alligator nests contained P. nelsoni eggs. Of the four lakes sampled for 6 yr, Lake Okeechobee had the highest incidence of use of occupied nests by nesting P. nelsoni and the most turtle clutches per occupied nest. Nesting P. nelsoni used occupied nests more frequently in Lake Apopka than in Lake Jesup. Nesting P. nelsoni used vacant alligator nests (63.6%) more often than occupied nests (36.1%) at Lake Okeechobee, which suggests that attending female alligators may deter nesting turtles. Annual incidence of nest use by nesting turtles was correlated positively with June-July mean water levels in lakes Okeechobee and Jesup, where emergent marsh was the principal habitat and alternative nest sites were probably limited during high-water conditions. In the four lakes combined, turtles did not preferentially select alligator nests in a particular habitat type. Use of 1330 occupied nests by turtles in the four lakes was significantly lower in 1990 (13.5%) than in other years (21.9%-29.3%). We hypothesize that observed differences among lakes in turtle use of alligator nests resulted from differences in (1) water-level fluctuations, (2) availability of alternative nesting sites (i.e., distance to upland habitat), and (3) turtle population sizes. 
10.2307/1566179|A new species of Hemisus is described from the Barotse floodplain, Zambia. The advertisement call of this species differs in pulse structure from all other known species of Hemisus. This cryptic species is similar to Hemisus guineensis and Hemisus marmoratus but can be separated from these by differences in body proportions.
10.2307/1564020|The homing ability of Sceloporus jarrovi was studied in southeastern Arizona during the summers of 1978-1980. One hundred eight lizards were displaced distances ranging from 50-200 m. The homing success of males and females was similar. Adults returned home from all displacement distances, while juveniles homed poorly at distances greater than 50 m. Juvenile S. jarrovi may be poor at homing because they are unfamiliar with areas greater than 50 m from their homes, and/or because they lack sufficient attachment to their home ranges due to their young age (2 months in this study). Among adults, one year old lizards returned home in significantly fewer numbers than older animals. Their lower homing success may be attributable to a weaker attachment to a home range since these lizards are often subordinates in the population. For one year old lizards, as for juveniles, the costs of homing may simply outweigh the benefits of establishing a new home range. There was no significant difference in homing success between lizards displaced in opposite directions. This indicates that lizards were not moving in stereotyped compass directions after release. Once lizards returned home, they remained in the same area, even in subsequent years. It is unlikely that S. jarrovi uses any of the following homing mechanisms: Y-axis orientation, use of sensory cues obtained during the displacement journey, or geotaxis.
43287365|We describe the diet of Thatnnophis melanogaster on the Mexican plateau, including geographic variation between populations in the Lerma and Tula drainages (represented by 39 localities), annual and seasonal variation in an isolated population in the Nazas drainage, and sexual and size-related variation in all three drainages. The Mexican Black-bellied Gartersnake inhabits banks of streams, rivers, canals, ponds, and lakes, where it captures fishes, leeches, crayfishes, tadpoles, earthworms, and frogs by foraging underwater. There was no geographic variation between the Lerma and Tula populations in proportions of prey taxa consumed, but whereas primary and secondary tadpole stages were consumed by snakes in Lerma, only secondary stages were consumed by snakes in Tula. Crayfishes, novel prey for this genus, were consumed over a restricted zone in the contiguous headwaters of the Lerma and Tula drainages. Interannual and seasonal variation in proportions of annelids and anurans ingested was documented in the Nazas population, and attributed to temporal change in relative abundance of prey taxa and snake size classes. Snake size was a major determinant of diet in all three drainages, affecting proportions of different prey taxa consumed and the upper limits on the mass of ingested prey. In the three drainages, sexes were similar in body size and consumed the same prey taxa in similar proportions and masses. We discuss proximate and functional determinants of diet and suggest that the observed interannual and seasonal variation observed in Mexican Black-bellied Snakes is due mostly to temporal variation in prey availability and proportions of snake size classes.
10.2307/1563992|An electrophoretic survey of the rock lizard genus Petrosaurus was undertaken to assess the degree of divergence between the two species, P. mearnsi and P. thalassinus, and to estimate the level of population subdivision within P. thalassinus. Fourteen of 34 enzyme products resolved vary within or between the two species. The distinctness of the two species is confirmed, and the overall levels of divergence among populations of P. thalassinus are relatively low. Despite its small, linear range, P. thalassinus exhibits a high gene-flow pattern characteristic of more two-dimensional geographic ranges, and shows levels of genic heterozygosity and population subdivision roughly equivalent to several other iguanid lizards for which population genetic data sets are available.
23327160|Color is important for signaling, camouflage, and thermoregulation in many species. The costs and benefits of coloration can vary under different scenarios, increasing fitness under some conditions but decreasing it under others. Some animals are able to resolve these conflicts by changing color. Color change can increase fitness by maintaining crypsis across variable environments, by minimizing costs associated with signaling, and by aiding thermoregulation when environmental conditions change. We examined the effect of temperature on short-term color change in males of the sexually dichromatic Eastern Fence Lizard, Sceloporus undulatus. Color is associated with social dominance in this species and may be important in facilitating camouflage and thermoregulation. This study revealed that dorsal color and badge color are affected by temperature. This suggests that short-term color change in this species may aid thermoregulation and provide an honest signal of thermally dependent performance.
25599186|An animal's requirements (e.g., food vs. shelter) from its environment are likely to vary seasonally and, therefore, so too should habitat selection. Here, we test the hypothesis that Texas Ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) choose habitats based on prey availability during their active season and on cover during winter. We examined snake habitat selection at three spatial scales and compared that to abundance of small mammals and nesting birds, which we confirmed by diet analysis to be the snakes' principal prey. Small mammal trapping and avian point counts showed that overall prey abundance was higher on mesas and slopes compared to savannahs. Compared to availability of habitats within the entire study area, snakes selected home ranges with a high proportion of slope habitat. Within home ranges, however, selection for slopes was exhibited only during winter when foraging is at a minimum and snakes are relatively inactive. Snakes did not use habitat within home ranges selectively during the active season or during the avian breeding season. The latter result suggests that ratsnakes are effective avian nest predators despite preying on birds opportunistically. However, it is also possible that some individual ratsnakes specialize on birds, whereas the majority preys on mammals. Microhabitat analysis comparing winter and active season sites showed that snakes preferentially used areas of high canopy cover and rock ground cover during winter. Collectively these results provide limited support for the hypothesis that ratsnakes use habitats based on prey availability but do indicate that ratsnakes select winter habitat based on cover availability.
10.2307/1563247|Activity influences evaporative rate and the only valid way of comparing rates of loss among individuals is to compare standard rates of loss (SRL), i.e. the rate of loss of inactive animals. Body size probably influences interspecific differences in SRL and survival time, but because of the operation of size-independent influences, is evident only when size differences are large. The chief mode of adaptation to xeric habitats is a reduction in SRL; lizards from habitats differing in degree of aridity had similar water contents and vital limits of water loss.
10.2307/1564450|Stages for ovarian and testicular histology are described for an ontogenetic series of Sceloporus jarrovi from birth to reproductive maturity. Testicular development to reproductive maturity mimics development during seasonal reproductive episodes. Testes enlarge as spermatogenesis begins and reach maximum sizes during spermiogenesis. Ovarian development proceeds through a series of nine developmental stages, the longest of which is the luteal phase which persists throughout the winter gestation period and culminates coincident with parturition in late spring. After parturition the ovary recycles to stage three (immature ovary) before the next annual reproductive period. The general stages of reproduction described for this species should permit comparisons of the reproductive cycle among species, and thus provide a common base upon which the evolution of reproductive types can be understood.
23327188|Autotomy of an appendage, especially the tail in lizards, can aid in escape from predators, but that assistance comes with associated costs. In previous studies, decreases in sprint performance often followed tail loss in lizards, and potential sexual differences following tail autotomy can provide evidence for the possible influence of sexual selection on performance in lizards. We measured the impact of tail autotomy on sprint performance in the lizard Uta stansburiana, a species that has frequent natural tail loss. Sprint performance was measured using both maximal sprint speed and average stride length. We examined the impacts separately for each sex, as this species is molded strongly by sexual selection, and tail autotomy is known to affect the social status of male and female subadult U. stansburiana differently. To check for sexual differences in sprint performance, we assessed both sexes with intact tails. Neither sprint speed nor stride length significantly differed between the sexes. Following tail loss, male performance was not affected; individuals maintained their previous maximal sprint speed and average stride length. However, females significantly decreased both maximal sprint speed and average stride length following tail autotomy. We suggest that tailless males maintain high speeds to escape predators because of greater conspicuousness due to sexual dimorphism and behavior, as well as for repulsion of rivals from their territories. Postautotomy females may adopt an alternate social role that does not require their prior sprint speeds. Sexual selection may have advanced this sexual difference in sprint performance after tail autotomy.
10.2307/1563640|Sixteen species of Chalcides can be distinguished by means of morphological and geographical criteria. There are five species groups. Three of the groups are relictual, contain few, distinctive species, and show an advanced stage of the scincid trend toward slimmer habitus and limb reduction. The "primitive" five digited, lacertiform ocellatus species group has a vast continuous range, with nine similar species, some of which may be species complexes. A key to currently recognizable species is given.
10.2307/1563079|The first report of Hemidactylus turcicus in Texas was made in 1955. The current range, consisting of numerous well established populations, is that area south of a line from Del Rio through San Antonio to Austin and Houston, Texas. The populations are extremely disjunct and always associated with human domiciles. Its habitat is consistently associated with well-lighted brick or stucco buildings. Fecundity is low but, in the absence of predation, population growth is extremely rapid. The distribution pattern is attributed to the Founder principle utilizing, with a few documented exceptions, unintentional human agencies. Dispersal routes in Texas, with time estimates, are postulated.
43287313|Few data exist that quantify evasive behavior in postmetamorphic anurans. On the basis of our casual observations that Oregon Spotted Frogs (Rana pretiosa) from one of two different populations appeared to exhibit a more pronounced evasive response, we used a pseudopredator stimulus to quantify the evasive response of juveniles from the two populations. We drew test animals from a pool of animals for each population that were captive-reared under identical conditions. Using latency to initial response, we compared the distribution of response times between the two populations at two sequential intervals over the rearing period. In both experiments, the Conboy Lake population had shorter latency-to-response times than the Black River population. However, we also found that latency-to-response times were shorter during the second test interval than during the first test interval for each population. The basis of population differences in response times may reside in differences in the predator set influencing each population, contaminants differentially influencing the Black River population in a negative manner, or some combination of both. Explanation for the faster latency-to-response times in the second experiment is unclear since both maturation and the length of the captive rearing interval may contribute to the effect, but they are confounded in this study.
1566145|The effect of seed ingestion by two species of iguana (Iguana iguana and Ctenosaura pectinata) on germination and on seed damage by insects was investigated in a Mexican tropical dry forest. We fed individuals of I. iguana with fruits from 11 plant species. Thereafter, we collected the feces, and seeds were removed and sowed. To assess whether seed damage by insects is affected by iguana ingestion, we removed and sowed the seeds of the legume tree Prosopis juliflora contained in feces of C. pectinata. Individuals of I. iguana consumed four of 11 plant species (Cordia alba, Momordica charantia, Pithecellobium dulce, and Lycopersicon esculentum). Overall, germination rate was significantly higher for ingested seeds than for control seeds, except for M. charantia, where no seed germinated. The proportion of P. juliflora seeds with bruchid damage was significantly lower for seeds ingested by C. pectinata (33%) than for control seeds (95%). The results suggest that Green Iguanas (I. iguana) are selective in their diets and that seed ingestion by both species of iguanas affected seed survival, germination rate, and dispersal but that their effects are species dependent. Iguanas might play a significant role in the reproductive strategies of some tropical plants.
4092941|We examined museum specimens of the Common Barking Gecko (Ptenopus garrulus) from the Kalahari and Namib Deserts to assess sexual size dimorphism, reproductive status, and diet. Males had significantly wider heads than females of the same body size; however, P. garrulus showed no sexual dimorphism in any other morphological character. The smallest mature male was 36 mm snout-vent length, whereas the smallest female was 31 mm. Peak reproductive activity for both sexes was in September and October. Clutch size was fixed at one large egg (average size = 5.9 X 4.4 mm); all eggs were in the right ovary, but more than one clutch may be laid in a single breeding season. Ptenopus garrulus, when compared with other geckos, produces very large offspring and thereby invest heavily in a single offspring. We recorded 15 arthropod orders in the diet of P. garrulus. Termites dominated their diet both numerically and volumetrically. Males and females ate prey of similar taxa and sizes, suggesting that trophic partitioning is absent. Therefore, the evidence suggests that the evolution of head width differences is driven by male contest competition.
10.2307/1565692|I measured the functional response and several related behavioral characteristics of the widely-foraging teiid lizard Cnemidophorus sexlineatus, using domestic crickets as prey, in the laboratory. The foraging behaviors of individuals observed in the laboratory were compared with those of free-ranging individuals and individuals observed in a semi-natural field enclosure. In the laboratory, both attack and ingestion rates by the predator increased with prey densities from 0.25 to 1-2 prey/m<sup>2</sup> and reached a plateau of 4-5 prey attacked per hour at the highest prey densities. Attack rate, consumption rate, and several other behavioral variables (foraging velocity, handling time, move rate, move duration) differed between field and laboratory situations. Many of these differences may be explained by an increased edge effect in small, laboratory test arenas. I conclude that using functional response information obtained in the laboratory to predict the predator/prey dynamics of free-ranging, widely-foraging lizards such as Cnemidophorus sexlineatus should be done with caution.
10.2307/1563607| Female bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) were reared on one of three light cycles (LD 14:10; 12:12; 8:16; 25C) for either 6, 8, or 12 months, postmetamorphosis. Wild female bullfrogs were caught in September and maintained on LD 4:20, 12:12 and 20:4 (25 C) for 28 days. The photoperiod cycle of LD 12:12 appeared to prevent regression and atresia in either laboratory-reared or wild-caught bullfrogs and is most conducive to maintenance of normal gonadal condition in females under long-term laboratory conditions. 
10.2307/1565664|A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the upper elevations of the Sierra Maestra in eastern Cuba. It is a common and widespread species that calls from arboreal sites and is very similar, morphologically, to the common lowland species E. auriculatus. However, the two species occur sympatrically at intermediate elevations in the Sierra Maestra and have distinctive calls.
10.2307/1563358|A temperature sensitive tracking telemetry system, developed for a study of free-ranging desert iguanas (Dipsosaurus dorsalis), is described. The externally mounted transmitter weighs about 4 g, and transmits signals for 70-100 m for more than 30 days. The transmitter design is adaptable to research projects requiring telemetry of animal location and under certain conditions, environmental temperature.
10.2307/1565634|Activity of Dendrobates auratus and D. pumilio in northeastern Costa Rica was monitored at 45 min intervals throughout daylight hours on nine days in late-June and early-July 1997. Activity of D. pumilio peaked early in the morning, declined steadily to mid-day, then remained at a relatively low level through the afternoon. Activity of D. auratus peaked in early afternoon, and was more consistent throughout the day than was activity of D. pumilio. There was a clear peak in use of elevated perches by D. pumilio, which occurred shortly after sunrise, although no such pattern was evident for D. auratus. A significant positive relationship between rainfall and activity was evident for D. pumilio, but not for D. auratus. These data demonstrate differences in activity patterns between these congeners, in spite of many ecological similarities.
1566153|Chthonerpeton indistinctum is nontropical, and reports suggest a distinct breeding season, allowing the potential for estimation of reproductive success. A total of 67 juvenile (and four adult) C. indistinctum were captured over five visits to a site in Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, during Winter 2001. All individuals were marked and released, and the seven juveniles recaptured allowed a Schnabel estimate of 161.0 (95% confidence limits 81.9-343.1), the first quantitive estimate of juvenile caecilian abundance. However, the large size range of juveniles caught suggests that growth rates of individuals are highly variable or that C. indistinctum does not have a distinct breeding period in this region.
10.2307/1564372|Reports that hibernating Chrysemys picta have body temperatures a few degrees warmer than the ambient mud and water temperatures were investigated by quantifying the thermal relations of turtles hibernating under simulated natural conditions. The deep body temperatures of eight hibernating Chrysemys were never higher or lower than environmental temperatures. Similar results were obtained from a dead control turtle. Therefore hibernating turtles do not exhibit endothermy or physiological temperature control. However, analysis of regression slopes of body temperature on environmental temperatures suggests the possibility of behavioral temperature control by exploiting a mud/water thermal gradient. Body temperatures of ectotherms in a heterogeneous thermal environment in the absence of solar radiation are composites of environmental temperatures.
10.2307/1565443|We determined the annual fecundity of desert tortoises using x-rays from 1993 through 1995 at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. The smallest tortoise to reproduce was 209 mm carapace length (CL); eleven smaller tortoises did not reproduce. The mean age of first reproduction was estimated to be 19-20 years. Clutch size and annual fecundity were related to female size, but annual clutch frequency was not. Clutch size ranged from 1 to 10 eggs; annual clutch frequency ranged from 0 to 2. Mean clutch size of tortoises with a single clutch was 0.9 eggs larger than that of tortoises with two clutches. Annual fecundity ranged from 0 to 16 eggs. Predicted annual fecundity was three eggs for a 208 mm CL tortoise and increased by one egg for each 7 mm increase in CL. Annual fecundity of tortoises in this study was compared with that of tortoises studied in Goffs, California, during 1983-1985. The regressions of fecundity on female size had similar slopes, but tortoises at Goffs produced an average of 4.5 eggs more than tortoises of the same size in our study. Tortoises at Goffs, however, were significantly smaller than tortoises in our study.
40060506|The breeding biology of Ranitomeya biolat was studied in lowland rain forest dominated by patches of bamboo in the Tambopata region of Peru. A grid of cut lengths of bamboo was sampled 21 times over a six-month period, and the presence of R. biolat adults, tadpoles, and eggs was recorded. A total of 94 adult frogs was captured from bamboos on 271 occasions. Egg masses were deposited on the inside of bamboo stems, but 41% failed to produce any tadpoles. Tadpoles developed in water trapped within the internodal cavity and took 58 days from hatching to reach full metamorphosis. Tadpoles in bamboos with eggs grew significantly faster than tadpoles in bamboos without eggs, suggesting that oophagy may be occurring. The use of bamboo as a specialist breeding niche by R. biolat is dependent on the bamboo interior being exposed by other organisms.
10.2307/1564790|The heterochronic basis of evolution of size and sexual dimorphism within the American members of the fasciatus group of Eumeces was investigated. All Asian and American fasciatus group species are sexually dimorphic in size and shape. Males are larger with relatively larger heads. In most species adult male snout-vent length is between 70 and 90 mm. However, the southeastern U.S. species E. laticeps is much larger, attaining up to 143 mm SVL, and shows greater sexual dimorphism in size and relative head proportions. The greater sexual dimorphism in SVL in E. laticeps is a result of a type of peramorphic heterochrony known as rate hypermorphosis. Sexual dimorphism in E. laticeps can be viewed as a result of two adaptive events. The first is the evolution of distinct sexual dimorphism in size and shape which occurred in the common ancestor of the entire group, presumably as a result of sexual selection. The second is the evolution of significantly higher dimorphism in E. laticeps, which is correlated with a general increase in body size. Increased body size may be an adaptation to increased territoriality. Rate hypermorphosis is seen as a means of increasing size without altering a plesiomorphic ontogenetic pattern and seasonal breeding system.
40665004|A new species of Southeast Asian Cnemaspis is described from the rocky foothills in the northwestern section of the Cardamom Mountains, Cambodia on the basis of a light colored chevron marking between the shoulders, tail tip white with black speckling, and several scale characteristics. This population's overall morphological similarity to southern Vietnam species demonstrates that Cambodia is an important biogeographical link between disjunct components of the Indochinese herpetofauna. This species represents the second known species of Cnemaspis from Cambodia and the ninth endemic species to be described from the Cardamom Mountains, highlighting the need for additional fieldwork in this area of Indochina.
4093014|Rana catesbeiana (American Bullfrog) is exotic in western North America and is sympatric with two native species, Rana luteiventris (Columbia Spotted Frog) and Pseudacris regilla (Pacific Treefrog). In a laboratory experiment, we assessed the growth of tadpoles of R. luteiventris and P. regilla in the presence and absence of tadpoles of R. catesbeiana. We found that in the presence of tadpoles of R. catesbeiana, P. regilla exhibited rapid growth in early larval stages compared to R. luteiventris. A second experiment indicated that, when reared with R. catesbeiana, P. regilla increased activity levels; this behavioral disparity may partly explain the observed difference in growth responses of the two frog species to R. catesbeiana competition. Our results suggest that tadpoles of P. regilla display greater growth and behavioral plasticity than do R. luteiventris, when subject to competition with R. catesbeiana. Rana luteiventris may be more susceptible than P. regilla to R. catesbeiana-mediated numerical decline, if exploitative or interference competition between tadpoles is a population-limiting factor in western breeding ponds.
1566159|On the basis of degree of adaptation in tail autotomy, five lizard species studied on the same area in northeastern Kansas were arranged in a sequence of specialization. Eumeces obsoletus was the most specialized (hatchling tail conspicuously colored and behavior adapted to flaunt it); in Eumeces fasciatus also, the hatchling tail was conspicuously colored, but tail flaunting was less developed. In Cnemidophorus sexlineatus the hatchling tail was conspicuously colored but there was no tail flaunting. In Ophisaurus attenuatus, the tail was easily broken, but there was no special coloration or behavior to direct predator attack. In Crotaphytus collaris, the tail was neither conspicuous nor easily broken, and there was no regeneration.
10.2307/1563738|Montane populations of chorus frogs, Pseudacris triseriata, near Chambers Lake, Larimer County, Colorado, exhibit dorsal color polymorphism. Previous studies have shown that these color morphs are under genetic control, and that phenotypic frequencies may be affected by natural selection. This study examined developmental features of two color morphs, green vs. brown dorsal colors, in order to postulate selective mechanisms that might be affecting the polymorphism. The features examined were adult female size, egg size, egg number, rate of early embryogenesis, rate of development to metamorphosis, juvenile growth rate, and juvenile survival. No differences were found between the green and brown morphs with respect to adult female size, egg diameter, number of eggs per female, or juvenile survival. No differences in rate of early embryogenesis, through the beginning of tail fin circulation, were detected among offspring of a variety of matings involving green and brown frogs. Differences were detected, however, on continuing the developmental trials through metamorphosis. Offspring from green females metamorphosed earlier than those from brown females. Regression analyses indicate this difference to be a maternal effect, which is not related to paternal phenotype or to the ultimate color phenotype of the resulting frogs. Green juveniles were slightly larger at metamorphosis than browns and grew at a slightly faster rate than browns during a 30-day postmetamorphic period, resulting in 30-day green juveniles that were significantly larger than 30-day browns. Together with previous studies, these findings suggest that color polymorphism in chorus frog populations may be affected by a complex of selection pressures. The existence or relative importance of these pressures in natural populations have not been determined.
10.2307/1564370| To investigate the role of hemoglobin in oxygen transport, the oxygen consumption rates at different temperatures of submerged normal and anemic newts were determined by a Micro-Winkler technique. Anemia was induced with intraperitoneal injections of 1-acetyl-2-phenylhydrazine dissolved in 10% ethanol. The normal newts were injected with comparable volumes of 10% ethanol. The mean hemoglobin concentration of the 30 anemic newts was 0.74  1.0 g/100 ml of blood whereas that of 28 controls was 5.46  1.99 g/100 ml. A two-way ANOVA (control-anemic vs. 5, 14, and 21C) on the oxygen consumption values was significant (P < 0.05). A Newman-Keuls Multiple Comparison Test revealed that at 5 and 14 there was no significant difference in the oxygen consumption rates of the anemic and control newts, but that there was a significant increase in the rates with temperature. However, at 21C the anemic newts' oxygen consumption rate (54.7 l/gh) was significantly lower than the rate of the control newts (84.2 l/gh). Thus the presence of hemoglobin seems not to be necessary to transport oxygen at low temperatures in submerged Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens. Perhaps at lower temperatures, where the metabolic call for oxygen is decreased, sufficient oxygen may be physically dissolved in the blood plasma. 
10.2307/1565955| A new species of anole is described from a region of wet limestone forest in the province of Santiago de Cuba in eastern Cuba. It is sympatric with its close relative Anolis isolepis and differs from that taxon in scalation and coloration. Variation in the two subspecies of A. isolepis is reconsidered, and they are here regarded as separate species. These three small species with short limbs, a relatively flat head, striate head scales, and green coloration in the light phase are placed in the isolepis group of the carolinensis series. At least 14 and as many as 20 species of Anolis are sympatric in this region of eastern Cuba. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Anolis de los Bosques hmedos de "diente perro" de la provincia de Santiago de Cuba en la regin oriental. Esta especie es simptrida con la formaafin Anolis isolepis, differencindose de este txon en escamacin y coloracin. Se reconsidera la variacin entre las dos subspecies de A. isolepis considerandon a ambas formas como especies differentes. Estas tres especies de miembros cortos, de cabeza relativamente plana, con sus escamas estriadas, y coloracin verdosa en la fase clara, son consideradas bajo el grupo isolepis de la serie carolinensis. No menos de 14, y posiblemente 20 especies de Anolis son simptridas en la regin oriental de Cuba. 
43287336|Podocnemis expansa is the largest freshwater turtle in South America and exhibits a complex reproductive behavior. Females lay eggs in sandy banks formed during the dry season. Nesting habitat can influence hatching success and sex determination. In some turtle species, female body size is crucial to determine reproductive parameters such as clutch size and shape. In this study, we investigate allometric relationships between female body size and their tracks, and clutch characteristics and nest shape in sandy beaches along the Javas River, southern Brazilian Amazon. Our results indicate that female body size can be estimated based on tracks. Larger females leave larger foot tracks in the sand and have larger clutch sizes with larger clutch mass than smaller females. Female carapace width and body mass can be considered reliable variables to estimate clutch size and total clutch mass for the species. Larger females should be protected because they can be responsible for most annual clutch production. Podocnemis expansa  o maior quelnio de agua doce da Amrica do Sul, apresentando um comportamento reprodutivo complexo. Essa especie nidifica em bancos arenosos formados durante as vazantes dos ros da Amaznia. As caractersticas do ambiente de nidificao podem influenciar o sucesso reprodutivo e o sexo dos filhotes. Alguns trabamos j demonstraram que o tamanho corporal da fmea  determinante para as condies da ninhada (quantidade e tamanho dos ovos) e nas dimenses dos ninhos (profundidade e dimetro) em algumas especies de quelnios. O presente estudo investigou as relaes alomtricas entre o tamanho corpreo da fmea, seus rastros, as variveis da ninhada e a forma dos ninhos em ambiente natural em urna praia do rio Javas, na Amaznia Brasileira. Foi observado que o tamanho corpreo da fmea de P. expansa pode ser estimado em funo do seu rastro. Fmeas maiores deixam rastros maiores na areia, alm de produzirem mais ovos (tamanho da ninhada) e com maior massa (massa da ninhada) do que fmeas menores. A largura da carapaa e a massa da fmea podem ser consideradas variveis confiveis para estimar o tamanho e a massa da ninhada dessa especie. A proteo de fmeas de maior tamanho deveria ser priorizada, j que podem ser responsveis por grande parte da produo anual de ovos.
10.2307/1564928|I studied the reproductive ecology of the timber rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) during a 19-yr period in the Appalachian Mountains in NW Virginia and nearby areas. The short (5.3 mo) and cool active season places constraints on growth and reproduction. Gravid and postpartum females averaged 93 cm (76-112 cm) total length. Mating occurred in late summer (observations from 21 August to 18 September) coincident with the onset of follicular yolking. Ovulation took place in late May and early June of the following year. Postpartum females with litters were seen from 4 August to 16 October. The mean age of probable first-time reproducers was 7.8 yr (5-11 yr) with 7- and 8-yr-old females making up 56% of the first-time reproducers. I found a mean interval of 3.08 yr (2-4 yr) between successive reproductions for marked females. The proportion reproductive by age class ranged from 17% for 5-yr-olds to 66% for 10-yr-old and older females. The high proportion (60%) of the adult female sample reproductive during the year of capture is attributable to greater catchability of gestating females. Only 32% of the more-representative April-May sample was gravid. Because of vagaries of the weather and synchronization of the breeding cycle among females, reproduction occurred in pulses with the proportion of mature females reproducing estimated to range from 10-75% per year.
10.2307/1565304|The relationships between several mensural and morphological variables are examined in the limb-reduced lineage of scincid lizards, Chalcides. There is a close linear relationship between the relative length of the body and the relative length of the head, the number of phalanges in the manus and in the pes, the relative length of the front and of the rear limb, and the relative length of the body and the number of presacral vertebrae. There is apparently only a loose association between snout-vent length and the number of presacral vertebrae and the number of pre- and postsacral vertebrae. There is a strongly inflected relationship between the number of phalanges and the relative length of the limb, the total number of phalanges, and both the number of presacral vertebrae and the relative length of the body, and the number of sternal + mesosternal ribs and both the relative length of the front limb and the number of parasternal chevrons. The inflected relationships may indicate a shift in emphasis from limbed locomotion to trunk locomotion (lateral undulation). However this supposition can only be tested when more is known of the ecology and behavior of the genus.
10.2307/1563138|Marbled salamanders (Ambystoma opacum) in different reproductive and hydration states were tested in a round soil moisture gradient to determine the role of soil moisture in habitat selection. Breeding animals in the gradient chose soil moisture randomly suggesting that substrate moisture is not a significant cue for the placement of the terrestrial nests. Non-breeding animals displayed a mean preference of 74% available moisture. Dehydrated salamanders chose significantly higher moistures (mean of 89%). Rate of water loss, rate of rehydration and tolerance to dehydration were estimated. The marbled salamander shows no special physiological adaptations to dehydration.
10.2307/1564988|Reptilian viviparity is assumed to have evolved in response to cool climates, because of the developmental benefits of maternal thermoregulation. However, very few data are available to test this assumption and there is currently little evidence of a consistent pattern of thermoregulation associated with viviparity. I used temperature-sensitive radiotelemetry to measure the differences in thermoregulation between gravid and nongravid garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis and T. elegans). Gravid females had higher mean body temperatures and thermoregulated more precisely than did nongravid females. These differences in thermoregulation persisted throughout gestation, but disappeared relatively quickly following parturition. Gravid females thermoregulated with high precision despite voluntarily selecting a wide range of mean T<sub>b</sub>s indicating that precision may be a critical, although largely overlooked, component of the thermal relations of viviparous reptiles. The differences in thermoregulation between gravid and nongravid Thamnophis suggest that viviparity imposes an energetic cost, but determining the magnitude of the cost will require more information on the relationship between temperature and metabolic rate.
4093005|We reared hatchling Midland Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta marginata) and Red-Eared Slider Turtles (Trachemys scripta elegans) on either black or white substrates for 120 days. Spectral reflectance of the third vertebral scute, dorsal skin of the head, and lateral margin of the abdominal scute was measured at 30-day intervals between days 0 and 120. Mean carapace intensity significantly decreased over time (turtle shells darkened) in T. scripta but did not change in C. picta in individuals reared on a black substrate. Mean carapace intensity increased significantly (turtle shells lightened) through time in C. picta reared on white substrates. Mean carapace intensity of T. scripta reared on a white substrate did not change through time. Mean intensity of dorsal head skin decreased significantly through time in T. scripta reared on black substrates. In C. picta and T. scripta reared on white substrates, mean intensity of dorsal head region skin increased significantly between days 0 and 120. Regardless of substrate color, the lateral margin of the plastron significantly darkened through time in C. picta and T. scripta. In C. picta and T. scripta reared on white substrates, reflectance spectra lines of the carapace and dorsal head skin tended to have high elevations (peaks in the 520-640 nm region). The high reflectance was indicative of a lighter green coloration relative to turtles reared on black substrates.
10.2307/1564827| A new species, Ficimia hardyi, is described from northern Hidalgo, Mexico, in the upper headwaters of the Ro Pnuco at elevations of 1480-2100 m. Although superficially similar to F. variegata, its closest relative is F. publia, the most widely distributed and variable species of the genus, occurring in the lowlands of the same drainage system as the new species. /// Una nueva especie, Ficimia hardyi, es descrita para el norte del estado de Hidalgo, Mxico, de las corrientes altas del Ro Pnuco en altitudes de 1480-2100 m. Aun cuando superficialmente es similar a F. variegata, su pariente mas cercano es F. publia, la especie mas ampliamente distribuida y variable del gnero, que occure en las tierras bajas de la misma cuenca como la especie nueva. 
10.2307/1565645|Despite the widespread occurrence of chemically mediated antipredator responses among larval anurans, little is known concerning whether anurans utilize chemical cues after metamorphosis. Larval western toads (Bufo boreas) and red-legged frogs (Rana aurora) both exhibit antipredator responses when exposed to alarm cues of injured conspecifics. There is some debate as to whether larval Cascades frogs (Rana cascadae) show a similar response. In this study, we documented that toads and red-legged frogs respond to cues of injured conspecifics after metamorphosis, while Cascades frogs do not. The avoidance response of toad tadpoles to cues of predatory garter snakes (Thamnophis sirtalis) is also retained through metamorphosis. These results indicate the importance of considering chemical cues in studies of antipredator defences of terrestrial amphibians.
4092874|Plethodontid salamanders provide an opportunity to investigate mating behaviors and pheromonal communication within the context of well-established phylogenetic relationships. Courtship in many members of the genus Plethodon has been well studied, but critical gaps exist in observations of pheromone delivery methods (vaccination or olfactory) in species phylogenetically intermediate between those having the two pheromone delivery methods. I observed courtship interactions in three small eastern plethodontids, Plethodon cinereus, Plethodon angusticlavius, and Plethodon richmondi. I documented several novel female behaviors, as well as interspecific variation in courtship patterns that otherwise have been highly conserved for over 70 million years. I confirmed that olfactory pheromone delivery occurs in P. angusticlavius, a species that is phylogenetically in the transition from vaccination to olfactory pheromone delivery within the genus Plethodon. The deviation from typical courtship patterns observed for the three study species revealed that females play a more active role in courtship than has previously been documented for Plethodon species.
10.2307/1565481| A new species of the genus Brachycephalus is described from the State of Paran, Southern Brazil. The new species is characterized by black coloration on the flanks, orange dorsum, and absence of dermal ossification dorsal to the vertebrae. We suggest that the reduction of number of phalanges in hands and feet is related to the distinctive walking behavior in the genus Brachycephalus. 
10.2307/1563746|A study using 11 young green iguanas, Iguana iguana examined the growth of the animals, changes in the wave replacement of teeth, the increasing size of the teeth, and the posterior migration of tooth positions over a period of 2.7 years. The results supported the view that tooth replacement is closely related to growth. The teeth were measured regularly and demonstrated a smooth increase in width as the lizards grew. The tooth positions were found to migrate posteriorly thereby providing adequate space for the ever larger teeth replacing their smaller predecessors. These observations suggested that the wave replacement of teeth allows for adequate growth of the dentition in length and height to maintain teeth of a size in proportion to the overall size of the individual.
10.2307/1564417| Kinosternon flavescens and Emydoidea blandingii are both included on the Missouri list of endangered species, and the Missouri populations of K. flavescens are under consideration for placement upon the federal list. There are four known populations of K. flavescens and two of E. blandingii within the state, all in Clark County in the western floodplain of the Mississippi River. Goose Pond, a small patch of remnant marsh in a former river channel of the Des Moines River, is the last natural habitat in Missouri that contains a population of either species. Sandy soil appears to be a habitat requisite for both species. Kinosternon flavescens appears to tolerate major alterations of the natural habitat, whereas E. blandingii requires clean shallow water with abundant aquatic vegetation and appears to be sensitive to habitat manipulation. Kinosternon flavescens at Goose Pond had an aquatic feeding period of only three months. The species began aquatic feeding during April, but then ceased during July without any later resumption. Emydoidea blandingii fed for approximately 4 months with two distinct phases: the first phase during April, May, June, and the first half of July; and a second phase during the latter half of August and the first half of September prior to hibernation. Kinosternon flavescens fed predominantly upon hard-shelled snails, and to a lesser extent upon insects, fish, and crayfish. Emydoidea blandingii fed predominantly upon crayfish and insects. The data suggest that E. blandingii in Missouri attain sexual maturity at a carapace length of 170-180 mm. 
40665011|Research on landscape connectivity for amphibians that use isolated wetlands has focused on terrestrial and semiterrestrial species. Although aquatic species are commonly encountered in isolated wetlands, their dispersal capability and mode of dispersal has yet to be conclusively determined. For these salamander species, temporary waterways formed during heavy rains may provide transient dispersal opportunities among otherwise terrestrially isolated wetland patches and large contiguous sources (e. g., river swamps, lake systems). We assessed the vagility of two aquatic salamanders, the Greater Siren (Siren lacertina) and Two-Toed Amphiuma (Amphiuma means), under three simulated environmental conditions: terrestrial (damp but no standing water); shallow standing water (1 cm of water); and complete submergence (approximately 5 cm of water). Salamanders were placed inside a modified Living Stream container and stimulated into moving through each treatment. Both species demonstrated a trend toward exhaustion for all treatments and failed to move more than 8 m in the terrestrial or shallow water treatments. As expected, animals in the fully submerged treatment were able to disperse the farthest. Physical characteristics of salamanders did not affect vagility. To disperse, these species likely rely on the formation of aquatic corridors during flooding events. Therefore, successful dispersal among isolated wetlands depends on the ability of the surrounding landscape either to be periodically inundated with water or to form temporary waterways during heavy rains. Human activities that alter flooding events and watershed connectivity, such as flood control regimes and roads, may have important implications for wetland connectivity and, thus, metapopulation viability of aquatic salamanders.
10.2307/1564198|A population of Green Turtles (Chelonia mydas) from the Masirah Channel in the northern Indian Ocean is described. Aerial surveys and a mark and recapture program establish that between 1000 and 3000 turtles are present throughout the year. An analysis of stomach contents shows that these turtles feed on both seagrasses (Halophila ovalis and Halodule uninervis) and algae (Sargassum illicifolium and Chaetomorpha aerea). Standing crops of suitable turtle food are low and the mixed diet of this population is considered to be a response to low food availability. Captures of turtles by local fishermen are analyzed. The relationship of turtles on this feeding ground to nesting areas in the northern Indian Ocean are discussed and the effects of the observed dietary preferences on the productivity of the population are considered in relation to management needs.
10.2307/1564098| Morphometric studies on Liolaemus and related genera support the validity of Ctenoblepharis Tschudi, 1845, here considered to be monotypic. Ortholaemus Girard, 1857, is probably a natural group which includes all species of Liolaemus with more than one row of scales between labials and subocular, i.e., lutzae Mertens, occipitalis Boulenger, scapularis Laurent, wiegmanni Dumeril and Bibron and Pelusaurus cranwelli Donoso-Barros, in addition to the taxa already mentioned by Cei (1979). Nevertheless, no full generic recognition is recommended for Ortholaemus because the group of Liolaemus fitzingeri, and especially L. cuyanus Cei and Scolaro (formerly considered conspecific), bridge the gap between it and other Liolaemus species. The genus Phrynosaura Werner, 1907, is revived for reichei Werner, stolzmanni Steindachner and audituvelatus Nuez and Yaez. Two species previously also classified in Ctenoblepharis and returned to Liolaemus by Cei (1979) are actually distinct enough to be placed in a new genus, Ceiolaemus. Helocephalus nigriceps Philippi is a Liolaemus. The status of two other Liolaemus species is enigmatic: donosobarrosi (Cei) and insolitus Cei and Pefaur. Liolaemus modestus Tschudi is not a Liolaemus, but a senior synonym of Stenocercus moestus Boulenger, which must therefore be renamed Stenocercus modestus (Tschudi). 
23327163|We describe a new species of Rhacophorus from lowland forests in southern Vietnam. The new species is most similar to Rhacophorus kio, but differs from this and all other Rhacophorus from Southeast Asia by a combination of its large body size (males 72.385.5 mm; females 89.490.7 mm snoutvent length); green dorsum; white venter; black patch at axilla; bluish-green posterior surface of thighs with pale yellow marbling; low, single-lobed supracoloacal dermal ridge, and white sclera. In contrast to the widely distributed R. kio, the new species is known only from two fragments of disturbed, low-elevation forest approximately 30 km apart in a highly modified agricultural landscape. The continued survival of the new species is threatened by ongoing habitat loss and degradation.
41415267|Studies that assess current and historical population densities accurately provide valuable information for management of wildlife species, particularly those in need of immediate conservation concern. The Eastern Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis) has experienced drastic declines throughout its range during the previous few decades. This study documents its continued decline over the past 25 years in the last known remaining population in southern Indiana. We conducted mark-recapture surveys from June 2008 to October 2008 and July 2009 to September 2009 at 35 sites. Despite a considerable increase in effort over previous surveys, we documented fewer total captures and extremely low population densities. Density was estimated at 0.06 individuals/100 m, and catch per unit effort was 0.05 individuals/person hour throughout the entire study area. This represents not only a significant decline in numbers from the historical study, but also is well below that reported for populations throughout the species' range. Sex ratios were skewed significantly toward males (2.6 males: 1 female). No subadults or larvae were found, and only two nests were located. This population consists almost exclusively of large, older-age class individuals that show limited signs of reproduction.
10.2307/1563290| A large herpetofauna is reported from the Yepmera area in the northern Sierra Madre Occidental in Chihuahua, Mexico. Eleven species and 204 specimens of amphibians and 29 species and 453 specimens of reptiles are in the fauna. The distributions and the ecology in the Rincn de la Concha Valley near Yepmera are discussed for each species. 
10.2307/1563357|Colors and patterns of snakes are reviewed and discussed from several viewpoints: function of color as distinguished from function of pattern; chromatogenesis, normal and abnormal; genetic control over chromatogenesis; normal variation in color and pattern; and abnormal variations in color and pattern.
10.2307/1566115|Growth and metamorphosis of the toad Bufo melanostictus was studied by rearing tadpoles of different sibships in isolation or in groups of siblings and nonsiblings (mixed rearing) under crowded and uncrowded conditions. All tadpoles survived and metamorphosed successfully. Growth rate and duration of metamorphosis of tadpoles reared in isolation were similar among the six sibships regardless of genetic differences. Tadpoles reared in sibling groups metamorphosed in 25 days, whereas those reared with nonsiblings metamorphosed between days 30-35. The largest mean body mass at metamorphosis was for sib groups reared in lower densities. When reared with siblings, growth was uniform, resulting in the production of bigger toadlets and a narrow spectrum of size classes. Mixed rearing retarded growth rates, increased larval duration, and produced smaller individuals at metamorphosis, resulting in extreme variability in size classes, especially under crowded conditions. Our study shows that both kinship and density affect larval duration and size at metamorphosis in this species.
10.2307/1564078|Eleutherodactylus caryophyllaceus, E. cerasinus, E. cruentus, and E. ridens are closely related species of leptodactylid frogs from Central America and northern South America. This study examines their interspecific relationships based on a phylogenetic analysis of allozyme and morphological data. The allozyme and morphological data are initially subjected to transformation series analysis and then to Wagner and optimization procedures. The results of these analyses are summarized by most parsimonious cladograms suggesting that: (1) E. ridens is allied to the closely related species, E. cerasinus and E. cruentus; and (2) E. caryophyllaceus is the destantly related member among the four. This study further emphasizes the need for synthetic and phylogenetic approaches in investigations of Eleutherodactylus relationships.
1565746| A new species of Physalaemus belonging to the Physalaemus cuvieri species group is described from southern Bahia, Brazil. It inhabits the borders of Atlantic Rain Forest fragments, natural forest clearings, and cacao plantations. The new species is characterized by its medium size, robust body, warty skin, presence of inguinal glands, one pair of dorsal tubercles on the sacral region, and an interorbital black transversal stripe generally covering a pair of tubercles. /// Uma nova espcie de Physalaemus pertencente ao grupo de Physalaemus cuvieri,  descrita do sul da Bahia, Brasil. A espcie  encontrada nas bordas de fragmentos de Mata Atlntica, clareiras naturais e plantaes de cacau. A espcie nova  caracterizada pelo seu tamanho mdio, corpo robusto, pele verrucosa e presena de glndulas inguinais, de um par de tubrculos dorsais na regio sacral e de uma faixa preta transversal na regio interorbital, geralmente cobrindo um par de tubrculos. 
40664961|Color is used in social signaling by many species. Male Eastern Fence Lizards, Sceloporus undulatus, possess sex-specific dorsal and ventral coloration, including vivid blue badges on their throat and abdomen, which they behaviorally display to conspecifics. The presence of abdominal badges serves as a signal of an individual's sex, but the significance of badge and integument coloration for signaling fitness traits is unknown. We tested for associations between coloration (color of the dorsal surface, chest, and abdominal and throat badges, as well as relative badge size) and a range of fitness-relevant morphological traits (body size and condition, tail and hind-limb length, and head size) in male Eastern Fence Lizards from two sites. Larger males have darker colored abdominal badges and relatively larger abdominal and throat badges. Males with longer tails and wider heads have darker dorsal coloration, and there is a correlation between head length and the color of the black abdominal badges, but this is not consistent between sites. Adults also have darker chest and dorsal coloration than do juveniles. These relationships suggest that S.undulatus color may signal competitive ability to male opponents. However, if this were the case, we would expect body condition and limb length, morphological measures that are tightly correlated with these fitness traits, to also correlate with coloration. This was not evident from our data. Therefore, despite significant variation in coloration of male S. undulatus, it is unlikely to reflect fitness associated with the traits measured in this study.
4092868|The common lizard (Lacerta vivipara) is a small, nonterritorial, live-bearing lacertid that is sexually dimorphic in several morphological traits (e.g., tail length, snout-vent length, head size). Using microsatellites, we examined paternity in a wild population and investigated whether sexual dimorphism could be the result of intra- or intersexual selection. We found multiple paternity in 65.4% of 26 clutches. There was no evidence of assortative mating. Successfully reproducing males were larger and heavier and had longer tail regenerates or intact tails compared to those that did not reproduce. Tail length and body condition of males were related to the number of offspring sired. However, we found no evidence that head width was related to male reproductive success. We conclude that (1) males with higher body condition index might be more successful in male-male interactions or might be able to search more effectively for females, (2) sex divergence in relative tail length in common lizards reflects the action of sexual selection for male reproductive success, and (3) intersexual dietary divergence could be an alternative hypothesis for head size difference between sexes rather than intrasexual selection.
10.2307/1564860|A new species belonging to the Hyla pinorum group is described from the extremely wet forest of the northwestern portion of the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes of Guatemala. This species is the largest member of the pinorum group and, in addition to its size, is distinguished from other members of the group by characteristics of coloration and proportion. Hyla melanomma bivocata of southern Mexico is most similar to this new species. The existence of the pinorum group (H. melanomma) is confirmed for the first time from the Atlantic versant of northern Oaxaca, Mexico.
4092885| Eleutherodactylus coqui was accidentally introduced to east Hawaii Island in the late 1980s and has since become established as scattered populations across the island. Mark-recapture study plots indicate that population size remains small for the first year after initial colonization. Plots in heavily forested areas where the Coqu has become well-established yield population estimates of frog density three times the estimates reported from native populations in Puerto Rico. Surveys of the Hilo area using sound pressure level meters found many loud chorusing populations producing sound pressure levels up to 73 dB suggesting that this frog will achieve high densities through broad areas of Hawaiian forest and towns. We suggest that the apparent lack of native or exotic predators in Hawaii and abundance of suitable retreat sites contribute to achievement of unusually high population densities of E. coqui in Hawaii compared with Puerto Rico. 
25599222|The consistency of a trait's expression within individuals reflects both its maximal possible heritability and that trait's susceptibility to the influence of temporal variation in environmental conditions. A lack of repeatability in reproductive traits may also result if there are ontogenetic changes in female reproductive effort. In a decade-long study, we collected data on the reproductive traits (including female SVL, female postpartum condition, litter size, total litter mass, mean offspring mass, and birth date) of free-ranging Pigmy Rattlesnakes in central Florida. We captured and held the study snakes in field enclosures for several weeks before parturition each year. A total of 24 females produced two or more litters during the course of the study. We determined the repeatability for each reproductive trait. Our results indicated that four of the six reproductive traits had high and statistically significant repeatability despite annual variation in environmental conditions. A lack of growth in adult Sistrurus miliarius and the ability of females to skip reproduction in some years appear to foster the high repeatability of reproductive traits. Our research and previous studies indicate that many, but not all, reproductive traits in female snakes are highly repeatable. The repeatability of a few traits, particularly post-partum female condition, is likely to depend strongly on the reproductive mode of the species.
10.2307/1565933|Organisms are predicted to make trade-offs when foraging and predator avoidance behaviors present conflicting demands. Balancing conflicting demands is important to larval amphibians because adult fitness can be strongly influenced by size at metamorphosis and duration of the larval period. Larvae in temporary ponds must maximize growth within a short time period to achieve metamorphosis before ponds dry, while simultaneously avoiding predators. To determine whether tadpoles trade off between conflicting demands, I examined tadpole (Pseudacris triseriata) activity and microhabitat use in the presence of redspotted newts (Notopthalmus viridescens) under varying conditions of pond drying and hunger. Tadpoles significantly decreased activity and increased refuge use when predators were present. The proportion of active time tadpoles spent feeding was significantly greater in predator treatments, suggesting tadpoles adaptively balance the conflicting demands of foraging and predator avoidance without making apparent trade-offs. Tadpoles responded to simulated drying conditions by accelerating development. Pond drying did not modify microhabitat use or activity in the presence of predators, suggesting tadpoles perceived predation and hunger as greater immediate threats than desiccation, and did not take more risks.
10.2307/1564174|The testicular cycle of Sceloporus undulatus from Alabama was examined and compared to populations from Missouri and other areas. In Alabama males, the height of the breeding season (spermiogenesis and spermiation) occurred from March to May, accompanied by a decline in testis mass. Spermatozoa were present in the epididymides until July. During June and July, testis mass was minimal. A new spermatogenic cycle had begun by August. Testicular recrudescence occurred in fall with concomitant increase in testis mass. Seminiferous tubules contained many spermatids with a few transforming spermatozoa by the time lizards entered brumation. The timing of testicular events differs between northern and southern populations, likely reflecting regional differences in seasonal temperature regimes. Specifically, a longer warm season in Alabama apparently permits males to begin spermiogenesis and spermiation earlier and to complete fall recrudescence later than S. undulatus from Missouri. Fat body masses of Alabama S. undulatus increased in fall and decreased in spring soon after emergence from brumation. The loss of this stored energy is likely correlated with spring territorial and reproductive activities.
1565855|The food habits of the snake Psammophis phillipsi were studied in the rain-forest region of southeastern Nigeria, where this is the most common snake species of the area. A total of 120 prey items were recorded from 327 specimens (73 juveniles; 55 gravid females); many gravid females contained prey. Lizards (mainly Agama agama and Mabuya skinks) were the most common prey type for adult snakes, both gravid and nongravid, and for subadults as well; small mammals were the second most common prey type for all snake categories. Insects and small snakes (including conspecifics) were occasionally consumed. Diet composition did not differ significantly between gravid and nongravid specimens, but gravid specimens more frequently contained small mammals and fewer lizards. Ontogenetic dietary change was relatively minor. Prey and predator mass were significantly related in both adults and subadults.
10.2307/1564414|A reinvestigation of several records and specimens of marine turtles in the East Pacific, and subsequent publications referring to these, revealed a series of long-standing errors, that are still being perpetrated, and stem mainly from an old confusion between Caretta caretta and Lepidochelys olivacea. The reidentifications proposed herein result in reduced distributional, breeding and historic records of C. caretta and invalidate taxonomic combinations formerly used for this species. Distributional and historic records for L. olivacea must also be modified.
10.2307/1564387|Data on the nesting biology of marbled salamanders (Ambystoma opacum) were obtained on 292 nests from 11 temporary pools in central North Carolina. About 6% of the nests were communal and contained eggs from two or three females. Each of the remaining nests contained a single clutch of eggs. Females placed nests primarily at moderate to high elevations in dried pond beds and rarely nested in pond bottoms. Embryonic survival was dependent on elevation of nests in some ponds, but not in others. About 25% of nests were abandoned within 2-4 weeks after oviposition. Mean egg viability and clutch size were significantly lower in unattended nests than in attended nests. These results are consistent with the view that brooding and nest site selection along elevational gradients are adaptations for terrestrial breeding in Ambystoma opacum.
10.2307/1562906|Sphaerodactylus gilvitorques Cope and Sphaerodactylus nigropunctatus Gray have been names of uncertain application for many years. From examination of the holotypes of both species we conclude: S. gilvitorques is a distinctive species, and, although it has not been taken since the collection of the holotype, there are no good grounds for doubting its Jamaican provenance. S. nigropunctatus is a senior synonym of S. decoratus Garman, a polytypic species occurring in the Bahama Islands and Cuba.
10.2307/1563672| Initiation of breeding activity of Bufo houstonensis followed a rise in minimum air temperature in January or February to above approximately 14C. Rain was not a direct necessary stimulus to breeding in this species; additional site-specific stimuli apparently are necessary; rapid algal growth may be such a stimulus. Amplectant male B. houstonensis were significantly larger than non-amplectant males. Based on growth data from recaptured males, it is likely that older male B. houstonensis are more likely to achieve amplexus than are first-season males. Data on breeding behavior and movements to and from breeding sites are presented. Natural hybrids between B. houstonensis and B. woodhousei and between B. houstonensis and B. valliceps were identified morphologically and electrophoretically. Only one suspected backcross product was found. Hybridization among these species was minimal in the study areas--in all cases less than 1% of the parental populations. The primary isolating mechanisms are temporally offset breeding seasons (of B. houstonensis and B. valliceps) and habitat isolation (B. houstonensis and B. woodhousei). The population sizes of B. houstonensis in Bastrop Co., Texas, are larger than previously reported; present population sizes in this area appear not to be critically low. The restricted range of the species coupled with habitat destruction seem to be the primary factors in the endangerment of B. houstonensis. 
10.2307/1565363|To test the feasibility of using captive-reared Orinoco crocodiles to restock depleted wild populations we used radio-telemetry to monitor eight crocodiles (103.3-139.3 cm total length) released in the Capanaparo River in southwestern Venezuela. Crocodiles were located every 1-2 d from April 1991 to March 1992 to determine movement patterns, survivorship, and growth rates. The crocodiles moved considerably during the first month following release, and the maximum distance moved was 11.6 km upstream by one crocodile four months after release. However, following an initial period of movement, crocodiles became more sedentary and by the end of the study the maximum distance from the point of release was less than 8 km. Six of the eight crocodiles moved upstream while two moved up to 3.3 km downstream. Crocodiles remained principally along the main course of the river in areas with mixed shallow and deep water habitats and abundant sand beaches. As the river rose during the wet season, crocodiles remained in the same areas, but moved into shallow-water areas among flooded riparian vegetation. The mean growth rate of released crocodiles (0.079 cm TL/day) was similar to that of smaller wild-born juvenile crocodiles. One animal was accidentally killed by a local resident who was hunting spectacled caiman. Based on the results of this study, we feel that a carefully designed program of releases of captive-reared crocodiles can be an effective conservation tool to speed the recovery of depleted populations of Orinoco crocodiles. However, care must be taken to insure that the release program is designed as one component of an overall crocodile strategy and not an excuse to avoid the onerous issues of the protection of wild crocodile populations and their habitat.
10.2307/1566020| We surveyed a streamside community in a southern Appalachian old-growth forest to determine the feasibility of using removal sampling to estimate salamander density and biomass. We removed salamanders during 21 nightly searches of two 30  30 m plots from 29 June to 20 July 1999. Despite the removal of 2433 animals and a lack of evidence for significant trespass onto plots, there was no overall decline in total catch per night. Moisture levels associated with recent rainfall history strongly influenced the surface activity of small species (Desmognathus carolinensis, Desmognathus wrighti, Eurycea bislineata wilderae) but not large species (Plethodon jordani, Plethodon glutinosus, Plethodon yonahlossee). More refined analyses of individual species using either regression analysis (large species) or covariance analysis (small species adjusted for moisture conditions) indicate that the catch of all species except D. wrighti declined with time. The estimated number of consecutive nights required to remove 70% of the population varied from eight (P. yonahlossee) to 32 (D. carolinensis) and tended to be inversely related to the body size of the species. Conservative estimates of total salamander density and wet biomass in streamside habitats at this site are 18,486 individuals and 16.53 kg per hectare. These values are seven and 14 times greater than those reported for the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest in New Hampshire and underscore the importance of salamanders in riparian zone communities of southern Appalachian forests. 
10.2307/1563761|The Subfamily Boinae is divided into 3 tribes: 1) Tribe Boini, with rectal caecum and prefrontal bones extended far medially on roof of muzzle (the Malagasy Acrantophis and Sanzinia; Neotropical Boa, Xenoboa); 2) Tribe Corrallini, without rectal caecum, prefrontal bones extended far medially on roof of muzzle (Neotropical Corallus, Epicrates, Eunectes; southwestern Pacific Candoia); 3) Tribe Erycini, with rectal caecum, prefrontals confined to sides of muzzle (Indian Gongylophis; Eryx of continental Africa, India and central and western Asia; western North American Lichanura, Charina). A key to the genera of Boinae is presented. Candoia is most closely related to the West Indian species of Epicrates and contains 3 species, C. bibroni (including C. australis), C. carinata, and C. aspera. All three species show geographic variation, but there is no close concordance of variation in the different varying characters, nor any pattern of variation that fits the submarine topography of the islands where the species occur. The listing of C. bibroni for Duke of York I., and of C. aspera for Bougainville, are probably erroneous. The Acrochordoidea include the living Acrochordidae and the fossil (Eocene) Palaeophiidae. Although highly specialised in several respects, the Acrochordidae seem the most primitive (Dinilysia-like) of Alethinophidia in several features, e.g.: anterolateral process of frontal, lack of bony enclosure of juxtastapedial perilymphatic sac, lizard-like form of basioccipital muscular tuberosity. All living Acrochordoidea are included in the genus Acrochordus, of which there are 3 species: 1) A. javanicus Hornstedt, of Malaya and the Greater Sunda Is.; 2) A. granulatus (Schneider), of Asia and Australasia, including New Guinea and the Solomons; and 3) A. arafurae new species, of rivers and lakes of Australia and New Guinea draining into the Arafura Sea and extreme western Coral Sea (previously confused with A. javanicus, but differing from that species in partial fusion of nasal bones, feeble bilobation of hemipenis, lack of hemipenial spines, lower maxillary and dentary tooth counts, lack of coronoid process of mandible, and colour pattern).
40060513|Snakes have very different ecologies and habits from other non-ophidian squamates ("lizards"); yet ecological data from sympatric populations of lizards are often used as models to explain resource partitioning in sympatric groups of all squamates. Most snake assemblages show greatest ecological divergence in use of dietary resources. We use dietary, spatial, and reproductive data in a clade of five sympatric snake species with similar ecologies to test previous assumptions of how snakes partition resources in a species-rich community. Species show dietary specializations, with species of Sintoselaps and Brachyurophis fasciolatus feeding exclusively on lizards and Brachyurophis semifasciatus eating only squamate eggs. Some species show trends regarding differential habitat use; Sintoselaps bertholdi and B.semifasciatus are habitat generalists, whereas the other species are not captured in flat areas between sand ridges. Time of peak activity is not partitioned seasonally because all species, except B. fasciolatus, are most active in December. Partitioning of dietary resources is a stronger structuring agent than is partitioning of habitat resources in this community as indicated by the amount of resource overlap. Diet is the most important dimension in explaining ecological divergence among these elapid species, in agreement with prior studies of resource partitioning in snake assemblages.
10.2307/1564621| We studied the seasonal variations of reproductive characteristics in a wild population of the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus by measuring gonadal weight, germinal epithelium height, sexual steroids (testosterone, estradiol, and progesterone), and lipid reserves (in fat bodies and liver) in three phases of the reproductive cycle: early breeding (late April), late breeding (mid-June), and post-breeding season (late July). In males, testis size, germinal epithelium, and testosterone plasma levels were high in the breeding season and decreased dramatically in July. However, spermatogenesis (maximum in June) was slightly delayed with respect to testosterone secretion (peak in April), suggesting that a previous increase in testosterone levels could be necessary to stimulate the initial stages of spermatogenesis. Larger testes and higher testosterone levels were found in larger and more brightly colored males, known to overlap with more females and court them more frequently than their smaller conspecifics. In females, the ovary was previtellogenic in early spring, and showed a rapid growth by mid-June, oviposition occurring in early summer. The increase in 17 -estradiol levels observed between April and June was coincident with the maturation of previtellogenic follicles. In both sexes fat body cycles were inversely correlated with gonadal cycles. By the end of the breeding season there was a reactivation of hepatic lipogenesis that was coincident with a significant decrease in activity levels. 
1565877|Juvenile Nerodia sipedon sipedon possess a striking dorsal pattern, whereas adults often have a more uniform dorsal coloration. Past researchers have hypothesized that this color shift occurs through a darkening of the ground color, but this hypothesis has never been tested quantitatively. Analysis of digital images of the dorsum and venter of N. s. sipedon individuals of all sizes from islands in Lake Michigan indicated that as snakes increase in length, the dorsal ground color darkens, but the coloration of dorsal blotches and ventral pattern does not change. Potential costs and benefits of a change in dorsal coloration while ventral pattern remains relatively constant are discussed in relation to variation in size.
4093003|The Late Eocene (Chadronian NALMA) Hardie Mine local fauna of the Clinchfield Formation in Wilkinson County, Georgia, preserves the most diverse turtle fauna in the Eocene of southeastern North America. This fauna includes at least five taxa including a dermochelyid, a cheloniid, a trionychid, a testudinoid, and an unidentified cryptodire. Chelonioids and trionychids are the most common turtles in this near-shore marine deposit. The aquatic testudinoids from the Hardie Mine site represent the oldest records from southeastern North America, a region that exhibits a high diversity of extant aquatic testudinoids.
40664962|The Green Anole, Anolis carolinensis, has been widely studied in terms of its behavioral ecology. However, few studies have simultaneously compared the relative strengths of predation and male competition across temporal and spatial scales in Green Anoles, or other reptile species. We took an indirect experimental approach to compare these forces in Green Anoles by using attacks on clay models as a proxy for the relative intensity of predation and male competition. We measured the proportion of attacks on clay models in two divergent Green Anole populations with distinct habitats (discrete and continuous vegetation) across three seasons (fall, winter, and spring) and found strong evidence for spatial and temporal variation in the relative intensity of each component of selection. The frequency of bites from male Green Anoles was generally higher at an urban locality, whereas the frequency of bites from nonlizards was higher at a natural swamp locality. We also detected temporal variation in the intensity of these processes at both locations, with the intensity of male competition and prdation changing in a concomitant fashion, the most intense periods occurring during the fall and spring months and the least intense during the winter months. Our results imply that mortality within some seasonal reptile species is composed of periods of relative calm punctuated by brief but intense "one-two punch" periods of selection.
10.2307/1564443|We investigated the ability of Coleonyx variegatus to detect and identify integumentary-derived chemicals of a snake predator by using tail display, a predator-specific, behavioral bioassay of predator identification in geckos. We presented five stimulus conditions to geckos, including skin chemicals from a saurophagous snake (Phyllorhynchus decurtatus) and a nonsaurophagous snake (Chionactis occipitalis), and scored six responses, including attack, tail display, and flight. Skin chemicals from P. decurtatus elicited defensive attacks in 13% of the trials. Tail display occurred in 79% of the trials with skin chemicals from P. decurtatus, and only in response to these chemicals. Thirty-seven percent of the trials involving tail display included rapid flight behavior immediately after tail display. None of the trials with skin chemicals from C. occipitalis resulted in tail display, however 30% of these trials resulted in flight. We conclude that C. variegatus is capable of detecting snake integumentary chemicals and identifying the source of the chemicals as a predator. In addition, our data suggest that C. variegatus is capable of distinguishying the integumentary chemicals of a saurophagous snake from those of a nonsaurophagous species. We suggest that geckos might identify chemical trails left on the substrate by passing snakes and avoid these areas. This might place considerable time/energy constraints on gecko foraging, but the benefits in terms of survival would outweigh these costs.
1566141|Many members of the Iguania group of lizards engage in stereotyped and species-specific "pushup" or "headbob" displays. Temporal attributes of displays have been quantified for a number of species in the genus Anolis, but few of these studies have examined effects on display structure of signaler sex, display context, and population. With this goal in mind we conducted a comparative study of three Anolis species permanently established ("naturalized") on the island of Bermuda: Anolis grahami from Jamaica, Anolis extremus from Barbados, and Anolis leachi from Antigua and Barbuda. These anoles are distantly related to each other and to Anolis carolinensis--the only Anolis species for which all of the above influences on display structure have been examined in detail. Adults were field-captured and transported to the laboratory where paired interactions were videotaped and headbob displays analyzed. Results revealed one or more variables to exhibit sexual dimorphism in each species, and display context had little influence on signal structure. We then compared results from our founder populations on Bermuda with those published for two of our study species' source populations. No significant differences in headbob display units were found between A. grahami on Bermuda and on Jamaica. In contrast, male A. extremus on Bermuda produced fewer units per display than did males from Barbados, although the nature of the published data prevented statistical comparison.
4093006|Terrapene carolina and Terrapene ornata are sympatric in Missouri, but they tend to occupy different habitats. There is also disparity in their diets, with T. carolina tending to be more herbivorous than T. ornata. Differences in diet and habitat may require different digestive physiologies between species. We investigated the ability of these species to digest three different pure diets of fruit (blackberry, mayapple, and strawberry). Diet type had a significant effect on digestive efficiency and gut transit rate. We found T. carolina had significantly longer gut transit times than did T. ornata when fed strawberry diets but not when fed blackberry and mayapple diets. Terrapene ornata had significantly higher digestive efficiency than did T. carolina for mayapple diets but not for strawberry and blackberries diets. This study suggests that diet-dependent differences in digestive ability exist between these turtle species.
10.2307/1565266|We quantified the abilities of snakes to extend the anterior body horizontally without support, and we evaluated data for 31 species representing five families. Generally, terrestrial snakes exhibit rather uniform cantilever ability and can extend the body 30-50% of total body length. Arboreal species exhibit statistically superior performance both within and among families, with some species extending the body to more than 50% of body length. Extreme divergence of cantilever abilities occurs between arboreal and aquatic species. Intraspecific comparisons also show that juvenile snakes cantilever better than adults, presumably due to a lower mass relative to body length. Musculoskeletal features of the vertebral column are generally conserved in evolutionary terms, thus possibly explaining the generally uniform cantilever abilities in large numbers of snake species. However, several modifications of vertebrae and associated epaxial muscles and their tendons appear to be related to cantilever performance.
4093000|We compared various methods of amphibian marking techniques suggested by a University Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC) to assess alternatives to toe-clipping without anesthesia. Marking treatments applied to Dusky (Desmognathus fuscus) and Seal (Desmognathus monticola) Salamanders included visible implanted elastomer (VIE) injections, toe-clipping without anesthesia, toe-clipping with a local anesthetic, toe-clipping with whole body anesthesia, and a control group (handled-unmarked). Randomly selected individuals in each group were euthanized and heads and torsos assayed to assess the effect of the marking techniques on stress hormone responses (adrenaline [epinephrine] and noradrenaline [norepinephrine]) levels. Behavioral responses were also observed in a randomly selected group of individuals from each treatment. We found no significant statistical differences in any of the marking methods on the stress hormone responses or on the behaviors of the salamanders. Our findings suggest that toe-clipping (without anesthesia) and VIE do not differ in their respective effects on stress hormone levels linked to the infliction of pain. We suggest that toe-clipping without anesthesia is a viable and humane field technique for marking desmognathine salamanders and similar organisms.
4092870| A new species of Sibon, placed in the Sibon annulatus species group, is described from the Mosquitia region of northeastern Honduras. Within this group, the new species appears most closely related to Sibon dimidiatus. By comparison to S. dimidiatus, the new species can be distinguished by its fewer ventrals, subcaudals, total number of ventrals plus subcaudals, and smaller adult size. /// Una nueva especie de Sibon, aparentemente del grupo Sibon annulatus, se describe de la Mosquitia, en el noreste de Honduras. Dentro de este grupo, la especie nueva parece estar ms relacionada a Sibon dimidiatus y se puede diferenciar de esta por un menor nmero de ventrales, subcaudales y nmero total de ventrales ms subcaudales, y un menor tamao de los adultos. 
40060488|The Maya Forest Monitoring Project (Mayamon) was established in 1997 as an outgrowth of the Belize working group of the Declining Amphibian Populations Task Force. For nine years, Mayamon volunteers censused anuran populations using a protocol that estimates numbers of individuals on the basis of male vocalization. To date, the protocol has been evaluated only through a series of post hoc power analyses; I performed the first field test to assess the effect of species-specific mating system characteristics, survey length, survey frequency, and pond selection on census results for anuran communities within a tropical moist forest in Belize. Under the current protocol, it would take, on average, 359 months of sampling to detect the 11 species I detected at this site using vocalization surveys. In addition, I introduce a method using ANCOVA to determine ideal survey length. Arbitrarily setting the ideal detection to 90% yields a required sampling protocol of 21 minutes; the current minimum of 15 min yields only an 80% detection rate. This method could be adapted for use with other monitoring programs, allowing both the assessment of current efficacy and the extrapolation of required sampling length to reach a given efficacy. The results of these approaches indicate that the Mayamon protocol methodology should be extended if it is to allow investigators to adequately understand the community dynamics of amphibians.
41415255|Invasive species are a major threat to biodiversity and economic interests, with many introductions resulting from actions of people involved in pet and ornamental plant businesses. Invasive species eventually end up in the care of the general public, with most costs born by society rather than businesses or owners: a classic economic externality. Although standard economic instruments used to address externalities are useful, they require considerable extension in this case. Simple taxation of the trade has been suggested and can reduce the volume of trade, but taxes do little to discipline the riskiest actors in the market. Using reptiles and amphibians as our focus, we provide an outline for a mechanism addressing invasive species issues, focusing primarily on the local level. We propose to collect funds from the trade and apply them specifically to support (1) a national resource center offering information and training; (2) programs to professionalize local education and response teams, focusing on pet store owners, hobbyist organizations, and first responders; (3) an incentive program to encourage pet stores to take back unwanted animals; (4) a tracking system for identifying and penalizing owners of newly released animals; and (5) a rapid-response system to address newly reported invasives. Participation by local entities helps them avoid uniform policies from the national level that are typically both more onerous and less effective. To provide an additional incentive for the industry at large to participate in the process, the level of taxation could decrease as problems diminish.
1566160|Hawksbill Seaturtles have temperature-dependent sex determination. As such, the resulting sex ratios are of conservational and ecological significance. Buck Island Reef is an interesting location for sex ratio studies since it represents a natural and unexploited foraging ground for hawksbills in the Caribbean. To examine sex ratios, blood samples were obtained from juvenile Hawksbill Seaturtles captured on Buck Island Reef over a four-year period. We used a radioimmunoassay to determine testosterone levels in those samples and compared those values to testosterone levels of juvenile hawksbills from the Caribbean whose sex has been verified by laparoscopy. The results of this study reveal a significantly female-biased sex ratio (approximately 80% female) occurs in this juvenile aggregation inhabiting Buck Island Reef.
10.2307/1565954|Energy allocation to eggs and nest site selection by females can affect life-history variables such as offspring size, offspring number, developmental rate, survivorship, growth rate, and performance in oviparous reptiles. Nest site selection can affect offspring phenotype by altering incubation conditions. I present evidence of a positive effect of female size on clutch size, egg mass, and nest depth through the study of trackways left by female river turtles, Podocnemis expansa, on their nesting beaches. Larger females laid larger clutches composed of larger eggs, which were buried deeper than clutches laid by smaller females. The data suggest that P. expansa does not conform to optimal propagule size models. Neither egg size nor clutch size reached a plateau as female size increased. Females seem to allocate the extra energy (in absolute terms) gained allometrically with increasing size and age to both number and size of eggs. There was no evidence of a trade-off between egg size and number after removing the effect of female size. Larger eggs produced larger hatchlings that survived better but grew less than individuals of smaller initial size during the first two months of life, under unlimited food conditions. I suggest that fitness of female P. expansa increases by producing larger eggs because of the advantage that larger hatchlings have in survival. Deeper nests experience cooler temperatures and tend to produce a higher percentage of males than more superficial nests. Therefore, there is a potential for important effects of nest depth on sex ratios produced by different sized females within the population and possibly by single females throughout their lifetime. Constant temperature in artificial incubation experiments had an effect on the size of individuals at hatching, but differences vanished by the second month of age via the greater growth rate shown by individuals of smaller initial size.
10.2307/1562904|A late Pleistocene (estimated 16,000 BP) fauna from a cave in Taney County, Missouri, includes extinct mammals and mammals that occur north of the area today, as well as two anurans, two lizards, and 4 snakes. All amphibians and reptiles are assigned to living species. The fox snake (Elaphe vulpina) today occurs in the glaciated area of Missouri, much to the north of Taney County.
10.2307/1564678|Many plethodontid salamanders establish feeding territories. We studied interactions of two species in different genera to investigate the roles of species identity, residency, and relative body size in gaining or maintaining control of a cover object. Species identity had the largest effect, with Desmognathus ochrophaeus proving more successful than Plethodon cinereus as a resident and as an intruder. Residency also influenced the outcome of trials: residents were more likely to maintain control of their cover objects than to be displaced. The relative body size of the salamanders in a trial had a small, marginally nonsignificant effect on the outcome. Species identity may be important in determining spatial relations of salamanders in the field.
10.2307/1563240|Mating calls of the Japanese pond frogs, Rana nigromaculata, R. b. brevipoda, and R. b. porosa, were analysed. The call of R. nigromaculata is short in duration and consists of a few distinct notes, Okayama R. b. brevipoda has a long continuous call, and R. b. porosa and Nagoya R. b. brevipoda have long calls with distinct notes, which are intermediate between the former two; the call of R. b. porosa is more similar to R. nigromaculata. The differences in call structures parallel the differences in external morphology previously reported by Moriya (1954). The intermediate calls of R. b. porosa and Nagoya R. b. brevipoda may be a result of introgression in the past time. It is suggested that the calls in this group diverged from a primitive call presumably like that of Okayama R. b. brevipoda to more advanced R. nigromaculata call through the stages represented by these intermediate calls.
1565856|Reduced aggression toward territorial neighbors relative to strangers, the dear enemy phenomenon, is a widespread occurrence in many taxa, presumably because a stranger represents more of a threat to a resident than a neighbor. We recorded the response of 12 adult, nonreproductive, female Crotaphytus collaris residents to tethered neighbors or size-matched strangers and found no significant difference between responses to neighbors and strangers. Given that the dear enemy phenomenon is advantageous only to highly territorial individuals that stand to lose a great deal to a stranger, but not a neighbor, and that costs of territoriality may change with the reproductive cycle, we argue that there are no favorable conditions for the dear enemy phenomenon to evolve in this population of female collared lizards.
10.2307/1565994|A new species of Goniurosaurus described from Hainan Island is differentiated from all other species by having a series of enlarged, flat, imbricate scales on the mediolateral portions of the wrist; 37-46 preanal pores as opposed to 18-32 for all other species that have preanal pores; thin as opposed to wide juvenile body bands; faint, whitish colored bands in the caudal interspaces; and caudal bands being incomplete ventrally in adults. A phylogenetic analysis reveals that the new species is the basal member of the Goniurosaurus luii group. It differs from the other members of this group, Goniurosaurus luii and Goniurosaurus araneus, in being less than 107 mm in maximum snout vent length, having a more robust body stature, lacking elongate curved penultimate phalanges, having short robust digits, and having thin dark borders on the body bands. Three species of Goniurosaurus occur on Hainan Island.
40983656|Efficient deployment of culverts to mitigate mortality of amphibians on roadways requires identification of locations within road networks where animals cross (hotspots), points within identified hotspots for culvert placement, and attributes of culverts that make them behaviorally palatable to migrating individuals. In this study, we assessed road crossing frequency of Spotted Salamanders, Ambystoma maculatum, and American Toads, Anaxyrus americanus, along a 700-m transect within a known crossing hotspot, and related these distributions to habitat variables within the hotspot including the presence of existing culverts. We also placed experimental arrays of culverts of varying attributes in the path of migrating Spotted Salamanders to examine culvert preference by salamanders under typical movement environments and appropriate animal behavioral states. Our studies of patterns of road occurrence demonstrated that both species avoided crossing where there was a wetland within 15 m of the downslope of the road and that neither species showed a strong preference for crossing near existing culverts. When considering the choice for experimental culverts by Spotted Salamanders, we found no preference for culverts of varying aperture size, length, or substrate. Our results indicate that patterns of occurrences of the two species of amphibian within a crossing hotspot may be linked to the physical attributes at the site. For Spotted Salamanders in particular, predicting where they will cross within a hotspot may not be easy. Spotted Salamanders showed little preference for culverts of different design, indicating that a variety of culvert designs can suffice for mitigation if placed in appropriate locations.
10.2307/1563038|Several aspects of the biology of Chelydra serpentina osceola were investigated. A strong correlation was found between cloacal temperature and environmental temperature. The thermoactivity range was 18.7-32.6 C. Nesting sites of moist, loosely packed soil were selected, ranging 38 to 141 m from the water. The eggs were laid in bowl-shaped excavations, 10-19 cm deep. Clutch size ranged from 6-21 eggs. Incubation period varied from 48-118 days. This turtle is omnivorous, feeding on a variety of aquatic plants, flatworms, annelids, arthropods, snails and vertebrate material. A detailed listing of the various food items of this species is presented for the first time. Prey capture involved either active pursuit or ambush.
40060492|The discrimination ability of Texas Horned Lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) during antipredator responses was tested with snakes of two genera having distinctly different prey foraging and subjugation strategies; Western Diamondback Rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) are "sit-and-wait" predators with a venomous strike from ambush, whereas whipsnakes (Masticophis spp.) are nonvenomous, rapid pursuit-and-grasp predators. Neither snake constricts prey; both ingest prey whole. Lizards were watched for reactions during close approaches by moving snakes. All unapproached and some approached lizards remained alert and motionless. Approached lizards that reacted either (1) ran rapidly to a distant point in the large enclosure, or (2) maintained their position but dorsoventrally flattened their body and tilted their stance, orienting a "dorsal shield" posture toward the snake. The distinctly contrasting responses of the lizards to the two snakes were significantly different, relocation running from rattlesnakes and stationary-body reorientation toward whipsnakes. For slow-running, broad-bodied Texas Horned Lizards, running is an appropriate escape response to a nonpursuing venomous predator, whereas the nonrunning body-conformation/orientation change is an appropriate defensive response, advertising size and spiny defenses, to a rapid-pursuit snake that must grasp prey with its jaws to effect capture and subjugation. Apparently horned lizards visually recognized, probably innately, the two snake taxa as different categories of predator threat.
10.2307/1563110|A population of Pseudemys scripta is reported in westcentral West Virginia and material from an archeological site at Mount Carbon (dating about 820-1070 AD) corroborates this first record for the state; all of these localities are in the Kanawha River Valley. Aquatic prehistoric dispersal routes in the Midwest are discussed and it is suggested that this species used the Mahomet-Teays River, formed during the Nebraskan glacial advance, to reach southern Ohio and West Virginia from the Mississippi Valley. Other animals having similar distributional patterns are mentioned.
10.2307/1564989|The northernmost population of the eastern cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus) is in Virginia near Hopewell at the confluence of the James and Appomattox rivers. Female cottonmouths there produce relatively large litters and attain sexual maturity at sizes greater than reported elsewhere. Meristic characters of the northernmost population differ only slightly or not at all from neighboring populations in southeastern Virginia or northeastern North Carolina, but melanism increases significantly southward. Vitellogenesis, ovulation, and birth in the northernmost population appear to occur several weeks later than in southern populations. Most small cottonmouths did not survive cold winters and few individuals less than 600 mm snout-vent length were observed; thus the population is comprised largely of older snakes (>4 yr). Most mature females (91.7%) reproduced annually. Winter mortality in hibernacula may be an important limiting factor in this northernmost population of cottonmouths.
10.2307/1562787|Field observations on Barro Colorado Island suggested that the choice of a perch site by anoles may reflect a compromise between the differing selective pressures of food and predation. This relationship is quantified using data gathered from a population of Anolis frenatus, by defining an obtuse survey angle and an acute predator avoidance angle, which together are the complements of a full circle. We postulate that perch dimensions reflect primarily trophic requisites in females, while those of males are tempered by social considerations. These differences are reflected in differences in food habits between the sexes. Comparative data on a much smaller species, Anolis limifrons, suggests no correlation between lizard size and perch diameter. We hypothesize that this interspecific difference in choice of perch sites is a reflection of differential abundances of food supply for the two species.
10.2307/1565514|We observed captive groups of six to ten scincid lizards (Lampropholis guichenoti) to investigate dominance patterns and to quantify and describe site defence. Most groups exhibited too few social interactions to determine social structure; however, in one group of nine L. guichenoti, a "modified" despotic social structure was formed with two lizards dominant over all of the others. Body size and sex influenced position within the social structure, with males tending to dominate females and larger lizards tending to dominate smaller ones. In general males were more aggressive than females. A "neck-arch" was used as the common assertion display and was seen significantly more frequently in males than females. Aggressive behavior did not decrease with time and thus may be involved in the maintenance of dominance as well as its establishment. Agonistic behavior resulting in displacement of lizards from basking or shelter sites was rare (observed in only one of 20 groups). When such behavior occurred, it generally consisted of displacement of smaller males by larger, more dominant males. Large males also tended to be found with females under shelter more often than were smaller males. The scarcity or absence of active site defence in L. guichenoti may be due to their small body size (and hence, the fact that suitable sites for basking and shelter are unlikely to be in short supply) and the apparent lack of fixed home ranges in this species.
25599197|Methods for obtaining plasma from anurans are unsatisfactory in that they are inadequately described, are difficult to perform, or are lethal to the subject. A lymph extraction technique involving temporary ligation is described that enables sufficient fluid to be obtained for analysis from frogs greater than 20 g. Lymph was more easily obtained from Bufo marinus than from the austral-hylids Litoria caerulea and Cyclorana australis. Lymph accumulation was faster in hydrated frogs or those with full bladders, whereas it was relatively slow in animals that had been dormant or that were dehydrated. Differences between the osmolality of lymph and blood-plasma were variable but slight; presumably the relatively high endothelial permeability of amphibians facilitates significant fluid exchange.
10.2307/1565153|Quantification of toad spatial distributions confirmed that postmetamorphic Bufo cognatus form aggregations under natural conditions in southeastern South Dakota. Distributions of toads in symmetric arenas placed in the field indicated that asymmetrical distribution of habitat features, and resulting mutual attraction to resources, is not required for aggregation formation in postmetamorphic toads. Rather, these data suggest that toadlets are attracted to conspecifics. In a similar laboratory experiment, aggregations occurred under light, but not dark, conditions suggesting a role for vision in mediation of this behavior. Additionally, toads were attracted to areas that had been occupied previously by postmetamorphic conspecifics, suggesting that orientation to chemical cues is involved in the aggregation response. This is the first demonstration of attraction to conspecific chemical cues in nonlarval anurans. Field observations of defensive behavior of grouped and solitary postmetamorphic toads supports the hypothesis that aggregation may be an anti-predator strategy of this species.
10.2307/1564765|We studied the location and site selection of burrows of black iguana, Ctenosaura similis, at Palo Verde, Guanacaste, Costa Rica, in 1989 and 1990. Our study site included the environs of buildings as well as dry lowland deciduous forest. Iguana had burrows on earth banks, and in trees, logs and rocks with a higher frequency than occurred at randomly-selected points. Burrows differed from random points in having less cover over the entrance and within 1 m (both rock and vegetation) than did the random points. Temperatures at the burrow entrance were cooler than at the random points, although air temperatures did not differ significantly. We suggest that the use of burrows and selection of burrow sites by black iguanas may relate to predation pressures, thermal constraints and daily activity patterns.
10.2307/1565898|Seasonal activity of spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata) at the northern limit of their range in central Ontario was studied over two years using radio telemetry. Prior to this study, and a concurrent study in 1996 by J. D. Ltizgus on a northern population in Georgian Bay, most reports were based on spotted turtle populations from southerly populations. In the present study, six spotted turtles were tracked in 1994, and nine were tracked in 1995. Turtles emerged from hibernation early to mid-April and remained active until late October/early November, for 197 days in 1994 and 202 days in 1995. Average daily movement was greatest early in the season and generally declined as the year progressed. Spotted turtles were easier to observe earlier in the season compared to later in the year despite still being active. Droughtlike conditions in 1995 may have stimulated the turtles to aestivate. Results from the two northern studies are complementary. Spotted turtles at the northern portion of their range are active longer than those in southerly populations.
10.2307/1564903| A new species of Scinax is described from the valleys of the Argentine and Bolivian Andes. It is phenotypically intermediate between S. fuscovaria and S. nasica, differing from both of them by its size and mating call. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Scinax procedente de los valles andinos argentinos y bolivianos, la cual presenta un fenotipo intermedio entre S. fuscovaria y S. nasica, pero difiere por su tamao y sobre todo por su canto. Considerando que la actual validez de algunos grupos de especies es muy dudosa, no se establece adscripcin de la nueva especie a ninguno de ellos. 
10.2307/1565724|Two new species of the lygosomine, scincid genus Mabuya, tentatively assigned to the aureopunctata-Group, are described from the drier regions of western Madagascar. Mabuya tandrefana sp. nov. was found at seven sites ranging from Kirindy Forest northward along the western coastal belt to Baly Bay. It occurs in tsingy, limestone habitats in Bemaraha and Namoroka Reserves and on the ground and bases of tree trunks in dry, deciduous forests and in savannah dominated by satrana palms. It is a small- to medium-sized species (adults 50-58 mm SVL) identified by (1) the presence of a rectangular subocular scale, (2) absence of a bold pattern of white spots on a dark background on the dorsal and lateral surfaces of the head, neck, and anterior half of the body, (3) four supraocular scales and a model number of five (4-6) superciliary scales, (4) dorsum nearly immaculate brown to tan-brown separated from a black lateral stripe by a dorsolateral, narrow, light tan stripe, which may be faintly expressed or absent, especially posteriorly, and (5) absence of a ventrolateral, white stripe below the black lateral stripe. Mabuya volamenaloha sp. nov. is known from three sites in the deciduous dry forests and tsingy habitats associated with Bemaraha Reserve. It is smaller than M. tandrefana (adults 48-52 mm SVL), with which it is sympatric, and has the same scalation pattern (rectangular subocular, four supraoculars, five superciliaries). It is further identified by having (1) a lateral black stripe from behind the eye to just above the forelimb or slightly beyond, below which is a row of large white spots that may be fused or partially fused into a white line extending from below the eye, across the ear, and ending above the forelimb or further posteriorly on the body, (2) a bright coppery (in life) dorsal head coloration, and (3) five, dorsal, coppery, longitudinal stripes on a black ground color extending from the back of the head onto the neck, fading posteriorly, and disappearing above the pelvis. These two new forms increase to 14 (possibly 15 if the holotype of M. betsileana was collected in Madagascar) the number of Mabuya species known for Madagascar, all but one of which are endemic. The discovery during the past five years of eight new skins of the genus Mabuya in Madagascar, more than doubling the number of species known for that island, dramatically emphasizes both our poor understanding of the biodiversity of Madagascar and the startlingly high number of species endemic to this island.
40060458|We document variation among 13 populations of distinct species of the lizard genus Xenosaurus in four key reproductive traits: minimum size at maturity, litter size, size at birth, and relative clutch mass (RCM). Despite a common flattened morphology, considerable variation occurs in the examined traits. Minimum size at maturity varied between 92 and 110 mm snout-vent length (SVL), average litter size ranged between 2.1 and 5.7 newborns per female, mean size at birth varied between 40.6 and 51.6 mm SVL, and average RCM ranged between 0.16 and 0.35. We also found considerable interpopulational variation in mean size of reproductive females (from 102.9-119.2 mm SVL) and in the length of the birth season (from about one month to four months distributed between early May and late September). Litter size and RCM were the most variable traits with coefficients of variation above 20, whereas the other traits showed coefficients of variation between 4 and 7.4. Only the minimum size at maturity showed an allometric effect. Litter size and size at birth were negatively correlated, which we interpret as evidence of a trade-off between these two traits. Cluster analyses revealed the existence of two main life-history strategies: populations with relatively large litters of small young and populations with small litters of large young. We suggest further ecological and phylogenetic analyses to explain the patterns of variation and covariation observed in the studied traits.
10.2307/1565268|We describe two new species of Cophixalus from the north coast ranges of Papua New Guinea. One of the species has a reduced first finger lacking a disc and is clearly aligned with C. shellyi, C. ateles, and C. pipilans. The other species also has a reduced first finger but retains a disc on that digit. Its relationships within the genus are less clear but are probably also with the clade having a reduced first finger lacking a disc.
10.2307/1563974|Four species of lacertid lizards (Podarcis muralis, P. pityusensis, Lacerta viridis, and L. trilineata) moving in laboratory arenas alternated bursts of locomotion with short (<1 s) pauses. Variables relating to this movement are compared under two conditions, defined as 'standard' and 'fleeing,' with values previously recorded for Lacerta vivipara. Mean speeds of the five species (U, in cm s<sup>-1</sup>) increased with increasing body mass (M, in g) as U = 15.1 M<sup>0.17</sup>. When expressed in body lengths per second, however, mean speeds decreased with increasing body mass. The ratio of 'fleeing' to 'standard' speed was lower in adult L. vivipara than in adults of P. muralis, P. pityusensis, and L. trilineata and was lower in juvenile L. vivipara than in juvenile L. viridis; possible reasons for these differences are discussed. The incidence and duration of pauses in the five species decreased with increasing body mass.
40060535|Two species of Japanese toads, Bufo japonicus formosus and Bufo torrenticola, were identified in a mountain stream using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and mitochondrial (mt) DNA sequencing techniques. We detected RAPD fragments and mtDNA sequences specific for each species collected from allopatric areas. These molecular data indicated that most of the toads collected from their sympatric areas in a mountain stream in central Japan were backcross hybrids to B. torrenticola, even though they possessed the mtDNA of B. j. formosus. Directional introgression probably occurred between the males of B. torrenticola and females possessing the mtDNA of B. j. formosus, resulting from B. j. formosus being compelled to spawn in stream side pools, especially during the initial period of contact between the two species. Furthermore, most of the hybrid individuals probably backcrossed to the numerically predominant B. torrenticola. Such conditions might have resulted from recent and continuous flooding which created changes in the topography of the Bufo spawning habitat.
10.2307/1564525|A mark-recapture study of filesnakes (Acrochordus arafurae) in freshwater billabongs of northern Australia provided data on >3400 snakes over a four-year period. Population densities were estimated by a modified jackknife technique, and were much higher than in most previously-studied species of snakes, with >400 snakes per hectare surface area (>100 kg ha<sup>-1</sup>) in the main study billabong. This high biomass can be maintained because of the high abundance of prey (fishes), coupled with the low metabolic requirements (and hence, low feeding rates) of acrochordid snakes. Comparisons of sex ratios in trapped samples and in population estimates showed that male filesnakes were less 'catchable' in our fyke-nets than were females. Sex ratios differed among billabongs, with a trend for more males in broad shallow back-flow billabongs and more females in narrow deep main-channel billabongs. This sex difference mirrors a size-related difference in habitat selection documented in earlier studies of this species. Filesnake populations contain a high proportion of immature snakes, because of delayed maturation in this species, but mortality rates among adult animals (especially, adult females) seem to be low. The size structure (and hence, we infer, age structure) of the population varied considerably from year to year, depending on levels of reproduction and thus, juvenile recruitment. This episodic recruitment means that populations are dominated by particular age classes, and are unlikely to attain stable age distributions.
10.2307/1562955|A review of the available specimens of Bothrops nigroviridis from the northern part of its range (5 from Mexico, data on 6 from Guatemala) gives clear evidence of validity and occurrence in Mexico of B. n. aurifera (Salvin) and B. n. rowleyi Bogert (as reinterpreted in modification of its original proposal as a distinct species), and less conclusive evidence of the existence of a third subspecies, B. n. macdougalli subsp. n., in a presumably isolated area of extreme northeastern Oaxaca.
25599242|Species distribution and abundance depend on a balance between local and landscape-scale processes. To successfully manage populations in regions with anthropogenic disturbances and habitat fragmentation, an understanding of important processes at each of these spatial scales is important. We used a model selection approach to identify an effective spatial scale to manage the Idaho Giant Salamander, Dicamptodon aterrimus. We used data from field surveys to compare support for local and landscape-scale models that explain D. aterrimus occurrence and density in 40 streams distributed throughout the Lochsa River basin, Idaho. Local-scale models included covariates that reflect patch quality. Landscape-scale models included variables that reflect predictions from metapopulation theory about the importance of patch size, connectivity, and fragmentation. Our results suggest that landscape-scale processes are important controls on D. aterrimus occurrence and that this species has broad habitat requirements within streams. Specifically, we found that probability of D. aterrimus occurrence was highest in roadless drainages and lowest in spatially isolated streams and in drainages with high old-growth forest density. Surprisingly, we found that D. aterrimus density was greatest in streams with a high proportion of embedded substrate and fine sediment. The positive association with embedded substrate may reflect adaptation to a high frequency of natural disturbances, such as landslides, in our study area. We suggest that management and conservation efforts for this species focus on protecting roadless areas and restoring stream connectivity in human-impacted areas, rather than on only improving habitat quality within streams.
10.2307/1564991| A population of white-throated savanna monitor lizards (Varanus albigularis) in Etosha National Park, Namibia, was studied for 17 months. A total of 238 lizards was examined, of which 31 were radiotagged for periods up to 14 months. The hot/wet season (January-April) home ranges determined from radiotelemetry data were large and differed significantly between adult males (18.3  2.4 km<sup>2</sup>) and females (6.1  0.6 km<sup>2</sup>). During the cool/dry season (May-August) males and females utilized less than 10% of their wet season home range, except during the mating period (July-August), when males moved extensively while locating estrous females. When supplemental food was made available during the cool/dry season, male lizards increased their daily movements over 30-fold, suggesting that food, not seasonal differences in ambient temperature, limits activity. The largest adult lizards were males; however, there was no difference in wet season mass between males and females of similar snout-vent length. The apparent sex ratio varied dramatically by season, but this was a result of the different activity patterns between the sexes. Overall, the data suggest parity between the sexes. The biomass of V. albigularis at least rivaled that of any sympatric medium and large-sized mammalian carnivore species in the park. 
41415295|In some salamander species, as well as various other vertebrates, iron-rich molecules are sequestered in the enamel and enameloid layers of the crowns of teeth. In adults, the presence of iron can be detected easily because the cusps are often tinted orange-brown. However, visual confirmation is not possible in embryos or larvae. Consequently, the ontogenetic stage during which iron is first deposited in teeth is not known. We used scanning electron microscopy and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy to examine the teeth of embryonic and larval Streamside Salamanders, Ambystoma barbouri, to determine the earliest developmental stage during which iron can be detected in teeth and to quantify the relative iron concentration along the length of the enamel cap. Iron was present in first-generation teeth of embryos when individuals were still acquiring nutrients from yolk, suggesting that yolk, rather than diet, was the source of iron deposited in early generation teeth of salamanders. Furthermore, as in adults of other species of salamanders, the concentration of iron decreased from the apex to midshaft to base of teeth in embryonic and larval A. barbouri.
40060511|The characteristics of snake populations are reportedly difficult to quantify and such information exists for relatively few species, including Bullsnakes (Pituophis catenifer sayi), A Bullsnake population in southwestern Wisconsin was surveyed for three seasons (2003-05). All snakes encountered were (1) implanted with Passive Integrated Transponders for mark-recapture analyses of population size, (2) aged by size, and (3) sexed via probing and released. A subset of individuals was also implanted with radio transmitters to determine, in part, mortality rates and sources. Although recapture rates over the three years of surveying were low, an unbiased Lincoln-Petersen estimation was possible. This estimation revealed a small adult population size (N = 28.8) that was similar to the total number of adults encountered throughout the study (N = 30). Chi-squared analysis revealed that adult sex ratios were similar to 50 : 50 in all years. Mortality rates were high, particularly in females (44%), and sources of mortality were identified as predators and anthropogenic causes.
1566090|Generalist species are often both widely distributed and abundant. They also are often plastic in their ecology, both spatially and temporally, in response to variation in resources. Here, we study the food habits of the widespread European Grass Snake, Natrix natrix, in Kent in southeastern England. As elsewhere in their range, Grass Snakes at our study site mainly ate anurans (63%); however, small mammals also were fairly common in the diet (25%) and fish (10%) and birds (1%) were taken occasionally. About 65% of prey eaten by snakes were swallowed headfirst, but orientation of prey during ingestion varied among prey types. Although anurans are the major prey of Grass Snakes, the predominant species in their diet varies geographically, presumably in relation to availability; at our site, the most frequently eaten species (63%) was the introduced Marsh Frog, Rana ridibunda, which is very common and possibly influences abundance of snakes. We obtained few data on feeding habits of small snakes (<400 mm SVL) but found anuran prey in the smallest snake in our sample; other prey types were eaten by larger snakes and therefore presumably are added to the diet as snakes grow. Maximum size of prey increased with snake size, but large snakes nonetheless continued to eat small prey as well. However, because Grass Snakes are sexually dimorphic (females larger), such size effects may be confounded with sex effects. Snakes had food in their stomachs less frequently in midsummer than they did in early and late summer. Nonetheless, even after adjusting for such seasonal variation, gravid females contained food less frequently than nongravid females. Thus, gravid females of this oviparous species apparently exhibit an anorexia similar to that seen in pregnant females of many viviparous species.
10.2307/1565669| This study of the female reproductive cycle of Apalone ferox in south Florida was based on 220 reproductive tracts salvaged from females butchered for meat. Some females mature at sizes as small as 24 cm plastron length (PL; ca. 31 cm carapace length), but some may not mature until 30 cm PL. When compared to data from other parts of the species range, body size and size at maturity show no evidence of geographic variation. Follicles first reach ovulatory size in late February, and females first bear oviducal eggs in early March. Nesting season apparently lasts from late March to early August, during which each female may produce as many as five or six clutches of 9-38 eggs (mean = 20.6). This annual fecundity is higher than any other North American freshwater turtle species. However, 9% of mature females (i.e., >30 cm PL) had inactive ovaries (i.e., maximum follicle diameters <6 mm and no corpora lutea) during the reproductive season, suggesting that some females may not reproduce every year. Clutch size increases with female body size, but egg size does not (mean, 28.2 mm  27.5 mm, 12.3 g). The lack of egg size variability across body size, clutch size, season, and geography suggests selection for optimal egg size. Clutch mass averages 4.1% (3.0-5.2%) of spent body mass and does not vary seasonally. Apalone ferox reaches a larger size, has larger eggs, and produces as many as twice the number of clutches per year as its North American congeners; however, it is quite similar reproductively to several Old World trionychid species, including its closest outgroups. 
10.2307/1564485|Sibon fasciata, S. philippii, and S. anthracops are more closely related to each other than to any other species of Sibon, and together they comprise the fasciata group. The fasciata group is distinguished by the shared characteristics of: 1) laterally compressed body; 2) head distinctly wider than neck; 3) protruding eyes of moderate to large diameter; 4) vertebral and paravertebral scales not, or only scarcely, wider than other dorsals; 5) 12-17 maxillary teeth; 6) 18-24 dentary teeth; and 7) postmental scale absent. Two subspecies of S. fasciata (formerly Tropidodipsas fasciata) are recognized, the nominate form and S. fasciata guerreroensis; there is no basis for the recognition of T. fasciata subannulata. T. occidentalis is shown to be conspecific with S. philippii.
10.2307/1565333|Although most studies of reptilian thermal biology have measured body temperature from a single location in an animal, the presence of regional temperature differences within the bodies of reptiles should be considered when conducting detailed studies of their thermal biology. As part of an extensive study of rubber boa (Charina bottae) thermal biology, we measured the oral and cloacal temperatures of 45 free-ranging rubber boas from June 1990 to August 1995. We used oral temperature as an indicator of head temperature and cloacal temperature as an indicator of body temperature. Oral temperatures ranged from 13.8 C to 32.2 C and cloacal temperatures ranged from 11.5 C to 34.5 C. During the daytime, rubber boas generally exhibited warmer heads at average body temperatures below their thermal preference (thermal preference = 27.4 C) and cooler heads at average body temperatures above their thermal preference. At night, active rubber boas exhibited significantly higher head temperatures than body temperatures (mean difference = 2.0 C). This study represents the first report of regional body temperature differences exhibited by a reptile during nocturnal activity and supports the generalization that head temperature in reptiles is maintained within more narrow limits than body temperature during the day. Further studies are required to fully understand both the causes and consequences of regional temperature differences in free-ranging reptiles.
40060571|To improve our understanding of the distribution and abundance of amphibians and reptiles in tropical forests, herpetologists need to understand the relative effectiveness of different sampling techniques. However, current studies are biased by a focus on certain methods, species groups, or geographic regions. To address this problem, we conducted the first standardized comparison of patterns of species richness, rank-abundance, and community structure for both passive and active sampling methods for the study of herpetofauna in a tropical forest landscape. Moreover, we compare the effectiveness of these methods in primary and secondary forests and Eucalyptus plantation. Although different methods captured significantly different numbers of species and individuals, almost all techniques provided complementary benefits for the sampling of both lizards and leaf litter amphibians. The use of a limited set of methods can severely bias our understanding of changes in amphibian and lizard community structure in response to large-scale habitat change. Contrary to other studies, we recommend the use of pitfall traps in all studies, even Rapid Assessments (RAP), because they are indispensable for sampling many cryptic species, as well as being particularly cost effective for large-scale research. Because of the combination of complementary methods in sampling effectiveness, and the influence of method choice on taxon responses to habitat change, we recommend the use of multiple sampling techniques wherever possible. Synchronous adoption of multiple techniques in field studies will help improve sample representation and, thus, the understanding of species distributions and human impacts on herpetofauna in tropical forests. /// Conhecer a eficcia de diferentes tcnicas de amostragem  importante para o avano nas pesquisas sobre abundncia e distribuio de anfbios e rpteis em florestas tropicais. Entretanto, os estudos existentes apresentam um vis ao enfocar apenas certas tcnicas, grupos de espcies ou regioes geogrficas. Buscando suplantar esse problema, apresentamos a primeira comparao padronizada entre padres de riqueza de espcies, abundncia relativa e estrutura da comunidade, obtidas tanto a partir de tcnicas de amostragem passiva quanto ativa, em uma paisagem de floresta tropical. Alm disso, comparamos a eficcia desses mtodos em floresta primria, secundria e reas de plantio de Eucalyptus. Embora os diferentes mtodos tenham capturado diferentes nmeros de indivduos e de espcies, a maioria apresentou resultados complementares, tanto para lagartos quanto para anfbios de serrapilheira. A utilizao de um nmero limitado de tcnicas pode levar a resultados fortemente tendenciosos sobre as mudans que ocorrem na estrutura da comunidade de lagartos e anfbios em resposta a uma mudanca de hbitat em larga escala. Contrrio a outros estudos, recomendamos a utilizao de armadilhas de interceptao e queda em qualquer caso, inclusive em programas de levantamentos rpidos (RAPs), pois so indispensveis na amostragem de muitas espcies crpticas, alm de apresentar custo-benefcio particularmente bom em pesquisas de larga escala. Devido  complementaridade entre os mtodose  influncia da tcnica sobre a resposta dos txons s mudanas de hbitat, o presente estudo recomenda a utilizao, sempre que possvel, de vrias tecnicas de amostragem. A utilizao concomitante de vrios mtodos, nos estudos de campo, ajudar na obteno de amostragens mais representativas e, dessa forma, contribuir para o entendimento sobre a distribuio das especis e os impactos antrpicos sobre a herpetofauna em florestas tropicais.
10.2307/1564703|The morphology of the bony palate in larval and metamorphosed Epicrionops bicolor Boulenger and E. petersi Taylor (Rhinatrematidae) was studied to assess the extent of palatal change at metamorphosis. In larvae the maxilla is short; it abuts the dorsolateral process of the palatine at mid-choanal level. The pterygoid is long and straight; it runs anteromedially, close to the lateral edge of the parasphenoid. At metamorphosis the maxilla fuses with the palatine. The maxillary part of the maxillopalatine expands dorsally and caudally, surrounding the orbit and lacrimal ducts and completing the lateral border of the subtemporal fenestra. The anterior part of the pterygoid shifts laterally, broadening the interpterygoid vacuity, and separates from the posterior part of the pterygoid. The quadrate develops a rostrally directed quadratojugal process, overlapped by the maxilla and squamosal. A review of the literature shows that a similar pattern of palatal metamorphosis (except for the division of the pterygoid) is seen in other caecilian genera with free-living larvae: Ichthyophis (Ichthyophiidae), Grandisonia (Caeciliaidae), and probably Uraeotyphlus (Uraeotyphlidae) and Sylvacaecilia (Caeciliaidae). This implies that the shared pattern is plesiomorphic for caecilians. Features of palatal metamorphosis shared among caecilians, salamanders, and frogs support the hypothesis of lissamphibian monophyly.
10.2307/1564857|Twenty-two gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) were fitted with radio transmitters and tracked for up to two years. Considerable individual variation was observed in home range size, distances moved, duration of winter inactivity, and number of burrows used. Mean home ranges were 0.88 ha for adult males and 0.31 ha for adult females. Mean home ranges for subadults (0.05 ha) and juveniles (0.01 ha) were smaller, but three immature tortoises had ranges comparable to or larger than those of some adults. The longest recorded movement (0.74 km) was made by a dispersing subadult. Burrow defense, burrow usurpation, overnight co-occupation, and use of clearcuts, windrows, and flooded burrows were observed.
10.2307/1565934| A new species of Hyla is described from Cerro Jaua, 1600 m, Bolvar State, Venezuela. The external appearance of the new species closely resembles Hyla benitezi and Hyla lemai but differs from these species in having cream-colored digits and webbing (in live specimens), a golden iris, less foot webbing, no quadratojugal, and a characteristic advertisement call that consists of a rhythmically repeated note with a dominant frequency between 3260 and 3450 Hz. 
10.2307/1564150|Introduced brown tree snakes (Boiga irregularis) from a variety of habitats on Guam were examined for prey remains to determine how B. irregularis has maintained its population despite the overexploitation or extinction of its more vulnerable prey, principally birds and small mammals. Stomach and intestinal tract analyses revealed that B. irregularis consumes primarily birds and their eggs, small mammals, lizards, and lizard eggs. The snakes appeared to be somewhat opportunistic in prey choice. No significant differences were found in the overall diets of males and females of the same size classes. Ontogenetic differences in diet were present. Birds and small mammals were consumed by medium to large snakes; the abundance of both of these prey classes has been severely affected by B. irregularis. Small lizards in general are very abundant on Guam and appear to be an important food source for maintaining small to medium-sized snakes. The overlap of lizard and larger vertebrate prey taken by the intermediate-sized snakes allows the snake population to maintain relatively high densities despite the overexploitation of its larger prey.
1566080|Body size is an important variable used in life-history and sexual selection theory to predict reproductive, behavioral, and ecological traits. Except for the presence of special skin glands in males, sexual dimorphism has not been reported in the Red Hills Salamander (Phaeognathus hubrichti), the basal member of the Desmognathinae. These data provide insight into the evolution of SSD (sexual size dimorphism) in the entire subfamily. We conducted multivariate and univariate tests on eight morphological measurements of 92 preserved P. hubrichti. We also examined specimens for broken tails and U-shaped scars, which may indicate bites from conspecifics. Male salamanders were larger than females in all measurements except tail length and had more scars than either females or juveniles. This species exhibited male-biased SSD in shape and size: males were broad and bulky, females were long and thin. Regression analysis showed differences in resource allocation between male and female salamanders. Differences in life-history strategies and sexual selection in the form of male-male combat may explain these differences in body size.
10.2307/1565082|Madagascan skinks of the genus Mabuya can be divided into two groups based on the shape of the subocular scale, which is rectangular in the aureopunctata-Group and trapezoidal in the elegans-Group. The former group includes Mabuya aureopunctata, M. betsileana, M. boettgeri, and M. vato; the latter includes M. elegans, M. gravenhorsti, and M. madagascariensis. We describe herein a new species of the aureopunctata-Group, Mabuya dumasi, which differs from all other species of this group in having a distinctive longitudinal row of white spots on the side of the neck bordered above by a coextensive, dark brown or black, dorsolateral stripe. Mabuya dumasi differs further from M. boettgeri in lacking the body and neck stripes of the latter species; from M. aureopunctata and M. vato in lacking white spots on the dorsum of the head, neck, and anterior body, which are present in the latter two species; and from M. betsiliana in having fewer scales between the postmentals and the cloaca (fewer than 61 in M. dumasi, 71 in M. betsiliana). Mabuya dumasi was found at two sites 270 km apart in the dry regions of southern Madagascar: Amboanemba, 46 km N Amboasary, in dry spiny forest; and Zombitsy, 113 km NE Toliara, in dry deciduous forest. Although the new species is known from only nine specimens taken at two localities, there is no reason to believe it is threatened or endangered. It occurs in at least two distinctive habitats, and new localities are likely to be found when the region is adequately surveyed for reptiles. The ecological relationships among the Madagascan Mabuya are discussed, and an updated key to the eight species of Madagascan Mabuya is provided.
10.2307/1564932|Alsophis portoricensis can inject the secretion of its Duvernoy's gland (=venom) into its prey, constrict it, or swallow it alive. We studied the differences in prey-handling behavior of Alsophis portoricensis when feeding on two of its natural prey species, the lizard Anolis cristatellus and the frog Eleutherodactylus coqui. Subduing time was higher for lizards, but swallowing and handling times were longer for frogs. Alsophis struck Anolis most frequently on the trunk, whereas it attacked Eleutherodactylus preferentially on the head or the limbs. Alsophis portoricensis was equally successful in preventing both prey types from escaping after first seizing them. Snakes never constricted either prey type, but envenomated most Anolis and only one Eleutherodactylus. Alsophis always swallowed lizards head-first, but ingested frogs head-first or tail- or side-first indiscriminately. This diversity in Alsophis feeding behavior may result from differences in external morphology and retaliatory power between Anolis cristatellus and Eleutherodactylus coqui.
10.2307/1563091| Body temperatures, critical thermal minima and the daily variation in heat resistance are reported for Bufo marinus in Queensland. Body temperatures ranged from 17.0 to 27.2 C (mean 21.3  2.4 C) with only 30.9 per cent of the observations exceeding ambient. The critical thermal minimum was 6.1 C (range 5.0-7.5 C) and is lower than previously reported values for B. marinus from Central America. The onset of spasms (range 37.8-39.5 C) varied significantly over a 24 hr period and appeared to show a temporal pattern in heat resistance for which the functional significance is unknown at present, but possibly has survival value for this toad during the breeding season. 
10.2307/1565356|A five year field and laboratory study of the southern rubber boa (SRB) in the San Bernardino Mountains of southern California provided data on the diet, antagonists, and predators of this state listed subspecies. In laboratory feeding trials, both adult and juvenile SRBs readily consumed lizard eggs, and adults also took nestling rodents and insectivores. Field and laboratory observations of both Oregon boas and SRBs indicated that most injuries to the tail tips of SRBs are from female voles, moles, and other small mammals defending their young against boa predation. These observations also suggested that the principal reptilian predators of SRBs are Diadophis punctatus and Lampropeltis getula. In these respects, the SRB was similar to most other rubber boas and differed primarily in its tendency to eat lizard eggs rather than lizards.
23327158|We review the natural occurrence of tail duplications and tail bifurcations in amphibians as well as experimental studies that induced tail duplications. For natural populations, we found 10 publications that mention tail duplications or bifurcations in a total of 24 individual larval amphibians belonging to 15 species, mainly from Europe and South America. Nineteen publications describe the incidence for 34 individual postlarval urodeles from 12 species from North America, Europe, and Asia. Here we add three new observations: a subadult female Triturus dobrogicus with a duplicated tail and an adult female Triturus carnifex with a bifurcated tail from Hungary, and a tadpole of Hyla arborea with a bifurcated tail tip from Greece. The causes of tail duplications in wild amphibians remain unknown. Similar tail anomalies have been obtained in the laboratory when parts of the chorda dorsalis were destroyed, when tar is injected into the tail, or when the lumbar region is irradiated.
10.2307/1565391|Two new species of Andean Hyla of the 30 chromosome group are described. These two species, together with Hyla garagoensis, form a monophyletic group (the Hyla garagoensis group). The H. garagoensis group forms a trichotomy wth the H. marmorata group and the clade formed by the H. parviceps, H. leucophyllata, and H. microcephala groups. The Hyla garagoensis group is distributed in the Cordillera Oriental of central Colombia. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies de Hyla del grupo de hylas con 30 cromosomas. Estas dos especies junto con H. garagoensis forman un grupo monofiletico (el grupo Hyla garagoensis). El grupo H. garagoensis forma una tricotomia con el grupo H. marmorata, y el clado formado por los grupos H. parviceps, H. leucophyllata e H. microcephala. El grupo H. garagoensis se encuentra en la Cordillera Oriental en la parte central de Colombia.
23327172|Knowledge of movements, habitat use, and resource requirements is critical to designing management strategies for species with a conservation status. For snakes, basic research needed to derive this information is often lacking or insufficient. We used radio telemetry to investigate the spatial ecology and habitat use of 21 adult Western Foxsnakes (Pantherophis vulpinus) during a single activity season at Squaw Creek National Wildlife Refuge in northwest Missouri, near the species' southern range limit. At the landscape level, monitored snakes located their home ranges in lowland areas in association with wet prairies and managed wetlands but avoided agricultural plots and were not observed to occupy upland areas. Snakes were not selective of macrohabitat within their home ranges but selected microhabitats with denser herbaceous vegetation than typically available at random sites, suggesting that snakes were responding mainly to microhabitat features at the home-range level. Unlike many other temperate snake species, P. vulpinus did not exhibit any sexual differences in selection of microhabitats because all snakes appeared to prefer dense vegetative structure. Home-range sizes were relatively large in comparison to many other terrestrial temperate colubrids and seemed to be explained by resource distribution patterns, such as the proximity of hibernacula and oviposition sites to foraging habitat. Movement patterns varied seasonally among sexes with males demonstrating peak movement distances in May and females in July, respectively. Management decisions to minimize habitat manipulations during the snake activity season and protect embankments used for hibernacula and oviposition will likely benefit Foxsnake conservation.
10.2307/1563323| A reassessment of the heterogeneous genus Ctenoblepharis auctorum is proposed, including the species adspersus, stolzmanni, reichei and probably nigriceps. Phrynosaura Werner, 1907, and Helocephalus Philippi, 1860, are synonyms of Ctenoblepharis Tschudi, 1845; Ctenoblepharis anomalus, C. donosobarrosi, C. marmorata, C. schmidti and C. jamesi are evolutionary lines of the polymorphic genus Lioaemus. A distinct psammophilous species group is made up by Liolaemus rabinoi (Cei), Liolaemus multimaculatus multimaculatus (Dumril and Bibron) and Liolaemus multimaculatus riojanus subsp. nov. here described. Should these lizards be accorded a formal recognition, the generic name Ortholaemus, formerly used by Girard (1857), is available. A brief discussion of the disjunct distribution of the rabinoi-multimaculatus complex is presented. 
1565846|We investigated beach selection of nesting Pig-Nosed Turtles (Carettochelys insculpta) along a 63-km stretch of river for two years. We found 221 nests on 82 nesting beaches and identified 171 potential nesting beaches based on previously published criteria. Beaches with nests had a greater substrate moisture content and corresponding higher cohesive sand line (hereafter CSL) than beaches without nests. Beaches with nests also had a higher CSL than beaches with only crawls. Beach temperatures increased with a seasonal increase in air temperatures and were influenced by aspect and total angle of solar exposure. Turtles did not select beaches that were hotter or cooler, on average, than what was available, indicating that turtles were not manipulating offspring sex through choice of nesting beach.
1565842|The Timber Rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) is beset by a variety of conservation problems, including habitat loss and persecution. Effective management plans require an understanding of rangewide population structure and intraspecific evolutionary subdivisions. Northern and southern populations have been recognized as distinct subspecies, but this classification remains controversial. A proposed alternative arrangement recognizes southern, northern, and western morphotypes. To resolve intraspecific partitions, we examined a 319 base-pair (bp) fragment of mtDNA cytochrome b in 123 specimens of C. horridus. Neighbor-joining and parsimony analyses reveal a shallow gene genealogy (d<sub>max</sub> = 0.024) and sharing of haplotypes among putative subspecies. Analysis of molecular variance demonstrates that traditional subspecific divisions explain only 3.5% of variation, whereas the alternative geographic classification (southern, northern, and western regions) explains 18.6% of genetic variation. The superior performance of the regional grouping can be attributed to an east-west phylogeographic partitioning at the Appalachian and Allegheny Mountain ranges, which were probably uninhabitable at higher elevations during glacial intervals. Distribution of haplotypes and climatic data suggest that a radiation into more northern areas occurred after the most recent (Wisconsinan) glaciation. Hence, the mtDNA data indicate distinct population segments across the range of C. horridus but do not show evolutionary separations that would support subspecific designations.
10.2307/1562887|Three Sceloporus graciosus which gained weight (+ 0.37 g) during measurement assimilated 83-88 cal/g/day when maintained on a Tenebrio larvae diet. One S. graciosus which maintained constant body weight assimilated 73 cal/g/day. Five S. occidentalis that had a mean weight gain of 3.70 g had a mean energy assimilation of 36 cal/g/day. It was calculated that a male S. graciosus, feeding only on Tenebrio larvae, would ingest 78,000 cal during its first three years of life, of which 64,000 cal would be assimilated. Approximately 61% (39,000 cal) of the total energy assimilated would be used in metabolism.
10.2307/1564901| The reproductive cycle of the lizard Tropidurus itambere was studied in an open area near Campinas, So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. Females had vitellogenic follicles or oviductal eggs only during the wet season, whereas males had large testes with spermatozoa throughout the year. Hatchlings were found from the height of the rainy season to its end (January to May). Mean growth rate was inversely related to snout-vent length. Juveniles from eggs laid at the beginning of the rainy season could potentially have reproduced in the first wet season after they hatched. 
10.2307/1565936|We examined genetic variation and structure in mitochondrial DNA sequences of sharp-tailed snakes (Contia tenuis) from California and southern Oregon. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses distinguish two mitochondrial lineages: a north coast clade restricted to cool evergreen forest along the Pacific Coast; and an interior/south clade widespread throughout California. The southern limit of the north coast clade is congruent with that of several other vertebrate taxa, a historical pattern consistent with a long-term marine embayment. We interpret additional phylogeographic pattern as resulting from either gene flow or incomplete lineage sorting. Genetic, distributional, ecological, and morphological data suggest that north coast and interior/south mitochondrial lineages of C. tenuis are distinct at the species level.
10.2307/1564079|Radio transmitters for implantation in snakes were designed to provide transmitter life in excess of one year. This was achieved by using a 290 mAh, 3.5 V Lithium-Thionyl Chloride battery and a 2 stage transmitter with a thermistor in the timing circuit to reduce drain at low temperatures. Also, a hermetic metallic housing was designed to protect against body fluid infiltration. The transmitter and 20 cm whip antenna were both implanted subcutaneously. Field trials with 7 telemetered black rat snakes (Elaphe obsoleta) indicated normal reception at a range of 150-300 m. Snakes were located on 423 of 465 (91%) searches during the period they were active. The transmitters with the highest pulse rate were still active after 12 months indicating that the longevity of these transmitters at the lower pulse rates would substantially exceed 1 year. This transmitter and implantation technique is ideal for large snakes that spend inactive periods at a reduced body temperature. Transmitter longevity would decrease with snakes that were active year round.
10.2307/1566180|A new scansorial frog species of Mantidactylus (subgenus Phylacomantis) is described from Andasibe, a midaltitude locality in central, eastern Madagascar. The new species is similar to the sympatric Mantidactylus cornutus but differs by smaller size, presence of a chevron-like dorsal ridge, more distinct supraocular dermal spines, throat coloration, and advertisement call. Its discovery emphasizes the importance of midaltitude rain forests in central, eastern Madagascar as a center of anuran diversity.
10.2307/1564769| Male Chamaelinorops barbouri were videotaped in the lab within male-alone and male-male contexts. Subjects exhibited two types of headbobs, Simple Nods and Dewlap Displays. Simple Nods occurred in both contexts, and were "minimalist" bobs, consisting of a single low amplitude nod, no dewlap extension, and short duration (x = 0.6 sec). Three-fourths of 959 Simple Nods were immediately associated with head or eye shifts, perhaps facilitating depth perception (displacement parallax). There was no evidence for a signal function. Dewlap Displays only appeared in the male-male context, and consisted of slow, large-amplitude headrocking with a continuously extended dewlap. Display features were highly variable; duration ranged from 2-92 sec (N = 130), while non-stereotyped headrocks ranged 1-7/display. The Dewlap Display functioned as a signal, but it lacked the stereotypy typical of Anolis displays. The Dewlap Display was structured like the non-stereotyped headrocking/dewlapping behavior which many Anolis perform alone or as optional introductions to their species-specific displays. Unlike Anolis, C. barbouri showed little or no territorial behavior and no male-alone advertisement displaying. With one exception, no postural modifiers to enhance lateral profile were exhibited, and lateral presentation, the body orientation preparatory to signalling a recipient male, was imprecise or absent. Both lateral enhancement and presentation are basic intimidation components in Anolis contests. Male-male approach behavior by C. barbouri lacked circling, mouth gaping, jaw sparring, or jaw locking, all predictable features of Anolis territorial behavior. 
4498548|Despite growing concern over habitat destruction, little is known regarding the activities of pond-breeding amphibians in the terrestrial environment. Yet, because most pond-breeding amphibian species spend the majority of their time in terrestrial habitats, it is important to understand what role terrestrial habitat plays in their life history. We examined the stomach contents of the Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor) in central Missouri using a stomach-flushing technique. Treefrogs were stomach-flushed; stomach contents were dried and weighed; and prey items were counted and identified for frogs caught in both artificial arboreal refugia and at breeding ponds. The majority of prey consisted of ants (41.2%) and beetles (29.6%). Both males and females caught in artificial refugia contained greater stomach content mass than those caught at breeding ponds. There was a positive correlation between mass of stomach contents and distance from breeding ponds, with the average number of beetles per stomach increasing with distance from ponds. There was also greater stomach content mass in frogs found in artificial refugia on white oaks than red oaks or sugar maples, but there was no relationship between tree diameter and stomach content mass. These results demonstrate the importance of protecting terrestrial habitat to maintain foraging areas for treefrogs.
10.2307/1565448|Introduced fish have been implicated as reducing abundance or eliminating ambystomatid salamanders from montane lakes in western North America. We tested the null hypotheses that survivorship, growth, and refuge use of larvae reared for 30 d did not differ between artificial ponds with trout and without trout. Larval survivorship for both A. macrodactylum and A. gracile was significantly lower in ponds with trout than in fishless ponds. Both species had significantly lower snout-vent lengths in ponds with trout than in fishless ponds at the conclusion of the experiments. Only A. gracile had significantly lower body weight in ponds with trout than in ponds without trout. For both species, substrate locations of larvae were significantly influenced by trout at the conclusion of the experiments. Larvae of both species were found in a narrower range of substrates in ponds with fish than in control ponds. Our findings support inferences from field studies that the presence of trout have negative impacts on larval A. macrodactylum and A. gracile.
10.2307/1564019| Heating rates and time constants of heating were determined for similarly sized green tree frogs, Hyla cinerea, and southern leopard frogs, Rana sphenocephala exposed to step changes in ambient temperature from 15 to 30C. Whereas the initial body temperatures were not significantly different (15C), equilibration body temperatures were significantly higher in H. cinerea (26.6C) than in R. sphenocephala (18.1C). Rates of temperature change were 2.5  higher in H. cinerea and are explained by the presence of reduced cutaneous evaporative heat loss in this species. The thermal time constant is inappropriate for interspecific comparisons of heating in anurans. 
25599199|The tadpole of Telmatobius mayoloi from central Peru (Departamento de Ancash) is described based on specimens ranging from Gosner Stage 28-41. The tadpole of T. mayoloi is similar to other Telmatobius larvae with pond type morphology. Geographically closest to T. mayoloi are Telmatobius carrillae and Telmatobius rimac. The tadpole of T. mayoloi differs from the latter in reaching a maximum total length of 102.1 mm at Stage 38 whereas T. carrillae (maximum total length = 99.20 mm at Stage 39) and T. rimac (maximum total length = 77.70 mm at Stage 36) are smaller. Furthermore, the snout of the tadpole of T. mayoloi is slightly narrower between the nares, and its tip is pointed compared to the broader snouts of T. carrillae and T. rimac. The tadpole of T. mayoloi is the fourth largest in Telmatobiinae; data comparing tadpole total lengths and adult snout-vent lengths of Peruvian Telmatobiinae are presented. /// Se describe el renacuajo de Telmatobius mayoloi procedente del Per central (Departamento de Ancash) en base a especimenes con Estados de Gosner que van del 28 al 41. El renacuajo de T. mayoloi es similar a las otras larvas de Telmatobius con morfologa de tipo poza. Especies geogrficamente ms cercanas a T. mayoloi son Telmatobius carrillae y Telmatobius rimac. El renacuajo de T. mayoloi se diferencia de estos ltimos al alcanzar una longitud total mxima de 102.1 mm en el Estado 38 mientras que T. carrillae (longitud total mxima = 99.20 mm en el Estado 39) y T. rimac (longitud total mxima = 77.70 mm en el Estadio 36) son ms pequeos. Adems, el hocico del renacuajo de T. mayoloi es ligeramente ms angosto al nivel de las narinas y su extremo es puntiagudo en comparacin con los hocicos ms anchos de T. carrillae y T. rimac. El renacuajo de T. mayoloi es el cuarto ms grande dentro de Telmatobiinae y se presentan datos sobre la longitud total de los renacuajos y la longitud hocico-cloaca de los adultos de Telmatobiinae que habitan en Per.
1565834| Evidence suggests that coevolution of a suite of ecological, behavioral, morphological, and physiological traits has accompanied the elaboration of niches of Caribbean Anolis lizards. Yet, information is lacking as to the extent to which energy expenditure is coadapted with the thermal or structural niche. I tested the prediction that body mass and standard metabolic rate (SMR) would covary with the thermal or structural niche of Anolis lizards. An analysis of standardized independent contrasts indicated that lizards occupying cooler thermal niches (at higher elevations) had relatively low mass-independent energy costs. Mass-independent SMR at 30C was significantly related to the species' thermal niche (r = 0.88, P = 0.02). Other associations with structural niche and body mass were suggested. Possible causes of shifts in energy expenditure with changes in niche are discussed. 
10.2307/1565578|In a high-elevation (3470 m) lake basin (upper Dusy Basin) in Kings Canyon National Park, California, we used radio transmitters on 24 mountain yellow-legged frogs (Rana muscosa) to gather basic information on their movement patterns. Rana muscosa have declined throughout their range in the Sierra Nevada and restoration plans require information on their movement ecology. Our study indicates that R. muscosa had different movement patterns and habitat associations during the 1997 summer period (August and September) compared to October when winter dormancy began. In August, visual surveys found frogs in 10 of the 11 lakes in upper Dusy Basin. During August most tagged frogs moved little (mean movement 77 m over five day periods) and all were found in the lake or adjacent stream where they were originally tagged. During September, movement increased compared to August. Frogs moved from the original capture lake mean distances of 145 m, and moved cumulative distances of 315-466 m. By October, frogs were again sedentary (mean distance moved 43 m), and frogs were found in three of the 11 lakes in the basin. Moreover, mean home ranges (adaptive kernel 90% contours) also were different throughout the summer and were highest for frogs tracked during September (5336.2 m<sup>2</sup>) compared to August (385 m<sup>2</sup>), and October (52.8 m<sup>2</sup>). Before this study it was assumed that R. muscosa over-wintered in the deepest portion of the lake. However, most lakes were frozen when our study ended, and tagged frogs were found nearshore under ledges and in deep underwater crevices suggesting that at least some R. muscosa over-winter in these nearshore areas. In this study, we found R. muscosa in different aquatic habitats over the course of their activity period and that they readily moved between these habitats using both aquatic and overland pathways. The movements appear to be associated with seasonal migrations between summer and over-wintering sites.
10.2307/1565208|This study describes patterns of geographic variation in morphometric characters of the green toad, Bufo viridis, in the western part of its distribution, including the Italian Peninsula and the islands of Sardinia and Corsica. The causes of this variation were investigated by comparing observed patterns of interpopulational differences to hypothesized factors derived from climatic and geographic variables, through the use of canonical correlation analysis and partial Mantel tests. Among-population differences in morphometric characters include both size and shape. Island populations were found to have larger body sizes than mainland populations, and there was an association between climatic factors and morphological characters. Partial Mantel tests carried out on a number of possible causal hypotheses, both climatic and geographic, suggest that a large portion of this association should be interpreted as a spurious effect of genetic isolation between island and mainland populations and of the limiting effect of geographic distance in determining gene flow.
10.2307/1565364|We provide information on the basic reproductive ecology, chorusing behaviors, and advertisement calls of Rana arathooni from southwestern Sulawesi, Indonesia. Nest sites in leaf litter and wet detritus are congregated on the steep banks of large, rapidly flowing mountain streams. When disturbed, hatchlings break free of the egg capsule and tumble down rocks or slide down muddy banks to the water below. The combination of choice of steep banks as nest sites and unusual behavior of the larvae suggests an unusual predator escape strategy. Larvae may avoid aquatic predators by extending development period on land but can rapidly evade predation and escape to the water below when threatened by terrestrial predators. Males form small choruses, with most individuals calling from under leaf litter and within the nest. The advertisement call of Rana arathooni is unusually complex and invariant and call structure is unique in that modulation of amplitude and frequency are inversely correlated.
10.2307/1562811|Stomach content analyses of 28 Leptotyphlops humilis humilis and 17 L. dulcis dulcis indicate that these snakes feed extensively on ants and termites which compromise 54-64 per cent of the total diet. L. d. dulcis appears to be more fossorial in its feeding activity than L. h. humilis which preys on a greater percentage of surface-dwelling arthropods. Presumably, this serves to reduce competition for the available food supply in geographical areas of sympatry. Both species show a definite preference for soft-bodied prey-types. In addition, several insect species which live as commensals in ant and termite nests are readily consumed along with their hosts.
1565870| The reproductive cycle of the tropidurid lizard, Eurolophosaurus nanuzae, was studied at the montane habitat of Serra do Cip, Minas Gerais State, Brazil, from June 1996 to June 1997. Reproductive activity of E. nanuzae was cyclic, occurring from the middle of the dry season to the end of the wet season. Female reproductive activity was influenced by photoperiod and by long term precipitation and temperature. Males exhibited sperm in their testes throughout the year, and their reproductive activity was not related with any of the climatic factors analyzed. Fat storage varied inversely with reproductive activity and was more accentuated in females. Mean clutch size was 2.06 (0.36 eggs) and was not related to female body size. The effects of precipitation on the reproductive cycle of E. nanuzae could be related to the microclimatic conditions necessary for embryo development and hatchling survivorship, as well as to the greater food availability for hatchlings during the wet season. 
40664952|Anuran larvae (tadpoles) can alter their behavior and morphology in response to predators with which they have coevolved. Furthermore, tadpoles of a few species are capable of learning, which can elicit or reinforce predator-avoidance behaviors. However, it remains unclear how widespread this capacity for learning is among anurans and whether it is biased in favor of evolutionarily familiar predators. Here, we test whether prior experiences will modify the behavioral response of Lowland Leopard Frog Lithobates (Rana) yavapaiensis tadpoles to Green Sunfish Lepomis cyanellus, a recently introduced predator. We exposed focal tadpoles for 10 days to the chemical and visual cues of one of three conditioning treatments: a cricket-fed Green Sunfish, a tadpole-fed Green Sunfish, or a control tank without predator. Subsequently, we measured the swimming activity of focal tadpoles in response to a neutral cue (water) and the chemical cues of Green Sunfish. No difference between conditioning treatments was observed in response to the water cue. In contrast, tadpoles that had previously experienced either of the sunfish conditioning treatments displayed significantly higher swimming activity than control tadpoles for 2-4 min after exposure to the sunfish chemical cues. Our results indicate that the behavior of tadpoles can be altered by prior experiences, even in the absence of alarm cues. In addition to providing another example of learning in tadpoles, our results suggest that tadpoles may have a broad learning template that can be applied to organisms with which they have recently come into contact.
1565779|Call surveys are a relatively new and efficient technique for detecting the presence of breeding male anurans. Using data from multiple surveys of breeding choruses of Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica) combined with counts of egg masses on ponds in west-central Alberta we determined (1) the relationship between ranks of chorus size and total number of egg masses in ponds, and (2) number of breeding males in standard chorus-size ranks (1, 2 and 3). Estimates for Rank 3 choruses were based on a formula with number of egg masses present per pond and a fixed male to female ratio of 2:1 calculated from the literature. Calling males were recorded from all ponds that had evidence of female reproductive activity (i.e., egg masses). Generalized linear models suggested that ranks were positively and linearly correlated with the number of egg masses in a pond. In addition, call data from only the second of four sampling periods (each 3-6 days) significantly predicted number of egg masses in ponds, suggesting that timing is important when surveying calling wood frogs. The mean number of chorusing males per rank did not correspond to aural ranks of calling intensity: Rank 1 = 1.3 males, Rank 2 = 3.7 males, and Rank 3 = 118 males. We recommend similar assessments for other widely distributed species to improve our ability to detect and interpret habitat-use patterns and population trends of amphibians through monitoring programs.
4498590|Despite the large amount of work on frog mating systems, the potential role of predators as an agent of selection on breeding adults has received very little study. Here, I use data from multiple populations of Pacific Treefrogs (Pseudacris regilla) to demonstrate that sexual selection from mating success favors larger males, but natural selection from predation by giant water bugs favors smaller males. Additionally, I found no relationship between male body condition and mating success or predation risk. This result demonstrates that predation is a potentially important agent of selection that counteracts sexual selection in anurans.
10.2307/1565397|Venom variation in the mottled rock rattlesnake (Crotalus lepidus lepidus) was assessed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Whole venom samples were stained for general protein, the banding recorded, and these profiles were used to compare the variation within and between populations in Texas. Analyses using agglomerative methods (phenetic clustering methods and neighbor-joining analyses) and ordination from Principal Components analyses provide several geographically correlated groups of rattlesnake venom profiles. Evidence is provided for differences in venom profiles of geographically distinct populations. Venom profiles of C. lepidus collected along the Rio Grande River, though geographically disparate, are generally homogeneous. Thus, the analyses support previously hypothesized dispersal of C. lepidus in Texas along these Rio Grande canyons. A potential region of population interchange between eastern plateau populations and those of the west Texas mountain ranges was identified at the southern end of the Davis Mountains in Brewster Co. Lethality assessments using LD<sub>50</sub> analyses reveal variation in venom toxicity to range from 2.20-0.72 mg/kg across the geographic range for this subspecies.
10.2307/1562790|Wood frogs have been found in five areas of northern Colorado and southern Wyoming. In 1969, Porter designated these populations as Rana maslini, a new species, on the basis of reputed genetic incompatibility with Rana sylvatica from Manitoba. In the present study 154 experimental matings were performed between Wood Frogs from the Rocky Mountain population and from Manitoba. The hybrids showed no loss of genetic compatibility. Numerous offspring were hatched and reared through metamorphosis. On the basis of these results, it is suggested that the name Rana maslini for the Rocky Mountain Wood Frog is invalid.
10.2307/1564886|Allozyme variation was examined in Hynobius sadoensis from Sado Island in the Japan Sea and H. nigrescens from Honshu, Japan. Hynobius sadoensis cannot be distinguished genetically from populations of H. nigrescens, and is thus synonymized with H. nigrescens. A complex pattern of genetic differentiation was found among mainland populations of H. nigrescens.
41515037|Pollution and the introduction of nonnative predators, typically fish, are two frequent human-associated Stressors in freshwater ecosystems. Amphibians appear to be particularly susceptible to these Stressors. We conducted a mesocosm experiment to examine the independent and interactive effects of an invasive fish, the Western Mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis), and ammonium nitrate, an agricultural fertilizer, on American Toad (Anaxyrus americanus) tadpoles. Mosquitofish tended to have a negative effect on American Toad survivorship. American Toad metamorphs from mesocosms with mosquitofish were smaller than those from mesocosms without mosquitofish. Mosquitofish also delayed metamorphosis of the American Toads. Ammonium nitrate addition did not affect survivorship. However, American Toad metamorphs from ammonium nitrate addition treatments were smaller than those from treatments without ammonium nitrate addition. Mosquitofish and ammonium nitrate addition each had independent effects on American Toads, but there was no evidence for significant interactions between these two Stressors.
10.2307/1565199| Age structure of a breeding population of Rana sylvatica from southwestern Qubec, Canada, is described based on the enumeration and analysis of Lines of Arrested Growth (LAGs) in phalanges. Analyzed using skeletochronology, ages ranged from 1-4 yr among 98 males and from 2-4 yr among 33 females. Females were on average slightly older than males, but the difference was not significant. Mean snout-vent length was 43.6 mm  2.0 (SD) among 179 males and 48.8 mm  2.7 among 33 females; the difference between the sexes was significant. Endosteal resorption completely destroyed LAG 1 in 6.1% of frogs, about twice as frequently in males as in females. A minimum of three LAG enumeration readings by two observers differed for 24.4% of preparations and independent readings by the same observer differed for 15.3% of preparations, highlighting the importance of reducing subjectivity in skeletochronological analyses. This was accomplished, in part, by plotting LAG diameters on a histogram whereby outliers from an expected normal distribution indicated loss of inner LAGs via endosteal resorption. Consistent with predictions regarding environmental influences on anuran populations, southern Qubec R. sylvatica matured later and were larger than more southerly conspecifics from a low-elevation area, but matured earlier and were smaller than southerly frogs from a high-elevation area. 
41515023|A fragmentary fossil lizard from Uquia Formation (Late Pliocene), Jujuy Province, Argentina, is described. The material consists of disarticulated cranial bones from the snout and jaw that were part of a micro vertebrate fossil assemblage generated by accumulation of predatory birds pellets. The phylogenetic analysis of 396 morphological characters indicates a sister-group relationship between the new taxon and a clade formed by the families Liolaemidae, Leiocephalidae, and Tropiduridae. Its uncertain position and substantial morphological differences justify its placement in a new genus. We present a detailed osteological description of the material, and compare the morphological features with other Iguanoidea. In the context of this new analysis of Iguania, we included Pristiguana brasiliensis, the oldest know iguanian from South America. The results of this analysis support the monophyletic status of Iguanoidea and other groups within Iguania that are named and diagnosed. Describimos restos fragmentarios de un lagarto fsil procedente de la Formacin Uqua (Plioceno Tardo) en la Provincia de Jujuy, Argentina. El material consiste de huesos craneales desarticulados del hocico y la mandbula que fueron recuperados de un ensamble fsil de microvertebrados, el cual es una acumulacin de egagrpilas generado por la actividad trfica de aves depredadoras. El anlisis filogentico de 396 caracteres morfolgicos indica que el nuevo taxn es el grupo hermano de un ciado formado por las familias Liolaemidae, Leiocephalidae y Tropiduridae. La posicin dudosa de este fsil y las substanciales diferencias morfolgicas justifican clasificarlo como un gnero nuevo. Incluimos una descripcin morfolgica detallada del material fsil y comparamos su anatoma con otros miembros de Iguanoidea. En el contexto de este nuevo anlisis de Iguania, incluimos a Pristiguana brasiliensis, el cual hasta hoy es el iguanio ms viejo que se conoce de Amrica del Sur. Los resultados de este anlisis filogentico apoyan el estatus monofiltico de Iguanoidea y de otros grupos dentro de Iguania, los cuales se definen y diagnostican.
1565787|Many lizards are known to alter their thermal ecology during pregnancy, although body temperatures oF pregnant/gravid females may either increase or decrease, depending on the species. Most of the data available on this phenomenon come from temperate taxa. In the present study, we compared field body temperatures (T<sub>b</sub>) of pregnant females with those of nonpregnant females and males of three species of viviparous skinks (Mabuya agilis, Mabuya macrorhyncha, and Mabuya frenata) from southeastern Brazil. We found that pregnant females did not differ in T<sub>b</sub> from nonpregnant animals (including males). Thus, reproductive condition did not influence body temperatures regulation by these skinks to a significant degree.
10.2307/1564017| Cnemidophorus laredoensis comprises two allodiploid parthenogenetic clonal complexes. LAR-A(2n) includes C. laredoensis as originally described from Laredo and many recently discovered populations in other parts of Texas and Mexico. LAR-B(2n), discovered in 1984, also has been recently reported from both sides of the Rio Grande, including many sites where LAR-A(2n) does not occur. Seven hybrid female and 16 hybrid male LAR-A(2n)  C. gularis (gonochoristic) were collected at 11 sites in Texas and Mexico; three hybrid female LAR-B(2n)  C. gularis were collected at three sites in Texas and Mexico. All hybrids were distinguishable on the basis of color pattern and scutellation. Also, two unusually large females exhibited the effects of heterosis in body size, and one putative hybrid captured alive was triploid. Cytogenetic and/or behavioral mechanisms in LAR-B(2n) are apparently more resistant to hybridization than in LAR-A(2n) under identical habitat conditions. The production of hybrids, especially those of LAR-A(2n)  C. gularis, is closely related to disturbed habitat structure and/or relative abundance of syntopic whiptail forms, allowing increased contact between the parental forms. Hybrid LAR-A(2n)  C. gularis were most often found at sites where confined space intensified the interactions between the parental forms, at sites where large numbers of male C. gularis came into contact with the few female LAR-A(2n) present, and at sites where large numbers of female LAR-A(2n) came into contact with the few male C. gularis present. 
10.2307/1565326|The coelomic and muscular cross-sectional areas of snakes reflect a compromise between competing demands for muscular force exertion during locomotion and large coelomic volume for feeding or carrying developing offspring. In this paper, we examine the allometry of coelomic and muscular cross-sectional area in 32 species of colubrid, elapid, and viperid snakes. We digitized images of transverse sections of preserved specimens and then calculated the cross-sectional areas from these images. Coelomic and musculoskeletal cross-sectional areas were significantly correlated with body mass in colubrid and viperid snakes, but only musculoskeletal area was significantly correlated with mass in our small sample of elapids. The allometry of coelomic volume was nearly identical to that of coelomic area. There was significant variation in the allometric patterns among families. In colubrids, neither constriction nor habitat preference had a significant effect on musculoskeletal area. The functional implications of variation in relative coelomic and muscular cross-sectional areas may involve diverse aspects of behavior, ecology, and life history, and generally are amenable to experimental testing.
25599198|Information on the predation rate of Eastern Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina serpentina) and Western Fox Snakes (Pantherophis vulpinus) on waterfowl, particularly ducklings, is minimal. Most information that exists focuses on the percent of waterfowl found in the diet of sampled turtles or snakes. Although this information is useful, it does not elucidate the potential effect of reptile predation on waterfowl populations by measuring predation rate (i.e., the number of sampled ducklings consumed by reptile predators). We attempted to determine this by tracking the fate of 448 day-old Mallard (Anas platyrhychos) ducklings from 1991-1994 on the Upper Mississippi River. A total of 120 ducklings were preyed upon during the study (26.7% predation rate). Of these, 13 were consumed by Eastern Snapping Turtles (2.9% predation rate) and four by Western Fox Snakes (0.8% predation rate). Predation rate by reptiles was lower than mammals and similar to that of fish and birds, but several depredations with undetermined sources could have been caused by Eastern Snapping Turtles. For a proper perspective on predation impacts on duckling populations, one must also consider the influence of habitat quality as it relates to the interactions of predation, food resources, and cover.
4093002|Identifying microhabitat preferences is important in understanding distributions of organisms and crucial to focusing conservation efforts. The Five-Lined Skink (Eumeces fasciatus) is a rock-dwelling diurnal lizard that, in Canada, is considered a species of "special concern" under the recently passed Species at Risk Act (SARA). In this study, we examined the early-season diurnal retreat site selection preferences of the Five-Lined Skink at the northern limit of its range. To determine preferences we compared dimensions, thermal properties, and other associated microhabitat characteristics of rocks under which skinks were found to randomly selected rocks in two populations. A matched-pairs logistic regression revealed that individuals of E. fasciatus prefer longer than average cover rocks located in areas with few trees. We also found that, compared to other available cover element-substrate combinations, rocks lying on a bedrock substrate afford the best opportunities for skinks to achieve preferred body temperatures. These retreat site preferences are likely driven both by the necessities of thermoregulation and protection from predators.
10.2307/1565176|A systematic stratified sampling design was used to quantify the habitat relationships of the southern torrent salamander, Rhyacotriton variegatus, in northwestern California. We sampled 53 first to third order streams, each surrounded by at least 5-7 ha of relatively homogeneous forest or harvested forest habitat. Measurements of 121 attributes of the forest and stream environment were recorded in conjunction with area-constrained aquatic sampling for salamanders. A subset of 68 variables, grouped into 11 ecological components including attributes at the landscape, macrohabitat, and microhabitat scales, was used in a hierarchical analysis of habitat associations. Results from discriminant and regression analyses indicated that this species occurs within a relatively narrow range of physical and microclimatic conditions and is associated with cold, clear headwater to low-order streams with loose, coarse substrates (low sedimentation), in humid forest habitats with large conifers, abundant moss, and >80% canopy closure. Thus, the southern torrent salamander demonstrates an ecological dependence on conditions of microclimate and habitat structure that are typically best created, stabilized, and maintained within late seral forests in northwestern California.
40060486|Many of the early indications of climate change detected in the United Kingdom have been changes in phenology and in particular the early occurrence of key biological events. Significant trends toward earlier breeding have been found in recent decades in most amphibian species in the United Kingdom, one notable exception being the Common Frog, Rana temporaria. We examine data for this species from the United Kingdom's Environmental Change Network for trends in breeding timing. Significant trends toward earlier congregation and spawning were found but not earlier hatching. The observed trends are strongly associated with climate, especially temperature.
41515019|Terrestrial plant litter is an important subsidy to freshwater ecosystems, where it serves as a basal resource in benthic food webs. Litter quantity and decomposition rate strongly influence energy flow through these food webs. Litter quantity often increases following nonnative plant invasions, but the impact this additional litter has on aquatic consumers is largely unknown. We conducted an experiment in outdoor microcosms containing plant litter, microbes, algae, and tadpoles. Many tadpoles feed on biofilms (bacteria, fungi, and algae) that develop during decomposition; as such, they are ideal organisms to test bottom-up effects of litter subsidies. We used a related pair of native and nonnative wetland grasses to investigate whether litter quantity affects tadpole performance. Tadpole performance metrics (developmental stage, size, and survival) showed significant positive responses to increased litter quantity but were mostly unaffected by plant species. Therefore, litter quantity was the primary determinant of tadpole performance in our experimental community. We suggest that changes to litter quantity can have important impacts on larval amphibians.
10.2307/1565456|The interspecific relationships among female size, clutch size, egg size, and hatchling size were examined for 64 European lacertids. The eggs of all species increased linearly in both linear dimensions and mass during incubation. Across species initial egg mass was positively correlated with juvenile mass, with an allometric relationship exponent of 0.87. Initial egg mass across species increased proportionally with female mass to the power of 0.57. Moreover, an increase in maternal mass was also accompanied by an increase in clutch size. The number of eggs per clutch across species scaled with female mass to the power of 0.39. Removing the effect of female mass resulted in a negative correlation between egg mass and clutch size. Species for which the average egg size was lower than expected on the basis of female mass, tended to have larger relative clutch size. The total egg mass per clutch was about one third of female mass (exponent 0.94).
10.2307/1565894|Examination and analysis of over 140 specimens of the endangered tortoise Testudo kleinmanni from all areas within its historical distribution on mainland Africa and the Levant confirmed the existence of two allopatric species in this region. A new tortoise species, occurring east of the Nile delta, and restricted today to the Negev desert (Israel) and to northern Sinai (Egypt), is described. The new species has typically a rounded, considerably wide midbody and a very wide posterior carapace combined with very narrow vertebrals, a relatively modest elevation of the anterior plastron lobe, a gently sloping upper carapacial arch, which is posteriorly depressed, relatively flared, serrated edges of free marginals, a flared supracaudal in both sexes, usually not running in parallel with the posterior carapacial arch, and a short supracaudal in females, among other readily verifiable characteristics. Reflecting these relatively great differences in shell morphology, the new species differs from T. kleinmanni by 17 (male) and 18 (female) morphometric character ratios. The new species is additionally fully diagnosable by using Principal Component Analysis and Linear Discriminant Function Analysis with cross-validation. The previous lectotype designation for T. kleinmanni was not based on a syntype and is, therefore, invalid. A new lectotype is designated. Both species are endangered because of loss of habitat and other anthropogenic factors. The new species is additionally threatened by an introduction programme involving the release of confiscated T. kleinmanni into northern Sinai.
10.2307/1563947| Cloacal and environmental temperatures of 205 wild wood turtles, Clemmys insculpta, from Lancaster County, Pennsylvania were recorded during various phases of their normal activities: basking, feeding, moving in water or on land, dormant in water or on land at both high and low temperatures, and courtship, mating, and nesting. The mean cloacal temperature for activity was calculated at 21.01C and the normal activity range 7.5-30.0C. Cloacal temperatures were closely correlated with those of the environment during all activities. Clemmys insculpta basked less frequently than its two sympatric congeners C. guttata and C. muhlenbergii. C. insculpta was also more terrestrially active and more active during midday than the other two Clemmys. Its ability to withstand warmer field temperatures than either C. guttata or C. muhlenbergii is probably correlated with its larger body size. Reproductive activity and brumation are aquatic. Wood turtles do not aestivate and are predominately terrestrial during June-August, entering shaded forms or mud puddles to escape the heat. 
4092869|A new species of treefrog closely related to Bokermannohyla alvarengai is described from Chapada Diamantina centrally located in the State of Bahia, Brazil. In comparison to B. alvarengai, the new species is smaller in size, with less developed forearm and prepollexes, and smaller tympani. We describe the tadpole, advertisement call and provide information on its natural history. We propose the B. alvarengai group to accommodate this species and the new species described here.
10.2307/1564504|Theory predicts that if males invest nothing in their offspring except genes, they should maximize their reproductive success by fertilizing as many eggs as possible. Male smooth newts (Triturus vulgaris) have a limited capacity for multiple mating (which would result in a high fertilization rate) due to limitations in sperm and spermatophore supply. It is demonstrated that the fecundity of female newts varies with body size; large females both contain and lay more eggs than smaller females. Using proximity to restrained females as an indicator of discrimination and mate choice, males preferred visual cues associated with large females. Using a Y-maze olfactometer device, data were obtained which suggest that males preferred the odor of large females. These results support the hypothesis that male T. vulgaris prefer larger, more fecund females as mates, thus maximizing their potential rate of fertilization per insemination.
10.2307/1564266|In samples totalling 16 leopard frogs, R. chiricahuensis and R. pipiens, two triploid hybrids were found, both from a collection of four frogs from a sympatric locality. Analysis of the normal karyotype of R. chiricahuensis shows it to be extremely similar to that of R. pipiens. It was thus not possible to identify the three chromosome sets in the triploids cytologically. C-banding was weak, indicating that little heterochromatin was present. Electrophoretic evidence based on 21 isozyme loci indicates one hybrid to be 2 chiricahuensis, 1 pipiens and the other to be 1 chiricahuensis, 2 pipiens. The unexpectedly high occurrence of triploid hybrids may be due to higher viability of triploids relative to diploid hybrids.
10.2307/1562733|During the past decade, collections from central and north central Louisiana have produced numerous specimens of Plethodon glutinosus from 7 parishes. This population was compared to populations from southwestern Arkansas and from Louisiana east of the Mississippi River. Specimens from central Louisiana and southwestern Arkansas possessed a pattern of larger and more numerous iridophore spots which tend to coalesce and form lateral blotches, whereas specimens from Louisiana east of the Mississippi River possess few lateral spots. Based on the size and number of iridophore spots, the central Louisiana population seems to be distinct from the other two samples. Animals in both Louisiana populations reach a smaller size than those in the Arkansas population further north.
10.2307/1563241|Extreme variation in the form of the jaws occurs within at least five species of soft-shelled turtles (genus Trionyx). A sample of 91 whole Trionyx ferox, collected in southern Florida, was studied to determine the relationship of variation in the jaws to cranial anatomy, gut contents, size and sex. Observations were made on the feeding methods of specimens kept in the laboratory. Variation in the form of the jaws is explained as part of the physiological adaptation of the cranial feeding mechanism to changing diet with growth in size and time. Variation in the jaws of T. ferox is shown to be co-existent with variation in 1) other skull features which are presumed to be part of the cranial feeding mechanism, 2) the rhamphotheca or beak, 3) jaw musculature, and 4) feeding habits. In T. ferox, females attain larger size and show more extreme variation in cranial form and diet than males; however the allometric trends are common to both sexes. The relative development of the different features of the cranial feeding mechanism does not reflect a highly integrated structural system. There is no evidence of sexual dimorphism (sensu stricto) nor is there a high correlation between individual skull form and specific fooditems. Such a loosely correlated system indicates low selection pressures regarding trophic specialization; individual homeostasis would appear to be a sufficient adaptive strategy.
10.2307/1564950|We compared temperature selection, growth and reproductive output between two populations, and movement and home range size among three populations of the common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina serpentina) occupying habitats with different productivities in Ontario, Canada. We examined the hypothesis that primary productivity constrains growth, reproductive effort, and thermal and home range behavior. We predicted that individuals in a habitat with high productivity would grow faster, produce larger clutches of eggs, select warmer temperatures, and maintain smaller home ranges than individuals in a less productive habitat. As expected, turtles in the more productive habitat grew more rapidly and had a higher reproductive output than those in the less productive habitat. Turtles maintained higher body temperatures at the more productive site, but this may have been because ambient temperatures were higher at the productive site rather than because turtles were selecting higher temperatures. Size of home range and distances moved did not differ among study populations, which suggests that productivity was not a good proximate measure of home range behavior. Differences among sites in ambient temperature, type and distribution of prey, and turtle density made it difficult to separate the effect of each factor on growth and reproduction. Future research should measure variation among individuals in energy flow, particularly to improve our understanding of variation in home range behavior.
10.2307/1563993|Histological analysis revealed three different stages in the development of ovarian follicles of Chthonerpeton indistinctum. These stages are identified by (1) location of the oocyte in the ovary wall, (2) oocyte morphology and staining characteristics, (3) development of the zona pellucida, and (4) organization of the follicular layer. Atretic follicles and corpora lutea also were found. Fat bodies are composed of well-developed adipose tissue.
1566161|Dietary habits of the amphisbaenian Bipes biporus from the Baja California peninsula were examined based on analysis of stomach contents of over 200 museum specimens. Ants and termites were the most common prey items as measured by frequency, but a wide variety of other invertebrate prey items were noted. Many prey items were soft-bodied, but some hard-bodied invertebrates were consumed, and tooth marks on these hard-bodied prey items indicate that B. biporus may bite its prey as a means of capture or ingestion. Prey items varied widely in size but were always smaller in diameter than the gape of the B. biporus individual that had consumed them. Bipes biporus fits the pattern of a generalist predator that exploits prey items found both under the soil and on the soil surface covered by objects such as fallen bark or debris.
40060448|Two new species of Bachia of the bresslaui group are described from the central Brazilian Cerrados, state of Tocantins. The two species are most similar to Bachia bresslaui and Bachia cacerensis from which they differ in limb morphology and head scalation. In both, the snout is more prominent than that of previously known species, suggesting more pronounced adaptations to fossoriality. One of the new species has stiliform forelimbs and four clawed short toes in the hind limb, an opposite pattern to the condition observed in the genus where limb reduction is more pronounced in hind limbs. The two new species were obtained in relictual sandy soil areas covered by semidecidual or open dry forest vegetation. Considering the relictual condition of these sandy areas, the possible endemism to those areas, and the high level of disturbance of the Cerrados, we strongly suggest that these areas should be the target of special conservation efforts.
10.2307/1565689| Overland movements by the Australian chelid, Chelodina longicollis, have been documented extensively, and their relative straightness has led observers to conclude that these turtles must have a navigational sense. We observed terrestrial migration by adult C. longicollis between a permanent fresh-water lake and an ephemeral swamp in Jervis Bay National Park, New South Wales, from January-March 1994. Migrating turtles used similar non-random paths to reach their goal; movements were exclusively diurnal and occurred only under sunny conditions. Experimental studies of the orientation mechanism showed that on sunny days turtles from 2.5 km away demonstrated highly significant directional orientation, but that this ability was disrupted on overcast days. Animals field-tested from a distant (23 km) population oriented randomly. Turtles acclimated to a 6 hr phase-advanced light regime demonstrated a clockwise shift in their angle of orientation which was not significantly different from the expected 90, thus implicating a biological clock component in their sun-compass orientation. Open field vs. arena (no view of horizon) trials suggest the probable use of terrestrial landmarks in navigation. Olfactory cues may play an important role in terrestrial orientation because animals tested in a Y-tank showed highly significant directional preference when swamp mud and debris were used in one of the arms. 
10.2307/1563547|Mass and fat of stomach contents from Sceloporus occidentalis were measured in 929 lizards collected from February to October at 150 m and from April to October at 1500 m, in the central Sierra Nevada, California. At both elevations females of the same body weight have a larger stomach content than do males. Females at 150 m were found to have greater stomach contents than those at 1500 m; this difference is not as great in males. Smaller lizards have a greater stomach content per unit body mass than do larger (fully adult) individuals. At both elevations stomach content reaches a maximum in August. At 1500 m the concentration of fat in the stomach content is greater than that at 150 m (p < .001). During August and September at 1500 m the amount of fat found in the stomach contents is much greater than the amount due solely to the increase in stomach content; during these months the fat concentration in food increases significantly (p < .001). The greater autumnal fat deposit at high elevations is therefore the result of both the increase in quantity and the quality (fat content) of food. The latter could be due to a greater fat concentration in general in insects eaten by lizards in late summer, or to a selection of richer food.
10.2307/1565797|Collared lizards, Crotaphytus collaris, live in isolated populations on Missouri glades. Anecdotal observations suggest that another lizard species, Sceloporus undulatus, is rare on glades where C. collaris is present. Possible causes of scarcity of S. undulatus in the presence of C. collaris include competition, predation, and unsuitable thermal conditions. We characterized thermal biology and habitat partitioning in these two species by measuring body and air temperatures, and microhabitat use, at three glades. Sceloporus undulatus maintains lower body temperatures than C. collaris and shifts from open rock perches to shady tree perches during the middle of its activity season. Crotaphytus collaris microhabitats are rockier and more open than those of S. undulatus, which tend to have more branches, leaves, and trees nearby. These data indicate that areas of glades hot enough for use by C. collaris are too hot for S. undulatus. Although we cannot rule out competition or predation, constraints of the thermal environment may be an important factor in the apparent scarcity of S. undulatus on glades.
41415328|We studied captive Balkan Whip Snakes (Hierophis gemonensis) to determine blood biochemical parameters that are useful indicators of physiological status during different periods of the biological cycle, including pre-and posthibernation, hibernation, sexual activity, and normal activity. In addition to classic statistical analyses, six machine-learning methods using 10 times 10-fold cross-validation evaluation were used to determine the best classification model for the blood biochemistry data. Results of the machine-learning models indicated that using three of the blood biochemistry variables simultaneouslyurea, glucose, and lactate dehydrogenaseis enough to discriminate accurately between different physiological conditions during the biological cycle. This approach clarifies the role and importance of physiological processes, which show diversity of functional characteristics of various biochemical parameters in ecological relation to snakes held under laboratory conditions mimicking natural environmental changes.
10.2307/1564907| Histological studies reveal that germinal epithelium (GE) in Ichthyophis beddomei is located segmentally at intervals along the entire length of the ovary. The ovarian follicles lie between the islets of GE. The structure of the previtellogenic follicles (PVF), vitellogenic follicles (VF), and postovulatory follicles (POF), is similar to that found in anurans and urodeles. Both PVF and VF exhibit two types of atresia. In the first type the oocyte shrinks, leaving behind the follicular wall; in the second type there is a hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the granulosa. Histochemical studies demonstrate activity of  <sup>5</sup>-3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ( <sup>5</sup>-3-HSDH, 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17-HSDH), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH), and sudanophilic lipids in the follicular wall, ooplasm of the large PVF, VF, interstitium, and the granulosa of the atretic follicles (AF) at their earlier stages. Intense acid phosphatase activity was found in the phagocytic granulosa of the AF. 
4092894| We applied skeletochronology to a sample of Iberian spadefoot toads, Pelobates cultripes, from Serra da Arria, an agro-forestal area in south-central Portugal marked by cool, rainy winters and hot, dry summers. These environmental conditions allow winter activities but constrain toads to a 12-16 week aestivation period. Lines of arrested growth (LAGs) in phalanges were easily readable albeit, unexpectedly, of varying distinctiveness. Double LAGs were scarce as predicted from the observation of a simple seasonal activity cycle. Limited endosteal resorption did not affect any LAG. Age of adult females ranged from 2-7 yr (N = 40) and that of adult males from 2-8 yr (N = 20). Mean adult snout-vent length (males, 52.8 mm; females, 54.2 mm) and growth rate were lower compared to other Iberian populations of spadefoot toads. However, von Bertalanffy growth curves predict much larger body sizes and greater longevity. We hypothesize that reduced growth rate is a consequence of lengthy, harsh summer conditions. Reduced longevity of spadefoot toads in the study area is probably related to local mortality factors, mainly road kill and land ploughing. Predictions of a postponement of age at sexual maturity at a smaller body size when conditions of reduced feeding and growth rate prevail were only weakly satisfied. 
4498615| Posthatching yolk in oviparous vertebrates is thought to supply the hatchling with energy for a period of time after hatching in habitats that might require fasting. To examine strategies of posthatching energy use in Apalone mutica, hatchlings were fed or not fed over periods of nine weeks in 2003 and six weeks in 2004. Mass, plastron length, carapace width, and body condition changed during the course of the experiment; all trajectories of change, except carapace width in 2004, differed between fed and unfed hatchlings. Trajectories of fed hatchlings were significantly higher than unfed hatchlings. Fed and unfed hatchlings used internalized yolk at similar rates: 50% of the yolk was depleted by day eight after hatching and 90% by day 27. Metabolic rate (approximately 0.236 ml CO h) did not differ between fed and unfed hatchlings. Yolk reserves are insufficient to sustain hatchlings to the first overwintering season, but with access to external forage, hatchlings appear to use yolk reserves to meet maintenance demands to support maximal growth. 
10.2307/1563410|A study of the taxonomic status of Desmognathus welteri and a comparison with D. fuscus and D. monticola yielded information concerning inter- and intraspecific relationships of selected characteristics to size. Many of these relationships have not been previously studied, while studies of others have yielded confusing or conflicting results. Female D. fuscus show convoluted oviducts and yolk deposition in ovarian ova when about 10 mm SVL smaller than female D. monticola or D. welteri. Although exact concordance, within individuals or populations, does not occur, the patterns also show that D. fuscus males attain the adult condition for eight maturity characters approximately 10 mm SVL smaller than those of the other two species. The eight characters studied include the number of testis lobes, presence of sperm in the vasa deferentia, pigmentation and convolution of the vasa deferentia, a papillose vent lining, mental gland development, the presence of enlarged premaxillary teeth, and the number of vomerine teeth. The number of costal folds between adpressed limbs is similar in recently transformed individuals of both sexes and becomes greater for females at increasing sizes (SVL) in D. fuscus and D. welteri; no significant difference exists for D. monticola. The number of costal folds between adpressed limbs, at almost any body size, increases in the sequence monticola--welteri--fuscus. The numbers of upper jaw teeth increase with size and adult females have more teeth than adult males in all three species. The numbers of vomerine teeth remain essentially the same in females and decrease in males with increasing size. Males lose a few dentary teeth with increasing size, females gain these teeth with increasing size. For all three types of teeth, the sequence fuscus--welteri--monticola is one of increasing tooth numbers for any given size or sex. Some possible explanations or mechanisms are discussed.
4498616|Male Brown Anoles (Anolis sagrei) have been found in laboratory studies to court unfamiliar females more intensely than familiar females and in choice tests to preferentially court and mate with unfamiliar females. The objective of the present study was to determine how the intensity of male courtship behavior changes following physical exposure of males to previously unfamiliar females. The courtship behavior of males was recorded in 30-min courtship tests with familiar females (pretest), with unfamiliar females (first test), and with previously unfamiliar females after males had been physically exposed to them for two days (retest). When males were first visually exposed to unfamiliar females in the first test, they courted them significantly more intensely than they had courted familiar females in the pretest. Specifically, males gave more bobbing displays with dewlap extensions and spent more time adjacent to the stimulus female in courtship tests with unfamiliar females than in tests with familiar females. However, when males were housed with previously unfamiliar females for two days and then visually exposed to them in the retest, they did not court them significantly differently than they had courted familiar females. These results suggest that the heightened courtship response of males to unfamiliar females disappears relatively quickly after males have had physical exposure to females.
10.2307/1563362|An asymptotic growth model is applied to the individual growth of Rana cascade from the Oregon Cascade mountains. The model fits anniversary dates well but the growth is not uniform during the active period each year. The frogs grow slowly early and late in the season when food is more scarce and temperatures are lower. They grow more rapidly during the mid season. A regression model is developed to account for the growth variability and the combined model is used to estimate mean individual growth. Once yearly growth is estimated, age classes can be established and age distribution estimated in studies of population ecology.
10.2307/1565145|Aggressive behavior and recognition of chemical cues play important roles in territoriality and spatial distributions of adult plethodontid salamanders. The role of these behaviors in adult-juvenile interactions is unknown. We assessed adult-juvenile interactions in the Rich Mountain salamander, Plethodon ouachitae. In experiment 1, we examined behavioral responses of adult male salamanders (residents) toward juvenile intruders and compared these responses with the responses of the same residents toward adult male intruders. In experiment 2, we examined the role of chemical communication in these interactions. Juvenile salamanders were given a choice between control substrates and substrates bearing odors of adult males. Resident adults of P. ouachitae exhibited aggressive behavior (biting and chasing) in adult-adult and adult-juvenile trials. When paired with juveniles, adult salamanders were significantly less aggressive but exhibited significantly more investigatory (nose-tapping) behavior than when paired with other adults. The rate of biting observed in adult-adult trials was extremely high, while the rate of biting in adult-juvenile trials was similar to rates reported for adult-adult pairings in other species of Plethodon. Juvenile salamanders did not avoid odors of adults, despite the aggressive nature of adult P. ouachitae.
43287390|The Yosemite Toad (Anaxyrus (formerly Bufo) canorus) is a high-elevation species endemic to the central Sierra Nevada mountain range in California whose populations are in decline. There is limited information on their terrestrial movement and habitat use, which impairs our understanding of the ecology and habitat needs of this sensitive species. I present radio-tracking data collected from 35 adult toads in the Sierra National Forest during daylight hours in the late spring and summer of 2007-2009. Movements, microsite cover type, and terrestrial habitat are analyzed and interpreted with regard to life-history characteristics of A. canorus. Adult toads moved a mean distance of 270 m from aquatic breeding sites, and the maximum distance recorded was 1.26 km. Females moved significantly longer distances than did males and had a larger home range. Distance traveled was related to ordinal day as well as the interaction between day and sex. Adult A. canorus used terrestrial environments extensively and were found in the mixed-conifer forest in dry habitat. Burrows were the most commonly used cover type, but other protective cover such as logs, rocks, and tree stumps were also used. The locations occupied by adult toads in the terrestrial environment were structurally different than other surrounding areas; occupied sites had less canopy cover and fewer woody species than did unoccupied sites. The results of this study have implications for identifying population processes such as metapopulation dynamics, as well as for management purposes such as identifying sensitive habitat and establishing protective areas for A. canorus in the terrestrial environment.
1565874| The hemipenes of seven species of Atractus (Atractus emigdioi, Atractus major, Atractus mariselae, Atractus poeppigi, Atractus torquatus, Atractus univittatus, and Atractus ventrimaculatus) are described. Hemipenial morphology in this poorly known genus of snakes is found to be particularly variable among the species studied. Additionally, the primitive unicapitate hemipenal condition is more widespread among Atractus than was previously thought. Given the drastic variation in hemipenal morphology observed in Atractus, it is likely that characters derived from studying this organ may prove especially useful for future work on intrageneric relationships among members of this genus. /// Los hemipenes de siete especies de Atractus (Atractus emigdioi, Atractus major, Atractus mariselae, Atractus poeppigi, Atractus torquatus, Atractus univittatus y Atractus ventrimaculatus) son descritos. La morfologa de los hemipenes en este gnero de serpientes poco conocido es particularmente variable entre las especies estudiadas. Adicionalmente, la condicin primitiva unicapitada del hemipene tiene una distribucin en Atractus ms amplia que lo que se pensaba anteriormente. Debido a la gran variabilidad en la morfologa de hemipenes observada en Atractus es muy probable que el estudio de este rgano obtenga caracteres tiles para trabajos futuros sobre las relaciones intragenricas entre los miembros de este gnero. 
10.2307/1565584|I tested the putative correlation between insularity and herbivory in lacertid lizards. Analysis of literature data on 97 populations of 52 species shows that lizard populations on islands more often include plant material in their diet than do mainland populations. To investigate whether this finding reflects adaptation due to recent selection or is merely a product of the phylogenetic history of the populations, I reconstructed the ancestral states for diets and insularity and incorporated them in the analysis. Changes in habitat (island-mainland or mainland-island) often went with changes in diet (herbivore-insectivore or insectivore-omnivore). Insectivorous lizards that find themselves on islands more often turn towards herbivory than do lizards living in mainland situations. Lizards that already have plants in their diet when living on the mainland seem more successful in colonizing islands. Herbivorous populations of lacertids tend to be larger than insectivorous populations, but there is considerable overlap. No difference in mean snout-vent length was found between island and mainland populations.
41415251|We investigated the taxonomic status of the Indian forms of the Dendrelaphis pictus (Gmelin, 1789) group on the basis of multivariate analyses of morphological data taken from 176 museum specimens and two living specimens. A geographically isolated form from the Western Ghats, southwest India, is described as a new species. The subspecies Dendrelaphis pictus andamanensis (Anderson, 1871), an endemic from the Andaman Islands, is given specific status. Finally, the population of D. pictus from Indochina and northeast India, although superficially homogeneous, is shown to be comprised of two morphologically distinct forms. These forms are distributed parapatrically with a transition near the northern and northwestern borders of Indochina. The two forms are considered to represent distinct evolutionary lineages. The name Dendrelaphis proarchos (Wall, 1909) is revalidated to represent the northwestern form. The southeastern form is referred to as D. pictus (Gmelin, 1789). Whether intergradation between D. pictus and D. proarchos occurs at the contact zone is not clear.
10.2307/1564448|Baseline rates of tongue extrusion in the field and potential functions of the chemoreceptive system in the iguanid lizard Dipsosaurus dorsalis were examined. Tongue extrusion rates in the field of adult males (1.0 per min), adult females (0.8 per min), and juveniles (0.8 per min) did not significantly differ. Tongue extrusions usually (83%) occurred during movement, and immediately after movement, and most tongue extrusions resulted in the tongue making contact with the substrate. Observations of displaced lizards suggest that tongue extrusion is involved in orientation and exploration of unfamiliar areas. Field observations and experimental results, along with laboratory experiments, clearly show that the tongue-vomeronasal system is used to identify unfamiliar potential food items. Field observations also suggest that chemoreception may be used in conspecific detection and discrimination, but this hypothesis awaits verification by laboratory testing.
40060481|Nest-site selection and the behavioral mechanisms driving selection have received relatively little attention in nesting ecology studies despite their importance when establishing conservation and management programs for endangered taxa that have obligate habitat-specific nesting requirements. The nesting ecology of Cyclura cychlura cychlura was studied on Andros Island, Bahamas, from 2001 to 2004 to elucidate factors influencing nest site selection and address conservation and management implications. Female iguanas predominantly used active Nasutitermes rippertii (Termitidae: Isoptera) termite mounds as egg incubation chambers. Nesting females selected mounds with >5 cm surrounding soil depth and initiated excavation and oviposition in early May. There was no correlation between female body size and termite mound size. Tunnels were excavated into lateral sides of mounds and terminated in nest chambers. Eggs were deposited outside the mound and pushed into the chamber using thrusts of the forelimbs. Mean egg incubation length for the combined 2003 and 2004 seasons was 75.7 days. Temperatures inside the mound were warmer and less variable than corresponding ambient temperatures. Mean hatching success for clutches in monitored nests ranged from 69.9-100% from 2002 to 2004. The nesting behavior of C. cychlura on Andros most likely reflects the effects of local climatic history and topography on reproductive attributes such as nest success. Elucidating annual female nesting effort, as indicated by active nests, could be an extremely useful indicator to assess both the number of breeding females and, indirectly, the potential for hatchling recruitment.
40060456|Rhinella ocellata is a relatively unknown species of toad that occurs in Brazilian cerrado, a savanna-like biome. We studied home range and calling behavior of a population of this species in the state of Tocantins, Brazil, in 2004. Unlike most other species of bufonids, male R. ocellata did not migrate to ponds or other aquatic sites and form choruses for reproduction. Instead, R. ocellata had a prolonged breeding period during which males called from terrestrial sites typically on bare sandy soil near grass clumps or other shrubby vegetation. Calling sites were within open gallery forest in cerrado and ranged from 10-64 m from the shoreline of a river; similar calling sites were observed at another site in Tocantins in 2005. Home-range size was small compared to other toads that have been studied. Most individual R. ocellata remained within a small area during the study, typically calling nightly except during hot, dry periods. Calling bouts of R. ocellata consisted of an average of 36.9 short calls with fairly long intervals between bouts. Calling bout length averaged 31 sec. Neighboring individuals frequently alternated calls. One clutch of eggs found in a backwater pool of the river was tentatively identified as that of R. ocellata. The derived breeding behavior of R. ocellata is consistent with the historical difficulty in placing this species phylogenetically. /// Rhinella ocellata  uma espcie relativamente desconhecida que ocorre no Cerrado brasileiro. Ns estudamos a rea de vida e o comportamento de vocaliza de uma populao dessa espcie no estado do Tocantins, norte do Brasil, no ano de 2004. Diferentemente de outras espcies de bufondeos, os machos de R. ocellata no migraram para poas ou outros ambientes aquticos formando agregacoes reprodutivas. Ao invs, R. ocellata teve um perodo de reproduo prolongado durante o qual machos vocalizaram em ambientes terrestres, tipicamente sobre solo arenoso prximo a gramneas ou moitas de vegetao. Os stios de vocalizao se encontraram dentro de matas de galena e estiveram localizados de 10 a 64 m de distncia da margem de um rio. Stios de vocalizao com caractersticas similares foram observados em outra localidade em Tocantins em 2005. O tamanho mdio da rea de vida foi de 163.3 m, valor considerado pequeno quando comparado ao de outras espcies de bufondeos j estudadas. A maioria dos indivduos de R. ocellata permaneceu limitada a uma rea pequena durante todo o estudo, vocalizando todas as noites, exceto em dias muito quentes e secos. A seqncia de canto de R. ocellata consistiu em mdia de 36.9 cantos curtos, com intervalos relativamente longos entre as seqncias. Cada seqncia durou em mdia 31 segundos. Indivduos prximos alternavam o canto frequentemente. Uma possvel desova de R. ocellata foi encontrada em uma poa prxima ao rio. O comportamento reprodutivo derivado de R. ocellata  consistente com a dificuldade em posicionar essa espcie filogeneticamente.
10.2307/1563260|Comparison of the holotypes of Pseudemys hilli (Cope, 1878) of the Kansas Lower Pliocene and Chrysemys limnodytes (Galbreath, 1948) of the Oklahoma Lower Pliocene indicates the they are synonymous. The holotype of C. limnodytes possesses only one character (the shape of the haemal spine of the last cervical vertebra) in nine studied that indicates a closer affinity to Chrysemys than to Pseudemys. A difference in the relative lengths of the second, third, and fourth ribs of Chrysemys and Pseudemys is noted and recommends comparative study of the muscles which these bones encase.
4498527|Conservation of fauna breeding in vernal pools is challenging given their complex life histories. Many species, including the widespread North American Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica), require both aquatic and terrestrial habitat, yet insufficient information exists about movements between these environments, nor fine-scale selection patterns within them. To inform conservation planning, we conducted a radio-telemetry study of seasonal patterns of Wood Frog movements and habitat selection in southern Maine. Forty-three frogs were tracked an average of 25.6 days each, April to November 2003. In early spring, Wood Frogs generally selected damp leaf litter retreats on the margins of breeding pools. Following breeding, frogs selected forested wetlands (9.3% of the landscape) over forested uplands (90.7% of the landscape) in 75.3% of radio locations (N = 544). Postbreeding movements from breeding pools to nearby, closed-canopy, forested wetlands ranged from 102-340 m (median 169m, N = 8) and included stopovers in upland forest floors ranging from one to 17 days (median two days, N = 7). Summer refugia were characterized by shady, moist (nonaquatic), and sphagnum-dominated microhabitats. In urbanizing areas, we recommend a shift from a core-habitat conservation model to a spatially explicit approach that considers pool-breeding amphibian habitat as a network of migration-connected habitat elements (e.g., breeding pools, upland forest, nearby forested wetlands). In our study, this approach reduced the amount of land potentially requiring protection by > 2/3 from that of core habitat models. With the rapid dissemination of GIS technology, spatially explicit planning for pool-breeding amphibians is increasingly feasible.
40983653|Worldwide amphibian population declines have occurred in the last few decades and have been attributed to a range of factors including introduced species and chemical contamination. Anuran species may differ in their susceptibility to declines based on life-history characteristics, leading to different probabilities of decline and conservation statuses. In this experiment, we looked at two anuran species, Northern Cricket Frogs (Acris crepitans) and Green Frogs (Rana clamitans), reared in mesocosms containing a common invasive or introduced potential predator (Rusty Crayfish, Bluegill Sunfish, or triploid Grass Carp) and imidacloprid, a common insecticide. We found that anurans differed in their sensitivity to these factors. Cricket Frog survival was significantly reduced with imidacloprid exposure, whereas Green Frogs were not. Abundance of both amphibian species was reduced in the presence of predators, particularly the fish. Our study suggests that Cricket Frogs may be especially sensitive to the insecticide imidacloprid, as well as fish predators, and that these factors could contribute to their population declines.
25599187|The North American genus Thamnophis is a widely distributed and abundant group of snakes. Previous research has indicated that most garter snakes are generalist predators that largely consume anurans, with some degree of geographic and temporal plasticity in response to resource variation. We studied the dietary habits of the Plains Garter Snake, Thamnophis radix, based on stomach contents from 548 animals collected in the field from 1995-2006 at the northern limit of the species' range in central Alberta, Canada. Feeding frequency overall was low (22%) and was highest in spring and early summer. Diet was composed mainly of anurans (85%), especially Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica) and Boreal Chorus Frogs (Pseudacris maculata), and occasionally invertebrates (10%) and small mammals (5%). Small snakes (<200 mm) began feeding shortly after birth and consumed mainly smaller frogs. Larger snakes ate a wider range of prey sizes and types, but frogs still constituted the majority of prey consumed. Despite sexual size dimorphism, males and females ate prey of the same size and type; however, gravid females contained food less frequently than both males and nongravid females. This study adds to the growing number of dietary studies on T. radix and provides additional evidence for the ecological plasticity of Thamnophis species. Further studies are needed to examine how important these snakes are as components of wetland food chains.
10.2307/1564643|The prey-handling behavior of Elaphe quadrivirgata on a variety of sizes of three prey types (mouse, lizard, and frog) was investigated. The snake tended to attack the head of larger mice. Mice killed prior to ingestion and swallowed head first were larger than those swallowed alive and tail first, respectively. Smaller mice were simply seized or pinioned after a delay of more than one s, whereas larger mice were constricted immediately after striking. Lizards and mice were handled similarly, except that most lizards were swallowed alive. Most frogs were simply seized and swallowed alive. Larger frogs were usually constricted or pinioned if they struggled. The coiling behavior of the snakes was unstable; recoiling behavior was often observed. It is suggested that E. quadrivirgata is an inefficient constrictor relative to other Elaphe.
10.2307/1563352|The seven Asian species of Leptotyphlops are redescribed and figured, and relationships are discussed. Leptotyphlops wilsoni sp. nov. is described from the island of Socotra, northwestern Indian Ocean. Leptotyphlops erythraeus, braccianii, and phillipsi are shown to be conspecific with L. macrorhynchus. Leptotyphlops nursi is considered to be a race of L. blanfordi. Glauconia laticeps is removed from the synoymy of L. hamulirostris, and tentatively placed in that of L. b. blanfordi. A key to the species of Asia, Socotra Island, and northeastern Africa is presented.
40060572|We describe a new species of Ecnomiohyla from the vicinity of El Valle de Anton, Code, Panama. This is a large species that differs from similar species in the genus by details of the prepollex, webbing, and by the presence of a distinct expanded crista lateralis with medial proximal point. We provide descriptions of the adult and subadult, as well as the tadpole. We provide natural history information including observations of individuals gliding from the forest canopy, reproduction in tree holes, and male territoriality and care of the tadpoles. This species is currently known only from the immediate vicinity of El Valle de Anton, and we have observed numbers of this species in the wild to decrease dramatically following the recent epidemic of amphibian chytridiomycosis in the region. /// Describimos una especie nueva del gnero Ecnomiohyla de la regin de El Valle de Antn, Cocl, Panam. Esta es una especie que difiere de otras especies de su gnero por las caracteristicas del prepollex, membranas interdigitales, presencia de una distinta crista lateralis expandida con punto prximo medial. Brindamos descripciones de la forma adulta, sub-adulta, y adems su forma larval. Tambien se incluye informatin sobre la historia natural, tales como observaciones de individuos planeando desde la copa de los rboles, reproductin en los huecos de los rboles, territorialidad y cuidado parental de las larvas. Actualmente esta especie solamente esta conocida en la regin de El Valle de Antn, donde las poblaciones parecen estar sufriendo declives debido a las recientes epidemias de chytridiomycosis en los anfibios de la regin.
10.2307/1563713|The advertisement calls of the three species of sooglossid frogs are described. Nesomantis thomasseti, the largest species, has a long call (4.2 sec) usually consisting of four primary and four secondary notes, each with a dominant frequency of about 2500 Hz. The primary and secondary notes are clearly pulsed. Sooglossus sechellensis also has a complex call with a single primary note normally followed by four secondary notes. The call duration averages 0.54 sec, and the dominant frequency of the primary note is about 2660 Hz. Both the primary and secondary notes are pulsed. The call of the smallest species, Sooglossus gardineri, differs markedly from the calls of the other two species in that it is a single note call that is finely tuned, with little amplitude modulation. It is shorter in duration (0.14 sec) and has a higher dominant frequency (5550 Hz). Vocalization, along with data on morphology and karyology, suggests that the present classification of the Sooglossidae does not accurately reflect the relationships of the three species.
10.2307/1566185|We quantified the flight trajectories of Ptychozoon kuhli dropped from distances of 300 and 825 cm and the effects of removing the cutaneous flaps and binding the feet. Analyses suggested there is a threshold speed of approximately 650 cm/sec below which the lift generated does not significantly retard acceleration of the animal or permit shallow glide angles. Removal of cutaneous flaps from specimens gliding at airspeeds below 650 cm/sec had no effect on the flight; above 650 cm/sec the presence of the cutaneous flaps significantly slowed the specimen and produced shallower glide angles. Binding of the feet eliminated all maneuverability and led to a significant increase in airspeed as well as a significant decrease in glide angle. We propose that the webbed feet of Ptychozoon play a key function in gliding and that aerial locomotion in this taxon may be more similar to "flying" treefrogs than to other reptilian gliders.
10.2307/1563163|Two closely related species of salamanders, Plethodon cinereus and P. nettingi shenandoah, were previously reported to compete for food through differential exploitation. A more recent experiment, though, suggests that an interference component may exist in competition for burrow position.
10.2307/1563192|Karyotypic data are presented on four species of Peluisos and Pelomedusa. All specimens that were examined had the same diploid number (2N=34), and similar percentage arm lengths and morphology. These data are compared to that presented by other investigators on the other genus in this family, Podocnemis. Karyotypic trends are suggested based on these comparisons.
25599234|Toe clipping reduces the return rate of some wild amphibians, but effects of toe clipping on recapture rate and survival rate (the two components of return rate) have not been quantified for salamanders. Mark-recapture data for Jefferson Salamanders (Ambystoma jeffersonianum) were analyzed to estimate these effects using eight different statistical models. These models allowed (1) the effect of removing each toe to remain constant or to increase proportionally with the number of toes removed; and (2) recapture rate and survival rate to remain constant or vary among years. The predicted effect on the return rate was similar for all eight models, with a reduction of about 15-20% when three toes were removed. The predicted effect on survival and recapture rates varied with the choice of model. The best-fitting models, as selected on the basis of the deviance information criterion, predicted a large effect on recapture rate (14-17% reduction when removing three toes) and a negligible effect on survival rate (0-2% reduction when removing three toes). Whether toe clipping reduced survival and recapture rates was unclear when the best models were selected on the basis of Bayesian P-values. The reduction in return rate of Jefferson salamanders was consistent with that previously observed for frogs and toads. However, the analysis was not able to identify clearly whether the effect was caused by a reduction in survival, a reduction in recapture rate, or both.
23326901|On a small Japanese island, Sado-ga-shima, we identified a frog that differs from Rana rugosa by having a deep yellow coloration of the abdomen and ventral surfaces of the legs. We tentatively refer to it as "yellow morphotype." To identify any mechanisms of reproductive isolation from R. rugosa, allopatrically distributed on the same island, we artificially crossed the two types and examined the developmental capacity, sex-ratio, and inner-structure of gonads and fertility in the F1 hybrid offspring. Almost all of the reciprocal hybrids became males with a very low abundance of sperm in the testes and show an extremely low fertility when backcrossed to the females of either type. We conclude that the yellow morphotype is reproductively isolated from R. rugosa through all hybrid maleness with scarce fertility and, therefore, presents a species new to science.
1566223|We sequenced two regions of the mitochondrial genome, ND4 and d-loop, from 64 Eumeces septentrionalis to assess intra- and interspecific population differentiation. We constructed haplotype genealogies for nine Eumeces septentrionalis septentrionalis populations in previously glaciated regions and used nested clade analysis to examine the role of vicariance and dispersal in shaping the population structure of E. s. septentrionalis in the northern part of its range following Pleistocene paleoclimatological events. In addition, we used DNA sequence data to compare populations of the northern subspecies (E. s. septentrionalis) with the southern subspecies (Eumeces septentrionalis obtusirostris) to determine whether specific level differentiation is evident. For populations of E. septentrionalis in previously glaciated areas, nested clade analyses revealed isolation by distance with restricted gene flow at both haplotype and upper clade levels as the inferred geographical pattern reflecting the lack of overlapping haplotypes in distant populations. These results suggest that colonization of E. septentrionalis into previously glaciated areas was from a single source with restricted gene flow. These results do not support past population fragmentation or colonization from multiple, genetically distinct source populations. Parsimony and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analyses showed reciprocal monophyly between northern (E. s. septentrionalis) and southern (E. s. obtusirostris) subspecies with uncorrected sequence divergence ranging from 6.7-7.0%. These results, combined with the morphological differences found in previous studies, suggest that these allopatric populations are on separate evolutionary trajectories.
10.2307/1565597|Results from principal component and discriminant function analyses of 21 metric skull characters from six thamnophiine snakes (Regina alleni, R. grahamii, R. rigida, R. septemvittata, Nerodia erythrogaster, N. rhombifer) allowed clear distinction of taxa in concordance with the most current taxonomy. Positions of the species in thamnophiine morphospace also indicated that the six taxa might be classified morphometrically across the genetic boundary by their prey selection. A regression analysis better aligned R. grahamii and R. septemvittata with the two species of Nerodia than with their two congeners. Since variables important in prey ingestion provided the best differentiation between taxa, this non-taxonomic alignment might be linked to the different degrees of feeding specialization observed in the six taxa. Regina alleni and R. rigida specialize on hard-shelled crayfish and occupied the most extreme morphospace positions, potentially an indication of a skull design for greater crushing capacity. Conversely, alignment of the other four taxa might indicate a skull morphology more suitable for other types of prey.
1565761|Tadpoles of Tomopterna breviceps from five different sibships were subjected to pure (siblings) or mixed (kin and nonkin) rearing conditions at varying densities to determine relative influence of kinship and density on metamorphic traits of larval growth, larval period, and size at metamorphosis. Individual rearing of 50 tadpoles from five different parental lines revealed no significant difference in any metamorphic traits among sibships. At a given density, metamorphic traits were comparable between sibling and mixed groups indicating an absence of kinship influence. However, progressive increase in the number of tadpoles (density) affected severely the metamorphic traits regardless of the kinship/mixed rearing conditions. This resulted in an increase in larval period, decrease in the size of metamorphs in comparison to those reared at a lower density or uncrowded conditions. Our study shows that in T. breviceps density of rearing rather than kinship plays a major role in affecting the metamorphic traits.
10.2307/1565542|The impact of translocation on timber rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus) was assessed experimentally by moving 11 specimens distances of between 8 km and 172 km away from their native populations and releasing them into a study area having a resident rattlesnake population. All translocated snakes were equipped with radio transmitters, and their behavior, survival, and interaction with resident snakes were observed. Eighteen resident snakes were also telemetrically monitored during the four-year study. Six of the 11 (54.5%) translocated snakes are known to have died while only 2 of the 18 (11.1%) resident snakes experienced mortality during the period they were radiotracked. Of the six translocated specimens that died, three experienced overwinter mortality despite their location of resident hibernacula, two were killed by predators, and one died from disease. The mean daily survival rate of translocated snakes (0.9973) was significantly lower than that of resident snakes (0.9993). Translocated snakes selected habitats similar to that of residents, foraged successfully, and maintained body mass. However, translocated snakes exhibited atypical movement patterns consisting of extensive and long-distance traveling. The six translocated male rattlesnakes averaged 15,017 m (SE = 2184.3) in total distance traveled from release until hibernation with daily movements of 123.8 m (SE = 19.40) and convex polygon activity range areas of 600.6 ha (SE = 253.0). Comparatively, the total active season distance traveled by the seven resident male rattlesnakes averaged only 5575 m (SE = 936.5) with mean daily movements of 36.9 m (SE = 5.36) and convex polygon activity ranges of 59.9 ha (SE = 13.04). Mean activity parameters 3 to 5 times larger than those of resident snakes were also typical for translocated female rattlesnakes. Translocated snakes located active hibernacula apparently by following resident snakes; however, their overwintering mortality was higher than that of residents. Translocated snakes that successfully survived the first overwinter period continued to exhibit more extensive movements in their second active season than did residents. However, there was evidence of the establishment of a more resident-like pattern of movement among these specimens during the second year. Translocation of adult snakes is not recommended as a standard conservation practice because of its immediate and long-term negative impacts.
25599248|Agonistic behavior is a common feature of larval amphibians inhabiting temporary ponds. Given the temporally staggered sequence of hatching by pond-breeding amphibians, ontogenetic patterns of aggression can influence coexistence if larvae of certain species or ages are subject to increased aggression. To determine whether aggression changes through larval ontogeny, we observed agonistic behavior of Ambystoma opacum, Ambystoma tigrinum, and Ambystoma maculatum at four stages of development spanning the larval period. We tracked aggression rates among individual larvae to determine whether previous success, in the form of increased aggression, facilitated success in subsequent contests. All species exhibited distinct ontogenetic patterns of aggression, with the highest and lowest rates of aggression exhibited during rear leg development and metamorphosis, respectively. Species-specific aggression rates were observed, with A. tigrinum consistently displaying the highest levels of aggression. Winner or loser effects were not evident, because increased aggression early in the larval period did not result in increased aggression throughout ontogeny. We hypothesize that the observed patterns of behavior may represent a baseline level of aggression upon which other biotic and abiotic factors act in mediating coexistence among larval amphibians.
10.2307/1563584|Annual changes in (1) the frequency distributions of cell numbers in the sectioned cysts of the three consecutive stages of spermatogenesis, the secondary spermatogonia, primary and secondary spermatocytes, (2) the mean numbers of spermatocysts of different stages of spermatogenesis per tubule cross section, and (3) the Leydig cell nuclear diameters were studied in the frog Rana tigerina. The mitotic proliferation of secondary spermatogonia was very slow during July-February and mitotic rate increased between March-June. The meiotic divisions, the formation of secondary spermatocytes and spermatids as well as spermiogenesis were mainly confined to May-June. The total number of spermatocysts per tubule cross section were highest during May-June. Leydig cells showed clear cut seasonal variation in their cytomorphology, being active between May-June and regressed during other months. Thus, there is a good correlation between the Leydig cell activity and proliferation and differentiation of germ cells in the testis of R. tigerina unlike that found in temperate frogs.
23326910|The Chiricahua Leopard Frog (Lithobates chiricahuensis) occurs in parts of the southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. In the United States, it is listed as a federally threatened species. Although extensive research has been conducted on populations in the United States, the status of most Mexican populations is unknown. We used mitochondrial and nuclear DNA to identify a population of L. chiricahuensis from the Mexican state of Durango. To better characterize this poorly known population, we examined morphological variation in 30 individuals that included adult males, adult females, and subadult females. Multivariate analyses of 21 size-adjusted body measurements revealed putative shifts in body dimensions associated with gender and ontogeny. Additionally, we observed notable amounts of color pattern variation in female specimens. Our field observations from 2008 suggest that this population is large and thriving. In light of this, a more comprehensive examination may yield valuable conservation insights and have implications for the management of declining L. chiricahuensis populations in the United States.
10.2307/1563901|During a two-year study, 115 pools were investigated for use by the red-spotted newt (Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens) in western Maryland. Characteristics of the pools and surrounding habitat were measured to evaluate differences between pools occupied and those not occupied by the species. Notophthalmus v. viridescens selected isolated upland and bottomland pools that were typically higher in elevation, farther from woodland, and deeper than unutilized pools. For the most part, pools selected by N. v. viridescens generally contained sparse amounts of cover, except near the shoreline. The pool bottom was primarily mud with little leaf litter. Vegetation cover above the shoreline at pools inhabited by the species was primarily grasses and forbs. The water in occupied pools was also more turbid than in pools without the species. Several potential predators were quite abundant in pools used by N. v. viridescens. These differences are discussed in relation to the ecology of the species and its role as a predator within the pond breeding amphibian community.
10.2307/1564449|The configuration of the phalanges and the number of presacral vertebrae vary within and among seven populations representing the five species of Hemiergis. Phalangeal variation within populations is rare, being restricted to three of the seven populations sampled. Phalangeal variation among populations suggests a pattern of generally simultaneous reduction of phalanges in the manus and pes. This pattern is in contrast to that observed in Lerista, another genus of fossorial Australian skinks, in which the phalanges of the manus are reduced to a progressively greater degree than are the phalanges of the pes as limbs are reduced. All populations show sexual dimorphism in numbers of presacral vertebrae, females having more presacrals than males. The most parsimonious transformation series among modal phalangeal configurations is used to establish a phylogenetic hypothesis for species of Hemiergis.
4498580|Two new species of Calamaria (Colubridae: Serpentes) are described from Buton Island, southeast Sulawesi, Indonesia. The first species is distinguished from all other Calamaria by the combination of no preocular scale, mental not touching anterior chin shields, five supralabial scales and five scales or shields surrounding paraparietal, no more than 28 subcaudals, tail long and tapering to a point, nine modified maxillary teeth, and uniform body coloration. The second species is distinguished from all other Calamaria by the combination of no preocular scale, mental not touching anterior chin shields, four supralabial scales, and five scales or shields surrounding the paraparietal. Both species are litter dwelling, semifossorial snakes and occur in monsoonal rain forests.
23327191|The Gopher Frog, Lithobates capito, is an endemic to upland, fire-maintained pine forests on the Southeastern Coastal Plain and requires open, isolated wetlands for breeding. This species has experienced drastic population declines because of habitat loss and degradation and now occurs only in scattered populations in the southern United States. We tracked the post-breeding movements and burrow use of 17 Gopher Frogs in the Sandhills of North Carolina using radio telemetry. Nine frogs were successfully tracked to summer refugia; the other eight frogs shed their transmitters or were killed by predators or fire during migration. Frogs traveled 0.53.5 km (mean = 1.3 km) between the breeding pond and a summer refugium. The 3.5-km movement is substantially longer than has been reported for Gopher Frogs before. Our results suggest that an area of 3,739 ha (9,239 acres) around breeding ponds is required to provide summer habitat for Gopher Frogs. Eight of nine frogs used holes associated with the stumps of longleaf pines for their summer refugia, and we documented fidelity to particular stumps, with one frog traveling long distances from breeding pond to the same summer refugium during two consecutive seasons. Frogs only made major movements during rainy nights. Prolonged presence on the forest floor during post-breeding migrations exposed frogs to prescribed fires conducted in the spring. Prescribed burning within several kilometers of Gopher Frog ponds should be conducted after mid-May to reduce adult mortality.
41515046|We examined maximal and ecological performance in Ameiva ameiva on Union Island, St Vincent and the Grenadines. Maximal sprint speed was correlated positively with lizard body size but not with hind-limb or relative hind-limb length. Lizards in the field used over 85% of maximal capacity when escaping a putative predator, and the proportion of maximal speed used was highly dependent on behavioral context. Mean and median speeds used by adults when moving undisturbed through the habitat were 15.37  2.01 (SE) and 11.41% of maximal speed; and approximately 65% of undisturbed movement is at speeds <15% of maximal capacity. No individual movement exceeded 40% of maximal capacity. Mean and median values for distances moved were 7.88  0.72 (SE) and 8.14 cm, with 91% of distances moved <12 cm and 69.5% <10 cm, demonstrating that undisturbed lizards move through their habitat using short individual movements at low speeds. Similar to other studies on primarily sedentary lizards, actively foraging lizards may experience stronger natural selection on locomotor speed when evading a predator rather than while foraging because these lizards use nearly 90% of their maximal capacity during the former activity.
10.2307/1565152| The spotted salamander, Ambystoma maculatum, has three types of egg masses; white, clear, and intermediate. White and clear forms are widely-distributed and often sympatric, whereas intermediate forms may be scarce or absent in local populations. Opacity of the egg mass depends on the concentration of hydrophobic protein crystals (1-3 m in length, 15,400 kD in molecular size) in the outer jelly layers of white and intermediate egg masses. A water soluble protein (14,400 kD) replaces the hydrophobic crystals entirely in outer jelly layers of clear egg masses and partly in intermediate egg masses, and is found in the inner jelly of all three egg mass types. A mitochondrial DNA sequence analysis supports the hypothesis that these variants represent a simple polymorphism of a single gene, rather than the presence of a cryptic species complex. Over a two-year period, the number of total egg masses and the percentage that were clear remained relatively constant within individual ponds. The proportion of total egg masses that was clear was correlated (positively and negatively) with the concentration of some pond cations, although there was considerable annual variation in this relationship. The body lengths, wet masses prior to and after oviposition, and times of egg deposition were similar for females depositing white or clear egg masses. Embryos in white and clear egg masses exposed to low levels of light, simulated episodic environmental changes, and control conditions exhibited similar mean times to hatching and larval sizes. Survival was lower for both morphs in pH 5.2 than at a higher pH, and larvae of both morphs hatched under low light conditions were larger than those under high light conditions. There is as yet no definitive evidence that the "white" protein has a functional role in embryonic development. We suggest that the presence of this polymorphism may be related to differential fitness of the two morphs under low and high nutrient levels. 
10.2307/1562922|Sea snakes, Pelamis platurus, (Yellow-bellied sea snake), were collected on the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica, Central America, in 1973. Unlike many species of sea snakes in the southwestern Pacific, P. platurus is largely a surface-going sea snake. The snake tends to float motionlessly on the surface of the sea and moves along with the sea currents. The most common color pattern of P. platurus is a tri-color pattern of black-yellow-brown. The next most common one is a bi-colored pattern of black-yellow. The unicolor, all yellow pattern of the sea snake is very rare; we obtained only 4 out of 3077 specimens. There are many other combinations of color patterns. Scale patterns and other biological data were recorded. P. platurus obtained from Costa Rica were comparable to those of P. platurus obtained from Asia as investigated by others. The average yield of venom from P. platurus was 2.6 mg per snake, based on the extraction of venom from the glands of 3069 sea snakes.
10.2307/1563613|The social behavior patterns of enclosed populations of the Arizona chuckwalla (Sauromalus obesus tumidus) were observed from 1970 to 1972. Field observations were conducted from June through August 1970 and 1974. In a challenge display a male chuckwalla compresses his trunk, partially extends his dewlap, orients laterally towards his opponent and performs rapid head nods. The head nodding follows a specific sequence: two complete up and down movements, two intermediate nods and two shorter nods. Dominant males in the enclosure and territorial males in the field are most active; they challenge and chase other trespassing males but tolerate females and juveniles. In the enclosure, subordinate males retreat from higher ranking males or assume a submissive posture. Female aggression is indicated by postural changes, chasing and biting. Sex recognition is based on posture and coloration. During copulation the male maintains a biting hold on the skin of the shoulder of the female. Under natural conditions males were territorial. Homing ability under natural conditions was observed to be accurate on sunny days. In the laboratory a dominance hierarchy and despotism developed. Supplanting behavior was not observed in the field but was common in the laboratory. The selective advantage of the lability of this social behavior is obvious in situations where limited food or other resources make it energetically unfeasible to defend a territory.
10.2307/1563376|Kinosternon b. baurii, listed as threatened by the state of Florida, is still relatively common in favorable habitats in the Lower Florida Keys. A total of 137 turtles were captured on the southern portion of Summerland Key, which is extensively man-altered; only 26 were trapped on uninhabited Johnston Key. Mark recapture rates indicate that total populations in these areas may be 1.6-2 times higher. K. b. baurii requires ponds that are less than 15 ppt salinity for aquatic activity. Turtles given a choice preferred land when water salinity was above 17.5 ppt (50% sea water), but preferred water when the salinity was 8.5 ppt (25% sea water) or below. In the field, long periods may be spent on land in terrestrial retreats during times when unfavorable conditions exist in the ponds. A single retreat may be used repeatedly by the same turtle(s). Evaporative water loss was quite low (about 0.5% mass/day) in the laboratory, and presumably also in the field during these periods of terrestrial activity. Individual turtles are extremely faithful to their "home" ponds and only rarely move to adjacent ones. The greatest density of turtles (59) was found in a small series of artificial ditches cut through the surface rock into the underlying fresh water lens. Density in natural ponds containing a minimum of two animals was related to the log of pond surface area. K. b. baurii is more tolerant of immersion in 35 ppt (100%) sea water than other kinosternids studied, including K. b. palmarum, but is not capable of long term survival. Its success in colonizing Lower Keys habitats is largely due to its ability to use terrestrial retreats when pond conditions are adverse.
10.2307/1565485|A new species of Amphisbaena is described from the Cabo Cruz region of eastern Cuba. It shares with two other Cuban species, Amphisbaena barbouri (new rank) and A. cubana, fusion of the second supralabial and ocular scales. It is a pallid, long-tailed, xerophilic species associated with dry, coastal lime-stone habitats.
1566096|Considering the breadth of research evaluating amphibian population declines and the lack of natural history information on this invasive frog species, we identified prey items in the diet of Rana berlandieri in south and west Texas. During 2000, adult frogs were collected in the spring and fall from each of five sites in Texas: (1) Santa Ana; (2) Lower Rio Grande Valley National Wildlife Refuge complex; (3) near Falfurrias; 4) a privately owned ranch in south Texas; and (5) Big Bend National Park. In total, the stomach contents of 85 frogs were analyzed. Prey items identified indicate that individuals of this species, like other Ranids, are generalist, opportunistic predators whose diet is most strongly influenced by prey availability.
10.2307/1565244|The Australian gidgee skink, Egernia stokesii, is gregarious and lives in stable social aggregations. In this study we investigated whether individuals can recognize group members and distinguish them from non-group members, and we investigated whether recognition is based on relatedness. In one experiment, ten groups of three or four unrelated subadult lizards had been maintained for two years. Lizards from these groups were each presented with stimuli from themselves, from a member of their own group, and from a conspecific member of another group. Two types of stimuli were used; a paper substrate which had absorbed lizard body secretions, and lizard scats. For each type of stimulus, lizards showed a significantly stronger response, as measured by number of tongue flicks and by time in contact, to the stimulus from the non-group member, than to the stimuli from themselves or from a group member. In a second experiment, there were eight "related" groups each of three sibling lizards, and seven "unrelated" groups each of three individual lizards from different litters. Again lizards responded more strongly to stimuli from non-group members than to stimuli from group members. In a third experiment, juvenile lizards responded as strongly to stimuli from non-group members if they were related or unrelated. Together, these results imply that individuals in this lizard species can discriminate between two other lizards depending on whether they do or do not belong to the same social group. This suggests that individual lizards have unique chemical signals, and that an important component of social cohesion, the ability to recognize group members, is present in this gregarious lizard species. The results also suggest that familiarity, rather than relatedness, explains recognition of group members.
10.2307/1563034|Rana septentrionalis, the Mink Frog, shows geographic variation in size, and is much larger in the northern part of its range than it is in southern Ontario and Quebec. It is possible that this size variation is a consequence of heavy predation on the southern populations by R. catesbeiana.
10.2307/1565541|Under recent regulatory designation of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) occurring east and south of the Colorado River constitute the Sonoran population, whereas those to the west and north form the Mojave population. These management units, distinguished by significant genetic, morphometric, and ecological differences, represent deep phylogenetic subdivisions within G. agassizii and are of high conservation value. We provide genetic and morphological profiles for an unusual tortoise population inhabiting the Black Mountains of Arizona, some 40 km east of the Colorado River. Both mitochondrial (mt) DNA and morphometric analyses revealed predominately Mojavean features: ten of eleven Black Mountain tortoises possessed Mojave mtDNA markers, and 24 of 37 animals exhibited Mojave morphometric phenotypes. Our results indicate west-to-east movement of tortoises across the Colorado River, though how or when a Mojave lineage became established in the Black Mountains is difficult to ascertain. Active dispersal, river meander, and human transport (early or modern peoples) serve as plausible explanations. Future management of the Black Mountain tortoises should emphasize the population's Mojavean affinities.
10.2307/1562791|The occurrence of parietal eyes among lizards (Suborder Lacertilia) was determined by examining museum specimens and noting the presence of a parietal "spot". The parietal "spot" is a reliable indication of the presence of an underlying parietal eye. The parietal eye is absent in Dibamidae, Pygopodidae, Helodermatidae, Lanthanotidae, Anelytropsidae, Gekkonidae, and Teiidae. It is present in most members of Xantusiidae, Scincidae, Cordylidae, Lacertidae, Varanidae, Anniellidae, Anguidae, Xenosauridae, Iguanidae, Agamidae, and Chameleontidae.
40060483|Habitat disturbance leading to the breakdown of ecological barriers has resulted in hybridization between numerous sympatric species and the decline or extinction of the parental species. Despite strong postzygotic selection, hybridization occurs between two normally ecologically isolated toad species, the Gulf Coast Toad (Bufo nebulifer) and Fowler's Toad (Bufo fowleri). This hybridization has potentially contributed to a decline of the rarer species, B. fowleri. Putative hybrids may be morphologically cryptic; therefore, molecular methods were used to identify them. We used single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to identify hybrids, and mitochondrial sequence variation in a segment of the 12S and 16S rRNA region was also used to identify maternal ancestry of hybrids and seek evidence of directional hybridization and introgression of male B. nebulifer with female B. fowleri. Seventy-two individuals of both species from nine breeding populations were directly sequenced. Twelve species-specific SNPs from a 333 base pair fragment in a nuclear intron of the Rhodopsin gene were used to identify each species, and two male hybrids were identified based on heterozygosity at these sites. The possession of a different mtDNA sequence by each hybrid indicated an alternate maternal lineage from each of the parental species and identified the hybrids as progeny from each reciprocal cross. Use of mitochondrial and nuclear molecular markers allowed unambiguous identification of hybrids and their maternal parent that could not have been performed without the use of both datasets. We also investigated phylogenetic relationships among B. fowleri and its close relatives in the B. americanus species complex using mitochondrial sequence variation.
40060526|Conservation of pond-breeding frogs requires information on movement patterns within populations. The Green and Golden Bell Frog (Litoria aurea) is endangered in New South Wales, Australia; yet little is known about its movement biology. To inform conservation planning and habitat restoration, we conducted a mark-recapture study to describe the movement patterns of adult L. aurea among permanent and ephemeral waterbodies, on Kooragang Island, New South Wales, Australia. Twenty-nine percent and 18% of 551 males and 228 females marked, respectively, were recaptured on  1 occasions over two breeding seasons (2000 and 2001). Most recaptures were in the same permanent waterbody as the original capture (53% males, 65% females). Twenty-seven (24%) male and seven (50%) female movements were from a permanent waterbody to the nearest permanent waterbody (<50 m), respectively. Male L. aurea, usually large individuals, moved relatively long distances (>200 m) to ephemeral waterbodies from permanent waterbodies after prolonged heavy rain. Of the total number of male and female movements recorded, 44 (39%) and two (14%) were to or from ephemeral waterbodies, respectively. Our results demonstrated high site fidelity of L. aurea to individual waterbodies and groups of neighboring waterbodies, especially permanent ones. Our results showed that L. aurea tended to breed in more permanent waterbodies but reproduced opportunistically in ephemeral waterbodies where recruitment was less successful. Habitat restoration projects for L. aurea should construct permanent and ephemeral waterbodies and provide adequate buffer zones that protect the terrestrial habitat.
10.2307/1565328|We studied sexual size dimorphism is in two breeding populations of midwife toads (Alytes obstetricans and Alytes cisternasii) from which skeletochronological data provide information on individual age. The population values show that females are larger than males in both species (A. obstetricans, SVL<sub>male</sub> = 41.74 mm, SVL<sub>female</sub> = 49.69 mm; A. cisternasii, SVL<sub>male</sub> = 35.79, SVL<sub>female</sub> = 38.58). The values obtained for population size dimorphism (LN(x<sub>male</sub>)-Ln(x<sub>female</sub>) -0.174 for A. obstetricans and -0.074 for A. cisternasii) are are higher than the age-specific values (range -0.126 to -0.055 for A. obstetricans; -0.101 to -0.043 for A. cisternasii). Differences between age-specific and population dimorphism values are particularly marked in A. obstetricans, where the age distribution of the sample of males and females differ the most. This result suggests that caution should be used when considering population data on size dimorphism to test evolutionary hypotheses about the evolution of this phenomenon. The dimorphism values obtained for the two species are not markedly different from those obtained from other temperate anurans without male parental care. This result does not support the prediction of the investment hypothesis (Williams, 1966; Trivers, 1972) that male parental care may act as a limitation on sexual selection on male size.
10.2307/1565021| Two new species of Eleutherodactylus are named from cloud forests (E. jaimei) and rain-forests (E. hybotragus) in southwestern Colombia. These two species share a hypertrophied zygomatic ramus of the squamosal with E. loustes. The cloud forest species (E. jaimei and E. loustes) are sister species. The three species are placed in the Eleutherodactylus loustes species group. /// Se describe dos especies nuevas del gnero Eleutherodactylus de los bosques nublados (E. jaimei) y los bosques hmedos tropicales (E. hybotragus) del sudoeste de Colombia. Las especies nuevas ms E. loustes comparten una sinapomorfa (el ramo zigomatico del escamoso hipertrfido). Las especies de los bosques nublados (E. jaimei y E. loustes) son especies hermanas. Se propone que las tres especies forman el grupo de especies Eleutherodactylus loustes. 
40983588|We describe the advertisement call, tadpole, karyotype, and additional information on the natural history of Cycloramphus lutzorum from southern Brazil. Sonograms were generated from digitally recorded calls. Tadpoles were collected in the field for description in the lab, and an adult was collected for karyotyping. Data on seasonal activity were gathered monthly from November 2005 to November 2007. All tadpoles (N= 21), juveniles (N= 18), and adults (N= 52) were found exclusively in streams. Reproduction, as identified by calling frogs, occurred from July through November. Frogs call all day long, but mostly at dusk, from rock crevices inside the stream edges near the splash zone. The call is short and loud, with 11 pulsed notes, of 491-641 ms, with a dominant frequency of 0.98-1.39 kHz. We describe the exotrophic and semiterrestrial tadpoles, always found in constantly humid vertical rock walls in the stream. Tadpoles of C. lutzorum are recognized by differences in labial tooth row formula, eye diameter, body shape, position of nares, and development of tail. Like congeneric species, the karyotype of C. lutzorum comprises 26 metacentric and submetacentric chromosomes. Cycloramphus lutzorum is restricted to and adapted for living in fast flowing streams, many of which are threatened by deforestation, pollution, and habitat loss. Therefore, we recommend the status of lutzorum be changed from its current "Data Deficient" to "Near Threatened (NT)" in the IUCN species red list.
10.2307/1564021|The frequency of activity of the viviparous iguanid lizard Sceloporus jarrovi in a high altitude (2895 m) population was determined by hourly censuses of visible lizards. Any given lizard was seen an average of six days out of seven, and within days activity did not vary with either age or sex of the lizard. Patterns of lizard activity throughout the day were dictated by the thermal environment: on clear days, high levels of insolation prevented lizards from basking in the sun at midday, whereas virtually the entire population was basking and visible simultaneously on a cloudy day.
40664970|Although many reptiles, including tortoises, may be equipped morphologically to discriminate colors, there is very little experimental evidence that reptiles distinguish among hues and levels of saturation and brightness. Visual abilities or color (hue) discrimination have not been investigated for most tortoise species. In a behavioral experiment to test what visual cues are important, juvenile Leopard Tortoises (Stigmochelys pardalis) approached the colors red, light green, and olive most often, raising important questions regarding plant color and selection by Leopard Tortoises.
10.2307/1564397|Discrimination of turtles of the genus Kinosternon in the western United States and adjacent Mexico has been difficult because most taxonomically useful characters are size- or sex-dependent, or vary within species. Multivariate comparisons of continuous shell characteristics indicate that shell shape is highly correlated with body size, and therefore strongly allometric. Size-independent variation in shell shape can largely distinguish the various species, regardless of age. Size-independent variation was further analyzed in one species, Kinosternon sonoriense, and distinguished males, females, and juveniles. Unfortunately, carapace length, a frequently-used measure of standard size in turtles, was found to be strongly allometric with respect to size.
41415243|Acoustic signals play an important role in intraspecific communication for most anurans. We investigated the vocal signals, communication, and ear morphology of captive Kihansi Spray Toads (Nectophrynoides asperginis), an Extinct in the Wild diurnal species that is endemic to a specialized spray zone created by waterfalls of the Kihansi River Gorge in Tanzania. We found that N. asperginis have reduced ears, and their calls are soft and simple, comprising short call notes with a fundamental frequency of ~4.1 kHz and harmonics extending into the ultrasonic range. Observations of the toads' interactions while calling indicate that males call primarily when they are in visual contact or behaviorally engaged with a conspecific. These observations suggest that social interactions in Spray Toads likely involve multimodal sensory communication. Nectophrynoides asperginis has apparently adapted to communicate amid high-level ambient noise produced by the waterfalls in its native environment by specializing in short-range communication within high-density aggregations.
10.2307/1563921|Specimens of the leptodactylid frog, Pleurodema cinerea, from northwestern Argentina were examined. Feeding is generalized and foraging occurs both on the shore and in the water. Reproduction is rain initiated. Females show a positive correlation between body size and number of eggs. Hatching time, egg mortality, and larval development are discussed.
10.2307/1563850|Concentrations of thirteen heavy metals in Loggerhead sea turtle eggs, collected from four nesting beaches, were determined. Comparisons of mean heavy metal burdens in eggs from different beaches suggested that no uniform geographic gradients exist in the nesting population. The comparisons did indicate that eggs laid on each beach had significantly different mean concentrations of barium, cobalt, chromium, mercury, molybdenum, nickel and lead. These data suggest the presence of groups of turtles and indirectly support the hypothesis that the Western Atlantic Loggerhead population is composed of demes.
25599269|The range of Phyllomedusa rohdei was recently extended to the state of Bahia, Brazil. Cytogenetic analysis through conventional Giemsa staining and Ag-NOR banding of P. rohdei samples from two localities in the Atlantic Rainforest, state of Bahia revealed intraspecific karyotype variation. Although all individuals showed the diploid number of 2n = 26, variations in the karyotypic formula were observed. The greatest variation was found in the length of first chromosome pair. The Ag-NOR banding identified variability in the number of stained chromosomes, which ranged from two to four banded chromosomes per individual. The results revealed the preliminary stages of chromosomal differentiation within this species.
1566146|Egg retention beyond the normal time of oviposition occurs frequently in oviparous squamate reptiles and is thought to be a response to unfavorable nesting conditions. During studies of the Eastern Fence Lizard (Sceloporus undulatus), we obtained data on the effects of extended egg retention on embryonic development, hatchling phenotypes, and posthatching survival under natural field conditions. Females that retained eggs beyond the normal time of oviposition produced heavier eggs with embryos more advanced (by one stage unit) at the time of oviposition than females that did not retain eggs for extended periods. Egg retention did not affect any hatchling phenotype (i.e., body size, thermal preference, running speed, desiccation rate, growth rate) but had a significant positive effect on posthatching survival in the field. However, the mechanism by which extended egg retention affects posthatching survival remains unclear. Our results have implications for the evolution of viviparity, but carefully designed experiments are needed to further understand the causes and consequences of extended egg retention.
40060507|In this study, we determined how well the snout-vent length (SVL) of anurans estimated their mass for 36 species in the New World. Linear regressions of log-mass on log-SVL were highly significant for all species, explaining more than 75% of the mass variation in most species, and over 50% of the mass variation in all species. We also investigated differences in the mass/SVL relationship within species, comparing juveniles to adults, females to gravid females, and males to females, to determine the importance of developing separate regressions for sex or life-stage classes. Three of six tests between juveniles and adults, and two of nine tests between females and gravid females, indicated statistically significant differences, although these differences had only minor effects on mass estimates. More statistical differences in regression equations occurred between males and females; again, these differences were unimportant for estimates of mass in some cases, but they were important where there was strong sexual size dimorphism within a species. Continued collection of both SVL and mass data in new field studies of anurans will provide broader analyses of mass/SVL regressions. These species regressions along with data on density can be used to determine anuran community biomass.
10.2307/1563924|Chickens found brown efts unpalatable. They hesitated longer in attacking efts compared with control Desmognathus ochrophaeus, attacked them less frequently, and for a shorter duration. Only one of 50 efts was killed (not eaten), whereas 47 of 50 D. ochrophaeus were eaten. When one red eft and one specimen of Pseudotriton montanus diastictus were offered to each of five chickens that had previous experience with brown efts, time to attack on both was the same as on D. ochrophaeus, showing that the chickens discriminated between these red salamanders and brown efts. Duration of attack on red efts resembled that on brown efts, but was much longer on P. m. diastictus regardless of which reddish species was offered first. No red eft was killed; all five specimens of P. m. diastictus were killed but only one eaten. Palatability of P. m. diastictus was clearly less than that of D. ochrophaeus. Brown efts seem to be exposed to greater risk of damage by predators than are red efts because their skin toxins are not reinforced by bright skin coloring; in nature, however, this risk may be reduced by defensive posturing that exposes yellow underparts.
10.2307/1564532|Seasonal variation in the male and female reproductive cycle of the viviparous scincid Mabuya capensis is described. Females exhibited a winter to summer vitellogenic period with ovulation occurring during mid-spring to mid-summer. The onset of vitellogenesis coincided with increasing environmental temperatures and photoperiod. Gravid females were collected from October to February, with parturition occurring during December through February. Females produced 8-20 embryos and clutch size was positively correlated with female body size. Males exhibited a basic prenuptial spermatogenic cycle with spermatogenesis commencing during late summer to autumn. Males became reproductively active during a period of decreasing ambient temperature, photoperiod, and rainfall. Peak spermiogenesis occurred during late winter to early summer at which time testis volumes were maximal. Testicular regression followed during summer, with testis volumes at minimum values.
10.2307/1563717|Germinal bed (GB) number in ovaries of 26 lizard species is described. This information, along with previous data on 14 other lizards, allowed us to form the following hypotheses concerning the relationships of GB number and (1) the numbers of growing and atretic follicles in the preovulatory ovary, (2) instantaneous fecundity, (3) geographic distribution, and (4) taxonomic relationship. Germinal bed number can vary within a family, but may be consistent within other families and also within genera. The 11 species with one GB per ovary are tropical or subtropical, or are derived from a primarily tropical genus, and exhibit a relatively low instantaneous fecundity (usually 1 egg). In contrast, all but one of the 21 temperate species examined have two GBs per ovary, but some tropical or subtropical species also exhibit this ovarian condition. Presence of two GBs per ovary is related to a wide range of instantaneous fecundities. In these species, rates of follicular atresia in preovulatory ovaries are inversely proportional to instantaneous fecundity. Species with one GB per ovary have not readily evolved new forms with higher instantaneous fecundities in the past. In contrast, the condition of two (or several) GBs per ovary has been associated with greater phylogenetic flexibility of instantaneous fecundity. In the latter species, evolutionary changes in pituitary FSH secretion, which affect both the number of ovarian follicles and rates of follicular atresia, may have mediated changes in instantaneous fecundity. Testing of these hypotheses must await more data on the number of GBs and growing and atretic follicles in preovulatory ovaries of more lizard species.
10.2307/1564677|We studied the reproductive phenology and ecology, and patterns of male and female reproductive success of Eleutherodactylus coqui, a frog with terrestrial reproduction, direct development, and male parental care. Reproductive activity (calling and oviposition) occurred during every month of our two-year study, although it was distinctly seasonal, with the lowest activity during the dry season and the highest during the wet season. Male chorus density and female clutch deposition were temporally associated with temperature and rainfall. Female breeding was asynchronous, with at least one female mating on 63% of all wet season nights. The mean interclutch interval was about 8 weeks during the wet season. Clutch size was correlated with female body size, but also showed a significant seasonal effect with clutch size increasing in the wet season. In contrast, ovipositing female body size declined from dry to wet season. Male mating success was variable, with some males mating up to five times over one six-month period. Mating success was not correlated with male body size and we found no evidence of size-assortative mating. Mating success was correlated with calling effort measured as chorus attendance. Variance in hatching rate comprised most (89%) of the total variation in female reproductive success, measured as number of hatchlings per clutch. Our results suggest that female coquies should be strongly selected to exercise mate choice based on variables that correlate with hatching rate, i.e., male parental care quality and nest site quality.
43287351|Larval, juvenile, and adult testes of Discoglossus pictus were examined to investigate how the extremely elongated sperm of this species, up to 2,500 m, can be accommodated within the testicular tubules of the gonad. Seminiferous tubules in D. pictus are modest in number, of large diameter, and run straight from the posterior to the anterior ends of the testis. The modified testis structure originates in its unique development. The anterior part of the testis is composed of short and straight tubules forming the rete testis. The lumen of the seminiferous tubules is filled with bundles composed of sperm embedded in a periodic acid-Schiff stain (PAS)-positive matrix secreted by Sertoli cells. The formation of such extremely elongated spermatozoa is possible because of anatomical modifications including simplification of testis structure, enlargement of the diameter of testicular tubules, reduction in their number, assembly of rete testis tubules in the anterior part of the testis, reduction of the collecting system to a single duct, and the occurrence of sperm bundles embedded in secretion. Additionally, the secretion of a PAS-positive substance by Sertoli cells during spermatogenesis was described. Thus the urogenital system in D. pictus deviates dramatically from the typical structure of male gonads in other anurans.
10.2307/1564560|We conducted laboratory choice tests with larval Great Basin spadefoot toads, Scaphiopus intermontanus Cope, to evaluate their ability to discriminate kin- and diet-based cues. When offered a choice between stimulus groups composed of familiar siblings and unfamiliar nonsiblings (both stimulus groups, as well as test individuals, raised on the same diet), larvae did not associate preferentially with either stimulus group. In diet-based cue experiments, larvae raised on Tubifex worms associated preferentially with unfamiliar nonsiblings raised on the same diet over unfamiliar siblings raised on rabbit chow. In the complementary experiment, however, larvae raised on rabbit chow did not associate preferentially with either stimulus group. These results do not support a role for kin discrimination and kin selection in S. intermontanus larvae. If discrimination does occur, the results suggest that environmentally derived cues may be the predominant means by which kin are discriminated. Moreover, the different results of the diet-based cue experiments suggest that larvae are not restricted to prefer only cues representative of their natal environment. Although familiarity is involved, larvae also may be capable of reacting preferentially to a novel stimulus based on some type of quality assessment.
10.2307/1564263|During a field study examining the live-bearing lizard Lacerta vivipara, we estimated the timing of mating, ovulation and parturition in individual females. Reproduction was synchronized, especially among the larger (older) females. The timing of all reproductive acts was inversely correlated with female size: smaller females have delayed reproductive activities relative to the larger lizards. The timing of copulation and parturition were related to the timing of ovulation in individual females. Thus, females which finished vitellogenesis early tended to mate early and gave birth to their young on an early date. Benefits of early reproduction include: attainment of the highest size-adjusted body weight by the post-reproductive females at the onset of hibernation; early born juveniles reach the largest size at the end of the activity season. The delay of reproduction in the smaller females is coincident with their relatively high growth rates and reduced lipid stores. Allocation of energy to reproduction appears to occur at a slow rate in the smaller adults and probably accounts for the delay in reproductive activities. We therefore consider the postponement of reproduction as a cost of rapid growth. The timing of reproduction in an individual female seems to be the result of an interaction between the benefits of early breeding and the pay-offs of rapid growth.
10.2307/1565935|The temporal pattern, basin construction and egg-laying of the Neotropical gladiator frog Hyla boans were studied along a small stream that enters the Manu River in Peru in August 2000. Initially we located 60 basins, which were all destroyed by flood waters; subsequently 89 basins were constructed in the same area. In basins where eggs were deposited, oviposition usually occurred on the night the basin was constructed (60%) or during the following night (30%). Of the breached basins that were initially unused the first night, but were subsequently used, 91% were repaired before oviposition. Significantly more basins were located on the top of sand islands than in the center or along the other edges. Basins with eggs had significantly higher rims than those without eggs, and new basins and those with eggs had deeper water than basins with tadpoles or old basins that were disintegrating. Of the basins constructed following the flood, 55% ultimately had eggs, 89% of the eggs hatched in these basins, and 91% of the tadpoles reached maturity or left the basin when the rims were breached. Of the eggs that hatched, 89% of the clutches hatched on the second day after egg-laying, and 11% hatched on the third day. Of the total 146 basins we located, tadpoles reached maturity in five of the original 60 and in 38 of the 86 basins constructed after the flood, for an overall success rate of 29%. However, considering only those basins with eggs, 43 of 81 clutches were successful (53%).
10.2307/1566188|New material of Emydoidea hutchisoni from Nebraska shows the species lived in the North American Miocene from medial Barstovian (approximately 14.5-13 million BP) to Clarendonian (approximately 11.5-9 million BP) times. Previously unknown plastra, limb girdle elements, and limbs of E. hutchisoni have provided new characters that have led to a revised diagnosis of the species. Derived characters shared by E. hutchisoni and Emydoidea blandingii include an elongated nuchal bone, ovoid plastral shape, short and broad femoral scute overlap, very wide xiphiplastral shelf, xiphiplastral striations, and an angular coracoidal border. But E. hutchisoni is distinct from E. blandingii in being smaller and having an akinetic shell with a shorter nuchal area, and it probably was more aquatic. The plastral lobes of a complete E. hutchisoni plastron are firmly fused together by dovetail sutures and a second, less complete plastron, has dovetail sutures on the anterior surface of the hypoplastron. Moreover, the pectoral abdominal scute sulcus occurs well anterior to the hyo-hypoplastral suture and expanded plastral buttresses are present on both plastra, furthur demonstrating a completely akinetic shell in E. hutchisoni. Two Terrapene sp. plastra from the same late Barstovian horizon in Nebraska as E. hutchisoni, however, are as kinetic as recent species of the genus, thus making the often proposed "Emydoidea-Terrapene clade" questionable. But an Emydoidea sp. indet. hyoplastran from a temporally equivalent Miocene (late Barstovian site) in Nebraska has a weak hinge line, indicating that it may be an advanced form, ancestral to E. blandingii and that E. hutchisoni is primitive. This suggests the possibility that E. hutchisoni may be a sister taxon to Emys, Emydoidea, and Terrapene.
10.2307/1565084|Univariate and multivariate analyses were made for two meristic, 15 morphometric, and eight visceral characters of Cyclophiops semicarinatus on the basis of 143 specimens collected from six islands of the Ryukyu Archipelago, Japan. Results of univariate analyses indicate that the number of ventrals shows a statistically significant variation among the samples, and that the body size in Takarajima population is distinctly smaller than those in the other populations. Results of multivariate analyses, on the other hand, suggest that the Takarajima population has diverged from the others in morphometric characters, but closely resembles the Amamioshima population in male and female visceral characters. Considering the high variability of body size and associated allometric characters generally assumed for small insular populations of vertebrates, these results cannot be interpreted as sufficient supports for the previous assumption of the subspecific separation of the Takarajima or any other populations of C. semicarinatus.
10.2307/1563318| A total of 25 species of reptiles and amphibians is reported from pine-oak woodland on two southern outlier ranges of the Sierra Madre Occidental, the Sierra Fra in Aguascalientes and the Sierra Morones in Zacatecas. Of those 25 species, 20 are known from the Sierra Fra and 17 from the Sierra Morones. Seven species are reported as new records for Aguascalientes or Zacatecas. A discussion of the biogeography of these ranges is included. Comparison is made to the herpetofaunas of the southern Sierra Madre Occidental and the Cordillera Volcnica in Michoacn. 
10.2307/1564199|Sphenomorphus cracens is a new species of small, slender skink from woodland and vine thicket habitats of northeastern Queensland. It is most similar to the partially sympatric S. pumilus.
10.2307/1563565| A new species of the genus Vilcunia from near Lago Belgrano, 4750South latitude, Santa Cruz, Argentina, is described. The morphology of the new species, V. periglacialis sp. nov. and the closely related V. silvanao are compared and a redescription of V. silvanae is made. Both species are of biogeographical interest given their distribution in the basaltic mesetas of the slopes of the Patagonian Andes. 
41415246|In an era of rapidly changing environments and greater human mobility and penetration into wild areas, organisms are being discovered in increasingly unexpected places. One such finding is a road-killed juvenile gartersnake (Thamnophis) outside of Haines, Alaska, in August 2005. The poor condition of the specimen prevented a positive identification based on morphology alone. Furthermore, no snakes are known to be native to this region. We therefore undertook a molecular approach to determine the species and geographic origin of the individual. We sequenced two partial loci of mitochondrial DNA (cytochrome b and NADH subunit 2) from the Alaska specimen and seven specimens from localities in the lower northwestern United States. Phylogenetic reconstruction using our sequences and additional GenBank samples unambiguously revealed that the Alaska specimen is Thamnophis ordinoides and that it shares a haplotype with the northernmost sampled Washington population of T. ordinoides. In light of these analyses, we assess the likelihood that the specimen represents a relict population, a recent natural colonization, or a fresh introduction.
1566144| From 1997-1999 we studied one of four known populations of Oregon Spotted Frogs (Rana pretiosa) in Washington State to investigate patterns of range use, movements, and habitat selection. Sixty telemetered frogs occupied a range that was a mosaic of wetlands (15.6 ha) and upland pasture (13.2 ha) grazed by dairy cows. Mean ( SE) home-range size for four frogs was 2.2  1.0 ha. Patterns of spatial use, determined from 654 telemetry locations, were closely related to season and changing surface water conditions. During the breeding season (February to May), frogs occupied 50% of the area they used the entire year, and oviposited in shallow pools (depth = 16.9  0.6 cm) on the margins of an ephemeral creek. In the dry season (June to August), frogs moved down stream to deeper, permanent pools (depth = 23.6  1.0 cm), significantly reduced their movements, and occupied the smallest ranges of any season. During the wet season (September to January), frogs moved back up stream and reoccupied the breeding range. During the coldest weather, frogs buried themselves at the base of dense vegetation in shallow water under ice (depth = 17.4  0.8 cm). Frogs avoided dry uplands. Frogs selected sedge (Carex obnupta, and Carex utriculata)/rush (Juncus effusus) habitat during breeding and hardhack (Spiraea douglasii) cover during the dry season that shaded and maintained remnant pools. Frogs preferred microhabitats with 50-75% water surface exposure based on comparisons between telemetry locations and nearby locations that were randomly selected. Aquatic requirements necessary to complete the life cycle of Oregon Spotted Frogs in this population include (1) stable, shallow water areas for egg and tadpole survival in the breeding season, (2) deep, moderately vegetated pools for adult and juvenile survival in the dry season, and (3) shallow water levels over emergent vegetation for protecting all age classes during cold weather in the wet season. 
40983660|Flexibility can be important in male-female behavioral interactions, particularly during courtship when a male typically adjusts his behavior in response to the female. Red-legged Salamanders (Plethodon shermani) have highly stereotyped courtship behaviors but show flexibility in the repetition of particular behaviors. We tested one measure of flexibility in a specific male courtship behavior pheromone delivery. We compared the number of male pheromone delivery attempts that occurred when a male "slapped" his pheromone-producing mental gland on the female's nares. We compiled a multiyear data set from earlier experiments on salamander behavior to test the consistency in the number of slaps each male delivered in two different courtships. The consistency level was 26% (26% of the total deviance in slapping behavior could be explained by previous slapping behavior), a value within the range of measures for other vertebrate behavioral traits. We interpret this consistency as a possible advantage to the male in delivering sufficient pheromone such that the female will not abandon the male during the critical process of sperm transfer.
10.2307/1565119|Five species of amphibian tadpoles (Rana clamitans, Rana sylvatica, Rana pipiens, Pseudacris crucifer, Bufo americanus) which varied in their sensitivity to low pH were exposed to a range of water pH and observed for avoidance behavior and changes in activity levels. All species tested avoided lethally acidic water and all species except Rana sylvatica avoided sublethal levels of acidity. However, the highest pH at which tadpoles avoided acidic water varied with species and appeared to be related to the acid sensitivity of the test species. Pseudacris crucifer displayed a slight but statistically significant decline in activity level, whereas B. americanus greatly increased its activity level during exposure to acidic water.
10.2307/1565054|In order to determine the effects of recent diet on prey choice, Senegalese chameleons (Chamaeleo senegalensis) were maintained on a diet consisting either of long-horned grasshoppers (Scudderia sp.) or of house crickets (Acheta domesticus). Choice tests showed that when the chameleons were being maintained on grasshoppers, their preferences for crickets became stronger over a period of days. Similarly, when the chameleons were being maintained on crickets, their preferences for grasshoppers became stronger over a period of days. These results show that prey preferences may become stronger for prey types that have not been included in the predator's recent diet. The results also suggest that nutrient constraints may be important in determining prey selection in insectivorous lizards.
10.2307/1563435| The status of Lygosoma graciloides Lnnberg and Andersson is examined. The preoccupied generic name Anotis Bavay, is replaced by Nannoscincus Gunther. N. graciloides is redescribed from existing collections. Morphological and coloration features not previously recorded are noted and hemipenes are described for the first time. The syntypes of Lygosoma graciloides Lnnberg and Andersson and Lygosoma scharffi Boulenger (photographs only) were examined, conspecificity being supported. Syntype (NHRMN 3097) is designated as the lectotype of Lygosoma graciloides. N. graciloides is a terrestrial, oviparous, thigmothermic lizard which is crepuscular or nocturnal in its activity in rainforests and tall open forests. The species is found in leaf-litter and surface debris associated with streams. Predators of N. graciloides include a snake, and a large carabid beetle. The distribution of N. graciloides is mutally exclusive with skinks of the Sphenomorphus scutirostrum complex. The common name of Elf Skink is suggested. 
10.2307/1565149|Interspecific differences in tadpole morphology among leopard frogs of the Rana pipiens complex may represent adaptations to larval habitats. We documented variation in tadpole morphology among populations of R. chiricahuensis and compared intraspecific patterns of variation to those among species. Traits that exhibit similar patterns of variation in intraspecific and interspecific comparisons may represent adaptations to different larval habitats. Tadpoles of R. chiricahuensis found in streams have more contrasting melanic patterns on the tail, thicker dorsal fins, and somewhat larger tail muscles than those from ponds. Unexpected differences between tadpoles from two stream habitats might represent nonadaptive morphological variation. Alternatively, such differences may represent different morphological responses to similar selection pressures, to subtly different aquatic habitats (different selective regimes), or different developmental responses to different environmental cues. Parallels in variation for some morphological traits within and among tadpoles of leopard frog species support, but do not demonstrate, the contention that those morphological differences represent adaptations to larval habitats.
10.2307/1562789|Mexican toads, Bufo valliceps, were trained in a few trials to escape noxious stimuli (heat and drying) by moving to cool, moist goal boxes in simple and multiple T-mazes. The mazes contained visual cues (stationary, two-dimensional forms) or olfactory cues (odoriferous compounds) or both. Performance parameters were running time and the ratio of correct (in the trained direction) to incorrect turns at choice points. In both mazes toads oriented with respect to olfactory cues and the spatial configuration of the maze but not to visual cues. Toads therefore appear to possess the olfactory mechanism necessary to orient with reference to an odoriferous landscape in nature.
10.2307/1565937|A new frog, Philautus griet sp. nov., is described from Munnar in the Western Ghats of India. Molecular phylogenetic analyses of a 548 bp fragment of the mitochondrial 16S rRNA-gene confirm its placement in the genus Philautus (Anura, Ranidae, Rhacophorinae). In its small size, general brown coloration, and reduced webbing on toes, the new species is similar to Philautus bombayensis and Philautus tinniens. However, relative to P. griet, P. bombayensis differs by the invariable presence of greyish-black and yellow spots in the groin and on the inside of the thighs, and P. tinniens can be distinguished by the dark side of the head and the yellow inner fingers and toes. Phylogenetic analyses of Indian and Sri Lankan Philautus have identified Philautus charius as the sister taxon of P. griet. However, the latter can be readily distinguished by its smaller adult size (20.7-22.1 mm, N = 5, vs. 27.5-30.9 mm, N = 10, in P. charius) and lack of black coloration with yellow spots on the posterior surface of the thighs. The 30 km wide Palghat Gap, dividing the Western Ghats into northern and southern components, may have played a role in the vicariant isolation of these species.
10.2307/1564044|Specimens of Microhyla inornata were collected at the southern tip of Taiwan. Descriptions of adults and tadpoles are presented. We show that the separation of different color morphs of the species into subspecies is probably inappropriate. Tadpoles of M. inornata can be distinguished from M. ornata in mouth morphology, tail shape, and pigmentation. Tadpoles of this species may eat macrophytic plant material in the water, regardless of their beakless mouthparts, in addition to filter feeding on microorganisms. Microhyla inornata breeds during and immediately after the heavy rain. Duration of development (from eggs to froglets) is less than three weeks. Thus, this species is considered an explosive breeder. Mating calls of M. inornata consist of three frequency bands at 4.4-5.7 (fundamental), 8.8-10.0, and 14.0-15.0 (two harmonics) kHz, respectively.
10.2307/1563203|A new species of scincid lizard, Mabuya croizati is described on the basis of 4 specimens from Elvecia and Mt. Turumquire, Venezuela.
4498606| Spotted Salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) and members of the Blue-Spotted Salamander complex (Ambystoma laterale-jeffersonianum complex) often share terrestrial and wetland habitats, allowing controlled comparison of their life-history strategies. We examined population sizes, sex ratios, breeding frequencies, recruitment rates, and age structures, in sympatric populations of Spotted Salamanders and members of the Blue-Spotted Salamander complex across five years. We saw declines in breeding population size that were larger for Blue-Spotted Salamanders than for Spotted Salamanders (55.2% vs. 33.3%), although members of the Blue-Spotted Salamander complex consistently had larger breeding populations. However, members of the Blue-Spotted Salamander complex also had more highly skewed sex ratios than did Spotted Salamanders (female: male, mean  23:1 vs. 0.8:1), greater intervals between breeding, lower recruitment (0.9 vs. 5.7 juveniles/female/year), and a younger average age (3.7 vs. 5.2 years). In addition, the sex ratio of Blue-Spotted Salamanders became more skewed over time, with a dramatic reduction in the number of males. Much of our demographic data at this site suggest that the lower reproductive success of Blue-Spotted Salamanders may reduce the relative likelihood of their persistence compared to Spotted Salamanders. However, yearly breeding population sizes, reproductive ages, and lack of juvenile demographic data imply that more study is needed to understand the relative likelihood of persistence for these two groups of pondbreeding amphibians. 
10.2307/1565659|A small lygosomine skink, from tropical rain forests of southern Vietnam, differs primarily from other Asiatic scincids in having a double rows of subdigital pads. There are presumably associated with its arboreal mode of life. Other scale characters allow placement of the new monotypic genus close to the lygosomine genera Lipinia Gray and Scincella Mittleman (group 1 of Greer, 1974).
4092919|One or both sexes exhibit territorial behavior in all dendrobatids that have been studied. Two types of territoriality are identified. In some Colosthethus species only females or both sexes defend small nonreproductive territories that offer access to water, food, and shelter. In other species, only males defend large reproductive territories against conspecific calling males, suggesting that females are the limited resource. However, in no case has the defended resource been unambiguously identified. I hypothesize that, in at least some species, males compete for calling sites in areas with high female density and with favorable sound transmission features. I found little support for the hypothesis that dendrobatids exhibit resource defense polygyny. More research is necessary to understand the function of territoriality and to identify limiting resources in poison frogs.
10.2307/1565715|Data on the reproductive ecology of the Horseshoe whip snake (Coluber hippocrepis) are scarce and largely anecdotal in northern Mediterranean populations of this species. Dissections of preserved specimens from the southeast of the Iberian Peninsula, together with field observations, provided information on size at sexual maturity, reproductive and fat body cycling, clutch size, hatching period, and feeding frequency. Males attain sexual maturity at about 500 mm snout-vent length (SVL) and females at 680 mm SVL. As with populations from Northern Africa, males exhibit a prenuptial spermatogenic cycle. The complete reproductive cycle (spermatogenesis, vitellogenesis, mating, shelling, oviposition, incubation, and hatching) occurs within the same calendar year. The northern limit of this spermatogenic cycle also coincides with the northern limit of the distribution of the species. The female reproductive cycle is seasonal, and most sexually mature females reproduce annually. Vitellogenesis is associated with a decline in the fat body level. Oviposition occurs in late June to early July, the mean clutch size is 6.8 eggs, and there is a significant correlation between female size and fecundity. Females feed rarely when gravid. The hatching period begins in late August and lasts to mid-September. Offspring size was 237 to 308 mm SVL, and offspring mass 6.1 to 9.0 g.
40060508|Microhabitat selection by reptiles can be affected by a complex interplay of abiotic and biotic factors. The Brown Treesnake (Boiga irregularis) is an efficient nocturnal predator that hunts in the tropical forest canopy and on the ground, using visual and chemical cues. To identify the factors influencing Brown Treesnake microhabitat use, we experimentally manipulated an abiotic factor, moonlight level, and a biotic factor, prey presence. We hypothesized that (1) moonlight would affect microhabitat use and (2) the presence of prey would alter microhabitat use in various moonlight levels. Trials were conducted in a large laboratory chamber with artificial trees in simulated new, half, and full moonlight. In each trial, the snake's location in canopy, subcanopy, or open ground was recorded at 60-sec intervals for 100 min. Treesnake microhabitat use was determined in three moonlight levels without prey present and in two moonlight levels with a mouse (adult Mus musculus) or a Mangrove Monitor (juvenile Varanus indicus) present. The treesnakes used open ground areas more as moonlight decreased, and they used the canopy more as moonlight increased. No significant differences existed within a moonlight level between trials with or without prey. Thus, moonlight appeared to supercede prey availability in affecting Brown Treesnake microhabitat use. Additionally, the effect of nocturnal illumination on Brown Treesnake habitat use may also have important conservation implications regarding trapping techniques and deterring the snakes from specific areas.
10.2307/1564585|Dispersion was studied in four island populations of tiger snakes (Notechis ater) in southern Australia. Within islands, snakes were usually aggregated in areas of high densities of prey and/or cover. Differences in the dispersion patterns of snakes among islands were correlated with differences in the spatial distributions of these resources. On an island where both resources were abundant and randomly spaced, snakes were also randomly dispersed. The evidence supports the hypothesis that resource densities are important determinants of dispersion in island tiger snakes and may have contributed to evolutionary divergence in these populations.
10.2307/1564481|Centrolenella ametarsia is described from the Amazonian lowlands of Colombia. It is distinguished by small size, presence of vomerine teeth, a color pattern in preservative of lavender with dark spots, a rounded snout in dorsal view and profile, a concealed prepollical spine, and a small circular patch of glands on the dorsal surface of the thumb in the male. The species is known only from a single adult male specimen. The relationships of C. ametarsia are unclear. A survey of distributional patterns of currently-recognized species of centrolenid frogs reveals that the family is most diverse at higher elevations (over two-thirds of the species have montane distributions), and an unusually high proportion of lowland endemics (50%) are among the smallest centrolenid species known (adult SVL <20 mm).
40060496|The description of patterns of variation in any character system within well-defined species is fundamental for understanding lineage diversification and the identification of geographic units that represent opportunities for sustained evolutionary divergence. In this paper, we analyze intraspecific variation in cranial shape in the Pumpkin Toadlet, Brachycephalus ephippium-a miniaturized species composed of isolated populations on the slopes of the mountain ranges of southeastern Brazil. Shape variables were derived using geometric-statistical methods that describe shape change as localized deformations in a spatial framework defined by anatomical landmarks in the cranium of B. ephippium. By statistically weighting differences between landmarks that are not close together (changes at larger geometric scale), cranial variation among geographic samples of B. ephippium appears continuous with no obvious gaps. This pattern of variation is caused by a confounding effect between within-sample allometry and among-sample shape differences. In contrast, by statistically weighting differences between landmarks that are at close spacing (changes at smaller geometric scale), differences in shape within- and among-sample variation are not confounded, and a marked geographic differentiation among population samples of B. ephippium emerges. The observed pattern of geographic differentiation in cranial shape apparently cannot be explained as isolation-by-distance. This study provides the first evidence that the detection of morphological variation or lack thereof, that is, morphological conservatism, may be conditional on the scale of measurement of variation in shape within the methodological formalism of geometric morphometrics.
10.2307/1564641|Detailed morphological comparisons were made between two syntypes of Gekko verreauxi, a species described from the Andaman Islands, India, but later synonymized with G. smithii from Southeast Asia, and specimens of other congeneric species (including G. smithii) from various localities. The results revealed that the two specimens are collectively distinct from any other species in several characteristics. Thus, the specific name G. verreauxi is resurrected as valid. A lectotype is designated, and the two species are diagnosed.
40060467|We describe a new species of Hydrolaetare from the eastern lowlands of Bolivia. The new species differs from the other two congeners in (1) Finger II and III with lateral fringes only on the inner side; (2) relative length of first finger; (3) palmar tubercle distinctly larger than thenar tubercle; (4) toes semiwebbed; and (5) coloration. Moreover, the advertisement call of the new species differs from that of its congeners. Some information about its natural history is given. /// Se describe una nueva especie de rana perteneciente al gnero Hydrolaetare proveniente de las tierras bajas del este de Bolivia. La nueva especie se diferencia de sus dos congneres en (1) dedos II y III de las manos con franjas laterales nicamente en su parte interna; (2) longitud relativa del primer dedo de la mano; (3) tubrculo palmar distintivamente ms grande que tubrculo tenar; (4) membrana parcial entre los dedos de los pies; y (5) coloracin. Ms an, las vocalizaciones de la nueva especie difiere de la de sus congneres. Se incluye cierta informacin de su historia natural.
4092960|Animals that are susceptible to predation sometimes engage in crypsis to conceal themselves from predators. Such behavior often consists of background color matching via substrate choice. Intraspecific color variation may result in differential substrate preference among color morphs. I investigated this idea using juvenile Northern Leopard Frogs (Rana pipiens), which exhibit either green or brown background color. Both color morphs spent more time on dark, concealing substrates than light, revealing ones and hopped less frequently when located on dark, concealing substrates. Frogs did not respond differently to green and brown fabric substrates, and they preferred brown natural substrates over green ones. Because green and brown frogs did not behave differently in any experiment, this study suggests that juvenile Northern Leopard Frogs exhibit a generalized cryptic behavior pattern independent of background body color.
10.2307/1564014|The effect of a short pulse of acidity on the growth rates of three species of tadpoles was investigated. Tadpoles of Xenopus laevis, Bufo valliceps, and Bufo woodhousei were exposed to pH 4 and pH 7.2-7.6 solutions for three days. At the end of the exposure period, the wet and dry weights of the tadpoles exposed to the low pH solution were about half that of tadpoles exposed to neutral solution. However, seven days after transfer to neutral conditions, the wet weights of the two groups did not differ, and time to metamorphosis was not affected by the short exposure to low pH. No differences in wet weight were observed when the tadpoles were not fed during the exposure period.
10.2307/1565633|In this study we report mortality rates of adults of Rana pipiens to mild acid exposure and pH preferences for R. pipiens and R. clamitans. We exposed adult R. pipiens to mildly acidic conditions for a ten day period under controlled laboratory conditions. Frogs exposed to citrate buffer at pH 5.5 for 10 d exhibited 72% mortality as compared with 3.5% mortality in the control group held at pH 7.0. Furthermore, within the pH 5.5 group there was a difference in acid sensitivity based on season. All of the frogs that had recently emerged from hibernation died within the first four days of exposure to pH 5.5, whereas frogs that were post breeding suffered 58% mortality throughout the 10 d of the experiment. This study also examined the pH preferences of adult frogs. Individuals of R. pipiens (N = 24) and R. clamitans (N = 12) were placed in a six-compartment experimental chamber filled with three different pH solutions buffered to pH 4.0, 5.5, and 7.0. Frogs of both species preferred the more neutral pHs. Our results suggest that adults of R. pipiens are sensitive to mildly acidic conditions, especially when emerging from hibernation, and that adults of both R. pipiens and R. clamitans can discriminate between acidic and neutral pH environments.
10.2307/1562810|Holarctic hylids are currently grouped into 4 genera: Hyla, Acris, Pseudacris, and Limnaeodus. A complete osteological analysis of 32 species of holarctic hylids was performed to discover if systematic skeletal differences supported recognition of these taxonomic groups. Detailed examinations of their skeletons revealed that the species differed in 20 osteological characters. Simple matching similarity coefficients were calculated for all of the species and a phenogram was constructed using the weighted pair group method of averages. The osteological analysis suggests that the 32 species form 5 clusters: 1) 7 species of Pseudacris; 2) two species of Acris; 3) Limnaeodus ocularis; 4) Hyla crucifer; and, 5) 21 species of Hyla. Both Acris and Limnaeodus are distinctive osteologically, and both genera appear to be valid. Osteologically, Hyla crucifer appears to be a connecting link between Pseudacris and other Hyla, and literature reports of hydridization studies also suggest that H. crucifer is equally related to both Pseudacris and other holarctic Hyla. Present data, then, suggest that the recognition of Pseudacris as a separate genus is unwarranted, and the species so designated probably represent species within the genus Hyla.
10.2307/1564203|Populations of parthenogenetic whiptail lizards (Cnemidophorus) differ from bisexual whiptail lizards by 1) their reproductive mode, which results in offspring genetically identical to each other and the mother, and 2) the absence of males in populations. Three parthenogenetic whiptail lizard forms (diploid Cnemidophorus tesselatus, triploid C. tesselatus, and C. neomexicanus, and one bisexual species, C. sexlineatus) were studied to assess the effects of reproductive mode and absence of males on social behavior. Lizards were observed as groups of five conspecific individuals composed of all females (parthenogenetic or bisexual), all males, or mixed males and females (bisexuals only). Aggressive interactions (supplanting, chasing, and biting), competition over food items, and fighting were less common in parthenogenetic than in bisexual groups. This reduced aggression seemed to be related to the high degree of genetic similarity among parthenogens. Bisexual groups were more likely to be organized into linear dominance hierarchies than were parthenogenetic groups, and the strength of the hierarchies seemed to correspond to the presence of males in the bisexual groups.
10.2307/1564204|Population interactions among three species of salamanders in the genus Desmognathus (D. quadramaculatus, D. monticola, and D. ochrophaeus) were studied in the laboratory using an artificial stream system. These salamanders occur sympatrically and are known to partition the habitat along an aquatic-terrestrial gradient. The presence of D. quadramaculatus decreased the activity of D. monticola, but the reverse was not true. D. monticola negatively affected the spatial distribution of D. ochrophaeus. D. ochrophaeus depressed the level of activity of similarly sized D. monticola only. Larger species may represent a predatory threat to smaller species while competitive effects may be present among the smaller individuals of each species.
41415303|We predicted that the probability of egg occurrence of salamander Salamandrina perspicillata depended on stream features and prdation by native crayfish Austropotamobius fulcisianus and the introduced trout Salmo trutta. We assessed the presence of S. perspicillata at 54 sites within a natural reserve of southern Tuscany, Italy. Generalized linear models with binomial errors were constructed using egg presence/absence and altitude, stream mean size and slope, electrical conductivity, water pH and temperature, and a predation factor, defined according to the presence/absence of crayfish and trout. Some competing models also included an autocovariate term, which estimated how much the response variable at any one sampling point reflected response values at surrounding points. The resulting models were compared using Akaike's information criterion. Model selection led to a subset of 14 models with AIC c (i.e., models ranging from substantial support to considerably less support), and all but one of these included an effect of prdation. Models with the autocovariate term had considerably more support than those without the term. According to multimodel inference, the presence of trout and crayfish reduced the probability of egg occurrence from a mean level of 0.90 (SE limits: 0.980.55) to 0.12 (SE limits: 0.340.04). The presence of crayfish alone had no detectable effects (SE limits: 0.860.39). The results suggest that introduced trout have a detrimental effect on the reproductive output of S. perspicillata and confirm the fundamental importance of distinguishing the roles of endogenous and exogenous forces that act on population distribution.
4092864|Long-term effects of hybridization and introgression are influenced by performance of hybrids in habitats of parental species. The treefrogs Hyla cinerea and Hyla gratiosa, which typically breed in permanent and temporary habitats, respectively, have occasionally hybridized throughout the Southeastern United States. To predict in which of the parental habitats effects of hybridization might be strongest, I performed experiments to evaluate predation on tadpoles of H. cinerea, H. gratiosa, and F
10.2307/1565454|Effects of two types of timbering on populations of the Peaks of Otter salamander (Plethodon hubrichti) were determined using average numbers found during multiple night collections. Sampling was done prior to, and for two years after, timbering on four sites in each of three treatments (clearcut, shelterwood cuts, and reference). The average numbers of P. hubrichti at the reference and shelterwood cut sites were stable over time while those at the clearcut sites showed a significant decrease post-timbering. Two years after timbering, 30% of the pre-timbering populations remained at the clearcut sites. Jolly-Seber population estimates on one clearcut site decreased from 43 to eight animals after cutting. In contrast, one reference site had a population estimate that oscillated around a mean of 71. Of the animals marked before timbering, significantly fewer were recaptured after timbering at the clearcut site (17.5%) relative to the reference site (39.0%). Juveniles appeared to be the size class affected to the greatest degree. Adults and juveniles on clearcuts most likely emigrated and/or died after treatment.
10.2307/1564794|Six of the eight species belonging to the scincid lizard genus Niveoscincus are restricted to Tasmania. These species are known to be closely related, based on earlier MC'F comparisons; we here use allozyme electrophoresis to test species boundaries and to elucidate cladistic relationships within the genus. All species are well characterized by fixed allelic differences, but two closely related species, N. microlepidotus and N. orocryptus, are not distinguishable electrophoretically at some localities, while maintaining reproductive isolation in other areas of sympatry. Analysis of variation at 31 presumed gene loci provides the basis for an evolutionary scenario in which N. coventryi of mainland Australia is the sister species of all other Niveoscincus. Within the Tasmanian radiation, a single ancestral form may have given rise to four modern lineages, these being N. ocellatus, N. pretiosus, N. metallicus, and a group consisting of N. palfreymani plus the three alpine species, N. greeni, N. microlepidotus, and N. orocryptus.
10.2307/1565306|Digestibilities of dry matter, energy, water, and nitrogen were determined for four foods of desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) that were kept individually in outdoor pens where food intake and feces output could be measured quantitatively. Two native plants, the forb Malacothrix glabrata and the grass Achnatherum (Oryzopsis) hymenoides, and two exotic plants, the forb Erodium cicutarium and the grass Schismus barbatus, were collected in the field during the seasons that wild tortoises consumed them (spring for the forbs, summer for the then-dead and dry grasses), and were then offered to the penned tortoises. The digestibilities of the nutrients in the two forbs were similar, ranging from 63-70% for dry matter, 69-73% for energy, 72-79% for nitrogen, and 70-75% for water. Which forb was the more nutritions depends on what determines feeding rate (appetite) in tortoises. If tortoises eat to obtain a given volume of food ("full stomach") daily, then the exotic forb provides significantly more digestible energy and nitrogen, but if tortoises eat to obtain a given amount of digestible energy ("meet energy needs") daily, then the native forb provides significantly more nitrogen and water. The dry matter and energy digestibilities of the two grasses were much lower than the forbs, but were similar to each other, ranging from 46-50%. However, both grasses provided little or no nitrogen, and the tortoises lost more water than they gained while processing grasses. The type of food plant (forb or grass) and its phenological stage, rather than its geographic origin (native or exotic), best predicted its nutritional value.
10.2307/1565366|We studied the reproductive cycle of male Chinese green tree vipers, Trimeresurus s. stejnegeri, in northern Taiwan by examining seasonal changes in the morphology and histology of their reproductive organs from May 1996 to August 1997. A total of 144 mature males was examined. Based on a histological examination of the seminiferous epithelium, we classified spermatogenesis into five stages: early recrudescence, late recrudescence, spermiogenesis, early regression, and late regression. Testis recrudescence began in the spring. Sperm started to appear in summer and reached a peak in fall. In the winter, testes of most snakes were regressed and sperm disappeared in the lumina of the seminiferous tubules. Throughout the year, sperm were present in the vas deferens. Testis mass peaked in summer, then regressed in winter and early spring. Monthly changes in seminiferous tubule diameter, seminiferous epithelium height, and fat body mass revealed a similar pattern as that of testis. These three parameters were significantly correlated with each other and with temperature and rainfall. Monthly changes in testis and fat body mass were followed by changes in kidney mass. Hypertrophy of the renal sexual segment of T. s. stejnegeri occurred from late summer to winter and might be related to mating activities observed in the same period. As with other viperids, male Chinese green tree vipers exhibited a postnuptial spermatogenesis cycle, which may be confusing when judging from mating activities alone. We proposed another criterion to distinguish postnuptial from prenuptial spermatogenesis.
10.2307/1565295| We used radiotelemetry to determine habitat use and home range characteristics of 16 blunt-nosed leopard lizards (Gambelia sila) at two sites on the Naval Petroleum Reserves in California. Space use parameters of eight lizards occupying an area of relatively dense vegetation in 1982 and eight lizards inhabiting a sparsely vegetated site in 1984 were compared. Home range size, core area size, and amount of overlap of ranges did not differ significantly between sites. The difference in average home range size between males (4.24 ha) and females (2.02 ha) was borderline significant (P = 0.054). Female home ranges and core areas were overlapped extensively by male ranges (x = 79.8% and 50.3%, respectively). There was no evidence of intrasexual overlap of core areas. Male home ranges overlapped the ranges of up to four other males but female ranges did not overlap one another. At the more densely vegetated site, leopard lizards used washes significantly more than grassland, floodplain, and road habitats and they used grassland significantly less than other habitats. At the sparsely vegetated site, grassland was used more than wash habitat and hills were used less than all other habitats. Our data indicate that leopard lizard activity is concentrated in washes and other open areas when herbaceous cover is dense, but they are capable of utilizing the more extensive grassland habitat if vegetation is sufficiently sparse. Creating open space within the grassland habitat may have important management implications for this species in some areas. 
1565882|Drought-related survival strategies were examined in a population of Sonoran Mud Turtles (Kinosternon sonoriense) inhabiting an ephemeral stream in the Peloncillo Mountains, New Mexico. Behavioral responses to seasonal drying of the habitat were investigated via radiotelemetry and repeated sampling of the resident population. All transmittered turtles were observed engaging in terrestrial dormancy for periods of 11-34 days. Two nontransmittered turtles remained in a small puddle through the drought, and no turtles were observed migrating to permanent bodies of water. Our results indicate that estivation is the dominant drought-survival strategy employed by K. sonoriense in our study population.
25599185|Although the number of temporary wetlands used by many amphibian species has declined nationally, permanent wetlands have increased on the landscape in many regions. Species like Bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana) may benefit from permanent wetlands and increase their density on the landscape, making them more likely to encounter wetlands used by amphibians breeding in temporary ponds. Although Bullfrogs are typically viewed as inhabitants of permanent wetlands because of their long larval periods, they are known to use temporary ponds. This study examined how larval density influenced proportion of Bullfrogs metamorphosing, time to metamorphosis, mass at metamorphosis, and total Bullfrog survival in mesocosm ponds. Proportion of Bullfrogs metamorphosing and tadpole development were greatest in mesocosms with low tadpole density with up to 25% of tadpoles reaching metamorphosis. Our study indicates Bullfrogs can metamorphose in more northern climates within a single season across a range of densities, and highlights the potential for Bullfrogs to successfully use temporary pond environments.
41415290|Current methods for controlling the invasive Brown Treesnake (Boiga irregularis) on Guam include a modified minnow trap with a live mouse lure. We investigated the effects on capture success of augmenting these traps with scented guide ropes leading to trap entrances. Initial screening of scent preferences was based on time spent in scented and unscented arms of a Y-maze. Preferences of large and small snakes were scored for six different prey scents (live and carrion gecko, skink, and mouse). Large snakes spent more time in the maze arm scented with live gecko and carrion gecko, whereas small snakes spent more time in the arm scented with carrion mouse and carrion gecko. After the laboratory study, a pilot trapping session was conducted in the field using three treatments (live mouse-scented ropes, carrion gecko-scented ropes, and carrion mouse-scented ropes) and two controls (traps with unscented guide ropes and those with no ropes attached). Contrary to laboratory results, live mouse-scented ropes were most effective. We conducted a second trapping session using live mouse-scented ropes as well as the two controls used in the pilot study. For snakes of below-average to average condition, the number of captures for traps with live mouse-scented ropes was higher than for traps with no ropes. However, for snakes of above-average condition, there were no differences in capture rates between trap treatments. Overall, treatment effects were weaker than latent individual heterogeneity and the influence of snake body size, with large snakes trapped more readily.
10.2307/1564684| A new species of Hyla is described from the eastern slope of the Andes in northern Colombia. This species can be distinguished from Hyla minuta osteologically, but it cannot be placed in any of the presently recognized species groups of Hyla based on morphological characters. In spite of its resemblance to H. minuta, H. stingi and H. minuta are not close relatives. It is shown that dorsal pattern and color is not an autapomorphy in H. minuta, and therefore lacks any use for taxonomic purposes in that species. It is suggested H. minuta is a complex of species. Se describe una nueva especie de Hyla de la vertiente oriental de los Andes en norte Colombia. En el presente, esta especie solo puede ser distinguida de Hyla minuta usando caracteres osteologicos. Esta especie no puede ser asignada a ninguno de los grupos de especies de Hyla actualmente reconocidos, basandome en caracteres morfologicos. A pesar de su parecido con H. minuta, H. stingi e H. minuta no estan cercanamente relacionades. Se muestra que el patrn y color dorsal no es una autapomorfia de H. minuta, y por lo tanto no son buenos caracteres para ser usados con fines taxonmicos en esa especie. Se sugiere que H. minuta es un complejo de especies. 
10.2307/1563665|The Mediterranean and Indo Pacific house geckos are sympatric in southern Florida, have similar size, diet and activity patterns, but have different social behavior. During laboratory observations, the parthenogenetic H. garnotii and the bisexual H. turcicus had different perch preferences, site specificity and degrees of association to other individuals. In spite of H. garnotii being more successful than H. turcicus in interspecific fights, the distribution of the former in experimental cages was more influenced than that of H. turcicus in heterospecific situations, compared to homospecific ones.
40664955|Reproductive biology of males in the Guam population of the Brown Treesnake, Boiga irregularis, was investigated through monthly examinations of the urogenital system organs and plasma testosterone levels. All males examined during the 12 consecutive months of the study were spermatogenic and had sperm in the ductus epididymis and ductus deferens. No evidence of testicular recrudescence or regression was observed. Testis mass did not vary among months. Epithelial height of the kidney sexual segment was the only feature examined that varied significantly among months, with lowest heights observed in May through July. Despite this variation, the sexual segment in all males was hypertrophied and contained secretory granules. Plasma testosterone levels did not vary significantly among months, were relatively low compared to those of most other snake species, and were extremely variable among individuals. There were individuals with near-zero levels in most months. Overall, the reproductive biology of males on Guam is aseasonal. In light of this finding, the claim of seasonality in the putative source population is reassessed. Testosterone levels were independent of coelomic fat body mass, which was extremely variable among males and, in many cases, quite low. Observations on morphological features suggest that individual reproductive capacity increases disproportionately with increasing body size. The possibility of facultative aseasonal/seasonal reproduction in the species is discussed. The observed capacity for continuous spermatogenesis and its relative independence from body condition may facilitate the invasive capabilities of this ecologically damaging species.
10.2307/1565503|Selection of an increased body temperature (T<sub>b</sub>) following injection of dead bacteria and placement into a photothermal gradient was first reported for reptiles in the lizard Dipsosaurus dorsalis. Subsequent to the study on D. dorsalis, a fever response was demonstrated in other lizard species, in turtles and in a crocodilian, however, the only previous study conducted with snakes did not show significant increases in selected T<sub>b</sub> following injection of dead bacteria or endotoxin. The objective of the current study was to examine six species of snakes, representing two geographic regions (California and Pennsylvania) and different habitat types (desert and mesic environment) for the presence or absence of a fever response after injection with a single dosage of dead Aeromonas sobria bacteria. Body temperatures for individuals of each species were measured for 24 h under saline injection conditions and for 48 h under bacteria injection conditions using 36 gauge type K thermocouples and a computerized data acquisition system. A substrate type thermal gradient provided a range of available surface temperatures from 13 to 40 C. Two of the desert species, Pltuophis melanoleucus and Arizona elegans, did exhibit a fever response during at least one of the four 12 h periods following bacteria injection. One of the mesic species, Thamnophis sirtalis, exhibited a significant hypothermia in response to bacteria injection. One desert species, Lampropeltis getulus and two mesic species, Elaphe obsoleta and Nerodia sipedon, did not exhibit any change in T<sub>b</sub> following bacteria injection. The results of this study indicate that the behavioral fever response can now be confirmed in snakes. Short acclimation periods, inadequate selection of a proper pyrogen and the use of a photothermal gradient may have contributed to negative results in the previous study on snakes. Use of only a single dosage of bacteria may have produced negative results in some species during this study.
23327168|We examined the diet of the Milksnake (Lampropeltis triangulum) in the western United States and evaluated predictions about ontogenetic shifts, sexual divergence, and geographic variation in diet. Identifiable prey items were found in 139 specimens, and 41 additional prey items were recorded from the literature, for 180 prey items in total from 175 individual snakes. Lampropeltis triangulum is a generalist predator and feeds primarily on lizards and mammals. Skinks made up a large portion of the total diet. Other lizard taxa were also important prey, whereas reptile eggs, snakes, and birds were consumed infrequently. Ontogenetic shifts in diet were documented. The upper size limit of prey increased with increasing snake size, and adult snakes continued to feed on small prey. Prey type also was related to snake size. Juveniles fed more frequently on lizards, but adults fed mainly on mammals. Although males were longer than females, there was no sexual size dimorphism in mass, and there were no differences in diet between sexes. Diet varied geographically, and the proportion of endothermic prey was greater at higher latitudes after accounting for snake size.
23326906|New fossil materials of the Diamond-backed Terrapin (Malaclemys terrapin) are described from Late Pleistocene coastal deposits of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. Specimens represent isolated carapacial bones from a number of different individuals. The fossils are identified as Malaclemys based on the features of scute sulci and the presence of annuli scars on most specimens. These new fossil records provide evidence that Malaclemys was distributed throughout the southeastern United States during the Late Pleistocene.
1565789|The diet of two rice-field inhabiting snakes, Elaphe quadrivirgata and Rhabdophis tigrinus, was examined with reference to rice-field anuran fauna. Although adult Hyla japonica and Rhacophorus schlegelii inhabit rice fields temporarily in spring for reproduction, juvenile Rana nigromaculata and Rana limnocharis are residents of rice fields after emerging in early summer. In response to these seasonal changes, both snakes shifted their prey selection dramatically from adults of H. japonica and Rh. schlegelii in spring to juveniles of Ra. nigromaculata and Ra. limnocharis in summer. These results strongly suggest that the seasonal partitioning of rice-field habitats between small adult frogs and juveniles of larger frogs allows these snakes to continuously forage in rice fields throughout the warm season.
43287348|We evaluated patterns of site preference for oviposition in Espadarana andina based on the identification and characterization of microhabitats during rainy and dry seasons. We also evaluated the presence of males and females at oviposition sites and the proximity of the adults to the clutches. An electivity index was used to determine which microhabitats were selected for oviposition and calling by males. Additionally, abiotic factors that might influence the oviposition site preference in this species were evaluated. Espadarana andina selected green leaves of Hedychium coronarium along the stream edge, at a height of 70-140 cm for both oviposition and calling sites. All the recorded clutches were found exclusively on leaves of H. coronarium, an invasive plant, suggesting that this plant offers advantages for the reproductive activity of E. andina over other plant species present along the stream border. There was no difference in site selection for calling, mating, and oviposition between dry and rainy seasons and among months. Males stood near clutches during the night, calling from the same plant. Although they were significantly closer to the clutches than females, they did not show any action to increase the survival of the embryos in the clutches. Therefore, we did not observe true egg attendance in E. andina; this observation fits with the absence of parental care behaviors described for the Centroleninae.
40060512|In most Anuran species, space use includes a lek mating system with defense of a calling site for only a short time period during an individual's lifespan. In contrast, territoriality over a longer time period by one or both of the sexes has been reported in all studied dendrobatid frogs. In most dendrobatid species, territories are defended for reproductive purposes, and typically, males vocalize from these territories to attract mates and repel rivals. It has been hypothesized that reproductive resources such as oviposition sites or tadpole deposition sites are defended. For reproductive resource defense to occur, reproductive units (eggs or tadpoles) must be deposited at sites where the territorial individual displays agonistic interaction with intruding individuals. Here, we challenge this assumption in a field study on the poison frog Dendrobates ventrimaculatus in French Guiana. We show that home-range size is affected by spatial distribution of bromeliads. Clutches of eggs were found to be predominantly deposited in bromeliads located inside the 50% Kernel core areas of activity within male territories, although tadpoles were deposited more frequently outside these core areas. Vocalization of males only occurred in agonistic interactions with other males or while courting a female. Our data show that (1) males of D. ventrimaculatus defend small territories containing their reproductive resources, (2) these resources are not limited in number, and (3) territories are not defended for characteristics supporting advertisement vocalization. We conclude that males defend territories to increase the success of courting a female without interruption by other males.
4092935|Removal of vegetation directly surrounding a breeding pond has the potential to significantly alter the environmental conditions experienced by larval amphibians during development and, therefore, may affect the life history of this and subsequent life stages. In this study, we investigated growth, development, and survivorship of Litoria ewingii as a result of different shading conditions in a commercially logged forest in Tasmania, Australia. We specifically investigated responses in two types of breeding ponds available to the species: permanent ponds, and smaller ephemeral ponds. Increased shading in permanent ponds resulted in reduced survival. Larval growth and development did not respond significantly to shading treatment in permanent ponds but were significantly affected by pond elevation. In ephemeral ponds, increased shading resulted in decreased developmental rate and a higher coefficient of variation for size at metamorphosis. Our findings suggest that the larval success of L. ewingii is not likely to be enhanced by vegetative buffer zones around permanent pond margins but may be enhanced by ensuring heterogeneity of shading conditions around ephemeral ponds.
10.2307/1563095|Karyotypes of 8 species of Leptodactylidae amphibians were studied. They constitute two groups with 2n=22 and 2n=26 chromosomes. Centric fusions and pericentric inversions are the most important mechanisms of karyotype differentiation among these species. Cytophotometric measurements of 7 species showed a gradual increase of DNA content.
10.2307/1565638| Teius teyou, a teiid lizard that inhabits the chaco of Argentina, Bolivia, and Paraguay, was reproductively active in spring, from October through December. General activity is coincident with the wet season (October-March), but independent of rainfall. Neonates were first observed in January and did not reach maturity during their first year. Females laied one clutch of eggs per year, and clutch size (x = 4.96) was positively related to female body size. A positive relationship was found for both sexes between reproductive activity and mean monthly rainfall. This relationship appears to be a common characteristic of Teiidae from seasonal climate habitats. In comparison to other sympatric Teiidae, the reproductive cycle of T. teyou resembles the more distantly related Tupinambis rufescens (the largest teiid in the study area) than it does the more closely related, but substantially smaller Cnemidophorus ocellifer. In summary, the timing of reproduction in chacoan teiids appears to be most determined by environmental factors and to a lesser degree by body size. Reproductive timing in these teiids is seemingly independent of phylogenetic history. /// Se estudi la biologa reproductiva de Teius teyou, un lagarto del chaco argentino, boliviano y paraguayo. Esta especie mostr actividad reproductiva en primavera, desde octubre a diciembre. La actividad general coincide con la poca de lluvias (octubre a marzo), pero curiosamente es independiente de los milmetros de lluvias cados. Los neonatos aparecen enero y no alcanzan la madurez reproductiva dentro del primer ao. Las hembras realizan una sola puesta por ciclo (4,96 huevos) que esta positivamente correlacionada con el tamao de la hembra. Se encontr relacin entre los valores histricos de precipitacin mensual promedio y los ciclos reproductivos, nicamente. Esta situacin parece ser un rasgo comn para Teiidae de arreas climticamente estacionales. Respecto de los teidos simptricos, reproductivamente. T. teyou se asemeja ms a Tupinambis rufescens (el tedo de mayor tamao en la zona de estudio) que a Cnemidophorus ocellifer (ms relacionado filogenticamente, pero significativamente de menor tamao que los restantes tedos). En sntesis los tedos chaqueos son afectados en su ciclo reproducido por factores ambientales y en menor grado por su tamao corporal. Es interesante que la longitud de los ciclos reproductivos en tedos chaqueos es independiente de sus relaciones filogenticas. 
1565765|How individuals are located in space can impact their interactions. We investigated spacing behavior of tadpoles of Gray Treefrogs (Hyla versicolor) and Green Frogs (Rana clamitans) at two densities in the laboratory. Tadpoles of H. versicolor were more dispersed than those of R. clamitans. Spacing (e.g., random, dispersed, or aggregated) of tadpoles was not affected by density; however, dispersion tended to increase during the experiment. Our results suggest that spacing behavior in tadpoles is dynamic over time and may provide some insight into the outcome of intra- and interspecific interactions.
10.2307/1565444| The effect of mark-recapture experiments on the wariness of Caiman crocodilus and Melanosuchus niger in two lakes in Amazonian Ecuador was examined. Three experiments were conducted with five, seven, and 10 sampling replicates, respectively. Each sampling replicate consisted of one nocturnal spotlight count around the lake, during which caimans were captured, marked, and released. There were negative correlations between the number of individuals seen in each sampling replicate and sampling replicate sequence in both lakes and both species. In one lake, there was a positive correlation between the percentage of wary caimans and the sequence of sampling replicates. Our findings indicate that observation and capture, even if harmless, affect the spatial distribution and wariness of crocodilian populations. /// Examinamos el efecto de la conduccin de experimentos de captura-recaptura en la cautela de Caiman crocodilus y Melanosuchus niger en dos lagunas de la Amazona Ecuatoriana. Se llev a cabo tres experimentos con cinco, siete y 10 muestreos respectivamente. Cada muestreo consisti en un conteo nocturno al rededor de la laguna a lo largo del cual se captur, marc y liber caimanes. En ambas especies se observ correlaciones negativas entre el nmero de individuos vistos en cada muestreo y la secuencia de los muestreos. En una de las dos lagunas hubo una correlacin positiva entre el porcentaje de caimanes ariscos y la secuencia de los muestreos. Los resultados de este estudio indican que influencias humanas, incluso si son inofensivas, afectan la distribucin y cautela de las poblaciones de cocodrilianos. 
10.2307/1563692|245 Rana septentrionalis were examined to determine ontogenetic and sexual differences in amount of dark dorsal pigmentation and pattern. Juvenile frogs had a pattern of dark spots. Adult frogs showed 3 patterns which varied in degree of dark pigmentation: light spotted, dark spotted, and dark reticulate. Males and females were light spotted or dark spotted, but amount of dark pigmentation was significantly greater in females. Difference was most pronounced in large females (SVL > 55 mm) with pigmentation forming a dark reticulate pattern not seen in males.
43287388|Stable isotopes are commonly used to examine various aspects of animal ecology. The use of stable isotopes generally proceeds under the implicit assumption that resource use is the only factor driving variation in stable isotope levels; however, a wealth of studies demonstrate that a range of common ecological factors can affect the behavior of stable isotopes in animal tissues and potentially confound inferences. For example, studies of some invertebrates and endothermic vertebrates show that animals fasted for ecologically realistic time periods have higher nitrogen (N) or lower carbon (C). We examined whether realistic fasting would influence the stable isotope composition of one of the most metabolically efficient ectothermic vertebrates, the Eastern Red-backed Salamander, Plethodon cinereus. We fasted salamanders for 7, 14, 21, 28, or 35-day intervals and examined whether N or C levels of tissues changed between fasted and fed animals. We investigated whether body condition (body mass to length and C:N [an index of lipid levels]) declined in fasted animals and whether there was a relationship between C:N and N or C. Body mass to length index and C:N, C, and N of tail and liver tissues did not differ between fasted and fed animals between 7 and 35 days. Because of their extreme metabolic efficiency, vertebrate ectotherms such as lungless salamanders (Plethodontidae) may not show the effects of fasting on stable isotopes observed in endothermic vertebrates and some invertebrates. This difference should lead to simpler interpretation of stable isotope results from field studies of these animals.
10.2307/1564289|The population sizes, densities, and food habitats of four freshwater turtle species inhabiting a sluggish stream at Chan Chen Junction, Corozal District, Belize, were investigated from January through April, 1984. Population estimates in January indicated that Trachemys scripta was most abundant and reached the highest density, followed by Kinosternon scorpioides, K. leucostomum, and Staurotypus triporcatus. Population estimates in April indicated little change in population size or density of T. scripta or S. triporcatus, but significant increases in numbers and densities of K. scorpioides and K. leucostomum. The increases probably reflect movement into the stream from nearby ephemeral habitats that dried during the prolonged spring dry season. Adult T. scripta of both sexes foraged throughout the stream and were primarily herbivorous, whereas juveniles were restricted to dense mats of vegetation along stream margins and were insectivorous. Adult K. scorpioides and K. leucostomum were ubiquitous and primarily insectivorous but their dietary similarity decreased as population sizes increased. Staurotypus foraged throughout the stream on large gastropods and turtles, the latter increasing in importance as the kinosternid population increased.
1565786| Behavior of young tortoises released from seminatural nurseries could be affected by the length of time spent within the nursery before release. We tested whether neonate (under two months) and juvenile (8-9 years) Desert Tortoises selected hibernation burrows with differing characteristics after release from their natal pen. Burrow habitat (canopy cover and landscape slope) did not differ between age classes. Juvenile tortoises were larger than neonates and, therefore, used larger burrows than neonates, but their burrows were a closer fit to tortoise size than were the neonate burrows. Juvenile burrow orientation differed significantly from a uniform distribution, with a mean direction of 162 (SSE); the burrows of neonates were not oriented in any particular direction. Selectivity of juveniles compared to neonates may have contributed to higher levels of movement by juveniles between release and hibernation. These age-related differences in behavior should be incorporated into nursery-based management plans. 
10.2307/1562839|The finding of a partially complete specimen of the semi-box turtle, genus Emydoidea, from early Yarmouthian (second) interglacial deposits in Seward Co., Kansas, has prompted a reexamination of Emys twentei Taylor. Comparisons of the type-specimen with additional fossil material dating from the late Pliocene of Kansas and with Recent skeletons, indicate that all should be referred to Emydoidea blandingi (Holbrook). The fossil and modern distributions of E. blandingi are reviewed, including archaeological records.
10.2307/1562722|Hyla microderma is a new species of brown treefog from Colombia related to Hyla calcarata and Hyla fasciata.
10.2307/1563485|Anolis sagrei replaces its teeth in alternating waves which proceed posteriorly from the jaw symphsis. Evaluation of measurement taken on the cone morphology of 1,534 teeth demonstrate a negative correlation between cone height and increasing age. Examination of teeth at approximately the same age demonstrates that lateral cone reduction occurs at a faster rate than does center cone reduction. These results support the hypothesis that the teeth along the jaw margin do exhibit wear. This finding is discussed relative to tooth replacement phenomena.
41515042|The presence of Solenopsis invicta in Caiman latirostris nests is suspected to be a possible cause of death in caiman hatchlings, but this has not been documented within the native distribution of this ant. In crocodilian ranching programs, wild eggs are collected from the field, and delays between collection and transportation to incubators are usually minimized in the hope of maximizing embryo survival. We analyzed nests harvested during five consecutive nesting seasons of C. latirostris to determine the phenology of S. invicta colonization of caiman nests. The percentages of colonized caiman nests for each season were calculated. Densities of S. invicta mounds built on bare ground were assessed to determine potential relationships between density and the proportion of caiman nests colonized by the end of nesting season. We also evaluated whether S. invicta preferred certain habitats to establish their mounds. We found no relationship between S. invicta mound densities and the percentage of C. latirostris nests with Red Fire Ants. The presence of S. invicta mounds among years was similar between different habitats at the beginning of each season. We found that S. invicta can colonize C. latirostris nests during the breeding period and that colonization of nests is higher than 50% in seasons where rainfall was 200 mm at the beginning of the season (December and January). In contrast, during years in which rainfall was below 200 mm, caiman nest colonization was reduced.
40664966|We surveyed whiptail lizard populations for seven summers (2000-2006) in riparian forests along the Rio Grande in central New Mexico. We captured 5,382 individuals from three parthenogenic species (Aspidoscelis exsanguis, Aspidoscelis neomexicana, and Aspidoscelis uniparens) including 129 hatchlings (young-of-the-year) that were later recaptured as adults. Growth data were fit to a logistic growth model and compared using a likelihood ratio test. Comparisons of growth rates showed that A. exsanguis grew faster than both A. neomexicana and A. uniparens and attained a larger snout-vent length (SVL). Comparisons of capture rates showed that species had similar activity patterns during the summer. Captures of adults peaked in mid-June and decreased in August. Hatchlings became active at the end of July and captures peaked in September. Some individuals were captured several seasons indicating that lizards lived for at least 3-4 yr. Our study shows both similarities and differences in life-history characteristics for three closely related and coexisting whiptail species.
10.2307/1563411|The reproductive ecology of a Connecticut black/striped dimorphic population of Plethodon cinereus differs from that reported for populations in Maryland, Michigan and Tennessee. Older females in Connecticut, unlike those in Maryland, apparently lay eggs every year. Connecticut females, unlike those in Michigan, show a positive correlation between body size and the number of mature ovarian eggs, and the mean number is lower in Connecticut than in Michigan. Connecticut females, unlike those in Tennessee, apparently reproduce more than once. Black females reach reproductive maturity at a larger size than striped females in Connecticut.
10.2307/1565457| A potential area of sympatry for Cnemidophorus gularis and C. septemvittatus in Texas was identified from fine-mapping of museum locality records. The area was investigated and these two taxa were found to occur together at a single locality. Variation in the phenotypes of specimens observed and collected from this locality suggested hybridization between gularis and septemvittatus. Subsequent examination of several characters across the range for gularis and septemvittatus revealed considerable intraspecific variability in phenotypes. DNA sequences for 932 base pairs of the ND4 to tRNA
10.2307/1563968|The sandswimming, Australian scincid lizard genus Lerista is the best example of limb reduction in tetrapods in that it comprises an extensive and finely graded morphocline within a group of 51 closely related species. This paper analyzes variation in the number of phalanges and presacral vertebrae within populations and among species. Within populations, phalangeal number varies little and variation is usually symmetrical within individuals. The number of presacral vertebrae is sexually dimorphic, with females averaging 0.4-2.0 more than males. Among species there is a strong, curvilinear, inverse relationship between the number of phalanges and the number of presacral vertebrae. The interspecific morphoclines of phalangeal complements based on the total number of phalanges show that digits in both the manus and pes are lost in the order 1 > 5 > 2 > 3 > 4. Such morphoclines are perfectly linear except at one point in the pes where the series branches to accommodate two mutually exclusive configurations. If these morphoclines represent phylogenetic reductions and if phylogenetic reductions are hypothesized to be globally arrested stages of a basic developmental pattern, then one of these pes configurations must constitute an exception to this generalization. At least one other observed configuration is also likely to be outside a basic, global ontogenetic sequence for the genus.
10.2307/1565660|The distribution, movements, activity range, and habitat use of the Concho water snake, Nerodia harteri paucimaculata, were studied by mark-recapture and radio telemetry in a large lake system, in central Texas, USA. Concho water snake emigration and distribution were largely driven by alteration of habitat availability caused by fluctuating water levels. Habitat characteristics associated with the presence of snakes at the study area were turbid water, minimal wave action, a gentle shoreline gradient, a silt substrate, and a rocky shoreline. Males and gravid females were equally vagile, and the likelihood of a snake undertaking an emigrational movement was independent of age and/or reproductive condition. However, males had significantly more movement days than gravid females. Radio-tagged males had detectable movements on 64% of monitored days, compared to 43% of monitored days for gravid females. Mean activity range length was 278 m for males, 219 m for gravid females, and 210 m for juveniles. Concho water snakes generally selected retreat sites within 3 m of water, although gravid females selected sites as far as 15 m from water. As a management procedure for lake populations, we advocate increasing the vertical distribution of rocky shoreline.
25599263|The extant genus Eunectes was first reported for the Middle Miocene of Colombia, represented by the extinct species Eunectes stirtoni. Here, we describe vertebral remains referable to this genus collected in the Neogene Solimes Formation at the Talism locality, situated on the right-hand bank upstream of the Purus River, in the South of Amazonas State, Brazil. The material consists of isolated mid- and posterior trunk vertebrae characterized by the following combination of features that distinguishes the genus from other Neotropical boids: large size, slightly depressed neural arch, relatively low neural spine, robust and moderately thick zygosphene, with a prominent median tubercle, paracotylar foramen irregularly present, and a strong lateroventral projection of the paradiapophyses on the posterior trunk vertebrae. The presence of Eunectes in the Solimes Formation represents the first fossil record of snakes from the southwestern Brazilian Amazonia and supports the origin of this genus in the Miocene or before.
10.2307/1564245|The Taiwanese population of Polypedates leucomystax megacephalus is distinct from the Bornean population of P. l. leucomystax in adult morphology, mating call, and karyotype. Clear differences in the latter two characteristics suggest the presence of a high degree of genetic differentiation between the two populations. The Taiwanese population is therefore regarded as a full species, P. megacephalus Hallowell, 1860. Populations from continental China require further taxonomic investigation.
10.2307/1562721| A new species of the genus Geophis is described from the Sierra de Coalcomn on the west coast of Mexico. It appears to be most closely related to G. petersi, a distinctive species inhabiting the Mexican Plateau. Ecological relationships of three sympatric species of Geophis, based primarily on morphological characteristics, are briefly discussed. 
4092851|The family Bufonidae is nearly cosmopolitan in distribution and contains 33 genera. The monotypic bufonid genus Atelophryniscus was described relatively recently from Honduras. This taxon was distinguished from Bufo on the basis of its unusual gastromyzophorus tadpole. Stream-dwelling gastromyzophorus tadpoles are atypical within Bufonidae and when Atelophryniscus was described, this type of tadpole was unknown among members of the genus Bufo. To investigate the phylogenetic placement of this taxon, we analyzed 83 previously published morphological characters for a sampling of Old and New World bufonids and included newly coded data. The data indicate that (1) there are no autapomorphies supporting the recognition of Atelophryniscus; (2) this taxon is embedded within the genus Bufo; and (3) it is sister to Bufo veraguensis of South America.
10.2307/1562927|Kinosternon sonoriense from several central Arizona streams were examined for the presence of epiphytic and epizoic organisms. At Tule Stream, monthly collections were made for one year and changes in density, composition, and condition of algae were recorded. Turtles were also examined for other epiphytic and epizoic organisms. K. sonoriense was host for the following organisms: the algae Dermatophyton sp., Basicladia chelonum, B. crassa, an unidentified Phycomycete and the leeches Erpobdella punctata and Placobdella rugosa.
1565840|Sexual differences in maximum adult size occur commonly in frogs. We examined pre- and postmaturational growth of male and female Crinia georgiana and showed that sexual size dimorphism (SSD) of adults does not occur in this species. An experimental investigation of prematurational growth demonstrated that males averaged larger at maturation than females but that the sexes did not differ in the range of sizes at maturity. All individuals reached maturity by 14 months of age regardless of body size or sex, suggesting an age threshold to maturity of approximately one year in this species. In addition, C. georgiana have an unusually wide range of adult body sizes compared to other species and sexual differences in adult body size distributions. Thus, the lack of SSD in this species occurs in spite of sexual differences in growth rates. We hypothesize that sexual selection may be one of several mechanisms behind the lack of SSD and unusual body size variation in this species.
40060574|Ten Prairie Rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis viridis) and 10 Western Diamondback Rattlesnakes (Crotalus atrox) were offered choices between envenomated (E) and nonenvenomated (NE) mice. Both species preferred E over NE mice when envenomation was accomplished by a conspecific but not when envenomation was accomplished by the other species. However, when envenomation was accomplished by Crotalus oreganus oreganus, E mice were preferred by C. v. viridis but not by C. atrox. Accordingly, we conclude that rattlesnakes of closely related species recognize each other's E prey, whereas rattlesnakes of distantly related species do not.
10.2307/1565641|Although humans are commonly used as a surrogate predator to assess the antipredator behavior of lizards, little is known about the effects that life associated with humans may have on the escape behavior of lizards. Here we examine the effects that coexistence with humans may have on the antipredator mechanisms in three species of Liolaemus (Tropiduridae). For each species we compared two populations exposed to different human densities, to test the null hypothesis that there is no interpopulational variation in the response to an approaching human in the field. Also it was determined whether coexistence with humans would affect the behavioral and physiological antipredator responses to a model of a natural predator in the laboratory. Lizard populations that were exposed to a high human density allowed a closer proximity of humans in the field, and decreased their rate of movement and breathing intensity in response to the presentation of a predator model in laboratory experiments. We discuss the effects humans may have upon the lizards antipredator behavior toward humans and natural predators.
41515048|Unresolved phylogenetic relationships within the subfamily Natricinae continue to exist, including the position of the genus Xenochrophis. In the present study, two mitochondrial genes (cytochrome b, 12S rRNA) and one nuclear gene (c-mos) were used to infer the phylogenetic relationships among the members of Natricinae, with a special emphasis on the position of the genus Xenochrophis. Two statistical methods, Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Inference, were used for phylogenetic reconstruction. Both the mitochondrial and nuclear datasets produced sufficiently resolved and congruent topologies. Our findings placed the genus Xenochrophis within Natricinae consistently with strong nodal support. Findings also revealed a close association between two Indian natricid snakes, Xenochrophis piscator and Xenochrophis schnurrenbergen. However Xenochrophis vittatus, from Indonesia, does not cluster with the remaining species of Xenochrophis, suggesting a nonmonophyly of this genus. Overall Natricinae was found to be monophyletic because the two genera, Psammodynastes pulverulentos and Amplorhinus multimaculatus, are now known to be members of the Lamprophiidae. This study also finds a close relationship between the endemic species Lycognathophis seychellensis with the African natricids.
43287319|We examined seasonal reproductive patterns of the Del Norte Salamander, Plethodon elongatus, in mixed conifer and hardwood forests of northwestern California and southwestern Oregon. Seasonal size differences in reproductive structures suggested that maximum spermatogenic activity occurred during the late summer, with spermatozoa transfer to the vasa deferentia occurring in the fall through spring. Maximum development of mature follicles occurred during the winter; however, foUicular growth occurred year-round and was asynchronous among individuals. Courtship and mating probably occurred in late fall through early spring, with egg deposition from spring into early summer. Reproduction for females was not annual, and patterns suggested that the reproductive cycle was biennial or less frequent. In contrast, evidence indicated annual reproduction in males. Gravid females contained an average of 10 mature follicles.
10.2307/1565089|The acoustics of rattling are investigated by quantifying different aspects of the sounds produced by Crotalus viridis oreganus. These acoustic features are related to measurements of the body and rattle, as well as to different recording conditions involving changes in tail vibration rate, hydration of the tail, and the kinematics of the rattle. The results suggest that the rattle is a form of multi-dimensional oscillator, where the key morphological features determining the frequency of the sounds produced are the dimensions of the proximal segment of the rattle.
10.2307/1563263| Reflectances were measured of three wavelengths (826, 925, and 1035 m) in the infrared spectrum by the integument of live Sceloporus occidentalis occidentalis from three different habitats in California. Populations sampled were (a) mid-Sierra Nevada mountains, elevation 3600 feet, Black Oak - Ponderosa Pine; (b) coastal foothills, elevation 50 feet, open grass-brushland; (c) Central Valley, elevation 30 feet, cottonwood-brush-grass. Differential reflectances suggest differential utilization of radiant solar energy by the Sierran population as compared to utilization by the valley and coast populations. It is suggested that adaptations to various lengths of exposure to the sun's radiation may be responsible for the differences noted. 
43287320|Quasipaa verrucospinosa, the Granular Spiny Frog, is a discoglossid frog endemic to Vietnam and known only from its original description. We report the discovery of three populations of this species and describe the reproductive, fat body, and liver mass cycles for males and females. Results showed that males reached sexual maturity at 98.36 mm snout-vent length (SVL) and an age of nine months. Females reached sexual maturity at 109.45 mm SVL and an age of 11 months. Testes of males began to increase in volume in late June, and maximal testicular activity occurred from September to December. Testis size began to decrease in January and was smallest in April. Histological analyses revealed that sperm were not present throughout the year, indicating discontinuous reproductive activity for adult males. Reproductive females were observed only during the main rainy season months, indicating that females reproduce seasonally. The gonads of females began to increase in volume in July and maximal egg production occurred during the main rainy season (September to December). Females started to lay their eggs in July, and there were significant differences among mean clutch size and numbers of oviductal eggs or yolked follicles, vitellogenic follicles, and nonvitellogenic follicles. Clutch size was correlated significantly with female SVL and varied between seasons and months. The results of multiple regression analyses indicated that precipitation, but not temperature, was associated positively with testicular and ovarian volume.
40060459|Growth and age at reproductive maturity are two life-history parameters that add an important temporal component to species conservation, yet such information is seldom available for plethodontid salamanders. We modeled growth and age at maturity for a northern West Virginia population of Green Salamanders, Aneides aeneus, using snout-vent length (SVL) growth intervals from a five-year markrecapture study. Growth data were fit to the von Bertalanffy and logistic growth interval models and compared using the residual error mean square. The logistic model provided the best fit to the recapture data, indicating that Green Salamanders grow slowly for plethodontids and that it takes 7-8 yr to reach reproductive maturity. Our results revealed that Green Salamanders mature at a later age than most plethodontid species, indicating that the species might have greater generation time and longevity than previously suspected. Our data may offer insight into why the species is sensitive to population declines. Thus, we suggest that future research focus on Green Salamander longevity and generation time to provide a framework from which comparisons can be made across populations.
40060541|Crossodactylus bokermanni is a spinythumb frog known only from the type locality and categorized as Endangered or Vulnerable in different red lists. The examination of many unidentified specimens collected in the range of the Serra do Espinhac.o, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil, revealed that C. bokermanni has a wider distributional range than previously reported. Nontopotypic specimens could not be referred to C. bokermanni earlier because of the confused taxonomy of the genus. A detailed comparative diagnosis is presented, and morphological and acoustical variations are characterized to accurately determine the species limits of C. bokermanni. Previous studies presenting evidence for the decline of the topotypic populations of C. bokermanni are not supported by the available literature, museum collections, and recently collected field data. The conservation status of this species needs to be revised based on the new information regarding the geographic distribution of the species.
10.2307/1563907|Fangs of 1446 snakes of the genera Agkistrodon, Calloselasma, Deinagkistrodon and Hypnale were examined for structural changes and growth rates. Fang growth is closely correlated to increases in body and head length. Growth rates and changes in structural proportions of fangs are rather constant. In mean and maximum fang lengths snakes of the Agkistrodon-complex fall intermediate between the elapids and rattlesnakes, and most are similar to those of Vipera russellii. No sexual dimorphism in fang lengths was found. Changes in such fang proportions as thickness, lengths of the entrance lumen, discharge orifice and point distal to the discharge orifice are closely correlated with fang length. Fang replacement patterns and rates are discussed and compared to those of rattlesnakes and V. russellii.
40060480|Studies on the effects of group composition (i.e., kin or mixed groups) on metamorphic traits (SVL, body mass, and duration of larval period) can provide insights into the evolution and maintenance of kin selection in anurans. Tadpoles of Bufo scaber from different sibships were reared at varying densities as sibling or mixed groups to determine the influence of kinship on metamorphic traits. Body mass, SVL, and larval period were similar among sibships reared in isolation. When 10 tadpoles were reared in 1- or 5-liter water, growth, larval period, and size at metamorphosis were comparable between sibling and mixed groups. In contrast, when the density of rearing was increased to 20 or 40 tadpoles per five liters, metamorph size was significantly lower in sibling groups than in mixed groups. Crowding negatively affected growth, body mass, and SVL in both kin and mixed groups. In mixed groups, metamorphosis was delayed, and metamorphs were larger than those reared as siblings at corresponding densities. Further, there was a large variation in body mass and larval period indicating, albeit indirectly, asymmetric competition among the mixed group individuals unlike in sibling groups. The present findings demonstrate that, in B. scaber, kinship plays a role in driving the metamorphic traits in a context-dependent manner. They also show that effects of kinship are expressed selectively under adverse ecological situations such as overcrowding.
43287387|The tadpole of Physalaemus evangelistai is described from the highlands of the Serra do Espinhao Mountain Range, State of Minas Gerais, southeastern Brazil. Additionally, a redescription of the advertisement call and natural history information are provided. We compared the tadpole's morphological features with other species described in the Physalaemus genus, including Physalaemus gracilis group: Physalaemus barrioi, Physalaemus gracilis, Physalaemus jordanensis, and Physalaemus lisei. We found minor differences in oral disc proportions, number of marginal papillae rows, and the orientation of the vent tube opening. Advertisement calls (20 calls from three males) were composed of a single harmonic note. Call mean duration was 0.69 sec; mean duration of interval between calls was 13.94 sec; and mean value of dominant frequency was 3.13 kHz. Physalaemus evangelistai breeds during the first half of the rainy season (October to January), building foam nests in temporary ponds at montane meadows. O girino de Physalaemus evangelistai  descrito a partir de reas de altitude na Serra do Espinhao, estado de Minas Gerais, sudeste do Brasil. Adicionalmente, a redescrio de seu canto de anncio e dados de histria natural so apresentados. Comparamos as caractersticas morfolgicas dos girinos com os descritos para as espcies do gnero, incluindo aquelas do grupo de Physalaemus gracilis: Physalaemus barrioi, Physalaemus gracilis, Physalaemus jordanensis e Physalaemus lisei. Encontramos pequenas diferenas na proporo do disco oral, nmero de fileiras de papilas marginais e na abertura e orientao do tubo cloacal. Vocalizaes de anncio (20 vocalizaes de trs machos) so compostas por uma nica nota harmnica. A durao mdia do canto  de 0.69 segundos, a durao mdia do intervalo entre cantos  de 13.94 segundos e o valor mdio da frequncia dominante  de 3.13 kHz. Physalaemus evangelistai reproduz-se durante a primeira metade da estao chuvosa (entre outubro e janeiro), construindo ninhos de espuma em poas temporrias em campos de altitude.
10.2307/1563473|A study of the natural history of a colony of ring-neck snakes, Diadophis punctatus edwardsii, on the shore of Lake Michigan, is reported. Data from 1923 to 1953 are presented on hibernation, movement, growth of juveniles and adults, age, recapture frequency, habitat, food, sexual maturity, and population density.
10.2307/1563198|Published data on clutch size in crocodilians is summarized. The correlation between each of two measures of clutch size (mean and midpoint of the range) and one measure of species size (the maximum total length of the largest individual of a species) is significant; the correlation between the two measures of clutch size and a second measure of species size (the midpoint of the range of hatchling total lengths) is slightly above the formal level of significance in each case. The two measures of species size are themselves significantly correlated. The two most glaring areas of ignorance with regard to clutch size in crocodilians are: 1.) the species for which clutch sizes are either unknown or only poorly known and 2.) the relationship between clutch size and female size within species.
10.2307/1563454|The dewlap display in Anolis lizards has been a subject of conjecture and analysis in recent years due to its occurrence in social interactions and its probable function in communication. Anolis carolinensis females were given a choice between normal red-dewlapped males and males with green-painted dewlaps; in a series of experiments, the males displayed against red or green background coloration. Results indicated that females chose to approach male lizards with the normal red dewlap. Contrast of the dewlap with background coloration, which makes the dewlap more conspicuous, also has a significant influence on the female's choice.
40060528|Sex-biased predation rates have been documented in marine turtles, but no study to date has addressed the causes of such bias. In Shark Bay, male Loggerhead Turtles (Caretta caretta) display evidence of Tiger Shark (Galeocerdo cuvier) attack more often than do females, and sex-specific differences in swim speed or maneuverability have been posited as a possible reason for this pattern. We used simulated shark attacks (boat chases) in shallow water to test this hypothesis. Differences in speed and maneuverability between males and females were not detected, indicating that the heightened vulnerability to predation of male Loggerhead Turtles in Shark Bay requires a different explanation.
23327180|Sceloporus woodi (Florida Scrub Lizard) offers an excellent opportunity to contrast connected and fragmented habitats to determine how historical patterns influence genetic differentiation in fragmented habitats. We screened six microsatellite loci in S. woodi (N = 154) from seven sites at Archbold Biological Station, a large, connected scrub habitat where there is a potential for gene flow in spite of the low dispersal in S. woodi. We compared genetic differentiation of S. woodi in the connected scrub to that previously detected among a cluster of naturally fragmented scrub patches. We also performed simulations to determine how fragmentation would alter genetic differentiation in the connected scrub. Sceloporus woodi had modest, fine-scale genetic differentiation that followed isolation-by-distance and habitat structure in the connected scrub. There was less differentiation in the connected scrub than observed among the naturally fragmented scrub patches. Spatially explicit Bayesian clustering with TESS and BAPS identified two groups among the seven sites and  ST estimates revealed significant differentiation among sites ( ST = 0.052; P < 0.001). A positive relationship occurred between geographic distance and genetic differentiation (r = 0.226; P = 0.04). Limited dispersal likely has generated isolation-by-distance with a gradient of genetic differentiation among sites. When the geographic relationship among sites was considered, simulations indicated that fragmentation would tend to increase genetic differentiation immediately after fragmentation, yet fragmentation reduced genetic differentiation in some cases. Thus, historical patterns of genetic differentiation may play an important role in determining the population structure of a species after habitat fragmentation.
4498603|The ecological relationships between two sympatric vipers (Vipera aspis and Vipera ursinii) were studied at a mountainous area in central Italy (Gran Sasso, Abruzzo), between spring 2004 and autumn 2006. The two species differed significantly in their altitudinal distribution: V. ursinii being confined to the higher elevations (above 1650 m elevation), and V. aspis being present from the lowest to the highest altitudes (1200-1900 m). We recorded a wide sector of approximately 250 m elevation (between 1650 and 1900 m elevation) where the two species overlapped. In these areas, the two species exhibited significant difference in microhabitat use and diet composition. Male and female V. aspis were larger (SVL) than male and female V. ursinii. Furthermore, the two species exhibited a significant difference in sexual size dimorphism, with females being larger than males in V. ursinii, whereas no such difference in SVL was observed in V. aspis. However, we did not observe any difference in SVL of male and female vipers when comparing sympatric and allopatric populations. Overall, the potential for competition between these two species appears to be low because of their clearly different realized ecological niches.
10.2307/1565803|Human activities affect animal populations whenever animals and humans live in close proximity, but patterns of mortality in urban wildlife remain poorly known. We analyzed rates of injury and mortality of bluetongue lizards (Tiliqua scincoides) in Sydney, Australia, using a Wildlife Information and Rescue Service database that contained more than 2000 reported "rescues" of this species over a three-year period. Motor vehicles and dogs killed many adult lizards in springtime (the mating season) when adult males move about more frequently. Domestic cats killed mainly juvenile lizards, especially just after parturition in midsummer. Weather conditions affected rescue rates, presumably because lizards were more active on hot dry days. Habitat loss was the most important cause for lizard rescue in highly urbanized areas, whereas domestic pets were a major threat in outlying suburbs. Such datasets are subject to many biases but allow meaningful comparisons at some levels of analysis. The large datasets of wildlife rescue groups have considerable potential to illuminate the nature and frequency of interactions between humans and wildlife.
41415301|Life-cycle polyphenism has been hypothesized to facilitate ecological speciation in salamanders. A recent study demonstrated that the Eastern Newt (Notophthaltnus viridescens) subspecies genetically differ in expression of life-cycle polyphenism. However, we currently lack direct evidence that the life-history divergence among the newt subspecies is associated with the suggested ecological parameters, namely availability of wetlands and suitable terrestrial habitats. To test such associations, we examined life-history traits of two subspecies, Notophthalmus vindescens viridescens and Notophthalmus viridescens dorsalis, across the subspecies boundary, which corresponds with changes in those ecological parameters between the Piedmont Plateau and the Coastal Plain. We reared larval newts derived from the two focal subspecies across the contact zone in outdoor mesocosms under two different hydroperiod treatments (three-month drying and permanent water). We found striking genetically based differences in life-history traits. The vast majority of larval N. v. viridescens metamorphosed to terrestrial juveniles (efts) regardless of pond hydroperiod treatments. In contrast, only a small portion of larval N. v. dorsalis (<30%) metamorphosed to efts under either hydroperiod treatment, whereas more than 70% of its larvae became aquatic metamorphic or paedomorphic adults under permanent water conditions. Notophthalmus viridescens viridescens also metamorphosed to efts at a smaller body size and over a shorter larval period than N. v. dorsalis. The pattern of the life-history change was closely related to the environmental change across the subspecies boundary. The present study provides direct evidence of divergent selection associated with the ecological parameters driving the life-history divergence among the newt subspecies.
10.2307/1565963|Western terrestrial garter snakes (Thamnophis elegans) are the only Thamnophis known to constrict prey, and previous studies suggest that they are relatively inefficient constrictors. To quantitatively evaluate that perception, we compared the constricting behavior of T. elegans to that of a more typical constrictor, the gopher snake, Pituophis catenifer. We recorded the behavior of snakes preying upon mice under controlled laboratory conditions, focusing on behavioral measures related to the function of efficiently subduing and ingesting prey. Compared to gopher snakes, western terrestrial garter snakes showed the following characteristics indicating they are relatively inefficient constrictors: (1) greater variability in the method of applying constricting coils; (2) a weaker tendency to constrict prey; (3) longer times to subdue prey; (4) a lower frequency of trials in which coils were parallel; and (5) absence of the behavior of releasing the initial bite on the prey prior to the initiation of swallowing. These differences between the two species might be a result of differences in recent selective regimes, because western terrestrial garter snakes rely less heavily than gopher snakes on prey for which constriction is likely to reduce a snake's feeding costs. Another, not mutually exclusive, explanation for the behavioral differences is that they reflect the more recent evolutionary origin of constriction in T. elegans than in P. catenifer. Despite their relative inefficiency, the Colorado T. elegans used in this study nearly always killed the mice they constricted prior to ingesting them. In contrast, previous studies have indicated that T. elegans from the Pacific Northwest rarely kill mice they constrict. This difference may represent intraspecific geographic variation in constricting behavior. However, a recent molecular systematic study suggests that Colorado and Pacific Northwest T. elegans may represent distinct species in which constriction has independently evolved.
43287350|We studied the diet of the Annulated Sea Snake (Hydrophis cyanocinctus) in the mangrove habitat of the Iranian Hara Protected Area. Prey items consumed by 34 individual snakes included four species of gobiid fish. Mudskippers (Periophthalmus waltoni, Boleophthalmus dussumieri, and Scartelaos tenuis) comprised the vast majority of the diet. All prey items were ingested head first. There was a positive correlation between snake SVL and total length of prey, but large snakes also ate small prey. Snake neck diameter was correlated positively with maximum prey diameter, and snakes did not consume prey items with a maximum diameter more than 1.2 times their neck diameter, a characteristic that may indicate gape limitation.
40060510|Previous laboratory studies of the Brown Anole, Anolis sagrei, have shown that males distinguish between familiar female cage mates and unfamiliar females in mating tests and preferentially mate with unfamiliar females. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that males distinguish between former female residents of their territories and unfamiliar, nonresident females as preferred mating partners. To test the hypothesis, a total of 36 pairs of reproductively active males and females were captured from a natural habitat in the Miami, Florida area. For half of the pairs, a male and a female resident of the male's territory were captured, and for the other half, a male and a nonresident female unfamiliar to the male were captured. Within five hours of capture, the male and female of each pair were placed into a test cage in the laboratory and videotaped for one hour. Males paired with unfamiliar, nonresident females copulated significantly more frequently than males paired with former female residents of their territories. Moreover, the proportion of males that copulated was significantly greater in males that were paired with unfamiliar females than in males that were paired with resident females. These results support the hypothesis that male A. sagrei distinguish between former female residents of their territories and unfamiliar, nonresident females as preferred mating partners and suggest that free-living males might exhibit a mating preference for unfamiliar females over female residents of their territories.
10.2307/1563194|Phototaxis was studied for different developmental stages of the marbled salamander. Ambystoma opacum. Larvae, given a choice of light and dark chambers, were found to be positively phototactic until the full development of rear legs. At this point orientation reversed to negative phototaxis. A comparison of reports on phototaxis in other Ambystoma indicates a correlation between time of reversal of early positive phototaxis with the need for increasing the rate of larval development. The differences between species in the length of time spent positively phototactic may be due to different rates of maturation of conical elements in the retina.
10.2307/1564336|The feeding habits of adult Sauromalus hispidus and adult Sauromalus varius were studied on four islands in the midriff region of the Gulf of California, Mexico. Diets were determined by examining a total of 1875 fecal pellets from four islands during the summer, fall and spring of 1979-1980. Results of a point frame technique demonstrated that the diet of S. varius consisted of 22 plant species and 12 plant families whereas that of S. hispidus was made up of 35 plant species and 20 plant families. Chuckwallas ate a strictly vegetarian diet, preferring shrubs over forbs, cacti, and grasses or leaves over flowers, fruits, seeds, and stems. No plant parts from halophytic species were found in the pellets. Plant trophic diversity in the diet was highest on Isla San Esteban and lowest on Isla Mejia. Examination of the fecal pellets also revealed that they contained gravel and sand. Some gravel and sand were ingested by the lizards on all 25 of the study sites. The consistency with which gravel was found in the fecal pellets from all sites and every season, suggests that these lizards had intentionally ingested this material as a part of their food regime. No correlation was found between the plant frequencies at the sites and the plant frequencies in the pellets. Neither species of giant chuckwalla appears to seek out plants based on the plant's relative abundance.
10.2307/1565294|Little quantitative data are available on territorial behavior of female lizards. In this study, I examined territorial establishment and maintenance behavior of a population of female tree lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) in southern New Mexico. The clusters of boulders that the lizards inhabit were mapped and scan sampled twice a day through the entire activity season (February-October) and the placement of each lizard noted. Mapping data suggest that the females establish and maintain territories throughout their activity season. Female territories do not overlap with their nearest female neighbor during the peak reproductive period and are always within a single dominant male's territory. Focal animal observations were also performed throughout the entire activity season to ascertain if seasonal changes in time budgets occur. Reproductive condition was noted for each female during focal observations as pre-reproductive, reproductive (gravid), and post-reproductive. The seasonal focal animal data reveal that females perform significantly more social behaviors when they are gravid. These data detail changes in female lizard behavior over a long term territorial study.
1565769|Barking Frogs (Eleutherodactylus augusti) are the northernmost ranging member of the large tropical family Leptodactylidae. We investigated the ecology of this saxicolous species at the northern edge of its range in a canyon in southern Arizona. We captured 54 frogs on discontinuous rock outcrops; eight of nine females and 39 of 45 males were on limestone outcrops. The remaining frogs were closer to limestone outcrops by more than 200 m than would be expected if they were distributed randomly with respect to limestone formations. Seven of 10 frogs radio-tracked had core home ranges (50% fixed kernel) from 94 to 100% on limestone; the other three frogs did not have any part of their home range on limestone outcrops. During five years of mark-recapture efforts, no frogs were found on a different outcrop from the one where they were originally captured; no radio-tracked frogs moved between outcrops during the breeding season. We estimated that four to 20 Barking Frogs occupied each outcrop; these groups probably are connected primarily by juvenile dispersal. As an organism living at the edge of its range, Barking Frogs in Arizona may rely heavily on extensive underground areas such as those found in limestone to protect them from a physiologically challenging environment. To manage for the persistence of Barking Frogs in southern Arizona, we must identify and protect habitat patches and movement pathways among them.
1565886|The rain-forest frogs Mantidactylus bicalcaratus and Mantidactylus punctatus have only been collected from Pandanus and other water-holding plants in Madagascar. In both species, eggs are laid on the surface of Pandanus leaves above water-filled leaf axils, where tadpoles develop. Although some egg masses (26%) were not attended, adults were often found straddling or directly adjacent to egg masses for up to eight days after oviposition. In both species, eggs were attended by either the male or the female parent but not both. This amphisexual egg attendance is known from only three other anurans and an antipredator function for it is hypothesized.
10.2307/1563115|Anolis anisolepis, new species, type in the University of Illinois Museum of Natural History, is described on the basis of twenty-three specimens from the highlands of western Chiapas. It forms a species-group, with crassulus and haguei, characterized by having strongly keeled ventrals and granular laterals among which are scattered single or groups of enlarged scales. A. crassulus and anisolepis are sympatric; haguei and crassulus are no doubt subspecifically related as Stuart has long maintained.
10.2307/1562975|Bothrops hesperis from the xeric foothills of Colima, Mexico, is a new member of the "hognose" viper group. It differs from other members of this group in lepidosis, coloration, pattern, and distribution which is further to the northwest than that of its congeners.
10.2307/1565207| A new species of Phrynopus is described from elfin forest (3450 m) in the Yungas of La Paz, Bolivia. The new species is most readily differentiated from its congeners by its distinctive coloration, smooth skin, basal webbing, and first finger much shorter than second. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Phrynopus procedente de ceja de montaa (3450) en los Yungas de La Paz, Bolivia. La nueva especie se distingue de los dems miembros del gnero por su color distintivo, piel lisa, membrana basal en las patas, y primer dedo de la mano ms corto que el segundo. 
4498607|Three names have been applied to members of the Carlia novaeguineae complex from New Guinea. All three species have been poorly or erroneously diagnosed, leading to the long-time synonymization of Carlia macfarlani and Carlia curta with C. novaeguineae. Both species were removed from synonymy in 1988 but on the basis of erroneous diagnoses. I show that each of these species is valid and provide diagnoses to distinguish among them. Because of the nomenclatural ambiguity occasioned by loss of the type of C. novaeguineae, the meager original description, and the presence of several morphologically similar species, I designate a neotype for that species. Color pattern is important for distinguishing among species in this complex but fades quickly upon preservation, making identification of museum specimens problematic in many instances. For this reason, members of this complex from outside the southern portion of New Guinea remain unassigned and likely represent one or more new species whose descriptions must await provision of fresh material.
10.2307/1564983|Western fence lizards, Sceloporus occidentalis, inhabiting the Mojave desert can face long periods of drought leading to dehydration and starvation. To examine behavioral and hormonal responses to such physiological stress, I deprived lizards of food and water in the laboratory to mimic conditions in the wild and measured their activity level (amount of time spent above ground) and their plasma levels of corticosterone and thyroxine. To identify responses that were a result of altered thermoregulation, I kept lizards either in a thermal gradient, where they were able to behaviorally alter their environmental temperature, or in thermal constancy, where they experienced a uniform environmental temperature throughout the day. Food-deprived lizards in both thermal regimes had lower levels of activity and elevated levels of corticosterone than controls. Among food-deprived lizards, those in thermal constancy had lower levels of thyroxine and corticosterone than lizards in the gradient. This suggests that lizards make compensatory hormonal adjustments to low food conditions when they are unable to select varied thermal environments. Among food-deprived lizards in the gradient, there was substantial interindividual variability. Individuals that remained the most active experienced the largest changes in most physiological measures (e.g., weight loss, hematocrit, osmolality, corticosterone). This suggests that the lizards in the wild that remain the most active during drought are the most physiologically affected portion of the population. Such individual variation in behavioral and physiological responses can lead to biased analysis of stress in a natural population.
10.2307/1564952|A new species of Eleutherodactylus is described from the Amazonian lowlands of Ecuador. It is distinguished by bright red leg coloration in life, an acuminate snout in dorsal view, a partially concealed tympanum, a smooth dorsum, absence of a canthal stripe, and absence of labial bars anterior to the snout. The new species is most closely related to E. ockendeni and E. taeniatus, and all three species are members of the E. frater assembly. The defining characters and species roster of the E. frater assembly are discussed.
10.2307/1563765|Mean fatbody, liver and testis weights showed no seasonal cycles in male Chamaeleo hohneli whereas all three showed distinct seasonal changes in male Chamaeleo jacksoni. In C. jacksoni mean liver weight peaked three to four months prior to mean testis weight; mean fatbody weight increased concomitantly with mean testis weight. Mean fatbody and liver weights in female C. hohneli showed no seasonal cycles whereas both cycled in C. jacksoni. In C. jacksoni mean fatbody weight peaked during a postreproductive resting period and was minimal at ovulation; mean liver weight was maximal at the onset of vitellogenesis and reached a minimum during gestation. The lack of seasonal cycles for mean weight in female C. hohneli was due to asynchrony of reproduction among females. When fatbody and liver weights were analyzed according to individual reproductive stage, a pattern similar to that in C. jacksoni was found. The lack of cycles in males reflected continuous reproductive readiness. In C. jacksoni the build-up of fatbody in both sexes generally corresponded with periods of peak insect abundance.
41415242|Larval amphibians are increasingly being reared for conservation initiatives to bolster declining populations. Few researchers, however, have asked whether reared individuals are functionally equivalent to their wild counterparts. Compared with those in the wild, amphibians reared in captivity may develop in relatively stress-free environments, because they are usually fed ad libitum, raised in the absence of predators and pathogens and in controlled environments. Thus, with few challenges throughout development, would their resting stress levels or reactions to acute Stressors be normal? We addressed this question by rearing Litobates sphenocephalus and Ambystoma opacum from eggs and 10-day-old larvae through to late larval stages in artificial pond environments and by determining their ratios of neutrophils (N) to lymphocytes (L) (two leukocytes that covary with stress hormones) before and after a standardized Stressor. We obtained similar samples from wild-caught larvae of equivalent developmental stages and from the same source pond. Baseline and stress-induced N:L ratios of reared L. sphenocephalus were statistically similar to those of wild individuals. In contrast, baseline N:L ratios of reared A. opacum were slightly higher than those of wild individuals. In general, the magnitude of the leukocyte response to stress for both species (a 3-fold increase in N:L over baseline), was similar to that of wild individuals, suggesting that captive-reared amphibians are capable of mounting a normal physiological stress response. Although this last point provides support for the use of captive-rearing for conservation and research purposes, the unusually high baseline N:L ratios of reared salamanders will require additional research to determine the functional meaning.
10.2307/1563140|The presence of the newly introduced Rana catesbiana in Jamaica is recorded for the first time. Its feeding habits are comparable to those of R. catesbeiana in North America. The bullfrogs were found to be inhabiting a large area of swamp and to have begun to colonize a similar neighboring area. No topographical or environmental features which could limit these animals are apparent and it is predicted that their spread will become islandwide.
10.2307/1564246|The decline of ranid frog species native to western North America is a pattern alluded to by many workers. We review the factors cited as having caused these declines, using, as primary examples, some of the ranid species native to California. We present explicit statements of four major alternative hypotheses: 1) bullfrog introduction, 2) habitat alteration, 3) predation by introduced fishes, and 4) commercial exploitation. Additionally, we review data relating to four other factors suggested as having caused declines: 1) toxicants, 2) pathogens and parasites, 3) acid rain, and 4) catastrophic mortality. Notably, data do not exist that suggest that the often-invoked bullfrog hypothesis is most compelling. Some factors, like commercial exploitation, are untestable because the putative causal conditions no longer exist, whereas others, like catastrophic mortality, are difficult to test because of their unpredictability. Perhaps the most neglected but potentially important alternative is predation by introduced fishes. Existing data cannot distinguish adequately among three major testable alternatives: bullfrogs, habitat alteration, and introduced fish predation. In the absence of satisfactory data, the chronological priority of fish introductions over those of bullfrogs and the greater access fish may have to earlier ranid life stages make the fish predation hypothesis more compelling. Several alternative hypotheses are confounded because existing correlative data support at least two alternatives equally well. Manipulations of testable alternatives are imperative to distinguish causal factors.
10.2307/1565417|In 1993, we conducted an anuran-vocalization survey of 87 sites within two river systems (Mullica River and Wading River) of a major Coastal Plain watershed in the New Jersey Pinelands. The Mullica River system is more intensely developed and farmed than the Wading River system. Degraded waters, characterized by elevated pH, specific conductance, and nitrate-nitrogen values, are more frequently encountered in the Mullica River system. We found differences in the distribution of both individual anuran species and species-based site classes between the two river systems. Six native-Pinelands species, the Pine Barrens treefrog (Hyla andersonii), the carpenter frog (Rana virgatipes), the southern leopard frog (Rana utricularia), Fowler's toad (Bufo woodhousii fowleri), the spring peeper (Pseudacris crucifer), and the green frog (Rana clamitans melanota), were widely distributed, although spring peepers occurred more frequently in the Mullica River system. Four species that are distributed outside the region, but do not usually occur in the Pinelands, were heard only in the Mullica River system. These non-native Pinelands species were bullfrogs (Rana catesbeiana), pickerel frogs (Rana palustris), northern cricket frogs (Acris crepitans crepitans), and gray treefrogs (Hyla versicolor). Bullfrogs occurred more frequently at sites with adjacent developed or upland-agricultural land, while carpenter frogs were more closely associated with unaltered sites. Pine Barrens treefrogs and carpenter frogs were generally absent and leopard frogs occurred infrequently at sites where bullfrogs occurred.
10.2307/1565923|Scincid lizards have probably lost the external ear opening at least 17 times. Based on features of the middle ear, especially the orientation and attachment of the extracolumella and columella, five basic types of ear loss are recognized. These five types are strongly associated with major lineages. Ear loss seems to be associated with both small size and fossorial habits.
10.2307/1564177|The Chinese coin turtle Chinemys reevesii is widely distributed in eastern Asia from Japan to southern China. Within its range, three taxa have been described which are similar to C. reevesii except for minor differences (Geoclemys grangeri, Geoclemys paracaretta, and Damonia unicolor). Although these variants have been synonymized by some authors, no quantitative studies have been conducted to support or reject their validity. The present study examined 31 characters of specimens throughout the range. Analysis indicates that all variants are within the diagnostic extremes observed in this species. Low interpopulational variation in C. reevesii is due in part to several millennia of human disturbance.
10.2307/1564904| Although most of the state of Rondnia in western Brazil was recently covered by tropical forest, patches of two types of dry land habitats also are found and contain lizard species atypical of tropical forest. Anolis meridionalis, Micrablepharus maximiliani, Cnemidophorus sp., and Kentropyx vanzoi occurred in a typical cerrado grassland area in extreme southern Rondnia. Termite nests and armadillo burrows provide refuge for these cerrado lizards during widespread grass fires. Three morphotypes of at least two undescribed species of Tropidurus occurred on isolated granitic extrusions completely surrounded by tropical forest. Hoplocercus spinosus occurred on one of the extrusions. These islands of xeric habitat are not used by tropical forest species. 
10.2307/1563902|Descriptions of the hemipeneal morphology of Lanthanotus, Heloderma and Varanus (20 of the 32 recognized species) are presented. All have flounced ornamentation and the sulcus is composed of a single flap proximally. Lanthanotus and Varanus share a synapomorphy not found in Heloderma, i.e., paired horns that are extensions of the main retractor muscle, pierce the dorsal apical tissues of the hemipenis, and lie in the central lumen of the retracted organ. Within Varanus there is great interspecific variation in the ornamentation of the dorsal flounces, and shape and size of the horns. Subgeneric relationships within the genus are discussed in the light of these findings.
41515011|Anadia pariaensis Rivas, La Marca, and Oliveros, 1999, and Anadia steyeri Nieden, 1914, are two particularly rare and poorly known lizards described from single specimens. In the case of A. pariaensis, it remains known from the holotype, whereas A. steyeri is known from three additional specimens reported in the literature after the original description of the species. A single new specimen of A. pariaensis and five of A. steyeri, including the first adult males recorded for both species, make possible a more representative description of both species, including descriptions of the hemipenes. Despite both species presenting some similar morphological characteristics, the examination of the hemipenial morphology revealed very different organs. The hemipenis of A. steyeri presents some characteristics that resemble the organs of two species from the Santa Marta Mountain Range in the "bitaeniata-group" (Anadia pulchella and Anadia altaserrania). On the other hand, the hemipenes of A. pariaensis are unique morphologically and cannot be associated with the hemipenes known from other species in the genus. We describe variation within both species, and we comment on possible sexual dimorphism (number and arrangement of the femoral pores), natural history, and the known geographic distribution of the species. We also comment on Anadia bumanguesa Rueda-Almonacid and Caicedo 2004 based on a new specimen, the second known. This species may be a synonym of A. steyeri. Anadia pariaensis Rivas, La Marca, and Oliveros, 1999 y Anadia steyeri Nieden, 1914, son dos especies raras, escasamente conocidas y descritas con ejemplares nicos. En el caso de A. pariaensis, esta permanece conocida solo por el holotipo; mientras A. steyeri se conoce por cuatro ejemplares sealados en la literatura desde su descripcin. En este trabajo, un nuevo ejemplar de A. pariaensis y cinco de A. steyeri, incluyendo los primeros machos adultos registrados para ambas especies hacen posible una descripcin detallada, incluyendo la descripcin de los hemipenes. A pesar que estas especies presentan algunas caractersticas morfolgicas similares, el examen de la morfologa hemipenial revel rganos muy diferentes. El hemipene de A. steyeri, presenta algunas caractersticas que lo asemejan a los rganos de dos especies del grupo bitaeniata de la sierra de Santa Marta (Anadia pulchella y Anadia altaserrania). Por otra parte, el hemipene de A. pariaensis es nico morfolgicamente, y no puede ser actualmente asociado con los hemipenes conocidos para otras especies en el gnero. Se describe la variacin intraespecfica, posible dimorfismo sexual (nmero y disposicin de los poros femorales), historia natural y distribucin geogrfica conocida para ambas especies. Por ltimo, se analiza el estado taxonmico de Anadia buntanguesa Rueda-Almonacid y Caicedo 2004 basado en un nuevo ejemplar disponible (el segundo conocido) y esta nueva informacin sugiere que la especie podra ser un sinnimo o al menos estar relacionada con A. steyeri.
10.2307/1563348|An analysis of the dorsal coloration, morphometrics, distribution and 21 genetic loci of 166 Plethodon longicrus and P. yonahlossee from six populations in southwestern North Carolina was performed. Dorsal coloration and costal grooves were clinal. Eighteen of 21 protein loci were fixed for the same allele in all populations. Standard genetic distance estimates between the geographically most distant populations were 0.10, the magnitude one would expect for conspecific populations. Plethodon longicrus should be placed in the synonomy of P. yonahlossee.
10.2307/1564153|Cold temperature tolerance was measured in laboratory reared tadpoles of Xenopus laevis and was found to vary with metamorphic stage. Cold tolerance rises slowly during prometamorphosis, when size is also increasing, but much more rapidly at the metamorphic climax when size is decreasing. Experiments with tadpoles reared in goitrogens, in which they grow but do not develop beyond the early hind limb stage (stage 55), indicate that larger size may increase initial resistance to cold but does not prevent early mortality. Transfer from the goitrogen to tap water, allowing thyroid activity to slowly resume, decreased mortality. The addition of thyroxine (T<sub>4</sub>) to the water results in a more marked reduction in mortality. These data suggest that circulating T<sub>4</sub> may confer resistance to cold in Xenopus tadpoles.
10.2307/1564672|Body temperatures of the Puerto Rican teiid lizard Ameiva exsul were measured throughout the activity period by transmitters implanted in the abdominal cavities of eight lizards held in outdoor enclosures. Body temperature at moments of passage from sun to shade and shade to sun and the consequent heating and cooling rates were calculated. Environmental temperatures were also recorded. Lizards moved from sun to shade at an average body temperature of 39.5 C (CI = 1.42, N = 8), the upper threshold temperature. Lizards moved from shade to sun at 32.5 C (CI = 1.25, N = 8), the lower threshold temperature. For individual lizards, standard deviation of the upper threshold was smaller than that of the lower suggesting close regulation of the upper threshold. The heating rate in the first five to ten minutes following a move to the sun (0.54 C/min [CI = 0.13, N = 8]) was of greater absolute magnitude than the cooling rate following a move to the shade (0.30 C/min [CI = 0.09, N = 8]). During the average thermal cycle significantly more time was spent in the shade, where free-ranging lizards forage intensively in the leaf litter, than in the sun. We suggest that the restricted elevational distribution of this species, first attributed to thermoregulation by Heatwole and Torres, may result from inability to maintain body temperature above the lower threshold while foraging in shade.
10.2307/1563403|In Ohio, populations, each with at least 15 individuals, of Plethodon cinereus from 75 localities were examined. Some of these populations were originally sampled as long as 47 years ago. Six populations were found to have at least 70% of the individuals of the unstriped phase. These populations have probably arisen due to genetic drift as a result of isolation during the time of the Wisconsin glacial retreat. Stability of color phase frequency within a population seems to be dependent upon the amount of disturbance of the habitat.
10.2307/1563288|Reproduction was studied in a mountain population of the lizard Uta stansburiana hesperis situated at 1585-1829 m in the San Gabriel Mountains of southern California. Lizards were active 12 months of the year. Oviducal eggs were present from 12 April-1 August. Females laid a maximum of 3 clutches containing 1-6 eggs during 1974. Average clutch size was 3.5 eggs. Spermiogenesis began during November at 1829 m, was delayed until January at 1585 m and concluded during early August. Hatchlings appeared in early July; some of them reached adult size (42 mm SVL) by September. Fat bodies underwent a seasonal cycle showing enlargement in both sexes in autumn and in females during February-March prior to yolk deposition for clutch 1. It is postulated that winter activity allowed females to begin yolk deposition early enough to produce 3 egg clutches.
25599267|The advertisment calls of the recently described frog Eupsophus queulensis (Cycloramphidae) are analyzed, based on recordings of seven males. Eupsophus queulensis emits an advertisment call consisting of a harmonic-rich frequency modulated note, with dominant second and third harmonics. The temporal parameters of the calls had large intra- and interindividual variation relative to the spectral parameters. The frequency modulations follow four different patterns, as described previously for Eupsophus calcaratus and Eupsophus roseus. Individual frogs produce calls having different frequency modulation patterns, and the proportions of each pattern vary individually. A discriminant analysis positions the calls of E. queulensis closer to E. roseus than to E. calcaratus, which is congruent with the geographic and phylogenetic affinities, as well as with the relative body sizes of these taxa.
4092853|One of the most fundamental problems in monitoring animal populations is that of imperfect detection. Although imperfect detection can be modeled, studies examining patterns in occurrence often ignore detection and thus fail to properly partition variation in detection from that of occurrence. In this study, we used anuran calling survey data collected on North American Amphibian Monitoring Program routes in eastern Maryland to investigate factors that influence detection probability and site occupancy for 10 anuran species. In 2002, 17 calling survey routes in eastern Maryland were surveyed to collect environmental and species data nine or more times. To analyze these data, we developed models incorporating detection probability and site occupancy. The results suggest that, for more than half of the 10 species, detection probabilities vary most with season (i.e., day-of-year), air temperature, time, and moon illumination, whereas site occupancy may vary by the amount of palustrine forested wetland habitat. Our results suggest anuran calling surveys should document air temperature, time of night, moon illumination, observer skill, and habitat change over time, as these factors can be important to model-adjusted estimates of site occupancy. Our study represents the first formal modeling effort aimed at developing an analytic assessment framework for NAAMP calling survey data.
1566142|We studied the ecology of Anolis punctatus and Anolis transversalis at six localities in the Amazon region of Ecuador and Brazil from 1994-1999. Both lizards are arboreal, about the same size (A. punctatus slightly larger) but differ in some body proportions. Anolis transversalis is restricted to undisturbed primary forest more so than A. punctatus, but both use similar microhabitats. During midday, A. transversalis was not observed, suggesting that individuals may not be active near the ground at that time. Both species are thermal conformers although each was able to maintain T<sub>b</sub> slightly higher than that of its perch. Most lizards contained prey, and, overall, a positive relationship existed between lizard body size (SVL) and mean prey volume. Volumetrically, A. punctatus ate mostly ants and orthopterans, whereas A. transversalis ate mostly roaches, beetles, and ants. Dietary overlaps were low (0.56). These two species can be considered "crown giants" among Amazonian anoles. Similar to many Amazonian rain-forest lizards, ecological traits of A. punctatus and A. transversalis render them likely candidates for local extinction when deforestation occurs.
10.2307/1565799| We studied the reproductive characteristics of the spiny lizards, Sceloporus horridus and Sceloporus spinosus (Phrynosomatidae). The specimens (N = 102) of S. horridus came from the state of Morelos and Guerrero, and individuals of S. spinosus (N = 87) came from Puebla, Mxico. Male S. horridus exhibited a peak of reproductive activity during early spring and early summer and male S. spinosus during spring and autumn. Females of both species showed a reproductive peak during the summer. Vitellogenesis of S. horridus began in late March and of S. spinosus in late January, and ovulation in both species occurred during spring and early summer. Mean snout-vent length (SVL) of sexually mature females (based on the largest 50%) was higher in S. spinosus (x  SE = 98.6  1.85) than in S. horridus (91.4  1.32, P < 0.05). Mean clutch size (vitellogenic follicles + oviductal eggs) for S. spinosus was higher (18.5  1.5, N = 18) than for S. horridus (14.8  0.91, N = 30, P < 0.05). There was no significant correlation between snout-vent length of females and clutch size of S. spinosus (r = 0.51, P > 0.05) or S. horridus (r = 0.06, P > 0.05). /// Estudiamos las caractersticas reproductivas de las lagartijas espinosas, Sceloporus horridus y Sceloporus spinosus (Phrynosomatidae). Los especimenes (N = 102) de S. horridus provinieron de los estados de Morelos y Guerrero, y los individuos de S. spinosus (N = 87) de Puebla, Mxico. Los machos de S. horridus exhibieron un pico de actividad reproductiva al inicio de la primavera y del verano, y los machos de S. spinosus durante la primavera y el otoo. Las hembras de ambas especies mostraron el pico reproductivo durante el verano. La vitelognesis de S. horridus comenz a fines de marzo y de S. spinosus a fines de enero, y la ovulacin en ambas especies ocurri durante la primavera y al principio del verano. La media de la longitud hocico-cloaca (LHC) de las hembras sexualmente maduras (basado sobre el 50% ms grandes) fue mayor en S. spinosus (x  SE = 98.6  1.85) que en S. horridus (91.4  1.32, P < 0.05). La media del tamao de la puesta (folculos vitelognicos + huevos oviductales) de S. spinosus fue mayor (18.5  1.5, N = 18) que para S. horridus (14.8  0.91, N = 30, P < 0.05). El tamao de la puesta no estuvo correlacionada con la LHC ni en las hembras de S. spinosus (r = 0.51, P > 0.05) ni en las de S. horridus (r = 0.06, P > 0.05). 
10.2307/1566191|Using visual (VI) and dip net indices (DI) and double-observer (DOE), removal (RE), and neutral red dye capture-recapture (CRE) estimates, we counted, estimated, and censused Couch's spadefoot (Scaphiopus couchii) and canyon treefrog (Hyla arenicolor) tadpole populations in Big Bend National Park, Texas. Initial dye experiments helped us determine appropriate dye concentrations and exposure times to use in mesocosm and field trials. The mesocosm study revealed higher tadpole detection rates, more accurate population estimates, and lower coefficients of variation among pools compared to those from the field study. In both mesocosm and field studies, CRE was the best method for estimating tadpole populations, followed by DOE and RE. In the field, RE, DI, and VI often underestimated populations in pools with higher tadpole numbers. DI improved with increased sampling. Larger pools supported larger tadpole populations, and tadpole detection rates in general decreased with increasing pool volume and surface area. Hence, pool size influenced bias in tadpole sampling. Across all techniques, tadpole detection rates differed among pools, indicating that sampling bias was inherent and techniques did not consistently sample the same proportion of tadpoles in each pool. Estimating bias (i.e., calculating detection rates) therefore was essential in assessing tadpole abundance. Unlike VI and DOE, DI, RE, and CRE could be used in turbid waters in which tadpoles are not visible. The tadpole population estimates we used accommodated differences in detection probabilities in simple desert pool environments but may not work in more complex habitats.
10.2307/1565413|We used temperature-sensitive radiotransmitters to study habitat use and temperature selection of spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata) on an island in Georgian Bay, Ontario, Canada. Each of two field seasons was divided into four "subseasons": Mating, Nesting, Aestivation, and Pre-hibernation, based on seasonal changes in spotted turtle behavior. We observed distinct seasonal shifts in habitat use. In spring (May-June), turtles aggregated in ponds to court and mate. In late June, females nested on open rock outcrops. During July and August, turtles spent about half their time buried in terrestrial forms on rock outcrops and in forests, and were actively swimming and basking, and presumably feeding, during the remainder of this subseason. From September to April, turtles hibernated in sphagnum swamps. Using temperature-sensitive radiotransmitters, we determined average body temperatures while turtles were basking (25.3 C), courting and mating (15.1 C), nesting (19.8 C), foraging and feeding (16.7 C), aestivating (21.8 C), and entering hibernation (9.5 C). We also recorded air and water temperatures during these activities. Comparisons of body temperatures to air and water temperatures, and observed habitat use, suggested that high summer temperatures and avoidance of desiccation were not the proximate causes of aestivation in this northern population.
10.2307/1564704| The karyotypic status of the mesquite lizard, Sceloporus grammicus, was investigated at two localities at Santuario Mapeth, Hidalgo, Mxico. A total of 23 different karyotypes was recorded from the 36 individuals examined. Individual lizards were heterozygous at up to four chromosomes. Karyotypic differences were attributed to Robertsonian fission/fusions and pericentric inversions involving the macrochromosomes. The polymorphisms generally conformed to Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium suggesting a lack of underdominance for most rearrangements. The extreme chromosomal polytypy observed at Santuario Mapeth is hypothesized to result from parapatric hybridization between two chromosome races. /// Se estudi el estatus cariotpico de la lagartija Sceloporus grammicus de dos localidades en Santuario Mapeth, Hidalgo, Mxico. Se registraron un total de 23 cariotipos diferentes de 36 individuos examinados. Las largartijas fueron heterocigotas hasta en 4 pares cromosmicos. Las diferencias cariotpicas se atribuyeron a fisiones/fusiones Robertsonianas y a inversiones pericntricas ue involucran a los seis pares macrocromosmicos. Los polimorfismos se conformaron generalmente de acuerdo al equilibrio Hardy-Weinberg, lo que sugiere uan ausencia de subdominancia para la mayora de los rearreglos. La extrema politipa cromosmica observada parece ser el resultado de hibridacin paraptrica entre dos razas cromosmicas. 
10.2307/1562806|There are a number of populations of amphibians, especially frogs, in which individuals with supernumerary legs, digits, or both occur at relatively high frequencies. The cause or causes of this phenomenon are uncertain despite several investigations. The existence of such populations with largely inadaptive structures suggests that occasionally higher taxa may originate from similar populations. A theory is given that explains how such a process could occur, resulting in a morphologically and adaptively discontinuous origin for the new taxon. If this process ever has occurred instances of it must be rare and probably can never be identified in the fossil record.
23327173|Field observations and markrecapture sampling carried out in the Reserva Ducke in Central Amazonia provided information on the occurrence of reproductive events of the Brilliant-Thighed Frog, Allobates femoralis, in the context of seasonal rainfall. In addition, we report on the daily pattern of calling activity and the use of space by marked individuals. Rainfall was a strong determinant of the calling and breeding activities at a seasonal scale. The phenology of A. femoralis was affected by interannual differences in both the length and severity of the dry season. This species showed a consistent diel pattern throughout the year, with calling activity peaking between 1500 and 1600 h. At the seasonal scale, calling activity was higher during the wet months and was correlated positively with monthly rainfall. Although recruitment is concentrated in the late wet season, our observations of juveniles in the smallest size classes throughout the year indicated that reproduction occurs sporadically even during the dry season, probably stimulated by isolated episodes of rainfall. Territories varied greatly in size, ranging from 4.8 to 175.7 m 2 . Females did not establish or defend territories. Individuals of both sexes showed regional interseasonal attachment, and males maintained territories for up to 255 days.
1565880|We analyzed the frugivorous diet of the lizard Gallotia galloti, a Canary Island endemic, in relation to season and fruit availability in a xeric habitat from Tenerife. Gallotia galloti was omnivorous throughout the year (including >59% of plant material by volume in fecal pellets); only in the winter months (December and January) did invertebrates dominate the diet (>73% in volume). The most remarkable aspect of the diet was the high level of consumption of fleshy fruits, showing pronounced seasonal variation (from 30% in January to 95% in April in frequency of occurrence). Variation in fleshy fruit consumption was associated with seasonal patterns of fruits availability. A total of 4710 seeds were found in 1120 droppings analyzed during the entire year corresponding the majority to Rubia fruticosa and Plocama pendula (Rubiaceae). The extensive consumption of fleshy fruits during seven months of the year (>50% by volume) suggests G. galloti is an important seed disperser in the Canary Islands. These results contrast with the majority of continental lacertids that are insectivorous.
4092884| Uma exsul is a restricted, vulnerable, and rare Mexican lizard that occurs only in fine aeolian sand deposits of the central Chihuahuan Desert. The reproductive cycle of this oviparous lizard was determined using monthly samples of both sexes collected throughout 1992 in the dry Laguna de Mayran in southwestern Coahuila, Mxico. Females reached sexual maturity at a smaller snout-vent length (SVL; 60 mm) than males (73 mm). Reproductive activity of both sexes was synchronous and similar to other oviparous lizards. Mating and courtship occurred from March to June. Males exhibit testicular recrudescence during late winter (February and March) and maximum testicular volume occurred during June. The period of maximal testicular volume was positively correlated with increasing ambient temperature. Testis volume began to decrease in July, reaching minimum volume from August to October. Similarly, females began vitellogenesis during March and contained oviductal eggs from April to July. Females on average laid one or two clutches per breeding season. Mean clutch size based on oviductal eggs was 3.0  0.1 SE (range = 3-5). Clutch size was positively correlated with female SVL. Hatchlings occurred during summer and early fall, when most of the annual rainfall occurs. Uma exsul and Mexican Uma paraphygas mature early and are short lived, consistent with an r-selected life-history strategy. In contrast, the North American species lima scoparia, Uma inomata, and Uma notata exhibit K-selected characteristics. 
40060567|Clearcutting detrimentally affects the populations of many amphibian species. However, Gray Treefrogs (Hyla versicolor) have shown a preference for breeding sites located in clearcuts near forested habitat. To test the implications of this preference, we examined Gray Treefrog tadpole performance in cattle tanks along a gradient from clearcut to forest habitat. We replicated this design at three experimental clearcut sites. Tadpole performance was measured as length of the larval period, size at metamorphosis, and survival. We also examined the influence of temperature, periphyton productivity, and invertebrate predator abundances on tadpole performance. Time to metamorphosis was shorter in the clearcuts, but metamorphs tended to be smaller than metamorphs in the forest tanks. Survival was also greater in the clearcuts than in the forest treatments. Higher temperatures in the clearcuts primarily contributed to tadpole performance whereas invertebrate predators did not appear to influence performance. Although clearcuts benefited tadpoles through higher survival and shorter larval periods, there are potential fitness consequences for small metamorphs emerging in clearcuts.
10.2307/1565146| The skin of the thorny devil readily absorbs water, like "blotting-paper." The volume of water held in the cutaneous capillary system is about 3.7% of the body mass. Water is conveyed to the mouth by the cutaneous capillary system, where it is imbibed. The low permeability of the skin to evaporative water loss and lack of dyed water absorption suggest that there is not any transcutaneous water absorption across the skin itself. Interscalar channels about 5-50 m wide, and an overlapping shelf around the edge of the scales that forms a sub-scalar channel, appear to be the primary cutaneous surface features that are responsible for the "blotting-paper" action of the skin. The capillarity force that absorbs water to the skin supports a pressure head of about 10 cm water. This capillary head is not consistent with the inter-scalar capillarity channel dimension of about 5-50 m, but to about 220 m. One ecological role of the "blotting-paper" skin of the thorny devil is clearly the direct uptake of rain that falls on the skin or from puddles. In addition, the cutaneous capillary system of the thorny devil enables water absorption from moist sand. 
43287305|Microsatellite markers were used to investigate the mating system of the Estuarine Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus). Threehundred and eighty-six hatchlings from 13 clutches from a wild Northern Territory population, and 364 hatchlings from 21 clutches from a captive North Queensland population, were sampled. All samples were genotyped across five microsatellite loci. Multiple paternity was found in 69% of clutches in the wild population compared to 38% of clutches in the captive population. Up to three possible fathers were indicated in some clutches. Shared paternity was suggested by the presence of a common paternal genotype within two clutches in the wild population and among up to three clutches from a large shared pen in the captive population. The probability of detecting multiple paternity at all loci was high; 95% in the wild population and 98% in the captive population. There was no evidence of increased hatching success in the clutches that indicated multiple paternity compared to single paternity clutches in either population (P = 0.43 to P = 0.67). It is unknown whether the occurrence of multiple paternity in C. porosus is a result of multiple mating within the same breeding season or of sperm stored from matings in a previous season. These results suggest the genetic mating system for C. porosus is not polygynous but more likely promiscuous, and there is no evidence of dominant alpha males who control paternity in large areas.
23327156|Reports of severely malformed amphibians in the 1990s prompted researchers to examine the causes and extent of the issue. However, disparities in survey methods and a shortage of baseline data have hindered standardization among investigations. Here, we review field-based surveys and experimental approaches used over the last decade to address this complex ecological issue. We offer specific recommendations regarding amphibian-sampling techniques, including methods to capture and examine amphibians, with the aim of enhancing the accessibility of this topic to scientists, students, and educators of diverse backgrounds. Based on established approaches from epidemiology, we provide recommendations regarding methods to identify proximate causes(s) of abnormalities with a focus on using "multiple lines of evidence," including large-scale field surveys, comparing malformation "signatures" between field and laboratory studies, and using of manipulative experiments at multiple spatial scales. As an example, we describe methods to examine the causal influence of infection by the trematode parasite, Ribeiroia ondatrae, including quantifying presence and abundance within amphibian and snail host populations with adequate power of detection. We conclude by identifying outstanding questions with the goal of stimulating additional research to evaluate the causes and consequences of amphibian malformations.
43287315|Nocturnal activity is important for many animals, but difficulty in documenting that activity has hampered efforts to understand factors that influence when animals are active at night. We used automated radiotelemetry to provide the first detailed tests of the hypothesis that the nocturnal activity of free-ranging snakes should be influenced by temperature, moon phase, and prey abundance by using data for Ratsnakes (Pantherophis spp.) from Texas and Illinois. Ratsnakes exhibited some nocturnal behavior throughout their active season in both Texas and Illinois, although snakes were much more active at night in Texas than in Illinois. Texas snakes transitioned from primarily diurnal activity to primarily nocturnal activity over this snake's active season, whereas Illinois snakes were always most active in the middle of the day. For both populations, nocturnal activity was positively related to temperature but unrelated to moon phase. Ratsnakes in Texas exhibited a stepwise increase in nocturnal activity in mid-summer, independent of temperature and coincident with the shift in their diet to almost exclusively mammals active at night. Given the ability of snakes in both populations to be active at night when temperatures allow, warming climates could lead to an increase in nocturnal activity, with consequences for both the snakes and the species on which they prey.
41415287|Snakes that exhibit caudal luring typically have a conspicuously colored tail tip. We conducted a field experiment to test the adaptive significance of tail color. A sample of 169 neonate Pigmy Rattlesnakes (Sistrurus milianus) was treated by coloring their yellow tails with either black pigment similar to their cryptic body color or yellow ink as a procedural control. Snakes were released and recaptured over the next three months. Tail color manipulation did not significantly influence the proportion of snakes with palpable food. Also, the treatments did not affect growth in SVL or mass. These findings suggest that snakes with cryptic tails did not experience reduced prey capture. The presence of conspicuous tail coloration in this species may be explained by phylogenic inertia, selective benefits of small magnitude, or by habitat-related differences in prey composition or abundance.
10.2307/1563919|Atelopus chiriquiensis were observed during May and June, in 1976 in Chiriqui Province, Panama. Three distinct male vocalizations were recorded and analyzed and their contexts are described. Calling males oriented toward calling neighbors and occasionally wrestled to defend calling sites. Wrestling included an apparent submissive posture and the flipping of opponents.
40664960|Many declines of amphibian populations have been associated with chytridiomycosis, a disease caused by the aquatic fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd). Despite the relatively high prevalence of chytridiomycosis in stream amphibians globally, most surveys in North America have focused primarily on wetland-associated species, which are frequently infected. To better understand the distribution and prevalence of Bd in headwater amphibian communities, we sampled 452 tailed frogs (Ascaphus truei and Ascaphus tnontanus) and 304 stream salamanders (seven species in the Dicamptodontidae and Plethodontidae) for Bd in 38, first-to third-order streams in five montane areas across the United States. We tested for presence of Bd by using PCR on skin swabs from salamanders and metamorphosed tailed frogs or the oral disc of frog larvae. We detected Bd on only seven individuals (0.93%) in four streams. Based on our study and results from five other studies that have sampled headwater-or seep-associated amphibians in the United States, Bd has been detected on only 3% of 1,322 individuals from 21 species. These results differ strongly from surveys in Central America and Australia, where Bd is more prevalent on stream-breeding species, as well as results from wetland-associated anurans in the same regions of the United States that we sampled. Differences in the prevalence of Bd between stream-and wetland-associated amphibians in the United States may be related to species-specific variation in susceptibility to chytridiomycosis or habitat differences.
4092923| Geographic variation in the presence/absence of generation glands in female lizards of the cordylus-niger-oelofseni complex was described and correlations with climatic variables investigated. Preserved and live specimens from 95 localities in the area south of 3230'S and west of 1945'E in the Western Cape, South Africa, were examined for the presence or absence of generation glands. A GIS analysis was performed to determine mean annual minimum temperature, mean annual maximum temperature, potential evaporation, mean annual precipitation, mean annual fog, and mean annual cloud cover for each locality. Discriminant function and canonical analyses showed highly significant correlations between presence and absence of generation glands and five of the six climatic variables. Females from western coastal localities and from the Cape Fold Mountains generally lacked generation glands, whereas females from inland lowland localities generally possessed glands. 
10.2307/1565932|Anuran maxillary, squamosal, and ilial elements from the Late Eocene of Hampshire and the Isle of Wight in southern coastal England represent a new species, Thaumastosaurus wardi, of this previously monotypic genus. Teeth, represented for the first time in the fossil record of this genus, are of the pedicellate type but appear to have specialized swollen tooth crowns. Based on the unique pit and ridge sculpturing of the cranial bones, the pedicellate teeth, and ilial characters of Thaumastosaurus, the genus resembles the leptodactylid genus Caudiverbera (Telmatobiinae) of the modern fauna of Chile and the Miocene of Argentina. It is suggested, however, that Thaumastosaurus should be considered of uncertain familial relationships (familia incertae sedis) until adequate material becomes available.
10.2307/1565361|We provide a redescription of the holotype of Atheris squamigera (Hallowell), which previously was reported as lost. We show that characters used to differentiate A. anisolepis Mocquard are either present in the holotype of A. squamigera (a male), or are sexually dimorphic traits found in female A. squamigera. We consider A. anisolepis to be a junior synonym of A. squamigera.
10.2307/1565802|Because of the deleterious effects of predation by nonnative brown treesnakes (Boiga irregularis) on of native vertebrates on the island of Guam, efforts have been focused on developing effective means of controlling B. irregularis and preventing its spread to neighboring islands. Past laboratory attempts to evaluate potential baits for trapping B. irregularis have often not agreed with field results. Here we present a new laboratory situation for studying effects of various baits on prey finding ability of B. irregularis that uses trailing latencies as a measure of bait efficacy. Our results show that B. irregularis will follow trails made by rodent blood, whole rodent carcasses, and synthetic bait compounds. However, snakes followed trails made by rodent carcasses and blood at a significantly faster rate than those made by synthetic bait compounds. Further, the presence of a visual distracter cue significantly increased trailing latencies. Implications of these results for trapping efforts are discussed.
10.2307/1564261| Two new species of frogs of the genus Colostethus from the Venezuelan highlands are described. Colostethus duranti, from the pramo and subpramo La Culata, Estado Mrida, is distinguished from all other Venezuelan Colostethus by the presence of a transversal sacral flap above the vent and by its white and light blue dotted belly. Colostethus serranus from the cloud-forest area of El Morro, Estado Mrida, is distinguished by the lemon-yellow color of the belly and the pink to copper color of the ventral parts of the thighs. /// Dos nuevas especies de sapos del gnero Colostethus son descritas. Ambas especies provienen de ambientes altoandinos venezolanos. Colostethus duranti, de la regin paramera y subparamera de La Culata, Estado Mrida, se distingue de los dems Colostethus venezolanos por la presencia de un pliegue sacral supraanal y por su particular coloracin ventral que lleva gruesos puntos blancos y azules. Colostethus serranus, de la zona de Selva nublada de la regin de El Morro, Estado Mrida, se distingue por su coloracin ventral amarillo limn y por el color rosado o cobrizo de la parte ventral de los muslos. 
10.2307/1563648|Five sympatric geckos are found on Guam: Perochirus articulatus, Gehyra oceanica, G. mutilata, Lepidodactylus lugubris and Hemidactylus frenatus. Lepidodactylus matures at approximately 35 mm SV; Hemidactylus at 37 mm SV; G. mutilata at 42 mm SV; Perochirus at 47 mm SV; and G. oceanica at 72 mm SV. All five species produce an average of two eggs in a clutch but the number is not constant. Perochirus and G. oceanica are closely associated with relatively undisturbed habitat. G. mutilata is found in all major habitat types but is most common in native forest. Both Hemidactylus and Lepidodactylus are tolerant of human activity and reach highest density in the newly constructed urban complex with well lighted buildings and other foraging surfaces.
10.2307/1563400|Migrational movements of a population of Chrysemys picta bellii were observed during 1974 and 1975 in an oxbow lake complex composed of several separate sections in eastern Nebraska. Recaptures of individual marked turtles indicated seasonal movements due to changes in water levels of the different oxbow sections. Emigration from semipermanent hibernacula to outlying areas occurred in spring, as a response to the filling of these areas with water. Migration back to more permanent areas of water occurred when the outlying sections began to dry up in late June. Reasons for the emigrational movements from the permanent areas in spring may be crowding effects and the generally greater productivity of aquatic plant material in the shallower, less permanent areas.
10.2307/1565726| We used eggs of two species of Australian skinks, Morethia boulengeri and M. adelaidensis, to: (1) estimate the amount of energy consumed during embryonic development, and (2) to assess the assumption that lipid provides most of the energy to fuel development. We estimated energy consumption in two ways, using standard closed-system respirometry and by estimating energy loss during development by comparing energy contained in fresh eggs and in hatchlings. Eggs of M. boulengeri are smaller (173 mg  4) than those of M. adelaidensis (217 mg  8), as are the hatchlings (36.4 mg  1.4, and 46.2 mg  1.7 dry mass, respectively). Incubation period is virtually identical (M. boulengeri: mean = 57.6, range 54-63; M. adelaidensis: mean = 57.7, range 55-60; P = 0.942). The estimate of energy consumption during development was similar using both methods for M. adelaidensis (46.8  0.8 ml O<sub>2</sub> or 898  15 J from respirometry and 807  57 J from bomb calorimetry) and M. boulengeri (33.3  0.8 ml or 640  16 J and 576  36 J). Commensurate with their larger size, embryos of M. adelaidensis consumed more energy during development than M. boulengeri, but there was no significant difference in the dry mass-specific metabolic cost for M. boulengeri (18.2 kJ g<sup>-1</sup>  0.7 kJ) and M. adelaidensis (19.9  0.8 kJ g<sup>-1</sup> P = 0.1123). The respiratory exchange ratio was 0.76  0.01 in both species, indicating that approximately equal quantities of energy are derived from protein and lipid during development. 
10.2307/1564396|The Pacific treefrog Pseudacris regilla is polymorphic in dorsal body color. Background selection experiments were conducted to test an hypothesis of differential substrate preference by green and brown morphs. Both morphs selected matching substrates more often than contrasting substrates. Background selection behaviors presumably arise in response to selection by visual predators. Garter snakes (Thamnophis elegans) were presented with contrasting and matching treefrogs on green and brown laboratory backgrounds. When active, matching frogs had no significant advantage; snakes selected the contrasting morph 10 of 18 times. However, in 10 trials where motionless frogs were attacked the contrasting frog was selected 9 times, indicating differential selection on noncryptic individuals. These results suggest that genetically-determined phenotypic variants can reduce the risk of predation through microhabital selection, and indicate that visual predators can be important selective agents in the evolution and maintenance of color polymorphisms.
10.2307/1564268|The feeding ecology of the Gulf Coast Waterdog, Necturus beyeri, is described based on (1) analysis of gut contents from 91 specimens collected between February and December 1980 in Talisheek Creek, Louisiana, and (2) information on the habits, hatitats, seasonal availability and size ranges of N. beyeri and its prey. Waterdogs and their prey were closely associated with leaf litter (detritus) deposits in the stream. Necturus beyeri were collected almost exclusively from leaf litter beds. Sixteen of the 18 prey taxa recorded inhabit sediments and detritus in depositional areas and 12 of these function as detritivores. Declining abundance of N. beyeri in leaf litter beds and decreased food consumption during warmer months was associated with declining invertebrate richness and abundance. It is hypothesized that N. beyeri burrow during warm periods of the year and that this behavior is related to low food availability. Young and adult N. beyeri were trophically segregated by prey type and size, and by feeding habitat to a degree. Juveniles and subadults fed predominantly on isopods, midges and small mayflies. Adults fed predominantly on large mayflies and caddisflies. The high intensity of acanthocephalan parasitism observed for N. beyeri was linked to predation on isopods, the intermediate hosts of these parasites. The potential impact of acanthocephalan parasitism and isopod consumption on N. beyeri ecology is discussed.
10.2307/1564583|The Australian skink genera Lygisaurus and Menetia are diagnosed on the basis of derived morphological characters. Menetia consists of the six species traditionally included therein (alanae, amaura, concinna, greyii, maini, and surda), plus three additional species (timlowi, koshlandae, and sadlieri). Menetia koshlandae and M. sadlieri are described as new and along with M. timlowi, most recently assigned to Lygisaurus, are shown to constitute a distinct subgroup within Menetia. A key is provided to all nine species of Menetia, and some notes are presented on reproduction, habitat and color for three species.
10.2307/1564986| Four Kemp's ridley (Lepidochelys kempii) turtles, ranging in straight-line carapace length from 51 to 60 cm and in weight from 19 to 27 kg, were released in 12 to 19 m water depths off Florida, Texas, and North Carolina and tracked for 1.0 to 8.5 months. Movements up to 2600 km were observed. The number of submergences per day was inversely proportional to the duration of submergences per day. These ridleys spent 89% of their time submerged and frequented waters ranging in depth from 1-140 m. Turtles ranged from inshore to 77 km offshore. Mean swimming speeds of these turtles were from 0.7 to 1.3 km/h, with over 95% of the actual velocity values 5 km/h. 
1566169|We studied seasonal variation in intersexual dietary overlap, perch use, and reproductive status of female Gonatodes humeralis in Eastern Brazilian Amazon. The diet of G. humeralis consisted primarily of invertebrates, and differed significantly between sexes in the rainy season, when there was also a significant intersexual difference in perch use (males perched higher). Reproductive activity was also more intense during the rainy season. Intersexual diet divergence may be a result of differential perch use, which appears related to intense reproductive activity in the rainy season. By using higher perches, males should increase their chance to find mates as suggested in other lizard species.
10.2307/1564825| A new species of anole of the Norops schiedei group is described from a cloud forest locality in northern Honduras. The new species is closely related to N. purpurgularis and N. johnmeyeri of Honduras, as well as to other members of the group from Mxico and Guatemala as recognized in a recent review of this group. Its combination of relatively large middorsal scales, unicarinate scales on the forelegs, enlarged postanals in males, well-developed parietal depression, and rose-colored dewlap with a central purplish spot readily distinguishes it from the remaining species in the schiedei group. Se describe una nueva especie de lagartija del grupo Norops schiedei de localidad bosque nublado en el norte de Honduras. La nueva especie es relacionada muy de cerca a N. purpurgularis y N. johnmeyeri de Honduras as como tambin otros miembros del grupo de Mxico y Guatemala. Se distingue fcilmente de los otros miembros del grupo schiedei por sus escamas medio-dorsales relativamente grandes, escamas unicarinadas en el brazo, machos con postanales agrandadas, depresin parietal definido y papera de color rosado con una mancha central morada. 
10.2307/1566111|Recognition of individual animals is essential for a wide variety of research and monitoring studies involving amphibians, but little information exists on the effects that marking methods have on survivorship, life history, and behavior. We evaluated toe clipping and subcutaneous injections of a fluorescent-elastomer for individual identification of the western red-backed salamander, Plethodon vehiculum, on Vancouver Island, British Columbia. In the laboratory, no confirmed mortality of marked or unmarked (control) salamanders occurred over 64 weeks. The number of toe clips lost as the result of regeneration increased steadily after 35 weeks postmarking, but few fluorescent marks were lost or misidentified. In the field, we recaptured more fluorescent-marked (60%) than toe-clipped (40%) salamanders from September 1997 to May 1998 but detected no differences in growth or spatial movements. In a second field experiment (27 April to 31 May 1999), toe-clipped salamanders gained less weight in relation to their initial body size than did fluorescent-marked and control salamanders. These data suggest that toe clipping affects the ability of individuals to take full advantage of optimal foraging conditions that prevail in May, which, in turn, might affect the quantity of stored energy reserves required for survival over adverse, dry periods in summer.
10.2307/1565092|The ringneck snake, Diadophis punctatus (Colubridae [s.l.]: "Xenodontinae"), is one of the most widespread snake species in North America. Thirteen subspecies currently are recognized based upon variation in several morphological characters. An antiserum prepared against the serum albumin of the eastern subspecies, D. p. edwardsii, revealed very high levels of variation in albumin across the range of this species. The immunological distances (direct estimates of amino acid differences) range from 0 to 25; this degree of albumin divergence typically is found between congeneric species in other vertebrates, including snakes, and indicates substantial genetic differentiation within D. punctatus. The primary division within this genus appears to separate eastern and western (including midwestern) subspecies and dates to approximately the Miocene. These data indicate that Diadophis may not be a monotypic genus, but instead contains at least two genetically distinct species.
10.2307/1564926| Home range size, movement, and denning behavior of 15 adult female American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) of different reproductive status were compared using radio telemetry. Radio-collared adult female alligators had an annual home range of 35.8  42.9 (SD) ha, and 30% of them nested in 1988. No difference was found between nesting and non-nesting adult females during the summer nesting season in home range size, daily movement, or percent of time spent at den sites. Likewise, no difference was found in any of the three variables during the fall brooding season when females with broods were compared to those without broods. Adult female alligators had larger home ranges, greater movement, and spent less time at or near their den sites during the spring breeding season than any other season of the year. 
10.2307/1564119|The late Rancholabrean herpetofauna of the Schulze Cave, Edwards County, Texas, yielded the bones of at least one salamander, three frogs, two turtles, three lizards and thirteen snakes. All of the fossils are from a previously unstudied matrix layer. The herpetofaunal composition of the Edwards County area has changed only slightly in the last 12,000 to 15,000 years. Geochelone cf. G. wilsoni represents the only extinct form. Elaphe obsoleta is reported for the first time from the Rancholabrean of Texas and represents the only extant species that would not be expected to occur in the cave site today. Three forms (a thick-shelled Terrapene, Geochelone, and E. obsoleta) suggest a more equable climate than occurs in the area today. The absence of aquatic forms indicates temporary or seasonal aquatic conditions in the proximity of the cave during late Rancholabrean times or selective sampling of the fossil herpetofauna by the predators that brought the bones to the cave site.
40060568|Macrohabitat and microhabitat preferences of the endemic Fiji Tree Frog Platymantis vitiensis were investigated in Savura near Suva, Viti Levu, Fiji. Twelve sites in three habitat types (primary rain forest, disturbed secondary rain forest, and mahogany plantations) were surveyed from June 2004 to May 2005. The phenology of P. vitiensis was also studied along two permanent transects (adjacent to, and distant from, a stream bank) within the Savura area. Individuals were more abundant in primary rain forest than mahogany plantations and secondary rain forest. Individuals were common along stream banks, perched on riparian plants such as Pandanus, ferns, and Dolicholobium (and usually found 100-200 cm above the ground). Rainfall influenced activity, with fewer individuals observed during intense rainfall events. Adult frogs were more frequently encountered between July and October and gravid females between August and November. Hatchlings were more common during the dry season (May to October), whereas juvenile abundances peaked early in the wet season (November to April). Future surveying and monitoring of P. vitiensis populations should be conducted during March to July, when abundances are greater. The efficiency of rapid surveys can be maximized by subsampling along riparian vegetation, particularly where Pandanus are present.
10.2307/1564480|Previous studies have demonstrated that the ability of embryos from the wood frog (Rana sylvatica) to withstand acid conditions is strongly influenced by maternal factors. Here we investigate one possible source of this maternal influence -- variation in egg size. Samples of seventeen egg clutches from four populations of wood frogs in Connecticut were measured for ovum volume and capsule thickness. Additional eggs from each clutch were used to assess the acid tolerance of embryos and larvae. Ovum volume was negatively correlated with hatching success at pH 4 and capsule thickness was negatively correlated with hatching success at pH 3.75. The acid tolerance of larvae was not related to ovum size nor to capsule thickness. Ovum volume and capsule thickness varied significantly within populations, but there were no differences in these parameters among the four populations. The relationship between egg size and acid tolerance was not evident within individual clutches.
10.2307/1563196| Two new subspecies of Tropidophis haetianus Cope are described, one from the extreme eastern Repblica Dominicana, the other from the distal portion of the Tiburon Peninsula in Haiti. Comparisons and additional data are given for these two new taxa and the three Jamaican subspecies of T. haetianus, and an origin of the Jamaican populations is suggested. 
40983592|For 16 years, we have observed and recorded seasonal life cycles of individual free-ranging Rosenberg's Goannas, Varanus rosenbergi. These monitor lizards are normally solitary except during their annual summer breeding cycle. Activities and behaviors were documented from precourtship through to pairing, courtship, copulation, selecting and excavating an incubation chamber, egg laying, and finally guarding the egg mound before returning to a solitary life style. Whereas the sequence of breeding activities tends to follow a set pattern, the timing and duration of physical and physiological events vary from season to season. Courtship through to defending the egg mound occupies up to 4 months of the year, commencing just before the summer solstice and ending shortly after the autumn equinox.
10.2307/1564882|The demography of gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) in northern Florida was investigated from 1981 to 1987 through burrow surveys and mark-recapture efforts. The number of burrows showing active sign increased in April, peaked in July, and remained high through October. The burrow surveys also revealed a continuous cycle of burrow creation and abandonment. The ratio of captured gopher tortoises to burrows (active and inactive) varied among years and study sites; the range was 0.45-0.69. A total of 372 tortoises was captured, marked, and measured on three sites. Recapture rates for juveniles were consistently low. Percentages of adult tortoises in the three populations ranged from 40-62%. Female to male sex ratios of captured tortoises varied annually from 1:1 to 1:2.
10.2307/1563606|An intensive search for marine snakes was carried out in the course of a five week cruise among the Philippine Islands in August and September of 1975. The Visayan Sea was by far the most productive area found, especially near the Gigante Islands. In this area it appears that 12 species are sympatric on shoals of 5-20 meters depth. A 13th species (Cerberus), a mangrove form, is found nearby. Two hydrophiid species, Hydrophis ornatus and Laticauda semifasciata are numerically dominant on the offshore shoals; the former is nocturnal and the latter diurnal. In the mangroves the nocturnal colubrid Cerberus rhynchops and the acrochordid Acrochordus granulatus were common. Laticauda colubrina was a nocturnal shallow water reef and mangrove form. No snakes were found in shallow coastal waters of the Sulu Sea which appear superficially to be suitable habitat. Two individuals of Astrotia stokesii caught at the Gigante Islands represent the first record of this species in the Philippines.
10.2307/1565330|Cobras lack infrared facial pits, are largely diurnal hunters, and exhibit active hunting behavior, suggesting that proximate visual stimuli may be of primary importance in guiding or releasing predatory behaviors. Further, predatory behavior in some snakes involves a hierarchical evaluation of multiple sensory stimuli by the central nervous system assigning some stimuli primary roles and others subordinate roles in eliciting specific foraging behaviors. To test these possibilities in cobras, mice were presented to five red spitting cobras with and without their eyes covered, and 13 dependent predatory variables scored in each treatment. We found that cobras with the use of their eyes struck prey sooner, and from greater range, than when they were blindfolded, results consistent with the view that red spitting cobras are primarily visual predators. Blindfolded cobras exhibited elevated rates of tongue flicking prior to striking but they took longer to locate prey, changed locomotor behavior (increased movement, sweeping motions of head), and usually struck only after making actual tactile contact with the prey. In the absence of visual stimuli, red spitting cobras increase their reliance on chemical cues, but this did not allow them to maintain a level of predatory performance equivalent to that seen in the control condition. We conclude that switching within the central nervous system between sensory modalities is fundamentally different in cobras than in pit vipers.
23327157|Coverboards have been used for decades in research on amphibians and reptiles, but their characteristics have varied widely. This diversity in design may both complicate comparisons among studies and preclude assessment of how coverboards could be deliberately tailored to specific study objectives. Although numerous studies have evaluated the effectiveness of various aspects of coverboards, a general synthesis of these results as they relate to salamanders is lacking. Here, I summarize and evaluate information relating to coverboard design and potential concerns for using coverboards in studies of salamanders.
10.2307/1564361|First data on breeding biology and vocalization by the primary forest dwelling frog species Osteocephalus buckleyi, Chiasmocleis shudikarensis, Bufo dapsilis, and Leptodactylus rhodomystax, was obtained in the Central Amazon of Brazil in 1980, 1983, 1984, and 1985. Breeding habitat requirements of these species are quite specialized and emphasize the need for more ecological information on Amazonian forest frog species if efforts to preserve them in forest reserves are to be effective. Calling by Osteocephalus buckleyi and Chiasmocleis shudikarensis and Bufo dapsilis demonstrates certain vocal behaviors exhibited extensively by Amazonian forest frog species which may reflect predator avoidance strategies.
1565830|Anoles (Anolis, Chamaeleolis, Chamaelinorops, Phenacosaurus) differ greatly in size and shape of their subdigital toepads. We sampled 79 anole species to address two issues. First, is toepad size significantly related to habitat use? Second, do anoles from mainland Central and South America differ from Caribbean anoles in either the size of their toepads or in the relationship between toepad shape and habitat use? Among all anoles, toepad size increases with both perch height and diameter, although when the effects of body size are removed, these relationships are weakened. Morphological differences exist between toepads of anoles from the two regions. Caribbean anoles have larger toepads relative to snout-vent length and wider pads at larger body sizes compared to mainland species. Relationships between toepad morphology and habitat use characteristics do not differ significantly between the two groups of anoles. However, with effects of size removed, Caribbean anoles have larger and wider toepads relative to both perch height and diameter. These findings suggest that anoles in island habitats may require larger toepads than mainland anoles to use their arboreal habitats. The potential functional consequences of these differences in toepad morphology provide a promising avenue for future studies.
10.2307/1563689|Because systematically and biologically important parameters of anuran advertisement calls are temperature-dependent it is important for comparative studies to have a precise and accurate measure or estimate of body temperature influencing the call. Environmental and body temperatures were measured in natural populations of four nocturnally aquatic-calling species (3 Scaphiopus, 1 Bufo) of similar size. Heat gain during handling was minimized by careful use of forceps near the toad's temperature. Measurement by thermocouple avoided delay that might allow evaporative cooling. Simple equations for accurate prediction of body temperature from environmental temperatures were derived by stepwise regression analyses of empirical data. Water temperature is highly correlated with body temperature, and including other environmental temperatures does not significantly improve regression statistically. However, multiple regression equations including dry or wet-bulb air temperatures improved accuracy of prediction in the sample tested.
10.2307/1563647|Sceloporus grammicus tamaulipensis is described from the isolated Sierra de Tamaulipas mountain range in southern Tamaulipas, Mexico, where it is apparently restricted to oak and pine-oak habitats of high elevations. It is distinguished from other adjacent races of S. grammicus by its larger scales and, consequently, a much lower number of dorsal scales, and to a lesser extent, scales around mid-body. Males of S. g. tamaulipensis are separated from males of S. g. grammicus, some of which have low numbers of dorsals, by ventral color patterns. This new race is also distinct at two allozyme loci (esterase-1, IDH). Morphometric, color pattern, and chromosome data suggest that S. g. tamaulipensis is most closely related to S. grammicus populations inhabiting the Sierra San Carlos and lowland thorn scrub habitats of northern Tamaulipas and southern Texas. Sceloporus grammicus disparilis is not clearly differentiated from S. g. microlepidotus and is placed in synonymy with it.
10.2307/1563743|The temperature preference of Bufo marinus larvae was determined at six stages of development. At stage 37 the temperature preference of the larvae was also determined at each of three acclimation temperatures. Preferred temperature generally increased as larval development progressed. This trend was compared with the thermal tolerance at different stages of development. There was no significant correlation between temperature tolerance and temperature preference. The temperatures experienced by tadpoles in nature as they select different microhabitats at different stages of development showed a trend similar to the temperature preferences. Different acclimation temperatures at stage 37 had no effect on temperature preference.
10.2307/1563134|A small fossil assemblage from the Upper Eocene (Twiggs Clay) of Twiggs County, Georgia, has yielded a pelobatid frog, two large sea snakes (Palaeophis and Pterosphenus) and two terrestrial erycinine boids (Huberophis georgiensis n. gen. et sp. and Ogmophis voorhiesi n. sp.). Both the stratigraphy and vertebrate fauna suggest that an estuary on a tropical coastline was the site of deposition of the bones.
25599218|We used principal component analysis and logistic regression to evaluate the effect of 11 pond water quality variables on the presence and absence of Great Crested Newts (Triturus cristatus) in a cluster of 29 ponds in south-central Sweden. Variables of importance for the patterns observed were comprised into four principal components. Using logistic regression analysis and Akaike's Information Criteria (AIC) we found that the best model explaining the distribution of Great Crested Newts included three of the principal components. Temperature and nutrient levels (nitrogen and phosphorus) were important in distinguishing between ponds with and without Great Crested Newts, whereas other physical variables were less important. Ponds with newts had higher temperatures and nutrient levels than ponds where the species was absent. Our results also suggest that the Great Crested Newt selects ponds with low nutrient levels for breeding, whereas they may be present in ponds with higher nutrient levels. Although this study was performed in a single area with a limited sample the results raise several issues of general importance for the management and conservation of Great Crested Newts in pond landscapes.
10.2307/1566018| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus discoidalis group is described from the inner-Andean dry valleys of Bolivia. The new species is similar to Eleutherodactylus cruralis but differs from it in having the discs of fingers III and IV two times wider than the digits proximal to the discs, and the tympanum length being more than half the eye length. Moreover, the advertisement call of the new species is much shorter, has a lower dominant frequency, and fewer notes per call. /// Se describe una nueva especie del grupo Eleutherodactylus discoidalis de los valles secos interandinos de Bolivia. La nueva especie es similar a E. cruralis, de la que se diferencia por tener los discos de los dedos de la mano III y IV dos veces ms anchos que el dimetro del dedo, y el dimetro mayor del tmpano mayor que la mitad del dimetro del ojo. Adems, en la especie nueva la llamada de advertencia es ms corta, con frecuencia dominante ms baja y con menos notas por llamada. 
23326914|Remote video cameras recorded eight instances of nest excavation and parental transport of offspring to the water by Australian freshwater crocodiles (Crocodylus johnstoni) inhabiting Lake Argyle in northwestern Australia. Parental assistance during hatching appears to be vital for successful emergence of hatchlings from nests in this area.
10.2307/1565505|Neonate, juvenile and adult habu, Trimeresurus flavoviridis, were tested for the occurrence of strike-induced chemosensory searching (SICS) following predatory strikes. Two separate experiments were conducted in Okinawa, Japan and in Tennessee, USA. Although the experiments differed slightly in their methodology, both demonstrated clearly the occurrence of SICS in habu. Since the habu is terrestrial, while other species of Trimeresurus are arboreal and apparently do not exhibit SICS, this behavior may have been reevolved by habu.
10.2307/1564172|This paper presents the status and ecology of a population of Crocodylus acutus associated with the Turkey Point power plant in Florida. Distribution, habitat preference, reproduction, population size and structure, and recruitment and dispersal are discussed. Nesting occurs on spoil berms in the cooling canal system. The Turkey Point population contributes 10% of the annual production of hatchlings in southern Florida. Crocodiles have exploited previously unavailable, man-altered nesting habitat in approximately 4 years. The resident population consists of a minimum of 19 adult, subadult and juvenile crocodiles. This population exhibits differential habitat preferences according to size class, and shows seasonal changes in distribution. Salinity regime is a factor in these trends. Ecology and population structure are similar to those of the population residing in the more pristine habitat of Everglades National Park. Long distance dispersal and recruitment into the Turkey Point population are documented. The long-term outlook for the population in this man-altered habitat is for growth and expansion.
40060562|The Puerto Rican terrestrial frog (Eleutherodactylus coqui) has received considerable attention in Hawaii because of its rapid spread, loud mating calls, and its potential threat to native species. Thus far, its invasion potential on the Island of Hawaii remains poorly understood. Critical components for determining this potential are robust estimates of abundance and vital rates across habitat types. To address this lack of information, we used mark-recapture methods to estimate E. coqui survival and abundance, determine growth rates of adult male and female frogs, and relate densities to elevation, snout-vent length (SVL), habitat structure, and invertebrate abundance. Mean adult E. coqui density across eight sites was 62  12 adults/100 m and ranged from 6-138 adults/100 m. Our three-year mean adult density estimates were three times greater at three of our study sites (100 adults/100 m than the highest long-term estimates from Puerto Rico (33 adults/100 m). Mean individual growth rates were 0.0078 mm/day ( 0.007 SD, N= 87) for males and 0.0097 mm/day ( 0.009 SD, N = 11) for females. Frogs of similar size were found to be growing slower in Hawaii than Puerto Rico. We found no relationship between elevation and E. coqui density or elevation and SVL or between invertebrate abundance and E. coqui density. However, there was a positive relationship between understory structure and E. coqui density. This relationship suggests that removing understory structure could reduce E. coqui densities, although other potential implications of this management treatment should be considered.
4092893|We assessed the importance of tree buttresses as a microhabitat for leaf-litter amphibians and reptiles in a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica by making comparisons of species richness and abundance between pairs of 4 x 4 m leaf-litter quadrats. One quadrat in each pair contained a central buttressed tree, and the other did not. Both abundance and species richness of the herpetofauna were much greater in plots containing buttressed trees; higher species richness in buttress plots was attributed solely to greater abundance in these plots. Buttress and nonbuttress plots contained a similar species composition, and we found particularly strong use of this microhabitat by the scincid lizard Sphenomorphus cherriei. Our results indicate that the microhabitat provided by tree buttresses forms a site of generalized high abundance for the leaf-litter herpetofauna and may contribute to localized high abundance of at least one species.
10.2307/1563170|The main food items of Corallus enydris from the island of Carriacou, West Indies, were significantly different from those of mainland snakes of this species. Sixty-two per cent of the island specimens contained ectothermic prey while 14 per cent contained endothermic prey. The frequency of occurrence of ectotherms and endotherms in the mainland sample was 0 per cent and 67 per cent respectively. Corallus enydris is an opportunistic feeder and will commonly prey on ectotherms in spite of the specializations it possesses for the detection and procurement of endothermic prey.
10.2307/1564247|Macroscopically, the testes of Chthonerpeton indistinctum consist of a series of oval lobes. The number and size of lobes is variable in Chthonerpeton indistinctum. Histologically, the testes are divided into structural units, locules separated by septa of connective tissue. Inside of each locule spermatogenesis takes place in cysts of germinal cells that divide synchronically. Spermiogenesis is divided chronologically into four stages of development based on the shape of the nuclei of the spermatids and their arrangement in the cyst: (1) round, (2) kidney shaped, (3) attenuate, and (4) bouquet arrangement.
10.2307/1562794| A 35-month mark-recapture study of a six-lined racerunner population was conducted in Brazos County, Texas. A 5-month activity season for racerunners in Texas was approximately 1 month longer than that in Kansas. Most females laid 2 clutches per season; some may have laid 3. Mean clutch size was 3.38 eggs. Females attained mature size (68 mm snout-vent length) in time to reproduce at one year of age. Survivorship of racerunners was lower in Texas than in Kansas. Turnover was essentially annual in Texas; life expectancy was shorter for males than for females. Drought in 1971 sharply reduced density of males but did not affect females. Population densities ranged from 24 racerunners/ha in 1970 to 15 racerunners/ha in 1971. Home range size was similar for males and females and averaged 13,099 m<sup>2</sup>. In 1971 a significant increase in home range size of males accompanied their decreased numbers. 
10.2307/1564309|The historic and recent distribution of the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) in Florida is from Vero Beach and Tampa south to the lower Florida Keys. Its nesting distribution is southern Biscayne Bay and northeastern Florida Bay. Both distributions reflect winter temperature. Nesting sites and non-nesting habitat have been lost to development on Miami Beach and the upper Florida Keys, but this loss has been compensated by the creation of artificial nesting sites on spoil banks along southern Biscayne Bay and a westward addition to the nesting range in Florida Bay. Except for the shift in nesting away from developed areas, the general distribution of the American crocodile in Florida is the same as that historically documentable.
25599243|We describe a new species of Pristimantis from the Amazonian lowlands in southern Peru (Madre de Dios Region). The new species has a snout-vent length of 22.8-23.4 mm in two adult males (females are unknown), a tympanum barely visible, a W-shaped scapular ridge, the iris bearing a dark vertical bar forming a cross or a T, a cream venter with brown blotches, and groin and concealed surfaces of shanks with a contrasting pattern consisting of yellow and black. It is tentatively assigned to the unistrigatus species Group and is most similar to Pristimantis diadematus and Pristimantis eurydactylus. /// Describimos una nueva especie de Pristimantis de la llanura amaznica del sur de Per (Regin de Madre de Dios). La nueva especie tiene una longitud hocico-cloaca de 22.8-23.4 mm en dos machos adultos (no se encontraron hembras), el tmpano es poco visible, la regin escapular tiene un borde en forma de W, el iris tiene una barra vertical oscura en forma de cruz o T, el vientre es de color crema con manchas marrones, la ingle y las superficies ocultas de las piernas poseen un patrn de coloracin amarillo y negro contrastante. La nueva especie es tentativamente asignada al Grupo de especies unistrigatus y es ms parecida a Pristimantis diadematus y Pristimantis eurydactylus.
1565826|We examined the reproductive output of spotted turtles (Clemmys guttata) from a population in South Carolina. We used radio telemetry, palpation, and x-rays to monitor the reproductive condition of females over two field seasons. We present the first evidence for multiple clutching in a wild population of spotted turtles. Of 12 females with radio transmitters that became gravid, five produced second clutches, and one produced a third clutch. Average annual clutch frequency was 1.2 per female. Clutch frequency was independent of body size. We compared reproductive output among three populations: Ontario, Pennsylvania, South Carolina. Individual clutch sizes varied with latitude. Clutch size was largest in the north (mean = 5.3 eggs), midsized in the central population (3.9), and smallest in the south (2.9). We suggest that this pattern is related to seasonality differences, which result in different selective pressures on body size of females. Total annual egg production (the sum of all clutches within a reproductive season) by gravid females did not differ between the Ontario (5.3 eggs) and South Carolina populations (4.6). These data indicate that, although individual clutch sizes differ between northern and southern spotted turtles, total annual reproductive output is consistent in these widely separated populations.
10.2307/1563929| A new species of xerophilic Eleutherodactylus belonging to the Antillean ricordi complex is described from the southern coast of the Haitian Presqu'le du Nord Ouest, Hispaniola. 
10.2307/1566023|The advertisement calls of Leptodactylus geminus, Leptodactylus gracilis, Leptodactylus plaumanni, and Leptodactylus fuscus are analyzed and compared with published reports. Based on calling data and examination of type material, Leptodactylus geminus is synonymized with L. plaumanni. To differentiate between the sibling species L. gracilis and L. plaumanni, fieldwork is needed, including recording of advertisement calls. Reliable identification of fixed specimens is not possible based on morphology and coloration alone.
23327171|Female mate choice preferences may be the result of innate factors, experience, or an interaction between the two mechanisms. Understanding the relative contribution and possible interaction between these mechanisms is important for identifying sources of variation in behaviors under sexual selection. In this study, we evaluate the contribution of early experience on the development of mate choice preferences in the Neotropical Tngara Frog, Physalaemus pustulosus. We reared frogs from tadpole stage through sexual maturity in four acoustic treatments: the first group heard a conspecific chorus of Tngara Frogs, the second group heard a heterospecific chorus of the closely related sympatric congener P. enesefae, the third group heard no frog sounds, and the fourth group heard only broadband white noise. At sexual maturity, we tested each female's preferences for conspecific complex vs simple calls and discrimination against calls of the sympatric congener. Female choices in all of these tests were consistent with those in previous studies of wild-caught and laboratory-reared specimens of this species. The acoustic rearing environments in this study did not alter the preferences of females for complex conspecific calls or the discrimination of females against the sympatric congener. This study supports the hypothesis that early experience does not alter the mate choice preferences of female P. pustulosus.
4092931|Anolis porcatus is a tropical lizard endemic to Cuba. Monthly samples of lizards were obtained from the urban area surrounding Havana, Cuba. Testicular size and weight in males, and oocyte diameter and the presence of oviductal eggs in females, varied with season. Histological examination of gonads indicated a seasonal pattern in mature gametes for both sexes. In males, the spermatogenic process began with early gonadal recrudescence in November and the testes attained maximal spermatogenic activity between March and August. Spermatogenesis diminished during September and ceased in October. In females, only previtellogenic follicles were observed in the ovaries from November through February, and vitellogenesis began in March, and the first oviductal eggs were observed during late April. Vitellogenesis and oviductal eggs were observed from April to October. The timing of the gametogenic events indicates that male and female gonadal cycles are synchronized, corresponding to prenuptial spermatogenesis.
10.2307/1563588| Evidence is presented that the description of Testudo coriacea by Vandelli (1761) is nomenclaturally valid. Attention is drawn to the danger which would result, for the stability of zoological nomenclature, in applying the Rules of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature in a too rigid and formal way to old, well-known, "classic" works. The works of Schlosser (1768), Boddaert (1770-1772) and De La Cepde (1788-1790) are given as examples of this danger. 
23327184|Chemical contamination may influence host-pathogen interactions, which has implications for amphibian population declines. We examined the effects of four insecticides alone or as a mixture on development and metamorphosis of Pacific Treefrogs (Pseudacris regilla) in the presence or absence of the amphibian chytrid fungus (Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis [Bd]). Bd exposure had a negative impact on tadpole activity, survival to metamorphosis, time to metamorphosis, and time of tail absorption (with a marginally negative effect on mass at metamorphosis); however, no individuals tested positive for Bd at metamorphosis. The presence of sublethal concentrations of insecticides alone or in a mixture did not impact Pacific Treefrog activity as tadpoles, survival to metamorphosis, or time and size to metamorphosis. Insecticide exposure did not influence the effect of Bd exposure. Our study did not support our prediction that effects of Bd would be greater in the presence of expected environmental concentrations of insecticide(s), but it did show that Bd had negative effects on responses at metamorphosis that could reduce the quality of juveniles recruited into the population.
10.2307/1564023| Diet of the intensively foraging Puerto Rican lizard Ameiva exsul included most taxa of macroorganisms found in the leaf litter and soil surface at the study site. Novertheless, certain items, Anolis eggs an extreme example, were overconsumed in relation to their abundance as determined by stratified random sampling of the leaf litter and soil surface where the lizards foraged. Other food items, such as land snails, were important in the diet but underconsumed relative to their high level of abundance in the leaf litter. Millipedes and termites were the only common litter organisms encounterd that were not found in diet samples. Effects of Ameiva predation on abundance of land snails were studied in two experiments with hardware cloth exclosures that permitted free movement of snails through the 1.3 cm  1.3 cm mesh and entrance of Anolis and birds through the open tops. Adult A. exsul were the only predators known to be excluded. Protection from A. exsul was associated with increased abundance of the low mobility land snails. No consistent changes in other species were detected. 
10.2307/1565691|The objective of this work was to determine whether behavioral adjustments reduce exposure to cold during activity in high-elevation anurans. I studied the daily patterns of vocal activity of two populations (2900 and 3500 m) of high-elevation species in the Colombian Andes (Colostethus subpunctatus, Eleutherodactylus bogotensis, and Hyla labialis), and compared them with those of some low-elevation Panamanian congeners (C. talamancae, C. flotator, E. diastema, H. ebraccata, and H. microcephala). I did not find interpopulational differences in the patterns of vocal activity that could be interpreted as a response to cold in high-elevation species. In contrast, interspecific differences in the patterns of activity may relate to the cold and variable temperatures experienced by high-elevation frogs. In high-elevation Colostethus vocal activity and environmental temperature are positively correlated, whereas low-elevation congenerics reduce activity when environmental temperatures are highest. Eleutherodactylus bogotensis exhibits maximum vocal activity after dusk, when temperatures are not yet very cold. This pattern contrasts with the more extended nocturnal vocal activity of several lowland congeneric species. The species of Hyla exhibited similar diel activity patterns, which may relate to the moderate temperatures of the high-elevation ponds, calling habitate of Hyla labialis. High-elevation species appear to use temporal or spatial thermal niches that reduce exposure to cold during activity. In spite of these behaviors, substantial modifications of the thermal physiology appear necessary to enhance the capacity for vocal activity at low temperatures in high-elevation tropical anurans.
10.2307/1563589|The normal pattern of the Pacific gopher snake is a longitudinal series of dorsal blotches, but in some areas of California an occasional specimen is found to have a pattern of longitudinal stripes rather than the ubiquitous blotched pattern. The striped variants differ additionally by having an unmarked venter with none of the small black squares that are found on many of the ventral plates of the blotched specimens. Controlled captive breedings involving blotched and striped specimens demonstrate that the widespread blotched pattern is recessive to the striped variant.
1565827|Ambystoma gracile (Baird) and Ambystoma macrodactylum Baird are common salamander species occupying key trophic positions in mountain ponds and lakes of Mount Rainier National Park (MORA). Based on amphibian surveys conducted in ponds and lakes in the northeast quadrant of MORA during the summers of 1993-1995, 20 sites were resampled in 1996 to document and evaluate distributions of the two species relative to site habitat characteristics. Distributions of larvae were assessed either by nearshore snorkel or visual encounter surveys of each study site. Twelve environmental variables representing pond and lake physical characteristics, water quality, and nutrient concentrations were measured. The occurrences at each site of three major habitat components (i.e., pond bottom firmness, coarse woody debris, and emergent/aquatic vegetation) were qualitatively estimated. Allotopic distributions of larval populations of both species were related to site elevation, maximum depth, organic content of bottom substrates, and surface area. Ambystoma gracile sites were larger, deeper, lower in elevation, had flocculent sediment higher in organic content, abundant coarse woody debris, and limited emergent/aquatic vegetation relative to A. macrodactylum sites. Ambystoma macrodactylum sites were smaller, shallower, higher in elevation, had firm sediments low in organic content, and had a greater occurrence of emergent/aquatic vegetation than did A. gracile sites. Two sites supported syntopic populations and exhibited many of the habitat characteristics observed at sites inhabited by each species. The distribution of each species in MORA was related to the interconnection between habitat characteristics of ponds and lakes and species life-history patterns and possibly interspecific interactions.
40060476|Very few cases of predatory luring by squamate reptiles involve body parts other than the tail. Here, I report the use of the tongue by Mangrove Saltmarsh Snakes (Nerodia clarkii compressicauda) to lure prey, a behavior thus far adequately described for only one other snake species. Fishes are the only verified component of the diet of these snakes and are effectively attracted by the luring behavior. Lingual luring by these snakes is particularly unique in that the tongue is curled upon itself distally such that a conspicuous loop is formed at its terminus. The rapid oscillations typical of chemosensory tongue flicks are absent, though the terminal loop does exhibit some vertical and horizontal movement. The duration of luring tongue flicks is significantly greater than the duration of chemosensory tongue flicks.
10.2307/1565512|Suitable over-wintering habitat is critical to the survival of snake populations at higher latitudes. The identification and protection of traditional, communal hibernation sites (hibernacula) is important for the conservation of threatened species, while the assessment of hibernacula availability may help determine the extent to which population distributions are limited by habitat suitability. In this paper, we quantified surface habitat characteristics of 10 hibernacula and the composition of basking trees used by a threatened population of black rat snakes (Elaphe o. obsoleta) at the northern limit of the species' range. Hibernacula were typically situated on relatively rocky, south-facing slopes. The co-occurrence of these features was sufficiently unique as to distinguish hibernacula from (1) a series of random sites, but not from (2) a set of intuitively identified "potential hibernacula" in the surrounding landscape. This implies that additional requisite elements (e.g., underground structure and micro-climatic conditions), which we were unable to quantify, set actual hibernacula apart from sites that appear to be otherwise suitable (i.e., "potential hibernacula"). Basking trees found at hibernacula tended to be relatively large and decayed or dying with numerous cavities. Unused trees exhibiting these characteristics were also available at both random sites and potential hibernacula indicating the suitability of those sites for basking. Our results suggest that rat snake hibernacula cannot be predictably located by simply searching for key surface habitat features in the landscape. The current data are equivocal as to whether or not this most northern population is limited by the availability of suitable over-winter habitat since the possibility that essential subterranean features of hibernacula are limiting remains to be tested. We recommend the continued use of radio-telemetry to identify and protect additional hibernacula, the preservation of basking trees at known hibernacula, and further research to determine the internal structure and micro-environments of hibernacula.
1566075|Amphibians experience indeterminate growth, but although factors affecting larval growth are relatively well studied, less is known about correlates of postmetamorphic growth. We measured areas between lines of arrested growth (inter-LAG) to determine yearly growth rates to test whether the postmetamorphic growth of 32 Spotted Salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum) was related to age, sex, or year of emergence. Growth decreased with age and was not associated with sex or year of emergence. Using interLAG area as a metric of growth provides growth information in the years before first capture and can be done using the toe-clips commonly taken for marking individuals.
10.2307/1562792|Monthly mean clutch sizes of Uta stansburiana in southern Nevada were measured over a 10-year period. Overall mean clutch sizes of female Uta > 12 months of age were 4.40 (March-April), 3.80 (May), 3.04 (June), and 2.65 (July). Overall means of yearling females (< 12 months of age) were about 82-90% of those of older females between April and June. Reproduction by Uta in 1973 surpassed that observed in any of nine previous years. The mean size of the first clutch laid by older females was 5.35, and some females deposited up to eight eggs. The minimum number of clutches laid was four and the maximum seven. The net reproductive rate (R<sub>o</sub>) estimated for 1973 was 2.34, exceeding an earlier estimate for 1966 (1.65).
10.2307/1565147|During natural and simulated rainfall, Moloch horridus used the cutaneous surface of its integument as a water-harvesting system to capture rain water for drinking. Circumstantial behavioral evidence, in combination with experimental studies (Withers, 1993), suggests that the capillary, interscalar, water-transport system of Moloch is also used to absorb water for drinking from rain-moistened substrates. Lizards rub their venters against wet substrates and dig sand onto their backs. This is a previously unreported behavior for water acquisition by lizards inhabiting arid regions. No stereotypic behavioral stance for rain harvesting, as seen in Phrynocephalus helioscopus and Phrynosoma cornutum, was observed in Moloch horridus.
1565791|The Norway Rat (Rattus norvegicus) was a major predator on hatchling and juvenile Diamondback Terrapins (Malaclemys terrapin) in a New York population during three years (2001-2003). Rats killed young terrapins by evisceration through the plastron or carapace, exclusively at night, and during two distinct periods: (1) at emergence from nests in August and September; and (2) at emergence from hibernation in April. Predation rates were highest during peak emergence from nests and hibernacula. In the fall, hatchlings were mainly preyed upon within intertidal high marsh vegetation, where hatchlings normally occur after emergence from nests. We found no evidence of rat predation on eggs or hatchlings in nests. Predation in the spring also occurred in the intertidal high marsh, but rats killed juveniles in adjacent terrestrial habitats as well. We used data from a telemetry study of 24 wild hatchlings to estimate rat predation rates. Between 13 September and 22 October 2003, 16 of 24 (67%) radio-tracked hatchlings were killed by rats.
4092842| Phymaturus spurcus was described by Barbour in 1921. In 1931, Burt and Burt placed this species in the synonymy of Phymaturus patagonicus based on their comparison of one paratype of P. spurcus with one specimen of P. patagonicus. Additionally, Burt and Burt considered P. patagonicus a subspecies of Phymaturus palluma. Although some subsequent authors accepted the synonymy of P. patagonicus with P. palluma, the synonymy of P. spurcus with P. patagonicus has gone unquestioned. We examined the type series of P. patagonicus and P. spurcus, as well as new material collected from the type localities of both species. Based on 47 morphological characters of squamation, gular and nuchal folds, precloacal pores, and morphometric data, we conclude that P. spurcus is a valid species, distinct from P. patagonicus and all other Phymaturus. We agree with Cei and Castro's study in 1973 that the population located west of Dolavon, Chubut Province, Argentina, is P. patagonicus of Koslowsky' study in 1898 Because in the original description Koslowsky failed to designate an holotype, we designate Museo La Plata S-778 as the lectotype of P. patagonicus and restrict its type locality to 40 km west of Dolavon, Chubut Province, Argentina. We provide a redescription of P. patagonicus Koslowsky and a redescription of P. spurcus based on the type series of Barbour's study in 1921, with additional data on intraspecific variation in both species. /// -Phymaturus spurcus fu descripto por Barbour en 1921. Burt and Burt (1931) ubicaron esta especie en la sinonimia de Phymaturus patagonicus basados en su comparacin de un paratipo de P. spurcus con un especimen de P. patagonicus. Adicionalmente, Burt and Burt (1931) consideraron a P. patagonicus como subespecie de P. palluma. Aunque algunos autores aceptaron la sinonimia de P. patagonicus con Phymaturus palluma, la sinonimia de P. spurcus con P. patagonicus no ha sido cuestionada hasta el presente. En este trabajo examinamos las series tipo de P. patagonicus y P. spurcus, as como nuevo material colectado en las localidades tipo de ambas especies. Basados en nuestras observaciones de 47 caracteres morfolgicos de lepidosis, pliegues gulares y nucales, poros precloacales, y datos morfomtricos, concluimos que P. spurcus es una especie vlida distinta de P. patagonicus y de todas las otras especies de Phymaturus. Coincidimos con Cei and Castro (1973) en que la poblacin localizada al oeste de Dolavon, provincia de Chubut, Argentina, es P. patagonicus de Koslowsky (1898). Debido a que Koslowsky (1898) no design un holotipo, designamos a Museo La Plata S-778 como el lectotipo de P. patagonicus y restringimos la localidad tipo a 40 km al oeste de Dolavon, provincia de Chubut, Argentina. Aportamos la re-descripcin de P. Patagonicus Koslowsky, y tambin la re-descripcin de P. spurcus basados en la serie tipo de Barbour (1921) adems de datos adicionales sobre la variacin intraespec fica en ambas especies. 
23327182|We describe the external morphology and internal oral features of tadpoles of the torrent frog Hylodes magalhaesi from its type locality in southeastern Brazil. The tadpole can be distinguished from others of the genus mainly by the size of marginal papillae gap, the number and distribution of marginal papillae rows, and the number of submarginal papillae. The internal oral features of H. magalhaesi are similar to Hylodes charadranaetes; however H. magalhaesi can be distinguished from other species by the number and shape of buccal floor arena papillae and by the number of the prepocket papillae.
43287346|Spadefoot Toads, Spea bombifrons and Spea multiplicata, are often the most abundant amphibian species in playa wetlands in the semi-arid Southern Great Plains. Tadpoles of these species are morphologically indistinguishable, but both can develop omnivore and carnivore morphotypes. We tested the influence of species and morphotype on body mass of premetamorphic Spea tadpoles and the influence of land use (cropland vs. native grassland) and desiccation stress (water depth and daily rate of water-depth loss) on body mass of S. bombifrons carnivores and omnivores and on body mass of S. multiplicata and S. bombifrons omnivores. Spea bombifrons carnivores were larger than omnivores only in relatively deep playas. A decrease in water depth resulted in less body mass for carnivores, but omnivore body mass did not change. Spea bombifrons omnivores had larger body mass than did S. multiplicata omnivores at low and average playa depth. Spea bombifrons omnivores did not alter body size, whereas S. multiplicata omnivores were smaller when depth decreased. Generally, in average and deep playas, tadpoles were larger in cropland than grassland playas, but in shallow waters, cropland and grassland tadpoles had similar, smaller body mass. Also, cropland tadpoles had reduced body size, whereas grassland tadpoles had similar body mass when depth decreased. Our study documents body size divergence within the same morph in the two sympatric Spea species and species divergence within the omnivore morph depending on desiccation stress. Future studies should investigate whether these species may be mediating competition through both morph development and body size.
10.2307/1563039|The geographic range of the plethodontid salamander Phaeognathus hubrichti is confined to a small area of southern central Alabama. Within the limited range, approximately 63,000 acres of habitat currently remain capable of supporting populations of this unusual species. This determination is based on on-site inspections and on studies of topographic maps and aerial photographs. The amount of suitable habitat, which consists of mesic ravines dominated by hardwood trees, is steadily shrinking, primarily as a result of extensive clear-cutting of timber and intensive mechanical preparation of cut-over areas preceeding reforestation. Approximately 44 per cent of the suitable habitat is currently owned or leased by large paper companies that are dedicated to the clear-cut and replant system of forest management. An estimated 15 per cent of the habitat is owned by companies that currently use selective cutting, but which may be forced to adopt clear-cutting because of economic considerations. The remaining 41 per cent is owned by individuals, most of whom own less than 100 acres each. The data resulting from this investigation clearly reveal the need to include the Red Hills salamander on the national list of threatened wildlife.
10.2307/1563457| The effects of temperature on digestion were studied in Vipera aspis at different temperatures, between 10 and 35C. At 10C, all prey was regurgitated. Regurgitation rate declined to 56% at 15C and then remained approximately less than 10% at 20, 25, 30 and 35C. The duration of digestion shortened as temperature rose; the Q 10 decreased progressively between 15 and 35C. The mass of the prey in absolute terms or as a function of the mass of the viper had relatively little effect on the duration of digestion. The number of fecal pellets decreased with increasing temperature, but the percentage of wet initial mass of prey excreted was independent of temperature. Feeding was dependent on the temperature at which the vipers were kept. The incidence of food acceptance increased from 40% and 9% at 15 and 20C, respectively, to 85% and 100% at 25 and 30C. 
4092945| We captured 1078 Blunt-Nosed Leopard Lizards (Gambelia sila) 2396 times between 1989 and 1994 on the Elkhorn Plain, San Luis Obispo County, California. Based on size at first capture, we caught 119 adult (90 mm snout-vent length [SVL]) and 430 hatchling/juvenile (<90 mm SVL) males, and 139 adult and 390 hatchling/juvenile females. Sex ratio of males to females was 1.04 (549 males/529 females). Adult G. sila generally became active in April, and activity remained relatively high into July. Hatchlings were first noted in either July or August and generally could be found until early November, except in 1990 when no hatchlings were found at any time. Mean number of adults and hatchlings found active each day differed significantly across years, but as many as 32 adults and 42 hatchlings were seen on a plot during a census. Estimates of population abundance on a plot also varied yearly from 20-164 adults and 0-273 hatchling/juveniles and seemed to be affected either by too little or too much rain. Differences in daily activity varied and were moderately well explained by environmental factors. We estimated survivorship of lizards and found 29.0% of hatchlings from 1992 survived to 1993, and 14.6% of hatchlings from 1993 survived to 1994. The oldest G. sila found was a female estimated to be 4 years, 10 months when last caught, although most adults were not seen after 2 yr. Growth of individuals varied by year: highest growth rates were for lizards that hatched in 1991 and 1992, and lowest growth occurred in lizards that hatched in 1989. We found adult leopard lizards with eggs in all years but 1990. Females generally were gravid by late April or early May, and some females were found with eggs in early July. Female size at first reproduction was about 90 mm SVL, clutch size ranged from 1-6 eggs, and overall mean clutch size regardless of year or clutch order was 3.4 eggs. Many females produced multiple clutches in a year, and we found up to four clutches by a single female. 
10.2307/1562827|Three important herpetological collections made by Dr. J. F. Bransford in Nicaragua (1873, 1885) and Panama (1875) formed the basis for the description of 13 new species by Cope. The geographic origins of the Bransford material have been confused by subsequent workers. Review of the original reports of the Nicaragua and Panama Canal Surveys establishes the extent of Bransford's collecting activities and the provenance of the type series. The present location of type specimens and more exact data on type locality for the Bransford material is presented.
10.2307/1564358|Numbers of leeches and their patterns of distribution on turtles were studied from April to September 1985, at eight localities in northern Alabama, U.S.A. Only the species Placobdella parasitica was found to parasitize turtles, especially Sternotherus depressus. The level of parasitism on S. depressus was inversely correlated with the degree of habitat alteration from coal mining operations. Leeches exhibited preferences in selecting attachment sites on S. depressus with the inguinal area most often infested and the plastron the least affected. However, turtles were equally likely to have 1, 2, 3, or >3 sites infested. Juvenile S. depressus had a significantly lower (<50%) chance of being parasitized than adults. Adult males and females were equally likely to be parasitized. Leeches recolonized turtles at similar rates whether the turtles initially had large or relatively small numbers of leeches. However, if the turtle was initially free of leeches, or had <5 leeches, the turtle had >50% chance of being leech-free upon recapture. Leeches were slow to recolonize turtles early in the turtles' activity season (April through mid-May), except at one location where leeches rapidly recolonized turtles regardless of season.
10.2307/1565048| A new species of bromeliad-dwelling frog from the Cordillera Central in northern Peru is most similar to E. bromeliaceus from the Cordillera Oriental in southern Ecuador and E. mendax from the Cordillera Oriental in southern Peru. /// Eleutherodactylus schultei es una especia nueva que habita bromelias en la Cordillera Central en el norte del Per. La nueva especie es ms similar a E. bromeliaceus de la Cordillera Oriental en el sur de Ecuador y a E. mendax de la Cordillera Oriental en el sur del Per. 
10.2307/1564759|Seasonal age structure assessed by skeletochronology was studied in a population of Rana perezi from northwest Spain (Galicia). Age was determined for individual frogs by counting the number of lines of arrested growth (LAG) in cross-sections taken from phalanges. Life span differed between the sexes; the maximum longevity of males and females was 5 and 6 years, respectively. Body sizes of males are smaller than those of females. Sexual dimorphism in external morphology becomes apparent in the majority of males at one year of age, whereas females reach maturity one year later. The age structure of males was similar among seasons, whereas female age structure was different in spring (the breeding season) in relation to summer and autumn. These results are discussed in relation to breeding behavior.
10.2307/1564526|The shape of symmetrical reptile eggs is described in terms of the formulation of Preston (1974), using the parameters of length, width, and bicone. Formulae for estimating the volume and surface area are given, and some practical methods for determining the bicone are presented. The bicones of a sample of snake eggs were determined by photographing the eggs and digitizing the outlines, and regression lines of bicone versus elongation were obtained. It was found that the Preston formulation fitted snake eggs well, but no significant relationship between bicone and elongation was found for the sample of eggs.
1566214|We describe two new species of lowland Litoria from Normanby Island, off the southeastern tip of New Guinea. One new species is a medium-sized member of the Litoria thesaurensis species group and differs from the other three members of that group in having a combination of white bones, extensive webbing, a loud quacking call, and a uniformly yellow color pattern. The second species is apparently a member of the Litoria bicolor species group and differs from other Papuan members of that group in a number of important morphological features (relative head shape, absence of vomerine teeth, absence of alary processes on the hyoid) that suggest the L. bicolor species group may not be a monophyletic assemblage. Both new species are currently known with certainty only from Normanby Island but seem likely to occupy at least the remainder of the D'Entrecasteaux archipelago as well.
10.2307/1566181|Early spring population parameters and activity of wild Namaqualand speckled padlopers (Homopus signatus signatus) were monitored using mark-recapture and thread-trailing methods. Eighty-three tortoises were studied between 22 August and 22 September 2000. The maximum number of scute rings counted was 14, with females appearing to have longer lives than males. Tortoises were encountered on rock slabs, on a rocky hill slope, and frequented adjacent, gently sloping fields with many flowering plants. The frequent use of shallow concealed crevices as hiding places may be, in part, caused by greater availability of such refuges. Single specimens were usually found in refugia, but occasionally male-female pairs were observed. The shelter types identified (rock and spaces under shrubs) were rarely used for more than one night. Activity was unimodal. Activity area and daily movements were lower in H. s. signatus than in other tortoise species, possibly because of their smaller body size, cooler ambient spring temperatures during this study, a short measurement period, smaller habitat requirement of H. s. signatus, or some combination of the four.
10.2307/1563481| Histological study of atretic follicles in the ovary of Calotes versicolor shows the presence of yolky, glandular, bursting, haemorrhagic and cystic types of atresia. The granulosa cells of the atretic follicles exhibit  <sup>5</sup>-3-HSDH, 17-HSDH, 11-HDSH, G-6-PDH, NADH dia phorase, LDH and ICDH activity for a short duration, indicating their transient steroidogenic capacity and then degenerate. Theca interna cells show an increased activity for these enzymes in the atretic follicles and later persist as interstitial gland cells in the ovarian stroma. 
10.2307/1562785| The weighted Schitz tonometer, an instrument used in opthalmology for estimation of intraocular pressure through measurement of "ocular tension", was used in studies on internal pressure and shell-membrane characteristics of freshwater turtle eggs of five species. The descriptive value of graphic profiles of egg "tension" portrayed by tonometry was demonstrated. Correlated tonometric and manometric studies on the same eggs provided a means of giving pressure values to tonometer readings, and of differentiating structural and pressure factors in tonometer measurement of egg "tension". Impression tonometry is suggested as a technique for both field and laboratory monitoring of physical changes in reptilian eggs. 
1566227|Deformities have been documented in many anurans, but little baseline information exists for most species. To estimate deformity levels in Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica) in areas of relatively low disturbance, we summarized data from over 21,000 individuals examined during field studies in three distinct ecoregions of Western Canada. Deformity levels were low (<2%) in all wild populations sampled and included examples of polymelia, polyphalangy, ectromelia, and amelia. We suggest that many of the documented deformities were related to physical trauma and that dramatic deformities were recorded more often than those that were less noticeable, such as deformed digits.
43287317|Valley fills associated with mountaintop-removal mining bury stream headwaters and affect water quality and ecological function of reaches below fills. We quantified relative abundance of streamside salamanders in southern West Virginia during 2002 in three streams below valley fills (VFS) and in three reference streams (RS). We surveyed 36 10- 2-m stream transects, once in summer and fall, paired by order and structure. Of 2,343 salamanders captured, 66.7% were from RS. Total salamanders (adults plus larvae) were more abundant in RS than VFS for first-order and second-order reaches. Adult salamanders had greater abundance in first-order reaches of RS than VFS. Larval salamanders were more abundant in second-order reaches of RS than VFS. No stream width or mesohabitat variables differed between VFS and RS. Only two cover variables differed. Silt cover, greater in VFS than RS first-order reaches, is a likely contributor to reduced abundance of salamanders in VFS. Second-order RS had more boulder cover than second-order VFS, which may have contributed to the higher total and larval salamander abundance in RS. Water chemistry assessments of our VFS and RS reported elevated levels of metal and ion concentrations in VFS, which can depress macroinvertebrate populations and likely affect salamander abundance. Valley fills appear to have significant negative effects on stream salamander abundance due to alterations in habitat structure, water quality and chemistry, and macroinvertebrate communities in streams below fills.
10.2307/1562769|Male and female reproductive cycles were studied in 4 species of kinosternid turtles (Kinosternon subrubrum hippocrepis, K. f. flavescens, Sternotherus odoratus, and S. carinatus) collected from Arkansas, Texas, and Oklahoma. Spermatogenesis begins in June and reaches a peak by mid-August when the testes attain maximum size. Testicular regression begins shortly after the cessation of spermatogenesis. Follicular growth began during late summer but did not reach its peak until the following spring just prior to ovulation. Egg-laying is usually from May to early June. Regression of corpora lutea is complete in about 3 months. There was no correlation between body size and egg clutch size or testes weight.
4498574| The number of simultaneously attacking simulated predators and their approach speeds and angles affected escape trajectories and flight initiation distance in Balearic Lizards (Podarcis lilfordi). Our findings confirmed predictions prey flee in directions maximizing distance from predator(s). During slow approaches, escape angle was 45 when approached by two predators at right angles and 90 when approached from opposite directions. Escape at close to 45 by lizards approached at slower speed by a single predator supports the hypothesis that prey use escape trajectories allowing them to visually monitor predators. Flight angles were closer to being straight away from a predator during faster approaches, suggesting that distance maximization may be more important than monitoring predator position when risk is great. When predators approached from opposite directions, flight angle shifted away from the faster predator, suggesting that lizards may have equalized risk from both predators based on positions and speeds. Flight initiation distance was greater for approach by predators side by side than by one only during faster approaches, suggesting that risk is a joint function of predator number and speed. Flight initiation distance was greater when predators approached at right angles than side by side, perhaps because of difficulty of monitoring multiple predators in different locations. Distance fled did not differ among treatments and may have been affected by distance to refuge. Thus, Balearic Lizards adjusted flight initiation distance and escape trajectories in ways that enhanced their abilities to avoid predation during simultaneous approaches by two predators. 
1566212|Recent expeditions to the Lake Palankarinna area of South Australia resulted in the oldest and only known extinct skink genus in Australia. The holotype of a new genus and species, Proegernia palankarinnensis, was collected from the basal portion of the Late Oligocene Etadunna Formation from the Minkina Local Fauna. Additional scincid fossils previously recovered from higher levels in the formation include material that may be referable to Proegernia. Proegernia is placed in the Egernia group within the Australian Lygosominae, based mainly on its closed Meckelian groove with the apex of the splenial notch low on the lingual surface. However, the apex is markedly more anterior in Proegernia than in any living Egernia group taxon. Proegernia possesses characters suggestive of its position as a stem taxon for later occurring skinks of the Egernia species groups. Even so, overall stage of evolution suggests that the Scincidae of Australia had a long evolutionary history prior to the Late Oligocene, a contention supported by previous molecular studies.
10.2307/1563687| Cynops shataukokensis Freytag and Eberhardt, 1978, described as a new species from the "surroundings north of Sha Tau Kok" very close to the north-eastern border of Hong Kong with the Chinese province of Guangdong (= Kwangtung), does not occur in this locality. This newt has in fact been imported to Hong Kong from Japan by the animal trade, and is here identified as Cynops p. pyrrhogaster (Boie, 1826) from Japan. The only tailed amphibian species in the Hong Kong area remains Paramesotriton hongkongensis (Myers and Leviton, 1962). /// Cynops shataukokensis Freytag et Eberhardt, 1978, dcrit comme espce nouvelle des "environs au nord de Sha Tau Kok" trs proches de la frontire nord-est de Hong Kong avec la province chinoise de Guangdong (= Kouang-Tong), n'existe pas dans cette localit. Ce triton fut en ralit import du Japon  Hong Kong par le commerce animalier et est identifi ici comme Cynops p. pyrrhogaster (Boie, 1826) du Japon. Paramesotriton hongkongensis (Myers et Leviton, 1962) reste l'unique espce d'Amphibien urodle de la rgion de Hong Kong. /// Cynops shataukokensis Freytag und Eberhardt, 1978, als neue Art beschrieben aus der "Umgebung nrdlich Sha Tau Kok", sehr nahe an der Nordost-Grenze von Hong Kong mit der chinesischen Provinz Guangdong (= Kwangtung) gelegen, kommt an genannter Oertlichkeit nicht vor. Dieser Molch wurde in Wirklichkeit durch den Tierhandel aus Japan nach Hong Kong importiert und wird an dieser Stelle bestimmt als Cynops p. pyrrhogaster (Boie, 1826) aus Japan. Die einzige Schwanzlurchart der Region Hong Kong bleibt somit Paramesotriton hongkongensis (Myers und Leviton, 1962). 
10.2307/1565236|This study investigates predator size and prey type as potential proximal causes of differences among diets of three lizard species (family Scincidae) and three frog species (subfamily Limnodynastinae) that coexist in wet subtropical forest in eastern Australia. Frogs eat smaller prey than lizards having the same gape size and there were significant differences in the types of arthropods eaten by frogs and lizards. Differences among species within frogs and lizards, and lizards ate more termites, millipedes, isopods, and orthopterans than the frogs. Other categories were eaten in similar quantities by both frogs and lizards.
40983650|The nominate subspecies of Slater's Skink, Egernia stateri, is nationally endangered with a severely restricted range on desert river floodplains in central Australia. Here, we provide the first details of foraging ecology and habitat use of one of the remaining wild populations. Ants (35.0% volume, 95.5% occurrence) and termites (Isoptera, 23.3% volume, 63.6% occurrence) were the major prey of adult E. stateri. Other important prey included Coleptera, Orthoptera, and spiders. Egernia stateri depended on soil mounds formed at the base of shrubs as habitat in which to dig burrows. Ninety-five percent of shrubs in the genus Eremophila sampled in two subpopulations were mounded and 58% of the mounded shrubs had lizard burrows. Behavioral observations indicate that E. stateri is largely solitary with a group size of one (94% of bouts), except for three observations of adult-juvenile associations. Animals showed diurnal activity with basking individuals present up to 327 min postsunrise. The study reveals E . slateri as a species occurring in small populations in limited habitat. It faces imminent threats to its persistence as a result of high disturbance regimes on floodplains in central Australia and is considered one of Australia's most threatened reptiles.
10.2307/1564738|Reproduction was studied in Ameiva plei from Anguilla and Dog Island, Lesser Antilles. Reproduction was seasonal with reproductive activity concentrated in the months of May-October, and timing associated with day length and temperature. Clutch size on Anguilla averaged 3.1 (range 1-7) and 2.1 (range 1-3) on Dog Island. Clutch size was positively correlated with body size on both islands and appeared to be unrelated to environmental factors except as insofar as body size is related to such factors. Females on Anguilla produced multiple clutches within a season, depending on their size, while on Dog Island there was no evidence of a second clutch.
25599207|Knowledge of habitat preferences by an invasive species provides a theoretical background for habitat management decisions. We used stepwise logistic regression to develop probabilistic models predicting the presence or absence of the postmetamorphic American Bullfrog (Lithobates catesbeianus) on Daishan Island. We found American Bullfrogs in 38 of 102 searched quadrats. Modeling indicated American Bullfrogs preferred permanent still water, such as large reservoirs and ponds. There was also a negative correlation between the presence of American Bullfrogs and the abundance of native frogs, suggesting that American Bullfrogs either represent a threat to native frogs or preferentially colonize sites where native frogs are rare or absent. This study provides a foundation on which to develop initial strategies to manage American Bullfrogs on the island and to assist in forecasting the areas suitable for invasion by American Bullfrogs in the region.
10.2307/1563843|An ethogram comprised of 27 behavioral acts is described for Eumeces inexpectatus. Tail-wag, raised-tail-wag, move-away and flee are submissive acts. Cloacal-fan (raising the base of the tail, placing the hind feet under the cloaca, rubbing the feet together and usually passing feces or liquid) is displayed predominantly by males and may be associated with chemical marking. Mating of E. inexpectatus is described.
10.2307/1564482|A new species of the colubrid genus Geophis is described from the Cordillera Occidental, Departamento del Valle del Cauca, Colombia. This new species is most similar to members of the championi group. It is diagnosed from this group and all other species in Central and South America by the presence of two postocular scales. It is easily distinguished from all other species of Geophis by combinations of features of scalation and by color pattern. This new species occurs sympatrically with the only other species known from South America, G. nigroalbus of the sieboldi group.
40060464|We describe a strikingly distinct new species of Acutotyphlops from Kalinga Province of Luzon Island, Philippines. The new species is most closely related to other members of the genus Acutotyphlops from Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands and represents a new genus and species group record for the Philippines. A revised definition of Acutotyphlops is presented along with a synopsis of the genus. The discovery of this species, combined with consideration of its morphology and distribution, represents a curious new systematic and biogeographical problem in Southeast Asian and southwest Pacific scolecophidian snake systematics.
10.2307/1566108|Life-history theory seeks to explain patterns of variation between species or populations of the same species. Studies of squamates in general, and lizards in particular, have assumed a prominent place in the understanding of such variation. However, to date, there have been surprisingly few studies of the Scincidae, a major squamate taxon. We investigated geographic and interannual variation in life-history traits in two populations of the Tasmanian spotted snow skink, Niveoscincus ocellatus, living at the climatic extremes of the species' distribution. Within each population, there were no interannual or intersexual differences in adult body size. However, mature individuals from a cold subalpine/alpine site were significantly larger at maturity, and had a larger maximum body size than mature individuals from a warmer coastal site. These findings are consistent with current predictions of the proximate effect of the thermal environment on lizard growth and size and age at maturity. In both populations, female fecundity was size-related. Litter size did not vary between years at either site, but, contrary to expectations, females from the cold site had the same or higher size-adjusted reproductive output as those from the warm coastal site. We suggest that resource availability is high at both sites and that a high reproductive output by females from the cold site does not confer a significantly higher survival risk than a lower reproductive commitment. Offspring were largest at the cold site, which is consistent with variation in offspring size of other widespread species and may occur because of strong selective pressures on early survival and growth at the cold site.
40665009|Animals in nature use synergistic behavioral and physiological responses to cope with variation in resource availability. We used a combination of traditional tools (i. e., radiotelemetry, bodycondition measurements, plasma osmometry, and direct observation) and contemporary techniques (i.e., implanted temperature loggers and portable ultrasonography) to identify seasonal patterns of body condition, hydration state, and surface activity of 16 free-living Gila Monsters during two active seasons. Despite seasonal drought each year, Gila Monster snout-vent length increased during the study; yet body mass, tail volume, and hydration state decreased. Generally, surface activity was associated with rainy periods, and males were significantly more active than females but only during the reproductive season. Our results indicate that Gila Monsters combine flexible behavioral patterns (i.e., the timing and duration of surface activity), resource storage and economical use, and tolerance of substantial physiological disturbance to endure seasonal resource limitations at a site in the Arizona-Upland subdivision of the Sonoran Desert.
10.2307/1565602|The taxonomic status of Kinosternon scorpioides seriei Freiberg, and K. s. carajasensis Cunha is reviewed. The diagnostic characters from their original descriptions were reassessed. Morphometric distinction was evaluated with principal components, UPGMA cluster, and discriminant function analyses. The presumed distinctive characters showed extensive overlap among both subspecies and the nominal race, and no new character could be found to discriminate among the three subspecies. The taxonomic significance of their supposed allopatry is discussed. It is suggested that both K. s. seriei and K. s. carajasensis be placed in the synonymy of K. s. scorpioides.
10.2307/1564503|The diet of Eumeces laticeps consists of a variety of insects and their larvae, snails, isopods, spiders, Anolis lizards, and even juvenile Eumeces. Many of the prey species occur only in leaf litter or under surface objects ("hidden prey") during the predator's activity period. The diet thus differs from that of visually-oriented lizards. Various measures of prey size correlate with size of the lizards' trophic structures. Prey types and sizes vary seasonally. Laboratory and field observations of foraging lizards indicate that both visual and chemical cues are important in locating prey. Movement of foraging skinks through leaf litter suggests that hidden prey may also be flushed from diurnal retreats. Two abundant potential prey, velvet ants (Mutillidae) and millipedes (Diplopoda), were avoided.
41515034|Lantana (Lantana camara L., Verbenaceae) is an invasive species of global interest that threatens more than 300 Australian plant and animal species of conservation significance. Reptiles may be at high risk due to their ground-dwelling habit and reliance on microhabitat structure. We examined the effects of lantana, and its management, on reptile assemblages in a wet sclerophyll forest in southeast Queensland, Australia. We compared reptile assemblages across four treatments: (i) manual clearing and herbicide application; (ii) herbicide application followed by prescribed burn; (iii) untreated lantana thickets; and (iv) wet sclerophyll forest. Plots treated with herbicide and then burned were structurally more diverse than manually cleared sites and supported a greater diversity of reptiles. No species occurred exclusively in untreated lantana habitats; however, these plots supported relatively high abundances of rare species, particularly Challenger Skinks (Saproscincus rosei). Lantana also had a higher species richness compared to manually cleared and sclerophyll forest. The use of lantana as habitat by a number of species highlights the need to consider the importance of these habitats for fauna prior to implementing management options. Herbicide application followed by prescribed burning appears to be an ideal approach to manage lantana due to the increased heterogeneity and regrowth of native vegetation, an option which supported more diverse reptile communities. Our results caution against the whole scale clearing of lantana from invaded areas, as these habitats continue to support reptile communities including threatened species. Nevertheless, by treating lantana with herbicide and prescribed fire, reptile community structure might be maintained.
43287362|The Golden Lancehead (Bothrops insularis) is a critically endangered snake endemic to the Queimada Grande Island in southeastern Brazil. Here, we provide data on reproductive biology of B. insularis obtained in the field and from preserved museum specimens and compare our results with its mainland relative Bothrops jararaca. Similar to other Bothrops species, females of B. insularis attained larger body sizes than males, but the sexual size dimorphism (SSD) value is much lower than in B. jararaca. The seasonal timing of reproduction of B. insularis is similar to mainland B. jaracaca as well as other species of the genus Bothrops. Courtship observed in nature takes place in autumn and early winter (March to July); vitellogenesis occurs from summer to spring (March to December); ovulation and fertilization occur in early spring (September); embryonic development takes place in middle spring and summer (October to April); and recruitment of newborns is restricted to the summer (February and March). Both offspring size and offspring mass of B. insularis are similar to that observed in B. jararaca, but B. insularis produces a high frequency of atretic follicles. Apparently B. insularis has a lower reproductive frequency than B. jararaca, which is highly variable from year to year. The distinct reproductive traits of B. insularis (compared to B. jararaca) seem to be related to the ecological conditions of its insular environment, which may eventually be considered for the conservation management of this threatened species.
1565758|Introduced, nonnative brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis) were removed from a mountain lake in Mount Rainier National Park, Washington, to examine the capacity of native Ambystoma gracile (Northwestern Salamander) in the lake to respond to the intentional removal of fish. Temporal trends (<tex-math>$\overline{\Delta}$</tex-math>) were calculated for A. gracile larvae/neotene and egg mass relative abundances in the Fish Removal and an adjacent Fishless Lake. The diel and spatial patterns of A. gracile in the lakes were also enumerated during time-intervals of fish presence in and after fish removal from the Fish Removal Lake. Sixty-six fish were removed from the Fish Removal Lake. The <tex-math>$\overline{\Delta}$</tex-math> for relative abundances in the Fish Removal Lake were positive for the study period and indicated that the number of larvae/neotenes and egg masses observed in the lake increased concurrent with the removal and extirpation of fish from the lake. Numbers of larvae/neotenes and egg masses observed in the Fishless Lake varied annually, but no overall positive or negative trends were evident during the study. Ambystoma gracile in the Fish Removal Lake, during fish presence, were predominantly nocturnal and located in the shallow, structurally complex nearshore area of the lake. After fish were removed, the number of A. gracile observed in the lake increased, especially during the day and in the deeper, less structurally complex offshore area of the lake. Fishless Lake A. gracile were readily observed day and night in all areas of the lake throughout the study. The A. gracile in the Fish Removal Lake behaviorally adapted to the presence of introduced fish and were able to recover from the affects of the fish following fish removal. This study underscores the important relationship between species life history and the variability of responses of montane aquatic-breeding amphibians to fish introductions in mountain lakes.
10.2307/1563482|Females of the hylid genus Gastrotheca carry developing eggs in a completely covered brood pouch on their backs. In our laboratory the birth of 76 tadpoles from a single, brooding G. riobambae female was observed. Development of the tadpoles, onset of metamorphosis (94% had by 30 days), formation of the brood pouch (underdeveloped after 150 days), and initiation of calling (after 180 days) were all followed and recorded in our lab-born clutch. Froglets first displayed two distinct color morphs, which became similar with age. Coloration of the tadpoles was not influenced by changes in background color. Treatment with thyroxine (10<sup>-7</sup>M) of 6 animals immediately after birth stimulated metamorphosis within 4 days, whereas 6 untreated animals failed to transform. Finally, this account examines many aspects of the successful care of young anurans in captivity.
10.2307/1563696| Anolis whitemani from Hispaniola is shown to be divisible into three subspecies on the basis of coloration, pattern, and scutellation. One subspecies occurs on the Haitian Presqu'ile du Nord-Ouest near its northwestern tip, another at the southeastern base of the peninsula, and the third in the Cul de Sac-Valle de Neiba plain and the Llanos de Azua in Haiti and the Repblica Dominicana. A fourth population, poorly represented by specimens and left unnamed, occurs in the northwestern Repblica Dominicana. The putative distribution of the species is discussed and its ecological relationships with A. cybotes are confirmed. 
40060469|Stream salamanders may play important roles as predators within streams, but we know little about actual predation by stream salamanders on other organisms. Because larval stream salamanders are more abundant within streams than adults, feed and forage throughout the year, and may spend multiple years in streams before transformation, larvae may play a more important role than adults in trophic interactions within streams. We conducted a study using larval Red Salamanders (Pseudotriton ruber) to determine (1) the prey composition of larval salamanders, (2) whether feeding rates are affected by stream water temperature, (3) whether larval size affects the diversity of prey items, and (4) whether nonlethal stomach flushing is an effective technique for examining the diet of larval salamanders. We found that larvae consumed a wide diversity of prey items including individuals of the families Chironomidae (36.52% of prey items) and Sphaeriidae (15.17%) as well as terrestrial prey (7.87%) and other salamanders (2.25%). We also found that feeding rates were negatively correlated with stream water temperature, and larger larvae consumed a wider diversity of prey items than smaller individuals. Our results also suggest that nonlethal stomach flushing did not affect survivorship. These findings suggest that larval Red Salamanders are generalist predators that can play important trophic roles in stream ecosystems.
1566210|Reports of the disappearance and decline of amphibians have stimulated interest in developing more accurate methods for sampling amphibian populations. Specific sampling methods are often suggested because of logistical concerns or simple tradition, but the validity of underlying assumptions for particular methods are rarely confirmed. This study examined potential problems and biases with quantitative enclosure sampling of larval amphibians. Results indicate that movement within a pond by an investigator does not reduce the number of captured tadpoles any more than does approaching a sampling station from the shore. Disturbance created in taking a sample does not appear to reduce number of tadpoles captured in subsequent samples taken 5 m or even 1 m away. Net type can be critical in how efficiently animals are removed from the enclosure, but the effect of net type on capture efficiency may vary with the amount of vegetation present. Investigators should assess the validity of assumptions for enclosure sampling before using this technique to draw inferences about populations of larval amphibians.
10.2307/1564393|A late Pleistocene deposit from Fowlkes Cave in the Chihuahuan Desert of Trans-Pecos Texas yielded numerous snake vertebrae. The fossils represent a predominately xeric-adapted terrestrial assemblage of taxa occurring in or near the cave area today (e.g., Lampropeltis mexicana, Bogertophis subocularis, Sonora sp., Hypsiglena torquata). Species adapted to more mesic or more aquatic conditions are also present but relatively rare (Diadophis cf. D. punctatus, Opheodrys aestivus, and Nerodia erythrogaster). Opheodrys aestivus is an arboreal species that occurs today to the southeast of Fowlkes Cave. The co-occurrence of N. erythrogaster, O. aestivus, and other species in the paleoherpetofauna indicates that the Culberson County area was at least slightly more mesic in the late Pleistocene.
41415269|In this paper we describe a new species of toad of the genus Incilius. This species was originally recorded as Bufo simus, a synonym of I. occidentalis. It differs from I. occidentalis by having the following combination of characters: a pale brown dorsal ground color with numerous dark brown spots and lacking a vertebral stripe and a high density of granules on the dorsum producing a rugose skin texture. The most developed of the cranial crests is the supraorbital, while the parietal is poorly developed. Incilius mccoyi inhabits pine and pine-oak forests of the southwestern Sierra Madre Occidental in Chihuahua, Mexico.
10.2307/1565450| I studied the growth of Tropidurus itambere in an outcrop formation in So Paulo State, southeastern Brazil. I noosed lizards monthly from February 1993 to January 1995. Growth rate estimates were based on sizes (snout-vent length) of lizards recaptured within 25 to 40-day intervals. Male T. itambere grew faster (x = 0.15 mm/day) than females (x = 0.11 mm/day; ANCOVA, P < 0.01) and this difference may account for the sexual dimorphism observed in this species. There was no significant difference in size-independent growth rates between lizards with intact tails and those which lost their tails, suggesting that the energetic costs of tail loss and regeneration are not high enough to affect growth in this species. Female growth rates were not significantly affected by temperature, arthropod availability, or reproduction, but the overall effect of these variables significantly affected male growth rates. Arthropod biomass affected only female body condition. Age at maturity for males and females was approximately 150 and 180 days, respectively. 
1566157| Genetic divergence between two traditionally recognized subspecies, Liolaemus monticola chillanensis and Liolaemus monticola ssp., was assessed by allozymic comparison. Both morphotypes are syntopic and restricted to the mountains of the Cordillera de Chilln. Results of 17 presumptive loci have shown diagnostic alleles at five loci in Esterases and MDHP enzymatic systems. This provides evidence that both morphotypes show strong differences in their genetic structure, and they are independent lineages. 
10.2307/1564267|Eleutherodactylus coqui in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico uses most of the vertical spectrum of its habitat at some time during life. Weather permitting, subadults, small adults, a few adult males, and non-breeding females climb tree trunks at dusk to forage in the canopy. Most adult males remain on understory call sites during the night. Juveniles remain in retreats or on vegetation near the ground. At dawn, frogs parachute to the ground, then return to diurnal retreats on or near the ground. Of subadults and adults counted in transects in July-August, approximately 43% climbed to the canopy at dusk, 39% in January. Significantly more frogs climb after wet days than after dry days in both seasons.
1565754|A small skink of the genus Leptosiaphos from the Adamaoua Massif in Central-Northern Province of Cameroon is described. The new species is most similar to the East African Leptosiaphos kilimensis from which it differs in coloration and in having 22 scales around midbody.
10.2307/1565480|A new species of Sphaerodactylus is described from karst areas of the northern slopes of the Sierra Maestra of Cuba. It is most closely related to S. nigropunctatus and S. torrei, and is distinguished from those species and other members of the nigropunctatus group by having a narrower snout, a nearly uniform pattern with no cross-banding in any life stages (juveniles, adult males, and females), and by having a small escutcheon. It is most easily confused with the Cuban species S. elegans, from which it is differs in head and toe pad scalation.
10.2307/1563775|Post-hatching ontogeny is described for the skeleton of a large, direct-developing, terrestrial plethodontid salamander, Aneides lugubris. This species appears to have the most prolonged ontogeny of the plethodontids. Until the end of the second year of life, osteological ontogeny is similar to that of other species, but beyond that point major changes occur. Ossification of the long bones continues throughout life and is never completed. Elements such as the pelvic plate ossify continuously, but never completely. Mesopodial elements remain cartilaginous throughout life. The most dramatic changes relate to the feeding system. The anterior part of the skull becomes grotesquely enlarged in the largest specimens, with extensive coossification. Maxillary and dentary teeth decrease in number but increase in size and complexity. Features identified as "supportive adaptations" appear during ontogeny, more so in the feeding than in the locomotory mechanism. Data are interpreted in the framework of recent studies of heterochrony.
10.2307/1563225|Despite occupancy of nearly identical geographic ranges and similar thermal environments, Anolis cristatellus maintains slightly higher body temperatures than A. stratulus. Within a given species, tolerance to low temperature was dependent on body size. Interspecific differences were not attributable to size; species from high altitudes were more tolerant to cold than those from lower elevations. Lowland species were more tolerant of high temperatures than upland ones. Preferred environmental temperatures in a laboratory gradient were higher than mean T<sub>B</sub> in the field. The theory is advanced that differences in type of activity period account for many apparent differences in thermoregulatory ability among lizards.
10.2307/1564050|The social organization of a population of tree lizards, Urosaurus ornatus, was ascertained by following marked individuals in the field over two activity seasons. The lizards at the study site in south-central New Mexico are saxicolous, living in relatively high densities on disjunct groups of boulders. Some males assumed a very dark (almost black) dorsal coloration while others retained a cryptic, light gray-brown color similar to that of females. Dorsal darkening in iguanid lizards has only previously been reported in captive populations. Home range sizes and the degree of overlap between neighbors were determined for residents of both sexes. Dark males maintained exclusive areas from other dark males as did most females from neighboring females. Several females were found within the home range of most dark males. Light males overlapped somewhat with dark males. I propose that dark males are dominant, territorial and polygynous, while light ones are subordinates. These status categories are not permanent attributes since light males darkened and behaved as dominants when territorial sites opened up or when they successfully supplanted other males. I suggest that dark dorsal coloration acts as a dominance signal in this population. The social organization can be characterized as a dominance hierarchy superimposed upon a territorial system.
10.2307/1564958| Influence of incubation temperature on sex determination, hatchling size, and residual yolk in Podocnemis unifilis were studied under natural and laboratory conditions. Nest temperatures and sex ratio were influenced by the sand texture of the nesting site. Switch experiments performed in the field revealed that the critical period is longer and covers more developmental stages than in other species of turtles developing under constant conditions. Mean and variance in incubation temperature and number of hours at or above the threshold temperature were the indices that best described sex ratio in nature. Hatchlings were heavier when incubated in nests with higher mean temperatures. Residual yolk weight was positively related to egg width. /// La influencia de la temperatura de incubacin sobre determinacin del sexo, tamano de cria, y yema residual en Podocnemis unifilis eran estudiado bajo condicines naturales y en el laboratorio. Las temperaturas de nidos y el ratio del sexo eran influidos por la textura de la arena en el sitio de anidacin. Experimentos de cambio hecho en el campo sugiere el periodo critico es mas grande y cubri mas etapas de desarrollo que en otras especies de tortugas desarrollando en temperaturas constantes en el laboratorio. Promedio y varianca en temperatura de incubacin y numero de horas arriba del temperatura umbral eran las indices mas importante para describe el ratio del sexo natural. Crias naciendo en los nidos con las temperaturas promedios mas alta eran mas pesado. El peso de la yema residual era relatinado positivamente con ancho del huevo. 
1565764|Studies of prey responses to different predators are needed to investigate costs and benefits of particular antipredator responses and to unravel community-level effects on phenotypic plasticity. We reared laboratory-bred larvae of Arizona Tiger Salamanders, Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum with either of two common predators, diving beetle larvae (Dytiscus sp.) or dragonfly naiads (Anax junius). Relative to controls, salamander larvae in both predator treatments had shorter snout-vent lengths and deeper tails; these differences may be related to increased swimming ability. In addition, larvae reared with dragonfly naiads had shorter tails than those reared with diving beetle larvae, possibly in response to different predator foraging strategies or differences in strength of selection imposed by each. Salamander larvae from predator treatments weighed less than controls, with salamanders reared with dragonflies weighing the least. This suggests that salamanders respond more strongly to dragonfly naiads than diving beetles and that dragonflies may be a more important predator. Thus, salamander larvae may distinguish between different predators, highlighting the utility of studying effects of multiple predators on phenotypic plasticity of prey.
10.2307/1564225|The reproductive success of the American alligator in the Everglades is constrained primarily by egg mortality, due to flooding by seasonally fluctuating water levels. The timing of nesting is positively correlated with spring air temperatures, and nesting during the summer rainy season places eggs at risk to flooding. Water level at the time of nesting is positively correlated with the elevation at which eggs are deposited above the marsh bottom, which involves nest size, egg placement, and site elevation. Alligators respond and to some extent accommodate to higher water levels at the time of nesting. The percent of nests lost to flooding depended on clutch elevation and on the maximum water depth during the incubation period. Clutch elevation frequencies were normally distributed. Regression models permit estimation of the extent of nest flooding over a 30-yr period. Flooding has increased in recent years, coincident with the institution of water management in the southern Everglades. Prior to water management, the increment of water level rise during the incubation period was predictably correlated with water level at the time of nest construction. This predictability disappeared during the current period of water management, thereby altering the pattern of environmental variation. These results suggest that conservation of alligators in the Everglades, and by extension of the Everglades wetland ecosystem, depends on restoration of more predictable hydrological fluctuations.
10.2307/1563002|The effect of calcitonin (CT) and calcium (Ca) injections on the ultimobranchial body (UBB) of the toad Bufo viridis was investigated during June and August. This season was chosen because at this time the UBB consists of follicles, their contents, and parafollicular cells distributed throughout the parenchyma, indicating a balanced cycle of secretion, storage and rest. Thus, experimental deviations towards both hypo- or hyperactivity were expected to become conspicuous. Treatment with CT for 4 to 6 weeks produced symptoms of enhanced storage. After 8 weeks the UBB of 3 animals (out of 5) was involuted, and lacked any sign of activity. After 8 weeks of Ca treatment the UBB became hyperactive with hardly any sign of storage or rest. Many necrotic cells were seen and interpreted as a symptom of exhaustion following the effort to counteract the unusual high level of blood Ca. The UBB's histological structures during hypo- and hyperactivity, as revealed in this study, will contribute to the understanding of the seasonal changes in the gland and in Ca metabolism.
40060457|Clearcuts have been shown to adversely affect salamander populations, whereas impacts from milder forms of timbering are more variable. We determined the effects of clearcuts and shelterwood cuts on populations of the Peaks of Otter Salamander (Plethodon hubrichti) using counts of surface active salamanders found during multiple night collections. Sampling was done prior to and then periodically after timbering for 12 yr. Overall, the long-term trends in mean number of P. hubrichti at reference and shelterwood cut sites were not significantly different. In contrast, means at clearcut sites declined 41% during the first year posttimbering and then declined over the next three years to a low of 75% below pretimbering means. The means stabilized at 45% below pre-timbering means for the remainder of the study. Immediately after timbering 41% of the salamanders moved from transects established at the edge of clearcuts to reference transects that were 3-9 m away. Clearcuts had less canopy closure and dead leaf cover than reference and shelterwood cuts which likely degraded habitat for salamanders. Therefore, clearcutting forests is not advisable because of adverse impacts on salamanders, but forms of timbering that retain a portion of the forest canopy may be acceptable if it can be shown that the timbering method does not reduce salamander populations.
23326909|Although molecular phylogenetic studies strongly support the monophyly of the Pygopodoidea, which comprise the gekkotan families Diplodactylidae, Carphodactylidae, and Pygopodidae, relationships among these constituent families are less robust. Morphological evidence for a particular three-taxon statement of pygopodoid relationships is hindered by the highly derived postcranial and trophic anatomy of limbless pygopodids relative to limbed gekkotans. We discuss variation in the temporal region of the gekkotan skull and identify a posteriorly dilated squamosal bone with a medially directed process, a character that is shared uniquely within Gekkota and more broadly within extant Squamata, by carphodactylids and pygopodids. The pygopodoid relationships (Diplodactylidae [Carphodactylidae, Pygopodidae]) implied by squamosal morphology are consistent with those receiving the greatest support from the most complete nuclear gene phylogenies.
4498560|When the American Crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) was declared endangered in 1975, scant data were available for making management decisions. Results of intensive studies conducted during the late 1970s and early 1980s by the National Park Service, Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, and Florida Power and Light Company resulted in an optimistic outlook for crocodiles. However, new issues face crocodiles today. Florida and Biscayne bays have undergone changes that have caused concern for the health of these ecosystems. The purpose of this paper is to review results of monitoring programs for C. acutus that have been used as a basis for consideration of reclassification of this endangered species and for restoration of its endangered ecosystem. More crocodiles and nests occur in more places today than in 1975. The maximum number of nesting females in Florida has increased from 20 in 1975 to 85 in 2004, and the number of concentrations of nesting effort from two to four. This evidence supports the proposed reclassification of the American Crocodile from endangered to threatened. However, crocodiles are still threatened by modification of habitat because of development adjacent to crocodile habitat and will benefit from restored freshwater flow into estuaries. As crocodiles continue to increase in number and expand into new areas, interactions with humans will occur more frequently. The challenge of integrating a recovering population of the American Crocodile with an ever-increasing use of coastal areas by humans will be the final challenge in successful recovery of this once critically endangered species.
4092918|A new species of Philautus is described from Ponmudi Hill in the Western Ghats of India. It can be distinguished from all other members of the genus by the combination of its rather robust body, relatively large snout-vent length, rounded snout, protruding eyes, and vermiculated coloration of the posterior surface of the tibia. It is one of the largest species of the genus in the Western Ghats (adult males of type series up to 38.9 mm). It is currently known only from the type locality, where it is essentially an inhabitant of the canopy.
10.2307/1563433|Basking, food habits, habitats, and other features of the niches of smooth (Trionyx muticus) and spiny (T. spiniferus) softshell turtles were studied in Iowa from 1969 through 1975. Spiny softshells are more versatile than smooth softshells in basking site selection and toleration of aquatic habitats. Although the same kinds of food are eaten, spiny softshells are primarily benthic feeders and scavengers, whereas smooth softshells feed more in the water column. Niches of the two species differ fundamentally in Iowa yet show considerable overlap.
10.2307/1563716|Maternal behavior of four female alligators was observed over a six year period at Okefenokee Swamp, Georgia. Nursery areas and dens were noted and described. Mother-offspring interactions involving vocalizations were observed including two instances of mothers vocalizing while moving their pods to new nursery areas. Three of the females attacked without injuring juveniles mixing with pods of younger animals and females guarded nests and young from human intrusion. Vocal interactions between mothers and offspring indicate the possibility of a temporal relationship between maternal vocalizations and/or movements and offspring vocalizations and/or movements but this cannot be confirmed statistically at this time.
10.2307/1563033|Using direct observation and frame-by-frame analysis of high speed motion pictures taken of snake feeding activity, 6 continuous phases are identified and a seventh (search) postulated that collectively represent the activity of prey capture by the cottonmouth snake. The first phase of prey capture is the "search" wherein the snake moves through its habitat in such a fashion as to increase the likelihood of locating prey. "Approach" phase follows during which the snake closes on the located prey. After drawing its body into s-shaped curves or coils, the neck and trunk curves gradually open to slowly move the head a short distance toward the prey; this is the "glide" phase. The rapid "strike" phase ensues followed by the "bite", "release", and "post-release" phases during which respectively, the jaws close on the prey and venom is injected, prey is released, and finally the envenomated prey is relocated and swallowed. Though usually present, the several phases of prey capture are often abbreviated or modified; for instance, the snake, on occasion, will not release the prey after the strike, but instead retains it in the jaws; movements of the prey often result in interruption or elongation of "approach" or "bite" phases; fangs can be individually set into the prey once the prey is between the snake's jaws; and swallowing on occasion begins at the posterior rather than anterior end of the prey. The alterations in basic prey capture sequence seem to be adjustments of behavior to suit circumstances of prey position and reaction.
40060485|Vertebral remains assignable to the extant snake Boa constrictor, found in the Torop Formation (Late Pleistocene, Lujanian age) at Arroyo Torop, northeastern Argentina, are here described. These remains represent the first snake record from the Lujanian age and determine the minimum age for the species as 50-35 ka BP. Boa is presently absent in northeastern Argentina. Interruption of the continuity between the Mesopotamian and Brazilian faunas, including disappearance of Boa from Mesopotamia (northeastern Argentina), occurred subsequent to the Late Pleistocene and might be explained by changes in the Paran and Uruguay Rivers. In addition, previous taxonomic referral of fossils to ?Boa is revised, with the conclusion that the specimen from the Early Eocene is tentatively referred to this genus, whereas that from the Pliocene is an indeterminate Boinae.
10.2307/1563805|Fojia bumui, a new genus and species of lygosomine skink is described from specimens collected near small, rocky streams at low to middle elevations around Huon Gulf, Papua New Guinea. The taxon is a derivative of the variegatus species group of Sphenomorphus. It differs most noticeably from its nearest relatives, and indeed most other skinks, in having normal sized middorsal scales juxtaposed with tubercular lateral scales; all dorsal scales with pustules, and in mature males, patches of glands on the chin, abdomen and underside of the thighs and tail base. The ecological associations of these structures in Fojia and other squamates are discussed.
10.2307/1563530|Green iguanas (Iguana iguana) and American crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus) nest in association on Slothia, a small island in Gatun Lake, Panama. In the three nesting seasons that we observed on Slothia a crocodile remained near her nest and frequently charged the nesting iguanas. Observations indicated that the crocodile emerged from the lake significantly more often when iguanas were present in the nest clearing. We observed the crocodile seize an iguana on 12 occasions; five iguanas were eaten, five escaped, and the fate of two was unknown. In addition to the charges and captures, the crocodile's mere presence in the nest clearing interfered with iguana nesting activity. Conversely, the iguanas disturbed the crocodile nest and were observed to dig up crocodile eggs. The crocodile's behavior involved both nest defense and predatory behavior, although the exact motivational sequence is still unclear. Crocodiles and iguanas share nest sites in several other locations near Slothia. Presumably, similar nest site requirements and common nesting seasons bring the two species together.
10.2307/1565331|The movement of Ambystoma cingulatum was monitored at a 0.8 ha breeding site in Okaloosa County, Florida with a drift fence and funnel traps for two consecutive breeding seasons (1993-1995). In 1993-1994, 198 salamanders were captured, 76% in the months of October and November; yearlings comprised 66% of the catch. A total of 59 salamanders was captured in 1994-1995, only 10% of which were yearlings. Differences in number of yearlings captured between years may be the result of annual variation in either the amount and distribution of rainfall or recruitment of juveniles in previous years. Salamander movement was positively correlated with precipitation and minimum air temperature. The sex ratio was female-biased in 1993-1994, but no different than parity in 1994-1995. In 1993-1994, salamanders that entered and exited the breeding site only once remained in the basin for an average of 38 days, and exited within an average of 44 m from the point of entry. More salamanders immigrated from mesic longleaf/slash pine flatwoods than from xeric longleaf/sand pine flatwoods.
10.2307/1563920| Two species of snakes of the genus Trimeresurus, Trimeresurus flavoviridis and Trimeresurus okinavensis, inhabit Amami Oshima Island in the Loo-Choo Islands. These are the common terrestrial venomous snakes on Amami Oshima Island. There is a ring structure on the centra of vertebrae in these snakes. I tried to confirm by in vivo staining that rings on centra were formed annually. Then, age and life-span was estimated by Walford's graphic method. It appears that the age of these snakes can be estimated by adding total ring number +1. The life-span of Trimeresurus flavoviridis is estimated to be 10 years for   and 7 years for  , where the estimated maximum total body lengths are 216.4 cm and 171.6 cm respectively. On the other hand, in Trimeresurus okinavensis, the life-span and calculated total body length of the oldest male are estimated to be 19 years and 144.6 cm respectively. In the oldest female the life-span and calculated maximum total body length are estimated to be 15 years and 130.3 cm respectively. Although estimated values of the total body length of Trimeresurus okinavensis do not agree with collecting data in the field, it appears that the life-span of the female of Trimeresurus okinavensis is longer than Trimeresurus flavoviridis. 
40060509|We describe a new species of Anolis from a high-elevation locality in the Department of Cusco, Peru. This species is similar to Anolis boettgeri but differs in characters of scalation and coloration. We reanalyze Anolis albimaculatus and find this species to be a synonym of A. boettgeri. We describe variation in A. boettgeri based on topotypical material, including the first described males of the species. Phylogenetic analysis of the new form places it within the Dactyloallatifrons clade of South American "Alpha" Anolis.
10.2307/1564934|Determinants of reproductive variables in the brown snake, Storeria dekayi, are examined using path analysis, a method which reveals both direct effects (e.g., of female size on offspring number) and indirect effects (e.g., of female size on offspring size through offspring number). In S. dekayi, there is a clear trade-off between offspring number and offspring size. Part of this trade-off is mediated through the timing of parturition suggesting that placental nourishment contributes to offspring development. However, placental nourishment is not sufficient to result in an uncoupling of offspring number and size. Another clear result is that female size and female condition at ovulation (a size-corrected measure of mass) both influence offspring number. As a result, female size and female condition have indirect effects on offspring size such that overall, larger females and females in better condition produce smaller offspring. Larger females also produce offspring in poorer condition. Additional reproductive mass (mass lost by females at parturition beyond that accounted for by offspring) is determined directly by offspring number suggesting it represents a per-offspring allocation of resources. Captivity has marked effects on reproduction; females held captive longer produced offspring which were smaller and in poorer condition. Comparisons among species reveals that female size consistently has positive effects on offspring number and offspring size in viviparous snakes but that the effect of offspring number on offspring size varies among species.
10.2307/1563320|Maternal behavior in the lizard Anolis carolinensis consists of sequences of apparent modal action patterns associated with rolling the egg to the nest and burying the egg in substrate. After oviposition, the female immediately turns to face her egg, and then "Egg-rolling," which consists of a female rolling the egg with her snout is initiated. "Snout-pushing" occurs when the egg becomes obstructed. Finally, the lizard engages in "Forelimb-waving" which consists of rapid movements of first one forelimb and then the other. Digging of a nest prior to oviposition is reported to occur in nature, but was not evident in captivity. Preliminary experiments testing the ability of oxytocin, artificial oviposition, and mechanical stretching of the cloaca to elicit or effect these modal action patterns are described. The adaptive value of maternal behavior in A. carolinensis is discussed.
10.2307/1566189| We studied the diet of green sea turtles (Chelonia mydas) at Baha de los Angeles in the Gulf of California, Mxico. From 1995-1999, we collected esophageal lavage and fecal samples from live-captured turtles and analyzed stomach contents from stranded carcasses encountered in the study area. Foods ingested did not vary with carapace length. Turtles consumed diverse marine algae, with the filamentous red alga Gracilariopsis lemaneiformis the most abundant; other common genera included Gracilaria, Codium, Ulva, and Chaetomorpha. Turtles also augmented their diet with animal matter; 25 nonalga food items were identified, including sponges, tube worms, sea pens, and sea hares. Substratum and anthropogenic debris such as plastic bags and nylon cord were commonly recovered in diet samples. 
10.2307/1564099|In the nocturnal snake Eryx conicus the light-dark cycle was a more effective synchronizer of diel activity than were fluctuations in temperature. Under a light-dark cycle and constant temperature, the temperature level influenced the amplitude of the rhythm but did not affect the phasing of activity. Consequently under low constant temperature the rhythm became damped but a mainly nocturnal pattern was retained. There was little evidence that the activity rhythms synchronized by light-dark or temperature cycles persisted under constant conditions.
10.2307/1563385|Kayrotypic data are presented for three species of sea kraits, Laticauda. The diploid number of L. semifasciata is 38. There is obvious female heterogamety. The diploid number of L. colubrina is 34, and female heterogamety is not obvious. Haploid counts of male L. laticaudata indicate n = 20. Karyotypic data of all sea snakes and all terrestrial elapids are reviewed. The hydrophiines are conservative in number of autosomal macrochromosomal arms and relative arm lengths. Karyotypic evolution primarily involves centric fissions and rearrangement of sex chromosomes. The genus Microcephalophis should be synonomized with Hydrophis. The Australian elapid Notechis has a karyotype that is very similar to Laticauda colubrina. This is perhaps the primitive karyotype of the elapid radiation.
41415298|Agama cristata and Agama insularis are two poorly known West African species that are generally regarded either as dubious or synonyms. Agama cristata was described from a single specimen that was partially mutilated, thus preventing a precise count of midbody scale rows. There have been no further records for this species until it was considered as a senior synonym of A. insularis, a species that was until recently known only from Los Islands, off the coast of Guinea. A particularity of the type of A. cristata is the presence of two black spots on each side of the neck. During a field trip in southern Mali, I found a specimen with the same characteristics as the type of A. cristata. Further sampling provided 16 additional similar specimens. Comparison of pattern and meristic data indicates than A. cristata and A. insularis are two distinct species that can be distinguished easily both on pattern and midbody scale count, 71-90 for A. cristata versus 111-147 for A. insularis. Both species also differ by their geographic distribution and habitat.
4092942| Eggs from five clutches of Chamaeleo calyptratus were incubated at 25, 28, and 30C during the period of sex determination. Sex ratios were slightly biased toward females at all temperatures but did not differ statistically from the expected 1:1 ratio of males and females. Egg survival was sufficiently high that sex-biased temperature-induced mortality cannot account for the lack of departure from 1:1 sex ratios. I conclude that the veiled chameleon has genetic sex determination (GSD) and that anecdotal accounts of temperature-dependent sex determination (TSD) for this species, and other chameleons are likely to reflect reporting or statistical bias. 
10.2307/1564592|Digestive tract contents were examined from 101 dead Kemp's ridley turtles, Lepidochelys kempi, found stranded on south Texas beaches from 1983-1989. Fifty turtles were wild and 51 had been head-started (captively-reared) for 6-9 months. Fifty-one were found on bay (inshore water) and 50 on Gulf of Mexico (offshore water) shorelines. Ogren (1989) stated that juveniles (<20 cm carapace length) are surface feeders and consume a variety of food items, while subadults (20-60 cm carapace length) and adults (>60 cm carapace length) are predominately benthic feeders and eat mostly crabs. It appears, from analysis of gut contents, that wild and head-started turtles are foraging in water depths of less than 50 m and that they will consume items discarded from shrimp trawls and smaller trawls fishing for bait items. Significant differences occur between various dietary parameters measured for wild and post-release head-started turtles. However, there are similarities between the diets of both groups and head-started turtles appear to be adapting to feeding in the wild. Size and habitat differences are primary causes of dietary divergences among L. kempi.
10.2307/1564082|Venoms from 17 species of snakes representing the families Crotalidae, Elapidae and Viperidae were screened for hemagglutination activity. All venoms, with the exception of venom from Bitis arietans, contained an agglutinin which cross-linked trypsin-treated, formaldehyde-fixed erythrocytes. Venom agglutinins from snakes within the same family demonstrated similarities with regard to ligand specificity, requirements for divalent cations and sensitivity to reducing agent. There were few similarities detected for venom agglutinins from snakes belonging to different families. Venoms from the family Crotalidae contained calcium-dependent lectins blockable by lactose and sensitive to reducing agent. The only crotalid venom agglutinin insensitive to reducing agent was found in the venom of Lachesis muta. Elapid venom agglutinins were calcium-independent and insensitive to reducing agent. The activity of only one of these agglutinins was blockable by lactose. The other three elapid agglutinins were inhibited by heparin. Agglutination activity was weak and variable or non-existent in venoms from snakes in the family Viperidae.
10.2307/1566019|Three species of lacertid lizards (Lacerta bedriagae, Podarcis tiliguerta, and Podarcis sicula) are able to detect the former presence of the saurophagous snake Coluber viridiflavus by tongue flicking. Lizards tongue flicked more in cages previously inhabited by the predatory snake than in clean cages or in cages treated with eau-de-cologne. They also exhibited behavioral acts typically associated with stressful situations (foot shakes, tail vibrations, starts) more frequently when predator chemicals are present. Individuals from the two Podarcis species that came from populations syntopic with C. viridiflavus were also able to distinguish between chemical cues from this saurophagous predator and a nonsaurophagous snake (Natrix maura). In these lizards, the former presence of N. maura did not elicit higher tongue-flick rates or stress-indicating behaviors. In contrast, individuals of Lacerta bedriagae collected from a snake-free area increased tongue-flick rate and frequency of stress-related behavior in response to chemicals of both snakes, suggesting that prior contact is not required for chemosensory recognition of snakes in this species but may facilitate the distinction between different species of snakes. The presence of predator (C. viridiflavus) chemical cues induces a shift in the microhabitat use of the lizard species studied. In a large terrarium containing various substrates, lizards chose different types of microhabitats when chemical cues of C. viridiflavus were present than when absent and avoided the side of the terrarium labeled with the chemicals.
25599223|Liolaemus barbarae was recently described from northern Chile. However, the character states used to distinguish this species from Liolaemus puna are not exclusive. We reassessed the character states used for the diagnosis of L. barbarae and compared these with data from the type series and additional specimens of L. puna. We found identical ranges or broad overlap in character states between the two species. We conclude that L. barbarae is a junior synonym of L. puna. /// Liolaemus barbarae fue recientemente descripta como nueva especie para el norte de Chile. Sin embargo los estados de carcter utilizados para diferenciarla de Liolaemus puna no son exclusivos. En este trabajo revisamos los estados de carcter utilizados en la diagnosis de L. barbarae y los comparamos con datos de la serie tipo y de especimenes adicionales de L. puna. Encontramos rangos idnticos o un amplio solapamiento entre estados de carcter de estas dos especies. Concluimos que L. barbarae es un sinnimo junior de L. puna.
40060478|The Eastern Red-Spotted Newt (Notophthalmus viridescens) is one of the most widely distributed salamander species in North America. As with many pond-breeding amphibians, little is known about the terrestrial portion of its life cycle. We examined the activities of terrestrial efts and emigrating, postbreeding adults at Mountain Lake Biological Station in Giles County, Virginia, using fluorescent powder tracking. Neither life cycle stage, sex, nor mass affected the distance newts traveled, but emigrating adults traveled in straighter paths than juveniles. Temperature and rainfall affected whether newts emerged from refuge, whereas rainfall and humidity affected the distance traveled of those that emerged. Newts were often found on or close to the surface, using forest debris for cover, and no newts of any stage were observed using subterranean habitat. Our results indicate that newts are wide-ranging and active in the terrestrial habitat postbreeding. We found fluorescent powder tracking to be effective in the field for multiday tracking with some limitations caused by weather and distance. Our results have implications for the conservation of wide-ranging amphibian species, which may travel long distances from wetlands into terrestrial habitat, outside of protective buffer zones.
10.2307/1562796|Notes on several species of reptiles in the Belize City, Belize area are presented. The mangrove edge habitat on the outskirts of the city was the most diverse habitat and had the most diverse reptile fauna. There was seemingly little change in the composition of the Belize City area reptile fauna between 1957 and 1971. Anolis sagrei mayensis was the most common herpetozoan in the area. Ctenosaura s. similis was more common than Iguana iguana and apparently is more adaptable to man's encroachment. Oxybelis aeneus and Leptophis m. mexicanus were the most frequently encountered snakes. Man's destruction of suitable habitat will eventually eliminate most species of reptiles from the Belize City area.
10.2307/1562891|The distribution of 16 species of amphibians and 18 reptiles in Trinity County and adjacent areas are reported, including new county records for nine species and numerous new locality records. Distribution patterns are based on over 2,300 animals collected 1960-1970 or examined in museum collections. Altitudinal distribution of known records is listed. Occurrence of Ambystoma macrodactylum in the Trinity Alps represents the first report of the species in the North Coast Range, and its biogeographic relationships to other California populations are discussed. The herpetofauna of Trinity County and surrounding areas, which comprise most of the North Coast Range, apparently consists of several groups of species with similar geographic distributions that appear to be related to the major topographic, climatic, and vegetational features of the region. The North Coast Range is an important dispersal corridor for Arcto-Tertiary species, and a partial to complete geographic barrier to other species, principally elements of the Madro-Tertiary herpetofauna. Differentiation of several polytypic species of amphibians and reptiles appears to be closely correlated with the major features of the North Coast Range.
1566088|Previous studies have shown both prolonged and plastic cycles in viviparous females of the genus Liolaemus (Iguania: Liolaemidae) from the cold temperate climate of Patagonia. Males have shown interspecific variation in the duration of the breeding season, ranging from continuous to annual. Both cycles are far different from the reproductive cycles previously described for lizards from temperate climates. I examined maximum juvenile size, growth, sexual dimorphism, male and female reproductive cycles, and litter size of viviparous Phymaturus patagonica (Iguania: Liolaemidae), a species restricted to rock promontories in the Patagonian steppe. The reproductive cycle in males is annual with spermatogenesis beginning in December and peaking in early spring of the next year. Spermatozoa are stored in the epididymides for at least two months until mid-January. In contrast, females have a biennial cycle. Thus, prolonged female cycles and large interspecific differences in male cycles characterize viviparous lizards from Patagonia.
10.2307/1565666|A new species of bent-toed gecko, Cyrtodactylus adleri, is described, based on seven examples from the island of Great Nicobar, India. Although reported as conspecific with C. rubidus, it can be differentiated from the Andamanese species in possessing dark spots (vs. dark bands) on the dorsum; 48-50 imbricate (vs. 38-42 juxtaposed) midventrals; six (vs. four) postnasals; two (vs. three) postcloacal tubercles; and presence of a preanal groove. In the lack of a preanal groove, imbricate ventrals, and dark spots on dorsum, the new species appears close to the poorly known Sumatran endemic, C. lateralis, from which is may be differentiated in its small body size (SVL 53.5-64.7 mm in four adult females, 61.8-68.5 mm in three adult males), dark spots on dorsum, and 48-50 midventrals.
40665019|In Southeast Asia, virtually all knowledge about sea turtle biology is derived via nesting beach studies. This study investigated life-stage parameters for a foraging population of immature Green Turtles Chelonia mydas off the coast of Borneo, Malaysia, to elucidate a significant portion of the at-sea life-stage component. Mark-recapture provided new data on localized movements between captures, growth, and residency period. Laparoscopic examination provided information on sex ratios and maturity. Turtles moved only an average of 380 m between recaptures and exhibited site-fidelity over several recaptures spanning up to two years. Size classes suggested all animals were juveniles and ranged from 38-80 cm CCL. Growth rates among recaptures averaged 3.6 cm yr Laparoscopic examinations of the gonads confirmed that all individuals were immature, with a sex ratio of IM : 4F. These initial data on foraging C. mydas population structure and dynamics are of use for life-stage population models and turtle management and recovery planning.
1565844| Phylogenetic relationships among eight Brazilian genera of the lizard family Gymnophthalmidae were analyzed using mitochondrial DNA restriction-site data. The intergeneric relationships inferred from a cladistic analysis of 32 restriction sites were widely congruent with a recent phylogenetic analysis based on morphology. Assuming a molecular clock of 2% MY, these gymnophthalmid lizards may have diverged from a common ancestor some 7-8 MYA. The monophyly of the five eyelid-less microteiid genera from the Rio So Francisco Quaternary sand dunes was also supported by mitochondrial data, and the time estimated for this radiation was about 2-3 MYA. The mtDNA data also suggest that the unisexual population of Gymnophthalmus underwoodi from Roraima is not originated by hybridization between its two closely related sympatric bisexual species Gymnophthalmus leucomystax and Gymnopohthalmus vanzoi, in accordance with previous biochemical and karyotypic data. 
10.2307/1565127|A group of related species of Rana living along streams in Bornean rain forest do not have male advertisement calls. They are also unusual among frogs in that males are larger than females and have disproportionately large heads and enlarged odontoid processes at the tips of the dentaries. At least one of these species, R. blythi, oviposits in nests. We compare the breeding behavior and ecology of the voiceless R. blythi to a syntopic, voiced congener, R. signata. Males of R. signata, like those of many calling frogs, form choruses around stream breeding sites, and attract females to those sites. Sex ratios are male biased, the distributions of individuals are strongly clumped, and the home ranges of males differ from those of females. In contrast, R. blythi displays a female biased sex ratio, a non-clumped distribution of individuals, and no sexual differences in home range.
43287311|Eastern Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis) populations are experiencing drastic declines range-wide. Effective conservation strategies require understanding the environmental factors underlying population occurrence within the stream networks that Eastern Hellbenders inhabit. We contrasted habitat elements between historically occupied and apparently unoccupied sites throughout the Susquehanna River Basin in New York, an area that represents the northernmost segment of the species' range. Historically occupied sites contained larger rocks and less soft sediment than unoccupied sites. Regional-scale predictive models of Eastern Hellbender distribution in Pennsylvania indicated that specific geologic featuresloamy till, clayey to loamy till, and mixed origin sand and gravel depositsas well as extensive forest cover were the strongest predictors of Eastern Hellbender occurrence. We conclude that occurrence is dependent on isolated and uncommon geological features that cause the species' distribution to be highly patchy and that stream sedimentation is a major threat to this species in its northern range. Our research also indicates that predictive modeling can be useful in examining drivers of Eastern Hellbender distribution and targeting regions for population surveys and habitat conservation.
10.2307/1565237|Amphibian larvae hatching from larger eggs may be better equipped to avoid predation than larvae hatching from smaller eggs. We use the context of optimal egg size theory to investigate Ambystoma maculatum egg size in lakes with and without fish. Optimal egg size theory predicts that organisms produce an egg size which balances the fitness advantage of producing large eggs against the fitness cost of producing few eggs. Consequently if offspring fitness is relatively lower at a given egg size in one environment than another, the optimal egg size should be relatively larger in the harsher environment. We investigated this prediction at eight permanent lakes in Algonquin Park, Ontario. We analyzed differences in egg size with a three-level nested analysis of variance at the levels of treatment (lakes with and without fish), lake, and clutch. We found no significant difference in treatment means, and, therefore, the hypothesis was not supported. There was no significant variance component due to lake of origin, but there was a highly significant variance component attributed to the clutch, and therefore, female effect. This variation is presumably caused primarily by differences in female body size, and its adaptive significance, if any, is unclear. We reasoned that the presence of fish has not caused females to adapted their egg size because (1) small differences in egg size may make little or no difference in larval survival, and (2) the populations are not isolated enough to evolve large differences in egg size.
10.2307/1563438|Monthly samples of three tropical snakes, Acrochordus granulatus, Cerberus rhynchops and Laticauda colubrina from a limited collecting area where they are syntopic in the central Phillippines reveal pronounced diversity in reproductive seasonality. Both sexes of A. granulatus are highly seasonal and synchronized in their reproductive activity. Testis size, spermatogenic activity and plasma androgen levels declined precipitously in the non-breeding season to the same extent as observed in typical temperate species of snakes. Spermatogenesis and androgen secretion occur concomittantly and are prenuptial, coinciding with the appearance of enlarging yolked follicles in females. Gestation time (5-8 months) in this species may repesent one of the longest for a reptile, and females probably do not breed annually. C. rhynchops is also seasonal but to a lesser extent than Acrochordus. In males, testis weight, spermatogenesis and androgen secretion show a significant increase at certain times of year, but testis regression is only partial; there is some spermatogenic activity and epididymal sperm storage in all months. Gestation periods in this ovoviviparous species are probably much shorter (perhaps 3 months) than in Acrochordus, ovulation occurs over a broader season and females probably reproduce annually. In contrast, extensive evidence for male L. colubrina and limited observations on females indicate that this oviparous species is probably completely aseasonal in its reproductive biology. A review of reproductive data on other tropical marine snakes suggests that seasonality is probably the rule with the exception of L. colubrina (and some other species of Laticauda), the only oviparous species examined. Information on climatic conditions in the study area sugests that declining photoperiod and/or temperature may be responsible for testicular regression in Cerberus and Acrochordus. Data for plasma sex steroids (testosterone, estradiol and progesterone) suggest greater variability in ovarian function than previously reported for snakes.
10.2307/1564612|A new, dwarf species of Asaccus is described, based on material collected from the Saiq Plateau at about 1900 m elevation, Jebel Akhdar, Sultanate of Oman, Arabia. Its combination of small size, coarse scalation, and heavy tuberculation distinguishes it from other Asaccus species. The new species is apparently restricted in distribution to the highest elevations on Jebel Akhdar.
10.2307/1563409| Defensive, climbing, aggressive, and feeding behavior of two sympatric geckos, Coleonyx brevis and Coleonyx reticulatus, were examined. Prey items of both species were identified and the diet of C. brevis was analyzed. In the presence of a predator C. brevis exhibits a defensive behavior involving tail display and body positioning, and during attack tail autotomy occurs. These behaviors plus high frequency of regenerated tails ( = 68%,  = 80%) suggest that this species uses tail display and autotomy to distract predators and escape predation. The absence of defensive tail display, fewer regenerated tails ( = 25%,  = 55%), the presence of a prehensile tail, aggressiveness, and large body size in C. reticulatus suggest alternative predator deterrants and a different tail function. Neither interspecific aggression nor intraspecific aggression in C. brevis was observed. However, intraspecific aggression (tail display, arched back, gular expansion) in C. reticulatus did occur. Both species demonstrate similar foraging behavior (elevated stance, tongue flicking) and utilize visual and chemical cues during foraging and feeding. In C. brevis visual cues are frequently reinforced by chemical cues before attack occurs, however both cues can elicit attack. This strategy may prevent geckos from attacking harmful organisms and may aid them in finding a sufficient amount of prey in a relatively short foraging time. Predominate prey of C. brevis in order of abundance were termites, cicadellids, spiders, solpugids, crickets, and moths. The variety of prey suggest that these geckos forage in several microhabitats and dig or turn items to find prey. Prey items of C. reticulatus were tenebrionid beetles, a grasshopper, and a spider. 
4092891| A new terrestrial species of Pseudoeurycea is described from the mountains of the Mixteca region of Oaxaca. Compared with other members of the genus, the new species is relatively slender and short-legged. The background color of the dorsum of this species is dark gray with reddish-brown spots. The Mixteca region of Oaxaca has long been poorly explored biologically, and the knowledge of the distribution of its salamanders is scarce. Herein, we present new information regarding salamanders species in this region. /// Se describe una nueva especie de salamandra terrestre del gnero Pseudoeurycea de las montaas de la Mixteca de Oaxaca. Comparada con los otros miembros del gnero, la nueva especie es relativamente delgada y con extremidades cortas. La coloracin dorsal de esta especie es gris oscuro con manchas caf rojizas. La regin Mixteca de Oaxaca ha sido poco explorada biolgicamente, y el conocimiento que se tiene sobre la distribucin de salamandras es escaso. En este trabajo presentamos informacin sobre algunas salamandras que habitan en esta regin. 
1566074|Lampropholis delicata is a small skink common in eastern Australia. The species is heliothermic and uses the ground litter layer. This study examined whether L. delicata showed preferences for particular structural features of the ground litter layer by observing their response to a number of pairwise choices of ground litter type. Lampropholis delicata showed a clear preference for a ground litter layer with an open structure. Difference in catch rates between pairwise comparisons was positively correlated with an index of habitat accessibility. It is suggested that this habitat preference is associated with the ability of the lizard to trade-off different activities. Selection of a habitat with some form of open structure may reduce the conflict between the need for foraging and basking, and the need to find shelter from predators.
4092987| Organisms can diverge in life history when introduced outside their native range due to release from predators, competitors, and parasites, and also due to genetic drift and local adaptation. We studied the ecology of the American Bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) in its introduced range in British Columbia (BC). To assess differences between introduced and native populations, we compared the population ecology of BC bullfrogs to published life-history parameters from the bullfrog's extensive native range in eastern North America. In BC, bullfrogs emerged from hibernation in late April and early May. Breeding choruses developed fully when air temperatures exceeded 20C. Eggs were laid from mid-June to mid-July when the mean water temperature was 20C. Mean egg mass size was 13,014  7,296 eggs (mean  standard deviation). Tadpoles hatched in 3 to 5 days and overwintered the first year as tadpoles. Approximately 68% of the tadpoles metamorphosed at the end of the following summer, but the remaining spent a second winter in the pond. Bullfrogs were large enough to attain sexual maturity 2 yr after metamorphosis. Bullfrog population density among ponds varied from 4.1 to 530 frogs/ha. Terrestrial insects were the primary prey item of bullfrogs < 150 g, whereas frogs were the primary prey item of larger bullfrogs. The life-history parameter values estimated for BC bullfrogs were within the range observed for bullfrogs in their native habitats. Due to milder weather conditions in southwestern BC, the seasonal pattern and growth rate of bullfrogs were similar to lower latitude populations in Kentucky and Missouri. We found no evidence to support the hypothesis that when released from native predators and parasites bullfrogs build up to unusually high population densities or attain significantly larger sizes in their introduced range. 
10.2307/1563068|Pseudophryne bibroni, P. dendyi, and P. semimarmorata males prepare nest sites on land in situations which subsequently become flooded by a progressive rise in the groundwater table associated with autumn rainstorms which occur at intervals of about one week. Courtship behavior, reproductive rates and mating systems are very similar in these three species. Gravid females had 16-190 enlarged ova when collected; mean values for each species are in the range 103-140 ova. Seventy-eight nests contained 8-677 eggs; 52-71% of the nests of these species contained embryos produced at a single mating--typically 73-98 ova (range: 8-194 ova). The remaining nests contain two or more batches of eggs of different ages. Apparently less than half the females lay all their eggs at once (monobrachyandry). Most appear to lay decreasing numbers of eggs on 2-3 successive nights at a single nest (seasonal monogamy) or else they mate on several occasions during the 4-7 week breeding season (successive polygamy). The female's habit of staggering her egg laying may be an adaptation to irregularities in the cyclical pattern of rainfall during the breeding season in southeastern Australia.
4498533|Movement patterns and activity ranges were examined in a small population of Northern Pinesnakes (Pituophis melanoleucus melanoleucus), a rare species inhabiting a variety of habitat types. Information was obtained by implanting nine individuals with radio transmitters and monitoring them over a two-year period. Telemetered snakes exhibited a bimodal activity pattern with snakes moving more often during spring and late summer to early autumn. Snakes traveled an average of 273 m per move. Males moved greater distances than females during spring and movements during the autumn months were shorter than movements during spring or summer for all snakes. Northern Pinesnakes traversed large activity ranges averaging 59.9 ha with core centers of activity averaging 7.9 ha. Snakes made long movements across less suitable habitats (late successional forest habitats) to get to preferred areas (early successional field habitats). The mosaic of habitats comprising the study area may be responsible for large movement distances and activity ranges observed in individuals from this population. Telemetered snakes traveled longer distances to and from widely separated areas, resulting in this population needing more extensive, contiguous areas to support their biological needs under the current management regime.
1566165|The active season of the Common Watersnake (Nerodia sipedon sipedon) in Missouri lasts about 170 days, from mid-April to early October. Females begin vitellogenesis in April, ovulate in June, and give birth in August to September. Reproduction occupies about 130 days (76%) of the active season. Food was present in 71% of vitellogenic snakes, 64% of pregnant snakes, and 43% of postpartum snakes. Coelomic fat mass decreased during vitellogenesis but increased during pregnancy. At parturition, 40% of females had sufficient fat reserves to reproduce the following year. Dry mass of ovulated ova/developing young did not change through pregnancy; however, wet mass increased from 45% in freshly ovulated ova to 78% at parturition. We conclude that reproductive females are not anorexic and that the increase in water content of the embryos adds considerable mass to the mother during pregnancy.
10.2307/1565548|The timing of reproductive activities in Amphiuma tridactylum is described. The vitellogenic process takes almost a full year and female reproduction is biennial or less frequent; only 35% of females were gravid. Clutch size averaged 201, ranging from 44-282, and was significantly related to body size. The relationship between body size and fat body weight was marginally insignificant. The relationship between fat body weight and clutch size was insignificant, although oocyte production significantly reduced fat body weight.
40060560|Recently, declines in amphibian populations all over the world have been reported. Global warming has the potential to become one of the most important causes for those declines, because reproductive activities of amphibians are affected severely by temperature and rainfall. It has been reported that climate warming has promoted a long-term tendency toward earlier breeding among amphibian populations in Europe and North America. However, some studies have not supported such a long-term change in the timing of amphibian breeding in those areas. We analyzed long-term data sets (12- to 31-year period) on the date of first spawning for four populations of three Japanese amphibians (Hynobius tokyoensis, Rana ornativentris, and Rhacophorus arboreus) in the suburbs of Tokyo and detected a significant trend toward earlier breeding in all populations examined. We also detected that the date of first spawning was correlated strongly with the mean monthly temperature just before the breeding season for each population examined. Given that the long-term trend of warming in the study district was significant, our investigation demonstrated that climate warming has affected the timing of breeding in at least some species or populations of amphibians in East Asia.
10.2307/1564148|We question the widespread assumption that body size and age are strongly correlated in adult amphibians and reptiles. Data for the smooth newt (Triturus vulgaris) suggest that growth rate prior to the age of first breeding is a much more significant source of variance in body size than age. A review of the data available for amphibians and reptiles suggests that this is true for the majority of species. Four methods for determining age are discussed and we conclude that only two of them, skeletochronology and mark-recapture, are reliable. We argue that female choice in anurans that favours larger males may not, as has frequently been suggested, mean that females mate with older males, but with males that have shown rapid juvenile growth.
23327165|A new, medium-sized limbless Acontias lizard is described from Zambia. The new species is characterized by a concealed eye, four chin shields bordering the mental, 14 scale rows around midbody, and a unique coloration of a dark dorsum and a pale ventrum. The species is similar to its congener Acontias jappi, but distinct in aspects of pholidosis, and was assigned to the genus Acontias using external morphological as well as osteological characters. The specimen was collected on Kalahari sands at Kataba Forest Reserve in the western part of the country.
4092938|Although many lizard species detect and respond to conspecific chemical cues, variation in this ability among populations of the same species from different habitat types is less well understood. We compared chemoreceptive behaviors and head-bobs in response to conspecific chemical cues by Ornate Tree Lizards (Urosaurus ornatus) between populations from an upland forested habitat and a lowland desert habitat. Under this experimental design, U. ornatus from different habitats performed chemoreceptive behaviors and head-bobs at similar rates. Rate of chemoreceptive behaviors and head-bobs in response to chemical cues deposited by same- and opposite-sex conspecifics was higher than that of cues deposited by the subject in their home tank, demonstrating that U. ornatus has the ability to detect cues from conspecifics. Head-bob rate was also higher in same- and opposite-sex tanks compared to home tanks, demonstrating that chemical cues alter the rate of a social display behavior. Urosaums ornatus exhibited chemosensory behavior at rates similar to rates reported for this species and lower than those reported for other phrynosomatid lizards, suggesting a lower reliance on chemical cues in social interactions.
43287389|Acoustic signals are the main communication vehicle for most anuran species, and males typically use advertisement calls to unknown, and the recognition of different selective pressures may improve our understanding of anuran communication system. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of micro-habitat at calling sites on advertisement call structure and propagation in a population of the treefrog Hypstboas crepitans. Males of this species typically call from elevated sites in vegetation or from sites where their body is partially submerged in water. Our analysis of call parameters of males calling from these sites showed that both dominant frequency and pulse rate were significantly lower when males called partially submerged in water compared to males calling from elevated sites in vegetation. Both pulse rate and dominant frequency have been shown to be important in species recognition among anurans, and they play a role in sexual selection and sound propagation. Our analysis of the effect of calling site (elevated or partially submerged) on signal propagation showed that the efficiency of transmission did not differ between sites.
41415313|Competition and prdation are two of the most important factors structuring communities, and these interactions may be exaggerated when two closely related species share similar resource requirements. We studied size-based habitat selection of artificial phytotelmata for deposition of tadpoles in two species of poison-dart frogs, Dendrobates auratus and Oophaga granulifera, in Costa Rica. Dendrobates auratus exhibits male parental care, and its tadpoles are predaceous, whereas O. granulifera exhibits biparental care, and its tadpoles are obligatory trophic egg eaters. These behavioral traits are integral factors in habitat selection for these two species. We found that the predaceous D. auratus selected large-and medium-sized pools, whereas O. granulifera selected all pool sizes but had a preference for small pools. Oophaga granulifera paid a high cost for exploiting large pools experiencing 100% mortality when sharing a pool with D. auratus. The use of small versus large pools in these species is rooted in each species' divergent parental care strategies and tadpole feeding behaviors.
10.2307/1565449|Short-term movements of 12 olive sea snakes, Aipysurus laevis, were tracked using ultrasonic transmitters fed to snakes. This species restricts itself to a home range of about 1500-1800 m
10.2307/1565300|The breeding biology of Rana capito was studied for one breeding season at a 1.2 ha pond in Okaloosa County, Florida. Frog movement was monitored with a drift fence and pitfall traps and egg deposition site selection was examined using wading surveys. A total of 301 unmarked adult frogs was captured, nearly half in February. Movement of immigrating frogs was positively correlated with rainfall. Frogs that entered and exited the pond only once, exited within an average of 38.5 m from the point of entry. Males spent more time in the basin than females and multiple-recaptured males stayed in the basin longer than single-recaptured males. Overall, the sex ratio did not differ from parity; however, nightly operational sex ratios were overwhelmingly male-biased. The eight-month breeding season (October through May) encompassed three major breeding events (one each in October, February, and April). A total of 146 complete egg masses was found, 67 of which contained an average of 2210 eggs. Frogs oviposited non-randomly, preferring rigid, vertical stems upon which to lay eggs. Each female deposited one egg mass.
10.2307/1563928|Ambystoma platineum is reported from Peel County, Ontario, Canada, on the basis of four females. Identification was made using standard morphological analyses, measurement of erythrocyte area, and electrophoretic separation of blood plasma proteins.
1565873|We describe the sequence of cranial ossification in the Tailed Frog, Ascaphus truei, and examine intraspecific variation in the timing and sequence of cranial development. Because tadpoles of A. truei lack the subarticular tubercles that normally delineate Gosner stages 39 and 40, we provide a modified Gosner staging system more appropriate for this species. Ossification sequence was highly variable among the populations and greater than that reported for other anuran species. In general, early ossification events in A. truei are similar to that reported for other anuran species. However, compared with other taxa, both onset of initial ossification events and appearance of specific elements appear relatively later in the development of Ascaphus.
10.2307/1565957| We studied habitat use, activity patterns, foraging mode, and prey spectrum of Tropidurus azureus werneri using a tower crane located in an Amazonian lowland rain forest in southern Venezuela. The lizards were strictly arboreal with a preference for the branches and twigs of the canopy. The horizontal distribution of lizards within the 1.4-ha study area was clustered and remained remarkably stable during two consecutive years. The lizards favored high and well-structured crowns with tree holes that served as shelters during the night. Activity was highest at air temperatures above 28C measured at a height of 21 m. Activity patterns were influenced by cloud cover and insolation. Tropidurus azureus werneri showed notable agility and tended toward more active foraging patterns than found in other tropidurid lizards. The prey spectrum was dominated by ants. 
1565828| We studied the reproductive characteristics of a population of Cnemidophorus lemniscatus in a highly fragmented tropical dry forest with a bimodal rainfall regime. Females were smaller than males in snout-vent length (SVL) and head size. Males reached sexual maturity at 48 mm SVL and showed continuous spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis. The smallest vitellogenic female measured 51 mm SVL. We found vitellogenic and ovigerous females throughout the year and did not observe reproductive stage differences among months of the year. These data, plus the observation of neonates in every month of the year, confirm a pattern of continuous reproductive activity with multiple clutching. Clutch size varied from one to three eggs (mean of 2.17  0.48) and was positively correlated with female SVL. Fat bodies were lacking in approximately 40% of the individuals. Mean fat-body mass did not vary among months for males or females; there were no differences in relative mass of stored fats between sexes. In spite of the marked seasonality of rainfall at this site, the population exhibited an aseasonal reproductive pattern that suggests a continuous availability of resources for reproduction. 
43287308|We investigated the attributes of shelters used by Eastern Hellbenders (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis alleganiensis) in two 500-m stretches of the French Broad River basin in North Carolina during June 2010. We quantified attributes at each Hellbender shelter and at a corresponding unoccupied shelter located < 25 m away to determine whether the attributes selected differed from those available in the surrounding environment. We identified 41 Hellbender shelters, each occupied by a single animal. Hellbenders selected shelters that had larger cover rocks and deeper cavities than the unoccupied shelters. No other attributes differed between occupied and unoccupied shelters, and there were no significant relationships between total length of Hellbenders and size of the cover rock or cavity depth. All Hellbender shelters were formed by large rocks with flat bottoms. Most had a single entrance that was oriented downstream and a cavity floor consisting of sand and gravel. Shelters were generally located in shallow, fast-flowing water with < 10% of their surface area embedded in the substrate. Our results suggest that Hellbenders prefer shelters with attributes that maximize cavity space. Larger cavities likely provide greater protection from predators and greater concealment from sunlight. In addition, larger cavities allow more space for Hellbenders to rock back and forth to maximize oxygen uptake through their skin during periods of low flow when oxygen levels drop.
40060451|We present the results of a taxonomic review of the four species of Allobates endemic to the Atlantic Forest Domain in Brazil. A total of 880 preserved specimens from 29 localities covering their range in Atlantic Forest were studied based on external attributes. Characters formerly described as diagnostic in original descriptions and others cited for dendrobatids in the literature were studied along the total geographic range of the populations of these species, including the type localities. We found no discrete characters, qualitative or quantitative, capable of differentiating the species. Most local and geographic variation was limited to snout-vent length and color pattern. Considering the lack of evidence otherwise, we use the results of our morphological analysis to allocate all Atlantic Forest species of Allobates to synonymy with Allobates olfersioides.
10.2307/1563721|The dorsal scale microdermatoglyphic patterns of 40 species of snakes were analyzed to determine whether any correlation exists between the habitat preferences of the species and their microdermatoglyphic patterns. Ten species were selected from each of four major habitats; desert sand dwelling, burrowing, aquatic, and arboreal. The scales were analyzed for amount of variation within each species group, and for the number of patterns seen in more than one group. No single pattern was found to predominate in any of the habitats, and each group exhibited a wide diversity of patterns. The same or very similar patterns were often found in snakes of different habitat preferences. Indications are that microdermatoglyphic patterns reflect phylogenetic relationship rather than ecological or habitat factors.
1565757|Eastern Spadefoot Toads (Scaphiopus holbrookii) require fish-free, isolated, ephemeral ponds for breeding but otherwise inhabit surrounding uplands, commonly xeric longleaf pine (Pinus palustris) and wiregrass (Aristida beyrichiana) ecosystem. Fire suppression in the Florida sandhills has the potential to alter upland and pond suitability through increased hardwood densities and resultant higher transpiration. In this paper, we explore breeding and metamorphic emigration movements in relation to weather, hydrological conditions of ponds, and surrounding upland matrices. We use nine years of data from continuous monitoring with drift fences and pitfall traps at eight ephemeral ponds in two upland matrices: regularly burned, savanna-like sandhills (N = 4), and hardwood-invaded sandhills (N = 4). Neither adult nor metamorph captures differed between ponds within the two upland matrices, suggesting that they are tolerant of upland heterogeneity created by fire frequency. Explosive breeding occurred during nine periods and in all seasons; adults were captured rarely otherwise. At the landscape-level, an interaction between rainfall and maximum change in barometric pressure were the top significant predictors of explosive breeding. At the pond-level, rainfall and the change in pond depth during the month prior to breeding were the top significant predictors of adult captures. Metamorphic emigrations occurred following transformation and usually were complete within a week regardless of rainfall levels. Movement by adults and metamorphs was directional, but mean directions of adult emigrations and immigrations did not always correspond. Our results suggest that spadefoot toads are highly adapted to breeding conditions and upland habitat heterogeneity created by weather patterns and fire frequency in Florida sandhills.
4092949|We describe a new species of small Hyla from sub-Andean forest of the Departamento La Paz, Bolivia. The new species is mainly characterized by smooth dorsal skin with few minute scattered tubercles, presence of a tympanic annulus, lack of tarsal folds, a brown dorsum with irregular longitudinal dark brown stripes, a broad dark brown lateral stripe extending to loreal region, and advertisement call. The phylogenetic relationships of the new species remain unknown, but given the morphological similarities of adults, we tentatively place it in the Hyla microcephala group.
4498551|We conducted a three-year study to describe the ecology and behavior of the Midget Faded Rattlesnake, Crotalus organus concolor. We encountered 426 and telemetered 50 C. o. concolor between 2000 and 2002. We found that their primary diet was lizards (associated with rock outcrops), though they will consume small mammals and birds. They den in aggregations, although in low numbers when compared to other subspecies. Movements and activity ranges were among the largest reported for rattlesnakes. Minimum convex polygon area was 117.8 ha for males, 63.9 ha for nongravid females, and 4.8 ha for gravid females. Mean distances traveled per year were 2122.0 m for males, 1956.0 m for nongravid females, and 296.7 m for gravid and postpartum females. Following emergence from hibernation, they spent several weeks shedding, often in aggregations before migration, and migrations occurred in early summer. Most snakes made straight-line movements to and from discrete summer activity ranges where short, multidirectional movements ensued, although others made multidirectional movements throughout the active season. We observed mating behavior between 21 July and 12 August. Gravid females gave birth during the third week of August. Mean clutch size was 4.17 (range 2-7). We found that the sex ratio was skewed favoring females 1:1.24, and they were sexually dimorphic in size (males SVL = 44.1 cm; females SVL = 40.8 cm). Our data further illustrate the diversity within the large group of Western Rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis).
40060463|Detecting individuals of amphibian and reptile species can be a daunting task. Detection can be hindered by various factors such as cryptic behavior, color patterns, or observer experience. These factors complicate the estimation of state variables of interest (e.g., abundance, occupancy, species richness) as well as the vital rates that induce changes in these state variables (e.g., survival probabilities for abundance; extinction probabilities for occupancy). Although ad hoc methods (e.g., counts uncorrected for detection, return rates) typically perform poorly in the face of no detection, they continue to be used extensively in various fields, including herpetology. However, formal approaches that estimate and account for the probability of detection, such as capture-mark-recapture (CMR) methods and distance sampling, are available. In this paper, we present classical approaches and recent advances in methods accounting for detectability that are particularly pertinent for herpetological data sets. Through examples, we illustrate the use of several methods, discuss their performance compared to that of ad hoc methods, and we suggest available software to perform these analyses. The methods we discuss control for imperfect detection and reduce bias in estimates of demographic parameters such as population size, survival, or, at other levels of biological organization, species occurrence. Among these methods, recently developed approaches that no longer require marked or resighted individuals should be particularly of interest to field herpetologists. We hope that our effort will encourage practitioners to implement some of the estimation methods presented herein instead of relying on ad hoc methods that make more limiting assumptions.
4092908|Radio-telemetry was used to study spatial ecology of a Cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus) population in eastern Texas. I examined effects of sex, reproductive state, and body size on spatial use within a riparian habitat. Snakes inhabited a relatively linear environment, restricting movements to the vicinity of the stream. Males occupied larger home ranges than both gravid and nongravid females. Gravid females exhibited marginally larger home ranges than nongravid females, but any effects attributable to reproductive state were relatively small when compared to sex differences in spatial use. Body size was positively correlated with home-range size but did not account for observed home-range differences among population subunits.
1566154|Potential sexual dimorphism of several aspects of antipredatory behavior by the Keeled Earless Lizard (Holbrookia propinqua) was studied by simulating approach by a predator. Females stayed closer to cover suitable for use as refuges than males, but no sex differences were detected in the distance between predator and prey when escape was initiated, the distance field, or the tendency to enter refuges. Despite the sex difference in distance to cover, the regressions of flight initiation distance and distance fled on distance to cover were monomorphic. The sexes fled similar mean distances even though females were closer to refuges because some lizards stopped short of refuges and others fled past them. No differences in antipredatory behavior were noted between bright and plain female color phases.
10.2307/1564955|Many snake populations contain moderate to high frequencies of individuals with ventral scale anomalies, which are often associated with duplicated or fused vertebrae and ribs and are known to impair locomotion and growth. In an attempt to test whether such anomalies may influence survival, we examined their frequency among cage-reared juvenile adders, Vipera berus, and wild-caught individuals that presumably had been exposed to natural selection. Midbody ventral scale anomalies were significantly less frequent among snakes exposed to selection than among cage-reared juveniles in one of three populations studied, indicating that they might indeed reduce survival. Furthermore, midbody anomalies were less common among large than among small wild-caught individuals, although not significantly so. The association between anomalies among captive mothers and their offspring was very weak, indicating low heritability of this trait. This low heritability might explain why scale anomalies are common in adder populations in spite of the apparent selection against anomalous individuals. We also found the proportion of anomalous offspring to increase with litter size, suggesting a trade-off between number and quality of young.
10.2307/1565078| A new species of treefrog of the genus Scinax is described from southern So Paulo, Atlantic Forest, in southeastern Brazil. The new species is a member of the Scinax rubra group characterized by moderate size, head longer than wide, snout nearly rounded in profile and subacuminate in dorsal view. Descriptions of the advertisement call and karyotype, as well as data on natural history, are provided. The inclusion of the species assigned presently to S. x-signata group in the S. rubra group is proposed. 
10.2307/1563195|The histology of the esophagus of the snake Xenodon merremii was studied. It presents all layers of the digestive tract in general: the mucosa, submucosa, muscle layer and serosa. The muscosa shows a special epithelium with ciliated and goblet cells in the initial portion, gradually displaced by columnar cells in the posterior third of the organ. Other cellular types, such as basal cells, argentaffin and argyrophil cells can be found throughout the esophageal mucosa.
10.2307/1562936|The author follows the initiation, development, and completion of several combat dances spontaneously carried out by captive animals. He experimentally induces this phenomenon at the laboratory and discusses reasons necessary for this combat dance.
10.2307/1564733|The longest male and female alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) measured in Florida during 1977-1993 were 426.9 cm and 309.9 cm total length. The heaviest male and female alligators weighed 473.1 and 129.3 kg. A predictive model for calculating total length from head length is presented. Estimated total lengths for three large alligators described in the literature were substantially shorter than reported lengths. The longest alligator for which a total length can be corroborated from skull measurements was 454 cm. We discuss the plausibility of past reports of exceptionally large alligators with respect to verified lengths of specimens, harvest pressure, growth patterns, and longevity.
1565849|The omnivorous acrodont lizard Leiolepis belliana was shown experimentally to respond more strongly to chemical cues from prey and plant food than from control stimuli, as indicated by tongue-flicking and biting responses. These results extend previous findings that prey and plant chemical discrimination is widespread among omnivorous iguanians.
10.2307/1563999|Analysis of 37,654 leatherback visit records shows that a mean of 81% (range 51-95%) of visits resulted in successful nests every year at Rantau Abang beach, peninsular Malaysia. The internesting interval within a season (intraseasonal interval) varied from 0-49 days, but the highest mode (polymodal histogram) was 9-10 days. The percentage of tagged turtles returning to breed in consecutive years and once in 2 years was 48.9 and 24.6, respectively. Few turtles returned after a long absence (e.g., 4 after 8 years). On average, each turtle returns to breed after an interval of 1.95 years (interseasonal interval). Most turtles (38% of the daily total) arrived at the beach at 0100-0300 hours, and laid at 0200-0400 hours. Mean clutch size for those turtles with only one clutch per season was 83 normal and 20 yolkless eggs. For those with more than one clutch, the mean total clutch of normal and yolkless eggs varied little (range 100-105) although yolkless eggs may be fewer in the later clutches (e.g., 11th and 12th). The major difference was in variation in the maximum and minimum number of normal and yolkless eggs in later clutches. For 3 clutches, the minimum-maximum normal and yolkless egg numbers were 84-85 and 18-22, respectively, while for 12 clutches the corresponding figures were 75-96 and 8-29. The number of yolkless eggs depended on the number of normal eggs laid (y = 47.13 - 0.34x [P < 0.001]). Clutch size was also found to vary with the beach sector where the eggs were laid.
10.2307/1562926|The temporal range of the glyptosaurine genus Peltosaurus is extended from the Upper Oligocene to the Upper Miocene on the basis of a frontal bone from the Egelhoff local fauna of northcentral Nebraska. The bone is assigned to Peltosaurus on the basis of the bone having 3 scales with the frontoparietal scales in broad median contact. A small lizard with a head-length of about 20 mm is represented. Body osteoscutes previously reported from the temporally equivalent Norden Bridge local fauna could represent this form. Peltosaurus occurs with the anguid genus Gerrhonotus in the Egelhoff fauna. The presence of Peltosaurus in the Egelhoff local fauna substantiates the suggestion of an Upper Miocene rather than a Lower Pliocene age for the Egelhoff and the Norden Bridge faunas.
41415292|Information on the habitat use and movement patterns of Arroyo Toads (Anaxyrus californiens) is limited. The temporal and spatial characteristics of terrestrial habitat use, especially as it relates to upland use in coastal areas of the species' range, are poorly understood. We present analyses of radiotelemetry data from 40 individual adult toads tracked at a single site in coastal southern California from March through November of 2004. We quantify adult Arroyo Toad habitat use and movements and interpret results in the context of their life history. We show concentrated activity by both male and female toads along stream terraces during and after breeding, and, although our fall sample size is low, the continued presence of adult toads in the floodplain through the late fall. Adult toads used open sandy flats with sparse vegetation. Home-range size and movement frequency varied as a function of body mass. Observed spatial patterns of movement and habitat use both during and outside of the breeding period as well as available climatological data suggest that overwintering of toads in floodplain habitats of near-coastal areas of southern California may be more common than previously considered. If adult toads are not migrating out of the floodplain at the close of the breeding season but instead overwinter on stream terraces in near-coastal areas, then current management practices that assume toad absence from floodplain habitats may be leaving adult toads over-wintering on stream terraces vulnerable to human disturbance during a time of year when Arroyo Toad mortality is potentially highest.
25599259|Studies that document changes in long-lived species are valuable in determining how demographic and environmental changes are affecting populations. This study documents apparent declines in Eastern Hellbender (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) populations over the last 20 years in the Allegheny River drainage of New York State. We compared current mark-recapture data to similar data collected in the 1980s at eight sites using a comparable method of capture (rock turning). In addition, we employed several other methods of capture including trapping, bank searching, and night lighting. Despite these extra efforts, the number of Hellbenders captured was less than the number captured historically. Hellbenders were extirpated from a single site and the ecological density (number of individuals per 10 m of habitable area) decreased in several other sites relative to the 1980s. Current and historical populations contained more mature adults than juveniles, but we found more Hellbenders <20 cm total length at five sites compared to the 1980s study. The sex ratio changed from predominantly female in the 1980s to predominantly male currently. Eggs in nests were found in both studies, although little is known about egg or larval survival and overall recruitment. Although demographic issues such as reproduction and recruitment may be contributing to Hellbender declines in the Allegheny drainage, these do not appear to have changed drastically from the 1980s. Other possible causes of decline include factors such as land use changes, introduced species, or some other environmental issue.
41415315|Normal tables of development intentionally ignore variation that results from both environmental and genetic sources. However, variation is important to consider when determining which characters most reliably indicate the stage of embryos. Our objective was to quantify variation in the relative time of the appearance and duration of character states for embryos of the lizard Uta stansbunana. The expression of the number of pharyngeal slits, development of optic capsule, eye pigmentation, and body size were highly variable, that is, these character states spanned multiple nominal stages. In general, the assessment of character variation in concert with the construction of normal tables would facilitate staging embryos for descriptive, experimental, and comparative studies.
40664953|We describe a new species of Pristimantis in the subgenus Hypodictyon ridens Species Series from the type locality in Parque Nacional General de Divisin Omar Torrij os Herrera on the Cordillera Central in central Panama. This species is similar to Pristimantis caryophyllaceus but can be differentiated from that form by snout-vent length (female Pristimantis educatoris ~ 27% larger than P. caryophyllaceus), round, globular, and projecting subarticular tubercles on all digits (not projecting in P. caryophyllaceus); finger disk covers even, round, disk pads ovoid, toe disk covers expanded and palmate, and toe pads even and broadened (finger and toe disk covers and pads rounded in P. caryophyllaceus); outer metatarsal tubercle large, elongate, and projecting (obscure and small in P. caryophyllaceus). We also report and describe female parental care of eggs.
23326912|We describe a new species of agamid lizard of the genus Hypsilurus from northern Papua New Guinea. The new species is characterized by its small adult size, scalational features, small nuchal and dorsal crests, and distinctive dorsal color pattern of brown and white chevrons. It is a member of the H. godeffroyi species group, but otherwise, its closest relative is not obvious. The species is currently known from two of the outlying North Coast ranges, but following the pattern seen in several other species endemic to this region, it will likely prove to occur along much of the northern lowlands of New Guinea.
40060542|Escape behavior of the natricine snake Nerodia sipedon when approached by a human was studied in populations in wetlands in Ohio and Michigan. Snakes responded by dropping from vegetation, but not immediately fleeing (44%), by diving beneath the water (37%), or by swimming away with the head above the surface (19%). Flight initiation distance (distance between predator and prey when escape begins) was significantly greater for individuals that dropped than those that dove or swam on the surface. This novel finding suggests that dropping may position snakes well to escape should approach continue and perhaps might serve as a pursuit-deterrent signal. Adult females were warier (had greater flight initiation distance) than adult males or juveniles. Several hypotheses to account for this difference are discussed. Flight initiation distance increased with starting distance (distance between predator and prey when the predator begins to approach). This effect was much stronger than in the few lizard species studied. We propose that degree of risk assessed by snakes may change during approaches because a predator that moves directly toward a snake for a longer distance is more likely to have detected the snake and be attacking than a predator that approaches over a shorter distance. Increase in perceived risk would account for greater flight initiation distance associated with greater starting distance. Flight initiation distance for basking snakes did not vary with air temperature or perch height, contrary to previous findings for body temperature and perch height. Reasons for these findings are discussed.
10.2307/1564290| Activity patterns, behavior, food habits, and thermal biology were investigated by radiotelemetry in a population of banded Gila monsters in southwestern Utah. Twenty-seven Gila monsters were observed within a 2 km<sup>2</sup> area. They fed on eggs and young mammals taken from nests. Quantities as large as 210 g, eaten in a single meal, did not appear to be envenomated. Activity peaked between late April and mid June, from 0800 to 1200 h. Distances traveled during activity bouts averaged 210 m (approximately 50 min), although individuals occasionally traveled over 1 km. Lizards were active on less than 10 days/month during their 90-day activity season, spending over 95% of their time below ground in shelters. This low energetic investment to activity is contrary to traditional descriptions of activity of lizards that forage on patchy prey. Gila monsters had a relatively low activity temperature (x = 29.4 C) and at rest spent over 83% of the year at body temperatures of 25 C or below. Lizards occasionally basked near shelters in the spring. Several shelters were reused, some by more than one lizard, occasionally concurrently. Intraspecific interactions, including male combat, observed near shelters suggest that these helodermatids have a structured social system. Analysis of a 3-h fight between two large males revealed similarities with varanid lizard and crotaline snake combat, as well as similarities to combat in captive helodermatids. 
10.2307/1565200|The ability to estimate the size of populations is an integral part of species conservation. I investigated the utility of counts of calling males for the rapid and efficient assessment of population size in the endangered frogs Geocrinia alba and G. vitellina from southwestern Australia. Multiple censuses were used to examine the optimum time of night and season to conduct surveys. Turnover of calling males was measured using removal and mark-recapture studies. Males called persistently throughout the night, but the time of the annual peak in the number of calling males varied among sites. Turnover of males was very low, with the majority of males in each population (76-96%) calling simultaneously. Combining knowledge of the sex ratio with counts of calling males, it is therefore possible to obtain a good estimate of total population size.
4498586|Chemoreception is a common mechanism used by many species to detect the presence of a potential predator and subsequently respond to it. The perceived risk of predation may force retreat to suboptimal conditions, forcing a trade-off between the risk of predation and the ability to acquire resources. Responses to chemical cues of predators vary as a result of past experience, ontogeny, or reproductive state. The basking regime maintained by gravid females of the viviparous skink, Eulamprus tympanum, may directly alter sex ratios of offspring produced through temperature-dependent sex determination. The avoidance of predator scents may restrict basking ability and, in turn, alter the sex of offspring produced. We measured responsiveness to chemical cues using tongue flicks as an indicator of chemical discrimination in adult females and neonates and in females of different reproductive condition. We then measured activity rates and basking behavior of females in experimental enclosures in the presence of various chemical stimuli to determine whether basking opportunity is compromised by the presence of a predator scent. Neonates respond significantly more than nonreproductive adult females to all chemical stimuli suggesting an agespecific shift in response, whereas adult females respond differently depending upon reproductive state. Under laboratory conditions, gravid females modify their behavior and forego the opportunity to bask when there is a perceived predation risk. However, further experimentation conducted under field conditions would be necessary to test fully the hypothesis that basking opportunity is compromised by the presence of a predator stimulus and, in turn, could alter offspring sex ratios.
10.2307/1565329|The most widely accepted hypothesis invokes cold climates as the selective force responsible for the evolution of viviparity in reptiles. The "cold climate" hypothesis proposes that viviparity is adaptive in cold climates because developing embryos experience warmer temperatures in utero (through maternal thermoregulation) than they would in a nest. Most authors have assumed that these warmer incubation temperatures provide an advantage by protecting embryos from lethally low temperatures or by allowing them to hatch before the onset of winter. Thus, the "cold climate" hypothesis (at least in its traditional form) purports that viviparity evolves in cold climates because females that retain their developing offspring in utero will have greater reproductive success than females that lay their eggs in a nest. To test this hypothesis, I conducted a reciprocal transplant experiment using the reproductively bimodal Australian lizard, Lerista bougainvillii. Gravid oviparous and viviparous females were transplanted into field enclosures in both a "hot" and a "cold" climate, to monitor the effects of climate on their reproductive success. The live-bearers had higher reproductive success than the egg-layers in both climates, but reproductive success did not differ between the hot and cold climates within either reproductive mode. The viviparous lizards were more successful at producing offspring, regardless of climatic conditions. Thus, viviparity provided an advantage (in terms of embryo and/or neonate survival) under the conditions of the experiment, but this advantage was not restricted to cold environments.
10.2307/1564992| A new species of Atractus is described from the Atlantic Forest of the states of Sergipe and Alagoas, northeastern Brazil. It can be distinguished from other Atractus by the combination of a long loreal, temporal formula 1 + 2, 7 supralabials, dorsal scales in 15 rows, and a dorsal color pattern of small transverse brown bands on a reddish ground color. Comparisons are made with all other Atractus species with 15 dorsal scale rows, but the lack of data precludes the finding of its precise relationships. /// Uma nova espcie de Atractus  descrita para a regio de Floresta Atlntica dos estados do Sergipe e Alagoas, do nordeste do Brasil. Pode ser distinguida das demais espcies de Atractus pela combinao de uma loreal longa, 7 supralabiais, frmula temporal 1 + 2, 15 fileiras de escamas dorsais em volta do corpo, e um padro de colorao dorsal composto por finas faixas transversais castanho sobre uma cor de fundo avermelhada. Comparaes so feitas com todas as demais espcies de Atractus com 15 fileiras de escamas dorsais, mas a falta de dados impede uma definio prescisa de suas relaes. 
10.2307/1565298| The larval chondrocranium and visceral skeleton of Dendrobates auratus is described and compared with those of other dendrobatids. Four characters, i.e., lack of fusion between orbital cartilages and otic capsules, wide processus muscularis palatoquadrati, lack of processus pseudopterygoideus, and lack of processus anterolateralis hyalis, represent derived conditions for Dendrobates within Dendrobatidae. Cranial and postcranial ossification sequences are reported for D. auratus and Epipedobates tricolor. Skeletogenesis is earlier in E. tricolor, but the overall pattern of ossification is similar in the two species. /// Se describe el condrocrneo y esqueleto visceral de Dendrobates auratus comparndolo con el de otros dendrobatidos Cuatro caractersticas--no fusin de cartlagos orbitales con cpsulas ticas, proceso muscular del palatocuadrado ancho, ausencia de proceso pseudopterigoideo, y ausencia de proceso anterolateral hyalis--representan estados derivados para Dendrobates. Se reportan la secuencia de osificacin cranial y post-cranial para D. auratus y Epipedobates tricolor. La osificacin es ms temprano en E. tricolor, pero el patrn general de osificacin es similar en las dos especies. 
10.2307/1565451|The reproductive biology of the white-throated savanna monitor lizard, Varanus albigularis, was examined in the arid savanna of Etosha National Park, Namibia. Both sexes were solitary during the the hot/wet season when prey were abundant, and during the hot/dry season when prey populations were declining. Male-male and male-female behavioral interactions were confined to a 2-3 week period at the transition from the cool/dry to the hot/dry seasons when prey populations were depleted. Interactions occurred at locations occupied by estrus females. Male-male interactions were restricted to resident males chasing intruding males after visual contact. Males appeared to initially locate the general area occupied by females through scent cues. Once in visual contact with females, males exhibited a spasmodic body shudder, after which females responded by flattening their bodies. Mating generally occurred in trees. No aggression was noted between pairs during courtship or mating. At peak estrus, females had elevated (100 to 500-fold increase over non-reproductive period) plasma testosterone and total estrogen titers. Males showed similar dramatic increases in plasma testosterone levels during the mating period. Aspects of the reproductive biology of this species are discussed in the context of general patterns for the family Varanidae. As a group monitor lizards appear to be very conservative in the length of gestation, but highly variable in length of incubation. Length of incubation appears to be variably timed in order to place hatching during the period of greatest abundance of invertebrate prey.
10.2307/1563873|Liolaemus fitzingeri cuyanus n. subsp. from sandy regions north of the Rio Colorado (Argentina) and L. fitzingeri xanthoviridis n. subsp. from coastal range of Chubut (Argentina) are described. The former is easily distinguishable from other known forms of the group by a lower number of dorsal scales, lack of ventral melanism and the presence of a distinct black antehumeral band. L. fitzingeri xanthoviridis is distinguishable from its nearest relative L. fitzingeri canqueli by shorter limbs, more distinctly keeled dorsal scales, anterior margin of ear with smaller non-proyecting scales, and different color pattern.
40664969|Geographic variation in body size may reflect adaptations to local environments, and sexual size dimorphism (SSD) arises from ultimate and proximate factors acting differently on males and females in those environments. The Painted Turtle (Chrysemys picta) is a wide-ranging North American freshwater turtle species with known female-biased SSD. We hypothesized that, in more seasonal environments, the disparity between adult female and male body size would be more pronounced (i. e., the sexual dimorphism index [SDI, female body size/male body size] would be higher) than in more moderate environments because selective pressures on females to maximize reproductive output would result in relatively larger body sizes (fecundity advantage hypothesis) in extreme environments. We predicted that the SDI would be higher in populations at northern latitudes and middle longitudes than in southern and coastal populations. We conducted linear and nonlinear regression analyses using data from the literature and museum records, extrapolated data, and unpublished data on adult male and female carapace and plastron lengths from 65 locations. In contrast to our prediction, SDI decreased with increasing latitude. With respect to longitude, the trend supported our prediction in that the SDI was slightly higher for interior populations and lower for coastal populations; however, the relationship was not significant. Future research should examine sex differences in carapace height and body volume which may more directly reflect selective pressures on female fecundity than straight-line shell lengths.
10.2307/1563349|An elaborate combination of specialized motor patterns were observed in the agamid lizard, Goniocephalus dilophus when confronted by an intruder: 1) when most threatened, bipedal bounding or hopping flight with forelimbs rotated in a circumductory plane, mouth closed; 2) when less threatened, lateral presentation with open mouth, tongue rolled forward, gular sac expanded, sidlehopping and low intensity tail lashing; 3) when least threatened, frontal orientation, short rushes toward the intruder with mouth open, biting attempted. Expansion of the hyoid apparatus allowed for greater visibility of the yellowish dentary region. The soft gum tissue and tissue exterior to the masseter muscle deepened to a bright reddish hue, due probably to vascularization. A guttural hissing sound produced by lung evacuation through the glottis accompanied the display. A comparison of the defense, escape and conspecific aggressive behaviors of other agamid lizards and G. dilophus is presented.
10.2307/1564555|Although depression of tadpole growth at low pH has been well documented, associations of initial mass with acid tolerance and growth rates at low pH have not been investigated. We investigated the effect of initial mass on individual growth measured as mass gain at pH 4 and pH 7.2-7.8 in two amphibian species. Tadpole growth was significantly less at pH 4 than at pH 7, and significantly more tadpoles died at pH 4 than at pH 7. Mass gain was positively correlated with initial mass at pH 7, but no correlation was identified at pH 4. More tadpoles of Pseudacris clarkii with low initial mass died than tadpoles with high initial mass at both pH 4 and pH 7. Essentially no mortality of tadpoles of B. valliceps occured.
10.2307/1563498| Chrysemys picta, trained for ten days on an E-W axis, exhibited a significant (P0.05) unipolar response when tested in an aquatic circular arena. Similarly, when these same animals were tested five days later, they exhibited a highly significant (P0.005) orientation in the trained direction. When the turles were subjected to a phase delay of six hours in their photoperiod, their direction of orientation was shifted 90 clockwise. The fact that the turtles compensated for the sun's apparent movement, following light dark (LD) rephasing, indicates the possession of an internal biological clock synchronized by ambient light cycles. This study indicates that Chrysemys picta are able to employ celestial cues, in conjunction with an internal biological clock, for sun-compass orientation. 
10.2307/1563774|Batrachuperus mustersi occurs only in the Paghman Mountains of Afghanistan in a single stream. They inhabit the cold sources of the stream where they are active year-round, feeding on aquatic organisms. Morphological examination revealed many similarities to other members of the genus. Differences were found in the tail morphology, degree of skeletal ossification and gill development. The only adult sexual dimorphism is in the appearance of the cloaca. Redescriptions of the morphology of adults and larvae are given. Niche partitioning was found in habitat selection and prey size. Breeding coincides with the spring thaw when females lay at least two egg cases and attach them to submerged rocks or plants. Metamorphosis also takes place in the spring after two years of development.
10.2307/1563108|The quantity, appearance, metallic ion content, pH, protein content, concentration, complexity, antigen-antibody relationships, enzyme activities, paramecia lysing ability, and mouse lethality of Crotalus horridus atricaudatus venom were studied. Intraspecific variations in some of these properties were recorded. This venom demonstrated negligible proteolytic activity.
10.2307/1564338|Tracer dilution analysis was used to evaluate body fluid volumes in the marine file snake, Acrochordus granulatus. Relative blood volume (determined from the dilution of <sup>51</sup>Cr-labeled red cells) averages 12.5% of wet body mass and is independent of size within the range of 69 to 191 g body mass. These volumes are slightly less than earlier estimates determined by exsanguination (Feder, 1980), but are nonetheless two-fold greater than blood volumes of many other reptiles. The blood of A. granulatus has high hematocrit values (mean, 50.1%) and thus confers an unusually large capacity for storage and transport of oxygen. Behavioral observations indicate that large oxygen stores extend aerobic dives and may be advantageous during prolonged diurnal submergence inside burrows. Extracellular fluid volumes (determined by dilution of NaSCN) are larger than those measured similarly in terrestrial snakes by an amount that reflects the relative differences in blood volumes (mean ECFV = 48.8% body mass). Total body water (determined by desiccation) is ca. 75% of body mass, and is similar to that of terrestrial species. Thus, in comparison with other snakes, the blood volume of A. granulatus appears to have expanded at the expense of the intracellular fluid volume.
4093010|A study was undertaken to find the role of residual yolk in maintenance and growth in newborn hatchlings of the lizard Calotes versicolor. Hatchlings (N = 90) of C. versicolor were obtained by incubating eggs (from six lizards) on moist sand at ambient temperature in the laboratory. Equal number of hatchlings from each clutch was assigned to each of the three groups. One group of hatchlings was fed daily for 10 days, whereas another group was not fed for the same period. Hatchlings that were fed grew significantly larger, both in snout-vent length (SVL) and body mass compared to the unfed individuals. Unfed hatchlings lost body mass although their SVL increased over the course of experiment. Residual yolk mass declined significantly in both fed and unfed hatchlings compared to the initial controls. Interestingly, fed hatchlings possessed less residual yolk than the unfed counterparts at the end of the experiment. Faster use of residual yolk in the fed hatchlings may be associated with higher metabolic rate/SDA after feeding. It is suggested that, in C. versicolor, residual yolk promotes growth of hatchlings, and it is also used as an energy source for sustenance under situations of scarcity of food or starvation.
10.2307/1562952|The Madagascan lizard Chalarodon madagascariensis is a monotypic member of the family Iguanidae. Ecologically it is restricted to arid and semiarid regions of sandy soils, hot temperatures, low rainfall and sparse vegetation. A marked population was observed near Tulear on the southern part of the island. The two sexes showed differences in scales, postures, and nuptial coloration. The larger males were dominants and defended territories of about 10 meters in diameter. Territorial defense was manifested by male displays which involved orientation, postural changes and the performance of species-specific movements through time - the display-action-pattern. Defense may also involve chases and vigorous contact fights and submissive posturing. Females may reject the courtship of males by specific posturing and orientation.
10.2307/1565168|Confusion regarding the application of the proper scientific name for the common Neotropical tree boa has existed since Linnaeus described Boa enydris and Boa hortulana in 1758. We review the nomenclatural history of the species and point out the misapplication of scientific names that have characterized this form. Our review indicates that the proper scientific name for this highly variable, wide-ranging arboreal boid is Corallus hortulanus, not Corallus enydris, as has been used so frequently in recent years.
43287325|Although tail autotomy often has an immediate survival benefit, tail loss may subsequently hinder locomotion and the ability to escape from predators. Maximal locomotor performance can be reduced after tail autotomy in the plethodontid salamander Desmognathus quadramaculatus. The loss of a large proportion of the tail length (> 60%) is costly for this semiaquatic species in terms of a reduction in maximal swimming performance (i. e., burst speed is about 50% less after such autotomy). However, the minimal amount of tail loss that causes a significant reduction in swimming performance (i. e., the "critical tail autotomy" for locomotion) is unknown. I examined the effect of partial tail loss (either 15% or 30% of tail length) on burst swimming performance. After the loss of about 15% of tail length in one experimental group (N = 15), burst speeds for individuals were not significantly different from preautotomy burst speeds. After the loss of about 30% of tail length in a second experimental group (N = 15), burst speeds for individuals were significantly less than preautotomy burst speeds. These results indicate that the critical tail autotomy for reduction of maximal swimming performance is between 15% and 30% of tail length. About 50% of individuals in the field (N = 69) experienced tail autotomy and most (80%) of these individuals lost more than 30% of their tails. This study shows that tail autotomy often results in a reduction in maximal swimming performance and thus a locomotor cost for individuals of this species.
41515038|Spatial distribution patterns of animals are shaped by their ecology and can give insights into their habitat use and behavioral interactions. Most methods used to study spatial distribution, including quadrat sampling, and nearest-neighbor distance analyses have been used primarily with sessile organisms. We used nearest-neighbor distances to look at the spatial distribution of the Zebra-tailed lizard (Callisaurus draconoides) in the Rillito Wash in Tucson, Arizona, and to determine whether these distances gave meaningful results when used with a mobile lizard. We hypothesized that spatial distributions would be random for both sexes but would differ between juveniles and adults because of differences in dominance between these groups. We recorded individuals' locations using a GPS and collected data on sex, age group, substrate, distance to nearest vegetation, and percent vegetation cover at each individual's location. Males and females were distributed randomly, whereas juveniles were distributed regularly. Juveniles were closer to one another than to adults, and females were closer to one another than they were to males, or than males were to one another. Juveniles inhabited areas with less vegetation cover than adults, which may represent marginal habitats. All individuals were distributed in a clustered manner. A lack of difference in spatial distribution between males and females may be a result of abundant resources and subordinate, nonreproducing males. The study occurred at the end of the breeding season, which may also have contributed to the lack of difference. We show that nearest-neighbor distance methods can give meaningful results when used with mobile organisms and can complement ecological studies, including more focused mark-recapture approaches.
10.2307/1564985| We quantified aspects of hibernaculum use by desert tortoises (Gopherus agassizii) in the San Pedro Valley, Arizona. Tortoises hibernated primarily on steep south-facing slopes. Hibernacula included burrows in silt, silt with loose gravel, diatomite and/or diatomaceous marl, and beneath layers of well-lithified volcanic ash. Burrows were often also associated with live vegetation, dead and downed vegetation, and/or packrat (Neotoma albigula) nests. Male tortoises used longer hibernacula (x = 118.3 cm) than females (x = 24.4 cm). Maximum temperatures of hibernacula of females (x = 24.5 C) were consistently higher than maximum temperatures of hibernacula of males (x = 18.2 C), but the difference was not significant. Minimum temperatures of hibernacula of females (x = 4.3 C) were lower than minimum temperatures of hibernacula of males (x = 9.3 C). Temperatures in hibernacula of females fluctuated over a wider range than temperatures in hibernacula of males. Hibernacula used by males provided greater thermal buffering than those used by females. No tortoise (N = 8) used the same hibernaculum during both years of the study. 
1565762| I describe the tadpole of Colostethus kingsburyi (Boulenger, 1918), a dendrobatid frog that occurs in Ecuadorian Amazonia at the foothills of the Andes. The tadpole of C. kingsburyi is similar to other dendrobatid tadpoles with respect to body shape, labial tooth row formula, arrangement of papillae of the oral disc, jaw serrations, and location of the spiracle and vent tube. It differs in the number of papillae on the oral disc and by having the terminus of the tail heavily blotched. The number of marginal papillae around the oral disc in tadpoles of C. kingsburyi varies ontogenically; this type of ontogenetic variation has been documented only in a few Colostethus tadpoles and may be more widespread than previously recognized. Phenetic resemblance of C. kingsburyi and tadpoles of Allobates femoralis is remarkable and supports a current hypothesis of a close phylogenetic relationship between these taxa. The identification of larval synapomorphies requires analysis of a larger dataset. /// El presente trabajo presenta una descripcin de renacuajos de Colostethus kingsburyi (Boulenger, 1918), un dendrobtido conocido de las estribaciones de la Cordillera Oriental de los Andes, en la Amazona Ecuatoriana. El renacuajo de C. kingsburyi es similar a otros renacuajos de dendrobtidos por la forma del cuerpo, frmula dentaria, arreglo de las papilas en el disco oral, picos mandibulares con serraciones, y por la ubicacin del espirculo y el tubo cloacal. Difiere en el nmero de papilas del disco oral, y por tener el extremo distal de la cola fuertemente pigmentado. El nmero de papilas marginales rodeando el disco oral en renacuajos de C. kingsburyi varia ontogenticamente; esta clase de variacin ha sido registrada en muy pocos renacuajos de Colostethus y parece ser ms comn a lo previamente documentado. Notables semejanzas fenotpicas entre los renacuajos de C. kingsburyi y Allobates femoralis fueron encontradas apoyando la hiptesis actual de la cercana relacin filogentica entre estos taxa; no obstante, para la identificacin de sinapomorfas entre las larvas se requiere del anlisis de un set de datos ms amplio. 
25599182|A new species of keel-headed amphisbaenian of the genus Anops is described from the Cerrado of the Jalapo region, Tocantins state, Brazil. This new species of Anops is described from a single specimen, which may be easily distinguished from the other species of the genus, Anops bilabialatus and Anops kingii, by showing an extremely narrow head (37.2% head length); a row of eight occipitals anterior to the first body annulus; temporal present; mental and postmental fused; four postgenial rows located between the malars; and two malars posterior to the second infralabial. The new species is the first of the genus found in the Cerrado core area, and, based on the available records, the single species in the genus may be restricted to this region. /// Uma nova espcie de anfisbnio com cabea quilhada do gnero Anops  descrita para o Cerrado da regio do Jalapo, Tocantins, Brasil. Essa nova espcie de Anops  descrita com base num nico espcime, facilmente distinguida das outras espcies do gnero, Anops bilabialatus e Anops kingii, por apresentar a cabea extremamente afilada (37,2% do comprimento da cabea), uma fileira de oito occipitais anterior ao primeiro anel corporal, temporal presente, mental e ps-mental fusionados, quatro fileiras de ps-geniais localizadas entre os malares e dois malares posteriores ao segundo infralabial. A nova espcie  a primeira do gnero encontrada na poro central do Cerrado, e, baseado nos registros disponveis, a nica espcie que pode ser restrita para essa regio.
10.2307/1564016|The scales of members of the genera Nerodia and Thamnophis have a basic ultrastructural pattern of pores. Thamnophis is characterized by a canaliculate pattern of longitudinal ridges; Nerodia have a crosshatch-cup pattern. Based on the microstructural scale patterns, the species valida should be transferred from Nerodia to Thamnophis, and both melanogaster and rufipunctatus would be assigned to the genus Nerodia rather than Thamnophis. With these changes all studied Nerodia also have apical stigmata. The scale pores allow access of an epidermal exudate (containing lipids) to the surface of the scale. Modifications of the basic pore pattern into cup-like chambers may assist in the retention of the exudate on the surface of the scale. Such a coating of fatty material on the surface might form a water barrier on the skin especially advantageous to aquatic taxa.
10.2307/1563996|Although prostaglandin synthesis in reptilian tissues has not been previously documented, studies have demonstrated that this class of hormones influences several aspects of reptilian reproductive biology. Gas chromatographic analysis for prostaglandin (PG) precursors in oviductal and hepatic tissues of the viviparous lizard Sceloporus jarrovi revealed that eicosatrienoic acid (monoenoic series precursor) and arachidonic acid (dienoic series precursor) were present. No eicosapentaenoic acid (trienoic series precusor) was detected in either tissue. Ovary, oviduct, liver, testis, and epididymis synthesized in vitro compounds which migrate with authentic series 2 (dienoic) PG standards on TLC. Furthermore, in vitro incubation of hepatic tissue produced significant amounts of PGF<sub>2</sub> and PGE<sub>2</sub> in the culture media. These data indicate that reptiles synthesize PG's as do other vertebrates.
10.2307/1566113|The original tail of lizards is a segmental structure, each segment containing a vertebra. We examine how the growth of the original tail of Anolis grahami is characterized as a single structure and as a structure composed of discrete segments. It is hypothesized that the tail grows isometrically both in its entirety and regionally. The results reveal that the entire tail grows isometrically with reference to SVL but that this isometric growth pattern results from differential growth in successive regions of the tail. Segmentally the tail grows faster proximally than distally and incorporates a middle transitional region. These findings may have implications for the various patterns of tail growth in squamates with different functional roles of the tail.
1566070|Toe-clipping has been widely used for individual identification of amphibians and reptiles. It is costless and easy to apply and read. An animal's locomotor speed may affect its ability to acquire food, to avoid predation, and to achieve a high social status. Thus, it is of interest to determine whether toe-clipping affects the running speed of lizards. Wild caught Eastern Water Skinks (Eulamprus quoyii) were run in a race track in three consecutive sessions. In the first session, all animals were run with their toes intact. Half of the animals had their toes clipped between the first and second session, whereas the other half were toe-clipped between the second and the third session. Neither the average or maximum running speeds of lizards were affected by toe-clipping.
1566158| Few studies have systematically investigated the overwintering ecology of anurans. We used large-scale field enclosures to measure the winter densities of Wood Frogs (Rana sylvatica) in an upland deciduous forest adjacent to two breeding pools in eastern Massachusetts. Pitfall traps associated with one of our enclosure arrays were operated continuously from March to December 2000. Wood Frog densities ranged from 0-6.3 Wood Frogs/100 m<sup>2</sup> (x = 1.4, SD = 1.6, N = 17 enclosures) and declined as distance to the nearest breeding pond increased. The sex ratio of Wood Frogs wintering close (< 65 m) to the pond was more highly skewed toward males than the sex ratio of Wood Frogs wintering further from the pond (8:1 vs. 1.6:1). Adult Wood Frogs apparently only occupied this upland forest habitat during late fall and winter and did not use it during the summer active period. These results suggest that few wintering females may be protected within narrow regulatory buffers adjacent to breeding ponds and that the effects of habitat destruction on Wood Frog mortality may vary dramatically by season. 
4498566|Some amphibians are able to orient toward habitat features, but it is not always clear whether (1) these animals can directly detect the habitat toward which they are moving (e.g., scenting water from a wetland); or (2) they are detecting an indirect cue that is consistently correlated with the location of suitable habitat (e.g., the location of sunrise). In 2004, we translocated 400 Rana sylvatica tadpoles from an isolated population on Sears Island in Maine, where emerging metamorphs travel northeast towards a forested wetland. We placed study animals in arrays consisting of a central artificial pool, with a circular drift fence at 0.2 m from the pool's edge to assess orientation of metamorphs at emergence and a similar fence at 5 m to assess orientation postemergence. Arrays were placed at 10 m and 50 m from a forested wetland, with the wetland cue to the southwest (i.e., the opposite direction of the wetland at Sears Island). Rana sylvatica exhibited significant orientation toward the northeast at the 0.2 m fence, indicating that emerging metamorphs retained the same directionality as at the site where they were hatched. A significant result at the 5 m fence indicated that animals continued to head toward the northeast. These results suggest that the population of Rana sylvatica on Sears Island may rely on indirect cues for orientation. Relying on indirect cues offers less adaptability to changes in habitat such as breeding site loss or road construction, and thus could lead frogs into ecological traps.
10.2307/1565662| Environmental contaminants can act as stressors, inducing elevated circulating concentrations of stress hormones such as corticosterone and cortisol. Development in contaminated eggs has been reported to modify circulating sex steroid hormone concentrations in alligators (Alligator mississippiensis). We examined plasma concentrations of testosterone (T), estradiol-17 (E<sub>2</sub>), and corticosterone (B) immediately upon and two hours after capture in male and female juvenile alligators living in either contaminated or relatively pristine lake systems. We observed that plasma T concentration was significantly depressed in males from the contaminated lake, whereas plasma E<sub>2</sub> showed significant variation between sexes but not between lakes. Initial plasma B concentrations were similar between alligators from both lakes or either sex. Two hours of capture and restraint did not effect plasma T or E<sub>2</sub> concentrations but was associated with a dramatic rise in plasma B concentrations. These data suggest that juvenile alligators exposed to contaminants in ovo are apparently unaffected in their rapid glucocorticoid response to acute stress. 
40060495|A new species of Amphisbaena is described from Fazenda Caraibas, municipality of Mucug, state of Bahia, Brazil, in the northern portion of the Serra do Espinhao. The new species is a small amphisbaenian without precloacal pores, 210-213 body annuli, 12-13 tail annuli without evident autotomic site, and 14 dorsal and 14-15 ventral segments per annuli at midbody. The striking difference of this form is the presence of small tubercles on the dorsal region of its tail. This feature is unique among its congeners, although Rhineura floridana, a North American amphisbaenian, has tubercles on its tail. We suggest that the presence of tubercles on the tail of Amphisbaena sp. nov. and Rhineura floridana has arisen independently.
4498559|Translocation of terrestrial turtles occurs to mitigate habitat loss, increase population size or genetic diversity, and to establish new populations. The success of many translocation efforts often depends on social and economic factors, but ecological factors may also affect translocation success. We used radiotelemetry to evaluate Three-Toed Box Turtle (Terrapene carolina triunguis) movements before and after translocation from a continuously forested site to a highly fragmented site and made comparisons to resident turtles. The average distance moved between consecutive 28-h relocations (distmove) pretranslocation versus posttranslocation depended on turtle origin. Turtles translocated from the continuously forested site had greater mean dist_move following translocation, whereas resident turtles at the fragmented site had similar dist_move in both periods. Translocated turtles traveled greater total distances, had greater net displacement, and greater home-range size than resident turtles. Additionally, translocated turtles had directed movements, whereas resident turtles did not. Homing behavior or directed movement toward continuous forest adjacent to the release site may account for the movement patterns observed. Future translocations should consider the landscape context of the release sites as well as the landscape context of the original capture location.
10.2307/1564218|Four species of sea snakes, Laticauda semifasciata, L. laticaudata, L. colubrina and Emydocephalus ijimae occur near Orchid Island on the southeastern coast of Taiwan. We describe here aspects of the reproductive biology of the most abundant species, L. semifasciata, based on a sample of 243 snakes collected between April 1986 and March 1987. Eight meristic and morphometric characters were examined for sexual dimorphism. The two best indicators were caudal width and the number of subcaudal scales. Minimum snout-vent lengths at sexual maturity for male and female snakes were 70 and 80 cm, respectively. The breeding season for female snakes was prolonged and peaked between August and November. There was no seasonal fluctuation in the weight or dimensions of the testes; sperm were found within the vas deferens throughout the year. Mating took place sometime before ovulation. Three to seven eggs (mean, 4) comprise the clutch. There are indications that some females may breed more than once per year. Eggs were laid in muddy water within tidal caves where they would not be inundated by sea water; moisture levels during incubation were maintained by fresh water dripping from condensation on the cave roof. The incubation period was 4 to 5 months.
10.2307/1563285|The distribution and histology of cutaneous touch corpuscles within the cephalic scales of some species of small ground snakes in the genera Leptotyphlops, Tantilla, Sonora, and Virginia are described and illustrated. Touch corpuscles were densely distributed within rostral and anterior supralabial scales and less abundant within other cephalic scales. Histologically, touch corpuscles appeared as an organized group of dermal cells and nerve fibers which pushed into the epidermis, forming a capsular structure. The histology, dimensional measurements, and structural variations of touch corpuscles are discussed for the species studied. A novel secondary sex character in male V. striatula epidermis is described.
10.2307/1563906|Fangs of 138 Vipera russellii were examined to determine the changes occurring during fang growth. Fang growth is closely correlated to increases in body and head length. Growth rates and changes in proportions of fangs are rather constant. Changes in such fang proportions as thickness, lengths of the entrance lumen, discharge orifice and points distal to discharge orifice are closely correlated with fang length. Vipera russellii fangs averaged 5.74 mm (1.5-13.0 mm) in length. Mean B/F was 99.92 (78.8-148.0) and mean H/F was 5.15 (3.4-8.9). In mean and maximum length V. russellii compares favorably with most pit vipers (Crotalinae) and ranks intermediate among the true vipers (Viperinae). There is no sexual dimorphism in fang lengths. Fang replacement patterns and rates are discussed.
10.2307/1564833|Responses of snakes to pheromones of other conspecific individuals or of heterospecifics vary among species. Most colubrid snakes choose substrates marked by conspecifics over those marked by heterospecifics and over "clean" (unmarked) substrates. In such cases, snakes presumably are using chemical signals from other individuals as clues about suitable habital. In this study, neonate Thamnophis elegans vagrans were tested in a series of two-choice shelter tests to examine their reactions to odors of conspecifics, T. sirtalis (a congeneric), Charina bottae (a heterogeneric), and an unmarked control. In addition, we tested whether or not neonate T. elegans would discriminate between conspecific neonates and adults. Based on previous studies, we predicted that the snakes would choose conspecifics over heterospecifics and over unmarked substrates, and that there would be no difference in reactions to conspecific adults and neonates. However, the snakes chose the other odors over the conspecific odor, and generally chose the odor of another neonate over that of an adult T. elegans. It is possible that neonates avoid conspecific odors, especially adult odors, because larger T. elegans may eat smaller snakes and thus pose a threat of predation.
1566098|Most studies that examined effects of caudal autotomy on lizards focused on adults and largely neglected the potential for contrasting effects in newborns and juveniles. We examined the impact of tail autotomy on locomotor performance and growth in newborn Metallic Skinks, Niveoscincus metallicus. Two siblings were randomly selected from each of 12 litters, with one assigned to a control group (tail intact) and the other to an experimental group (tail removed). Removal of the tail at the base 24 h after birth resulted in a significant decrease in sprint speed 72 h after birth (approximately 50% reduction compared to speed within 24 h of birth). This impairment is substantially greater than that observed previously in adults of this species (35%). However, caudal autotomy at birth did not inhibit growth, measured as the increase in snout-vent length, during the first eight weeks of life. Despite maintaining growth rate, newborns were still able to regenerate at least one-third of their tail over the eight weeks of the study. We discuss how the absence of the tail, the presumed energetic cost of tail replacement, and the lack of caudal fat stores, may influence the ability of newborn N. metallicus to survive their first winter.
10.2307/1565794|Males and females of the oriental garden lizard (Calotes versicolor) from a population in Hainan, southern China, differed in head size at hatching: males had larger heads than females. This dimorphism was slightly more pronounced in adults than in hatchlings. Hatchlings had larger heads but shorter tails relative to snout-vent length (SVL) than subadults and adults. When SVL was held constant, tail length of subadults and adults of the same sex was similar. Adult lizards were not sexually dimorphic in body size (SVL), but males possessed longer tails than females at the same SVL throughout their size range. The smallest and largest reproductive females in our sample were 78.9 and 103.8 mm SVL, respectively. Females in our laboratory (Hangzhou, eastern China) laid multiple clutches from April to June. Clutch size, clutch mass, and egg mass varied from 3 to 14 (mean = 9.0) eggs, 1.58 to 6.47 (mean = 4.65) g, and 0.45 to 0.61 (mean = 0.52) g, respectively. Clutch size and clutch mass were both positively correlated with female SVL. Egg mass was not correlated with female SVL even when clutch size was held constant using a partial correlation analysis. Clutch size was not correlated with female condition when female SVL was held constant. Egg length, egg width, and clutch size were not correlated with each other when the remaining variable was held constant. Egg mass was not correlated with clutch size when female SVL was kept constant. Larger-sized C. versicolor females increased reproductive output primarily through production of more eggs (and hence heavier clutches).
1566231|We studied 20 nesting female Caiman latirostris and their clutches in Santa Fe Province, Argentina. We regressed clutch and egg parameters and hatchling size with several measurements of female size (In-transformed) to evaluate the allometry of reproduction in the wild. Larger females produced relatively smaller clutches. Larger females produced larger eggs and hatchlings. Egg width, not length, limits egg size relative to female body size. Future studies should address the relationship between female fecundity and hatchling fitness.
10.2307/1565719|We investigated the cost of prey ingestion in the South American rattlesnake, Crotalus durissus, to see if the capacity to generate energy aerobically could be a constraint on the size of the prey that can be ingested. To accomplish this goal, we measured time and aerobic metabolism (inferred from oxygen consumption) of juvenile C. durissus ingesting prey ranging from 10 to 50% of their own body mass. Time needed for prey ingestion increased with prey size, with prey representing 10 and 20% of snake size being ingested with the same effort. Whole animal rates of oxygen consumption increased linearly with prey size, but at a slower pace for snakes ingesting prey larger than 30% of their body mass. Aerobic factorial power input necessary for prey ingestion increased with prey size, and for snakes ingesting prey representing 50% of their body mass it equaled the aerobic factorial scope for exercise. For the maximum prey size tested, the aerobic derived energy necessary for prey ingestion represented 0.02% of the total energy content of the prey. Within the prey size range we studied, the cost of ingestion did not constitute any constraint on the size of the prey that can be ingested. These constraints are set by morphological (gape size), ecological (predation risk), and, probably, by physiological parameters, as suggested by the tendency of V<sub>2</sub> during ingestion to increase at a slower pace at relative larger prey sizes.
10.2307/1565242|A new species of Hyla, H. varacuyana, is described from cloud forest at 1580-1600 m in the Sierra de Aroa, State of Yaracuy, northern Venezuela. The external appearance of the new species closely resembles those Hyla with a karyotype 2n = 30. Hyla varacuyana can be distinguished from other congeners by the following combination of characters: dorsolateral pale brown stripes present in both sexes (distinct in females, diffuse in males); anterior and posterior surface of thigh each with a large, cream, black-bordered spots; posteroventral surface of tibia cream with a large black-bordered spot; one small, wide suborbital bar; axilla with a cream, black-bordered spot; rostral, and canthal stripes absent; venter immaculate cream; mean snout-vent length 29.4 mm in males (28.5-30.4, N = 4), 36.6 in female (N = 1); humeral and tarsal tubercles absent.
10.2307/1564173| All species of crocodilian that have been studied normally incubate their eggs at temperatures above 27C. Stable temperatures above 27C are not naturally available in the tropical-rainforest habitat of Paleosuchus trigonatus, and our investigations indicate that its nests are not warmed by the processes that have been suggested for nests of other species: insolation, rotting vegetation, and metabolic heat of embryos. Most nests of P. trigonatus are placed at the side of, or on top of, termite mounds. Heat from the termite mound and insulation by the nest material maintain the eggs at about 30C (28.4-32.1C). 
1565756| Alteration and loss of habitat is a major factor in the recent declines of many turtle populations. However, there are few studies of turtle populations in areas that are used intensively by humans. We used temporal symmetry modeling and an information-theoretic approach to model selection to estimate survival and recruitment in a population of Ornate Box Turtles, Terrapene ornata, in fragmented, isolated habitat over an eight-year period. Apparent annual survival was high during this period (0.97, SE = 0.06), as was the seniority probability (0.95  0.04). Recruitment into the adult population () was estimated at 1.02 ( 0.06). Our results suggest a healthy population, but we note several reasons for a cautious management approach. These include a vulnerability of  to the removal of adults, the need for increased recruitment to offset loss of genetic diversity, and the uncertainty of our estimates resulting from the sampling and modeling processes. 
25599196|A new genus and species of extinct lizard is described from the Early Pliocene to Early Pleistocene deposits of Wellington Caves, New South Wales, Australia. The description is based on the anterior half of a left mandibular ramus that shows a suite of unusual characteristics. The fossil is referred to the Scincidae, based on its combination of a distinct coronoid process of the dentary and completely fused Meckelian groove, but it differs significantly from living scincids in several respects. The dental sulcus disappears posterior to the symphysis. The dentition shows slight enlargement of the teeth posteriorly, with the terminal tooth the largest. The new taxon has an exceptionally massive jaw, with a hypertrophied symphysis and coronoid region and the angle at the symphysis suggests a short, deep snout. The new species is not obviously related to any of the major extant scincid lineages.
4092888|We determined the karyotype of Anolis desechensis and compared it with the known karyotypes of other members of the Anolis cristatellus series. The diploid (2N) number of chromosomes of two male A. desechensis was 27, with six pairs of large metacentric macrochromosomes, six pairs of microchromosomes of gradually decreasing size, and sex chromosome heteromorphism (three sex chromosomes, X
10.2307/1563144|The Florida water snake and several other kinds of reptiles that are not native to the region are known to be established and reproducing at Brownsville, Texas. The presence of some of these is probably related to the live animal business that was conducted at Brownsville for nearly a half century by W. A. "Snake" King. Comments are made on the ten reptiles and one amphibian that have isolated populations in the Brownsville area or which have been erroneously reported from the region.
43287306|Populations of Saltwater Crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) have been monitored in the Northern Territory since the species' protection. This monitoring relies on standardized spotlight surveys in which crocodiles are counted and classified by estimated total length (TL). Although the accurate estimation of TL is important for analyses, often crocodiles are submerged and their TL is estimated from their heads, which may be visible above the water surface. With some variation, it is generally thought that TL of a crocodile is seven times the length of the animal's head. This study examined the ratio of TL to head length (HL) from morphological measurements of 2,755 Saltwater Crocodiles caught in various locations in the Northern Territory. The results showed that the generic ratio for crocodiles ranging from 38 to 503 cm was 7.01. The ratio increased logistically from 6.7 to 7.1 for crocodiles in the 120-420-cm size range in TL in 30-cm intervals. We suggest that TL can be reliably estimated from HL at least for crocodiles in 120-420 cm in the wild, with the use of the generic and size-specific ratios calculated for the various size classes at every 30 cm. The size-specific estimation for animals < 120 cm or > 420 cm was not possible because of limited sample sizes in these crocodile size ranges, although a few reliable records suggest that a ratio increasingly becomes larger and 1:8 should be used for crocodiles > 510 cm in TL.
1565775| Chelydrids (including snapping and big-headed turtles) are unusual among extant turtles in possessing long, robust tails. In other lineages of quadrupedal reptiles, long tails perform critical functions during both terrestrial and aquatic locomotion, and the tails of Common Snapping Turtles have been shown to help stabilize juveniles as they ascend terrestrial slopes. However, Common Snapping Turtles live primarily in aquatic habitats, and the function of the tail in these environments has not been examined. The first step to evaluating the role of the chelydrid tail in water is to evaluate its pattern of motion; therefore, we collected high-speed digital video of tail kinematics from juvenile Common Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina) during aquatic walking. Common Snapping Turtles hold the tail off the substrate and move it as a nearly rigid strut during aquatic walking, cyclically flexing it side to side by 11-12 from the body midline. These motions occur one-quarter cycle out of phase with the motions of the limbs; thus, the timing of tail movements suggests that they are likely not a passive consequence of hind-limb retraction and are likely controlled by one (or a combination) of tail muscles, rather than ipsilateral hind-limb retractors. The potential for tail movements to contribute to aquatic thrust in Common Snapping Turtles is uncertain. However, Common Snapping Turtle tail movements resemble those of salamanders and lizards in many respects, suggesting that Common Snapping Turtles might retain primitive tetrapod or sauropsid features of tail motor control despite possessing a radically divergent body plan. 
10.2307/1564269|Scincella lateralis responds primarily to the visual stimulus of prey. Nineteen lizards were randomly presented visual, chemical, and visual and chemical cues of prey. When chemical cues of "normal concentrations" were presented only those treatments containing a visual cue elicited a greater rate of tongue flicking, stimulated orientation to the prey, and attack behavior. However, lizards presented concentrated chemical cues of prey had a significantly greater rate of tongue flicking than when presented a control. This increase in the rate of tongue flicking was not due to the mere strength of the stimulus, as lizards presented a novel chemical stimulus did not demonstrate an increase in tongue flicking.
10.2307/1563586|Aerial surveys of marine waters up to 222 km from shore in the Gulf of Mexico and nearby Atlantic Ocean suggest that marine turtles are largely distributed in waters less than 100 m in depth. The loggerhead turtle (Caretta caretta) was observed nearly 50 times as often in waters off eastern and western Florida as in the western Gulf of Mexico. Loggerheads were present year-round but the frequency of sightings in the winter months was lower than at other seasons. Green turtles (Chelonia mydas) were infrequently observed but were most conspicuous in waters off eastern Florida. Kemp's ridleys (Lepidochelys kempi) were most frequently sighted off southwestern Florida and rarely observed in the western Gulf of Mexico. Leatherback turtles (Dermochelys coriacea) were more conspicuous on the continental shelf than in adjacent deeper waters. A concentration of leatherback and loggerhead turtles occurred west of the Gulf Stream Current in August 1980, near Brevard County, Florida.
1566082|I designed laboratory and mesocosm experiments to test the hypotheses that consumption of a congener as supplemental food can increase the size variance, size, aggression rates, and mortality of intraguild predator populations. Experimental populations of Marbled Salamander (Ambystoma opacum), Jefferson Salamander (Ambystoma jeffersonianum) and Tiger Salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) larvae that were initially fed a smaller congener Spotted Salamander (Ambystoma maculatum) as a food supplement developed larger SVL and size variation after seven days than control larvae that were not fed a congener. Experimental treatment populations had greater initial size variation because some larvae ate a congener and others did not. Treatment larvae had increased SVL, aggression rates and mortality after 60 days compared to control populations. These results suggest that intraguild predation on a congener can affect fitness and population dynamics of predator populations. I hypothesize that intraguild predation on congeners results in size variation and then increased aggression and mortality caused by cannibalism.
40060489|The Boreal Toad (Bufo boreas boreas) is widely distributed in the western United States but has declined in portions of its range. Research directed at conserving Boreal Toads has indicated that their movements are largely terrestrial and often limited after the breeding season. We used a combination of stream-based netting, PIT tagging, and radio telemetry to examine patterns in captures, movements, and habitat use of Boreal Toads associated with two stream valleys in western Montana. Netting produced 514 captures of 118 adult and 203 juvenile toads from 8 July to 19 August 2003. Juveniles dominated catches initially but declined throughout the summer, whereas adult catches showed less consistent temporal trends. Of the 122 PIT-tagged toads, nearly two-thirds were recaptured 1-7 times in hoop nets, and the median total distance moved was over 1 km downstream. The median distance moved by radio-tagged toads was 2.1 km (maximum, 12.0 km) or 2.9 km (maximum, 13.0 km) if movements before and after radios were affixed are included. Over 17% of relocations of radio-tagged toads were at upland sites, 56% were in riparian zones, and 26% were in or adjacent to water. We believe that Boreal Toads in this area are engaging in long-distance movements between overwintering, breeding, and summer growth sites. Downward redistribution via streams may be common in montane habitats and warrants examination in other regions.
4498567| Seven Black Caiman (Melanosuchus niger) nests were located and monitored at Limoncocha and Afiangu lagoons (northeastern Ecuador), between October 2002 and March 2003. Melanosuchus niger nesting coincided with the annual low water level season in the Ecuadorian Amazon. Mean number of eggs per nest was 28 and 34 eggs at Limoncocha and Aangu, respectively. Egg chamber temperature was monitored in two nests during the incubation period and showed no relationship with external air temperature, suggesting that the nests have their own heating sources. Mean hatching success was 42.4%, and flooding of the nests was identified as the main cause of egg mortality (29% of all the eggs). 
10.2307/1565388|The leptodactylid frogs Batrachyla taeniata, B. antartandica and B. leptopus in southern Chile produce advertisement calls composed of short pulses, repeated in species-specific patterns. Batrachyla leptopus has a call with a complex structure relative to the other species, with pulses grouped in notes. Male frogs were presented with synthetic imitations of conspecific advertisement calls and variants for which different temporal components were varied systematically. Males of B. taeniata responded with fewer calls to synthetic stimuli having a low pulse rate (12.5 pulses/sec) relative to a standard stimulus imitating the natural advertisement call (50 pulses/sec). In contrast, males of B. antartandica gave fewer responses to stimuli having a high pulse rate (8 pulses/sec) relative to the standard call of this species (2 pulses/sec). Batrachyla taeniata gave weaker responses to continuous tones of the same duration as the standard call (500 msec), and B. antartandica also decreased significantly their responses to stimuli composed of pulses of long duration (48 msec) relative to the standard call (6 msec). Males of B. leptopus gave fewer responses to stimuli of extremely short (5 msec) or long (80 msec) notes, relative to the standard call, comprising notes of 40 msec duration. The evoked vocal responses of males of Batrachyla denote preferences that are in correspondence with the divergent pulse repetition patterns in their advertisement calls and with a selective processing of temporal features by the anuran auditory system. Such mechanisms of recognition may regulate vocal interactions in frog calling assemblages.
40983647|The Pratt Slide fossil site of Brown County, Nebraska, has yielded the largest and most diverse Clarendonian North American Land Mammal Age (late Miocene; approximately 10.5-9.5 Ma) snake fauna thus far known. The overall composition of the snake fauna consists of extinct taxa from older Miocene times, temporally isolated taxa, and modern taxa. More specifically, the fauna includes at least two extinct erycine boids, 14 colubrids of which five genera are extinct, and possibly three extant viperid genera. The fossil site yielded additional evidence (three vertebrae) of the unique late Clarendonian erycine Tregophis brevirachis and vertebrae of a new distinctive tiny natricine colubrid. Additional vertebrae of a Paleoheterodon-Heterodon snake(s) further support the suggestions by others that these two xenodontine colubrids are indistinguishable at the vertebral level. Overall, the composition of the Pratt Slide snake fauna provides supportive evidence of a North American late Miocene transition from an archaic to a modern snake fauna with most of the modernization taking place during Clarendonian to Hemphillian time (approximately 10-6 Ma).
10.2307/1562697|The snakes of the genus Gyalopion are distributed from the southern United States to Zacatecas and Nayarit. In addition to the standard morphological characters usually utilized in snake systematics, I examined measurements of head plates, dorsocaudal scale reduction, subcaudal scale fusions, place of origin of the hemipenial retractor muscle, and many new characters of the hemipenis, skeleton, and scutellation. The genus Gyalopion has the rostral in contact with the prefrontals and the retractor muscle originates near the terminus of the tail. Gyalopion quadrangularis has internasals and an entire anal plate and is distributed in the lowlands of western Mexico and Arizona from southern Arizona southward into Nayarit. Gyalopion canum has internasals and a divided anal plate and is distributed from southern Arizona and New Mexico, southward through southern Texas and the Mexican plateau to Durango and San Luis Potosi. Gyalopion atavus is removed from the genus Gyalopion, and synonymized with Conopsis nasus. Females of Gyalopion canum have hemipenes. Hemipenial muscles without hemipenes are present in females of G. quadrangularis.
10.2307/1562700| A population of Anolis nebulosus located near Tepic, Nayarit, Mexico was studied in the field and laboratory from June, 1965 to September, 1968. The population showed a female:male sex ratio of 50:49. The males in the spring were larger than the females, averaging 41.4 and 35.8 mm, respectively; however, no difference in the length-weight relationship occurred between the sexes. The Nayarit study area supported 90 lizards totalling 120 gm/1,000 m<sup>2</sup> during the spring, prior to breeding. Few lizards appeared to live more than a year in nature. A. nebulosus were limited baskers, seeking shade when their cloacal temperatures reached approximately 29.7 C. There was a partial subdivision of the habitat between the larger males and the remaining members of the population with regard to perch height and microhabitat. Males also had much larger home ranges than females, averaging 1.990.23 and 0.620.14 m<sup>2</sup>, respectively. There was a trend for the bigger animals to possess larger home ranges. The home ranges were not uniformly distributed on the study area, but were associated with certain features of the habitat. While the home ranges of the large males overlapped those of the smaller males, the large male home ranges were exclusive of those of other large males. Few home ranges of females touched one another, yet the distribution of female home ranges was an almost perfect overlap with the male home ranges. Males and females shared a common behavioral repertoire, although the frequency of use and social context differed at times. Males and females were territorial and showed pronounced agonistic behavior toward members of their own sex. The reproductive season was correlated with the rainy season. Mating lasted from late May through August, and the appearance of hatchlings from the latter part of August to the end of October. 
1566081|The diversity and distribution of Pacific island iguanas were altered drastically following human colonization around 2800 years ago. A giant iguana recovered from archaeological sites in the Ha'apai group of islands, Kingdom of Tonga, became extinct within a century of human arrival. We describe this iguana as a new species of Brachylophus, a genus with two small arboreal species found today in Fiji (Brachylophus fasciatus, Brachylophus vitiensis) and parts of Tonga (Brachylophus fasciatus). Additional evidence suggests that B. fasciatus was probably introduced to Tonga (the type locality) by prehistoric people 2000 years after extinction of the giant form. Lapitiguana impensa, described in 2003 from Fiji by G. K. Pregill and T. H. Worthy was an even larger extinct iguana that also succumbed to human impact. The two living species are relicts of a much richer evolutionary history than previously known.
10.2307/1565993| Two new sympatric species of Phrynopus are described from cloud forest (3020-3380 m) of the eastern slopes of the Andes in central Peru (Departamento Hunuco). Both new species appear to be members of the Phrynopus peruanus group. /// Se describen dos nuevas especies simptridas de Phrynopus procedentes de un un bosque nublado (3020-3080) ubicado en la vertiente oriental del Per central (Departamento Hunuco). Ambas especies nuevas parecen ser miembros del grupo Phrynopus peruanus. 
10.2307/1564083|This study presents the first food habit assessment for the side-blotched lizard (Utastansburiana) in the shinnery oak-mesquite habitat (Quercus havardii-Prosopis glandulosa) of southeastern New Mexico. Ants, beetles, true bugs, grasshoppers, and spiders formed the major portion of the diet during the four year study. Discriminant analyses revealed the existence of annual, seasonal (monthly), and sexual variation. Variables separating years were incidental in occurrence; the major food categories occurred consistently between years. Seasonal variation was attributed to temporary changes in abundance of arthropods through the growing season. Sexual variation was pronounced in most samples and may be related to sexual size dimorphism or to behavioral differences related to defense of territories and attraction of mates. The sexual differences in diet may act to reduce intraspecific competition for food resources.
1565776|Despite concern over amphibian declines, few studies estimate absolute abundances because of logistic and economic constraints and previously poor estimator performance. Two estimation approaches recommended for amphibian studies are mark-recapture and depletion (or removal) sampling. We compared abundance estimation via various mark-recapture and depletion methods, using data from a three-year study of terrestrial salamanders in Great Smoky Mountains National Park. Our results indicate that short-term closed-population, robust design, and depletion methods estimate surface population of salamanders (i.e., those near the surface and available for capture during a given sampling occasion). In longer duration studies, temporary emigration violates assumptions of both open- and closed-population mark-recapture estimation models. However, if the temporary emigration is completely random, these models should yield unbiased estimates of the total population (superpopulation) of salamanders in the sampled area. We recommend using Pollock's robust design in mark-recapture studies because of its flexibility to incorporate variation in capture probabilities and to estimate temporary emigration probabilities.
10.2307/1564200|Sceloporus f. formosus exhibits a fall reproductive cycle. Females breed asynchronously within a distinct breeding season in which ovulation and fertilization occur during the fall months and parturition the following spring. In males, testicular volume begins to increase in February, peaks in April, and declines in June. Lipids stored in fat bodies appear to be used by both sexes for gonadal development. This energy reserve is used by females for vitellogenesis and possibly for nutrition during the winter months. Males utilize the majority of their fat body stores during the reproductive period, with little remaining for winter nutrition. Fat body and reproductive cycles of females are positively correlated with precipitation, whereas the male testicular cycle is positively correlated with mean ambient temperature.
10.2307/1564743|Movements and growth in a population of the terrestrial plethodontid salamander Ensatina eschscholtzii platensis were investigated using mark-recapture methods over a period of 1946 days at a mid-elevation site in the central Sierra Nevada of California. The study site included two plots of equal size, totaling 3.0 ha, in an old-growth pine-fir-incense cedar forest. Our sample included 925 captures, and 14% of the animals were recaptured at least once. Males were more active than females; recapture rates were significantly higher for males than for females, despite a 1:1 sex ratio. Variance in distance traveled was significantly greater for males than for females, and most long-range movements were by males, but mean distance traveled did not differ significantly between sexes. The maximum distance moved for males and females was 120.4 m and 60.6 m, respectively. These movement differences between sexes may explain differences in patterns of mtDNA and allozyme variation within the Ensatina species complex. We suggest that terrestrial plethodontids routinely travel distances > 10 m and caution against calculating home-range sizes from studies conducted only on plots of small size.
25599209|The San Marcos salamander (Eurycea nana), endemic to the headwaters of the San Marcos River, is federally threatened because of its restricted range and threats to its habitat. Captive propagation efforts for E. nana were initiated in 1996 to maintain a captive population for restocking in the event that E. nana becomes extinct. We surveyed DNA sequence data for a mitochondrial and a nuclear gene region (ND4 and rag1) and 281 AFLP markers to obtain baseline data on the level of genetic diversity across the known range of E. nana and to test for population subdivision within its restricted range. Next, we compared levels of genetic variation between E. nana in the wild and captive-born individuals from the captive population to assess the efficacy of the captive breeding program. We investigated inbreeding in the captive population by testing for deviations from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at the rag1 locus for captive-born individuals. The level of genetic diversity detected in wild E. nana was similar to that of other Eurycea populations in central Texas, and we found no evidence of population structure across the range of E. nana. The surveyed captive-born E. nana contained reduced genetic diversity at some loci, but similar genetic diversity at others relative to the wild, and there was no evidence of inbreeding within the wild-caught individuals that sired these captive-born individuals. The data we have obtained regarding the level of genetic variation in wild E. nana and in the captive population will provide baseline information for this species.
10.2307/1563451|Multivariate discriminant analysis of 19 morphological characters in S. odoratus revealed substantial intrapopulational variation but relatively little divergence among populations throughout the range. Results showed populations group extensively as overlapping clusters for each sex, and a general congruence between phenetic and geographic distances. Possible explanations for morphological similarity among populations are gene flow due to aquatic dispersal, stream capture or overland movement, and similarity of selective regimes throughout the range.
25599219|We studied body-size and sex-dependent variation in the diet of Rhinella arenarum in a wetland of San Juan, Argentina. We hypothesized that prey size would be positively correlated with toad size and that the guts of larger toads would contain fewer prey items. Toads from this population eat primarily ants and, secondarily, beetles, indicating a feeding strategy that is intermediate between specialist and generalist. This feeding strategy may be influenced by prey availability. Contrary to our expectation, prey size was not related to toad body size, and the relationship between the prey number and toad body size was positive. Our findings, coupled with similar diet studies of toads, suggest geographically widespread phylogenetic conservatism in the diet of bufonids.
1566060|The overlap pattern between the upper and lower secondary temporal scales is an important systematic character in sphenomorphine skinks. The derived condition of the lower secondary temoral overlapping the upper secondary temporal concords with certain aspects of existing taxonomy, geography, and ecology. Partly on the basis of this character, the recently described genus Paralipinia is placed in the synonmy of Scincella.
10.2307/1562985| A new species of the anguid lizard genus Diploglossus is described from elevations of about 1500 m to 1800 m in the Cordillera Central in the  Repblica Dominicana. The new species is apparently most closely allied to D. darlingtoni which also occurs only in the high uplands of this range, but the two species differ from each other in many structural details, pattern, and ecology. /// Una nueva especie de lajartija del gnero Diploglossus (family Anguidae) es descrita de elevaciones de 1500 m a 1800 m en la Cordillera Central en la Repblica Dominicana. La nueva especie est aparentemente ms estrechamente relacionada con D. darlingtoni, la cual tambin se encuentra solamente en las alturas de esta cordillera, pero las dos especies se diferencian en detalles de estructura, dibujo, y ecologa. 
10.2307/1565964| We investigated the thermal dependence of appetite and digestive rate in the flat lizard, Platysaurus intermedius wilhelmi, over a wide thermal range (12-34C). Because Platysaurus seldom venture off rock outcrops, their body temperatures are determined to a large extent by the thermal characteristics of this microhabitat. Our results demonstrate that appetite, measured as the number of food items eaten in a given time, is clearly temperature-dependent, increasing to a maximum that coincides with the thermal preference of 32C for the species. Our measures for digestive rate, measured as the time to the first passing of feces after a meal, are temperature-dependent below 22C but are temperature-independent between 22 and 34C. Furthermore, our data indicate a critical body temperature of 12C, below which all feeding ceases. We predict that lizards of this species with T<sub>b</sub>s below 20C are effectively excluded from nutritive energy gain under natural conditions. 
40664965|We evaluated the effect of a potentially stressful urban aquatic environment on growth and development of Fowler's Toad (Bufo fowleri) larvae. We reared larvae to metamorphosis in water from urban and forested streams in a laboratory setting. We found no evidence of oral disc anomalies associated with urban environments, but we did find that tadpoles in these environments were smaller at 26 days of age (but not at metamorphosis) and metamorphosed faster than tadpoles reared in water from forested streams. The observed results were partially consistent with the predictions of H. M. Wilbur and J. P. Collins, who suggested in 1973 that stressful aquatic environments should result in an earlier date of metamorphosis for larvae attempting to escape that environment. We suggest further work to pinpoint factor(s) responsible for the results we observed, and we relate our findings to previous findings of declines in amphibian species richness in the study area.
10.2307/1564282| A new species of Rhamphophryne is described from Murr in the Department of Antioquia, Colombia. The most distinctive and unique features of the new species are that the stomach wall is adherent to the abdominal wall and that, contrary to the condition in other Rhamphophryne, there is a reduced tympanic apparatus. The new species is also characterized by having a rostral keel, a palpebral crest, subarticular tubercles in both hand and feet, and a protruding angle of the jaw. It is also the largest species of Rhamphophryne so far known. 
10.2307/1563615|Horizontal starch gel electrophoresis was employed in analysis of lactic dehydrogenase isozymes for two species of Sator, 22 species of Sceloporus, and representatives of all other sceloporine genera. Sator was compared electrophoretically to 12 species of Sceloporus for six additional presumptive gene loci. Albumin of Sator was compared immunologically to 38 species of Sceloporus and representatives of all other sceloporine genera. The findings indicate a close genetic relationship between the two insular species of Sator and the mainland Mexican Sceloporus utiformis.
10.2307/1565118|Observations of within-species variation in acid sensitivity have prompted speculation that genetic variation exists in the response of amphibians to low pH conditions. Study of embryonic acid tolerance in the wood frog, Rana sylvatica, suggests that variation in hatching success at low pH is largely influenced by maternal factors, which may or may not be genetic. There is limited evidence that direct genetic factors influence differences in acid tolerance of embryos. Data from other species are largely consistent with these findings. Among wood frog larvae, there was no evidence of a maternal influence on survival time at low pH, but direct genetic variation was present. At low pH, growth rates of amphibian larvae are inhibited. Many studies indicate that significant genetic variation exists in larval growth rates at neutral pH. Results of a preliminary study of chorus frogs indicate that variation in larval growth at low pH is also influenced by genetic factors.
10.2307/1562814|Adult Eumeces laticeps acclimated at 14, 22, and 28 C showed no significant difference in temperature preferences when subjected to a thermal gradient. Body temperature records of 18 adults recorded in the field did not differ significantly from thermal gradient records of acclimated skinks.
10.2307/1564283| Eight radio-tagged Blanding's turtles (Emydoidea blandingi), monitored from June 1983 to January 1984, used ponds more often than predicted on the basis of available habitat while marsh habitats were used less than their availability. Most wetlands used by the turtles had water <60 cm deep and summer water temperatures below 28.5 C. Five of eight turtles used marshes, ponds, and creeks, all in close proximity (900 m) to each other, between June and September, then moved to two adjacent, deep ponds for overwintering. Five overwintering sites contained organic substrates and had water depths >0.5 m. The activity centers of two males (0.57 ha and 0.94 ha) did not differ significantly in size from those of six females (x = 0.56 ha, SD = 0.293). Male and female activity centers overlapped (x = 12%, SD = 14.7), and female activity centers overlapped with those of other females (x = 26%, SD = 16.5). Two males did not share activity centers, although other males were captured within them. Distances between activity centers of two males (260 m and 635 m) were not significantly different from those among centers of six females (x = 489 m, SD = 338 m). Females moved significantly greater distances per day (N = 56, x = 95.1 m, SD = 79.0) than did males (N = 21, x = 48.4 m, SD = 41.2). Mean nest distances from water, and nonnesting activity centers, were 168 m (SD = 90.8 m) and 620 m (SD = 144.0 m), respectively. At least four nests were destroyed by predators within 24 h of completion, and all nests were eventually destroyed. Fourteen of 16 nests were in grasslands. 
10.2307/1565475|Home range (HR) and core area (CA) estimates were developed for members of a Cnemidophorus uniparens population from southeastern Arizona. Lizards tended to concentrate activity in a small portion of their HR, with roughly 50% of activity in a CA consisting of 10% of their HR. Body size was negatively correlated with HR and CA for long-term residents and positively correlated (HR) or uncorrelated (CA) for transients. HR overlap was extensive, but CA overlap was minimal with many individuals using exclusive CAs. Resident lizards had relatively low HR overlap with other residents, while transients accounted for most of the HR overlap with residents and other transients. There was no relationship between HR size and amount of HR overlap for either residents or transients, although there was a positive relationship between HR size and the number of overlapping neighbors for both. Resident CA size was positively correlated with overlap and number of neighbors. Transient CA size showed no relationship to overlap or number of neighbors. Fossorial prey, particularly termites, were numerically most abundant in the diet. Digging activity was concentrated in a small portion of HR. There was no evidence of lizards using consistent routes to search for termites; most digging episodes were unsuccessful.
10.2307/1563948|Ambystoma maculatum and Rana sylvatica larvae from three ponds in Marquette County, Michigan were raised in the laboratory at pH's 3, 4, 5 and the pond pH. At pH 3, all larvae died within 12 h after exposure. A. maculatum larvae reared at pH 4 and 5 had significantly slower rates of development and growth than larvae reared at pH > 5. The development of R. sylvatica larvae was not significantly different in any of the pH treatments. A survey of 55 county amphibian breeding ponds revealed that 42% of the ponds had a pH < 5.5 and thus, may be inhibiting development and growth of A. maculatum but not R. sylvatica. Based on alkalinity data, 57% of 42 ponds in 1984 were classified as sensitive or highly sensitive to further acidification by acid precipitation. Between May-July 1984, 20% of the A. maculatum breeding ponds dried prior to metamorphosis, producing a possible synergistic mortality effect from desiccation and low pH.
4092878|Evidence is mounting that wanning air and sea temperatures are affecting nesting patterns in oviparous species by causing earlier nesting within seasons. The potential fitness consequences of nesting earlier include extended periods of offspring growth and larger clutch sizes. Additionally, the potential for nesting seasons to last longer exists, possibly allowing species that lay multiple clutches within a season to increase the number of clutches produced. To date, no studies have examined consequences of earlier nesting on duration of nesting season in oviparous vertebrates. We demonstrate that warmer sea surface temperatures are related to earlier nesting in the Loggerhead Seaturtle Caretta caretta, and that this response actually decreases, rather than increases, the length of the nesting season. In recent years (1995-2003), nesting became more evenly distributed throughout the season than in earlier years (1989-1994), and the nesting season decreased by approximately 43 days. Female turtles are unlikely to produce additional clutches within a reproductive season in response to this effect because of physiological constraints, and we cannot rule out the hypothesis that female turtles will lay fewer clutches because of a shortened nesting season, leading to reduced fecundity within seasons.
1566050|A hallmark trait of the lizard genus Anolis is the presence of remarkable interspecific variation in dewlap color patterns. Yet, considerable intraspecific variation also occurs in many Anolis species. In Florida different populations of the Green Anole (Anolis carolinensis) exhibit red, pink, magenta, and even greenish-gray dewlaps. To date, comparisons of color variation in this species have used subjective techniques based on human color perception. Instead, we used an objective method--reflectance spectrometry--to quantify A. carolinensis dewlap and body color variation along a transect from northeastern to southwestern Florida. Reflectance readings of local vegetation allowed us to calculate contrast of the lizards with their visual backgrounds. By incorporating local ambient light and A. carolinensis spectral sensitivity into additional calculations, we were able to estimate lizard-background contrast from the perspective of the lizards. Results revealed dewlap and dorsum spectra to differ significantly among most of our study populations, as well as between the lizards and background vegetation. Although increased resemblance of a color signal to the illuminating spectrum will increase the signal's broadcast effectiveness, dewlap colors in our study populations did not resemble the ambient light spectra in their habitats. We consider the potential effects of this species' peculiar spectral sensitivity on the evolution of its dewlap coloration and propose that this coloration may represent a selective compromise to the unusually broad range of light habitats in which A. carolinensis is found. Last, the "gray throated" population of southwest Florida proved to be extraordinary, and we devote special attention to discussing aspects of coloration and contrast in this enigmatic population.
10.2307/1565580|The grand skink, Oligosoma grande, is a diurnal rock-dwelling lizard from the tussock grasslands of Central Otago, New Zealand. Foraging behavior, diet, and spacing patterns were examined for two populations of individually marked adults. Adults of both sexes search for arthropod prey using pause-move (=saltatory) searching. Males and females spent the same amount of time moving across outcrops but differed in the characteristics of their searching behavior. Females made more frequent but shorter moves than males. The two sexes also differed in diet. Males directed most of their pursuit effort towards large flying insects, but occasionally consumed smaller, easy to capture prey and visited fruiting plants. By contrast, females fed primarily on the small prey types and plant material. Males and females had home ranges (HR) and core areas (CA) of comparable size and with comparable levels of total neighbor overlap. However, the patterns of HR overlap differed between the sexes. Both males and females tended to have greater average HR overlap with male neighbors. Core area overlap was less extensive than HR overlap and some animals concentrated their activity in CAs that were exclusive from those of other lizards. Females appeared to be dominant to males; the most common conspecific interaction was adult females chasing adult males.
10.2307/1563609|In Preble County, Ohio, 20 Eurycea bislineata were tagged subcutaneously with Co<sup>60</sup> and monitored between April, 1969 and February, 1970. Average movement between April and November, 1969 was 5.27 m. The inability to locate individuals frequently did not permit the plotting of home ranges, but the average area in which movement took place was less than 14 m<sup>2</sup>. Salamanders began moving to winter retreats when the stream temperature dropped below 7.0 C. Within these retreats as many as 27 salamanders were found in an area of 30.0 cm<sup>2</sup>. All salamanders were active and feeding during the winter.
10.2307/1564196|Behavioral and dietary responses to the situation of herbivory in an extremely arid environment were observed in the insular chuckwalla, Sauromalus hispidus. Behavioral adjustments by lizards in their daily activity and their reliance on fruits produced by perennial species of cacti enabled lizards to maintain intake of energy and water throughout the summer. Lizards invested relatively little effort in intraspecific social behaviors (aggression, reproduction, territoriality); home ranges of males were comparatively small, and overlapped significantly with each other and with areas where vegetation (i.e., food) was most abundant. These adjustments in behavior and diet observed in S. hispidus are discussed in terms of their similarities and differences to those of the well-studied, Mohave chuckwalla, S. obesus.
23327159|We studied spatial clustering and activity patterns in the common Barking Gecko (Ptenopus garrulus garrulus) over the course of a breeding season in southern Africa. Only some populations exhibited significant clustering (two of six plots), suggesting that social and spatial organization varies according to factors such as population density and habitat. Clustering at our largest site was not influenced by soil temperature or prey availability, although burrow placement was significantly associated with vegetation coverage. We also examined the timing of the reproductive cycle by testing whether Barking Geckos exhibit protandry (male-first emergence). More males than females were active early in the breeding season and male territories were established before female emergence. Peak activity for 235 Barking Geckos at our primary study site was in late October, although males were significantly more active early in the season, consistent with the protandry model. The Barking Gecko mating system is most consistent with an iteroparous, harem polygynandry with an activity cycle that exhibits protandry. Our study highlights the importance of replicated spatial sampling for studies examining clustering and density effects on reproduction and mating systems.
10.2307/1563694| Body sizes, food habits and reproduction in eastern Australian elapid whipsnakes are described, based on dissection of 537 specimens. The four species studied are Demansia atra, D. olivacea, D. psammophis and D. torquata. Males attain larger body sizes than females in all species, and male-male combat is recorded in D. atra. The diet consists mainly of lizards, especially skinks. Female reproductive cycles are strongly seasonal in the two southern-most Demansia (D. psammophis and D. torquata), with ovulation in spring. In contrast, the tropical D. atra and D. olivacea apparently reproduce year-round. All four species are oviparous, with mean clutch sizes between 3 and 8 eggs. Inferred rates of bodily growth in Queensland D. psammophis are high, with sexual maturation at  20 months of age in both sexes. Several colubrid snake taxa in other continents are remarkably similar to Demansia in morphology (slender body, long tail, large eyes) behavior (rapid movement, diurniality, terrestriality) and ecology (saurophagy and oviparity). These whipsnake characteristics are interpreted as adaptations to facilitate the chase and capture of fast-moving diurnal prey items, especially lizards. 
10.2307/1564337| We examined eight summer dens (used only in summer) and seven hibernacula (occupied both in winter and summer) of the snake Pituophis melanoleucus in the New Jersey Pine Barrens, comparing above ground characteristics of hibernacula and summer dens with characteristics at nearby random points. Temperatures at the soil surface and at 10 cm depth were significantly warmer, and there was less leaf cover around the random points compared to the entrances of the hibernacula and summer dens. Hibernacula had significantly more vegetation cover within 5 m, more leaf cover over the burrow entrance, and were closer to trees than were summer dens. Most hibernacula and summer dens were beside old fallen logs (73%), the entrance tunnels following decaying roots into the soil. Excavation of the hibernacula and summer dens indicated that most hibernacula appeared to be dug by the snakes and had an average of eight side chambers and 642 cm of tunnels, compared to less than one side chamber and 122 cm of tunnels for summer dens. Except for hatchlings, most snakes in hibernacula were located in individual chambers off the main tunnel; all snakes were at depths of 50-111 cm (X = 79 cm). Pine snakes may select optimum hibernation sites which reduce winter mortality. 
41415258|We describe a new forest skink species of the genus Sphenomorphus based on specimens from northern Vietnam and from Hainan Island, southern China. The new species is differentiated from the congeners by the combination of the following characters: size small (SVL 35.8-48.8 mm); prefrontals in contact with each other mesially; supralabials seven; primary temporals two; external ear opening present, without lobules, tympanum slightly sunk; midbody scales in 3234 rows; dorsal scales smooth, paravertebral scales 6572, not widened; limbs well developed, pentadactyl; 1519 smooth lamellae under fourth toe; free margins of upper and lower eyelids edged in white; neck, dorsum, and tail base bronze-brown with a discontinuous dark vertebral stripe; upper lateral zone black, interrupted by small light spots from behind the neck. In addition, we provide a review of Vietnamese Sphenomorphus with the first country record of Sphenomorphus mimicus. The generic allocation of Sphenomorphus devorator (allocated to Scincella), Leptoseps tetradactylus (allocated to Sphenomorphus), and Uvorimica (allocated to Sphenomorphus) is discussed.
4092964|Morphological studies have proven inconsistent in establishing the phylogenetic placement and taxonomic assignment of Elgaria parva. Originally classified as Gerrhonotus parvus Knight and Scudday, this taxon was reassigned to Elgaria based on morphology. To investigate its phylogenetic affinities, we generated mitochondrial DNA sequence data and conducted phylogenetic analyses together with published sequences for a broad taxonomic sampling of anguid lizards. We conducted parsimony, likelihood, and Bayesian analyses of the data. Our results indicate that E. parua forms a clade with other Gerrhonotus rather than Elgaria. Furthermore, Elgaria and Gerrhonotus are not sister taxa. Based on our new molecular evidence, we suggest that E. parva be classified as Gerrhonotus parvus as originally described.
10.2307/1565567| Home ranges, movements, and survival rates of nine Texas horned lizards (Phrynosoma cornutum) were determined by radio-telemetry in Duval County, Texas, during March through October 1994. Lizards were tracked five days each month from time of initial capture until hibernation and were located every 1-2.5 h from sunrise to sunset during these days. Nine of 16 radio-transmittered lizards were followed for  1 month of telemetry. Total area of use for horned lizards ranged from 291 to 14,690 m<sup>2</sup>, and lizards exhibited considerable overlap between their respective areas. However, Texas horned lizards exhibited minimal overlap between their concurrent weekly home ranges, and their weekly home ranges appeared mobile. The average weekly home ranges of horned lizards in spring were small, peaked in June, and decreased in size each month until the lizards entered hibernation. Minimum daily movements averaged by month ranged from 58.9 m in June to 14.0 m in October. The minimum daily movements ranged from 0.0 to 246.7 m. Daily survival rate for Texas horned lizards was 99%. Assuming that survival of lizards was not altered by transmitters and that rates were constant over time, the annual survival rate ranged from 9% to 54%, based on a 245 d active period and calculated from lizards presumed dead (i.e., missing or dead) and confirmed dead, respectively. 
10.2307/1564529|We surveyed private young growth timberlands to determine the distribution and habitat of the Del Norte salamander, Plethodon elongatus, in north coastal California during February and March, 1992. We collected 530 P. elongatus from 107 of 226 roadside sites and analyzed seven habitat variables by stepwise logistic regression. Only substrate entered a model to predict the occurrence of P. elongatus. Plethodon elongatus was found more frequently than by chance in talus, in substrates with an organic surface layer, and on northerly aspects. Occurrence of this species showed a negative relationship with mineral soils, exposed substrates, southerly aspects, and conifer/tanoak cover types, but no relationship to forest age or canopy cover. We found all size classes and gravid females, indicating populations of P. elongatus were reproducing in the study area. Measures to protect this species from timber harvest or associated activities should be area specific.
10.2307/1563317|A multiple discriminant analysis of thirteen external morphological measurements is made on diploid (Hyla chrysoscelis) and tetraploid (H. versicolor) populations of a cryptic species complex of treefrogs. Eastern diploid populations (South Carolina, Georgia, Ohio, Mississippi) separate from western diploid populations (south-central Texas) when plotted on the first two discriminant function axes. Populations of H. versicolor occupy intermediate positions, but are not very distinct from the eastern populations of H. chrysoscelis. The same populations are indexed for two qualitative characteristics used to define the three formerly described subspecies in the complex. A bivariate plot of the indices shows a pattern similar to that of the discriminant function plot. The morphological analyses are consistent with non-morphological data in suggesting that there are two groups of populations of H. chrysoscelis, and that southern (Texas) populations of the tetraploid, H. versicolor, are intermediate. A principal components analysis of genetic (electrophoretic) data is compared with the morphological analyses. The three formerly described subspecies are discussed in relation to current morphological, genetic, and behavioral data that indicate differentiation within both the diploid and tetraploid species.
10.2307/1564419|A new species of Bothrops is described from the highlands of the Meseta Central of Chiapas, Mexico. It appears to be most closely related to B. godmani, with which it may be sympatric. These species differ from one another in squamation, body proportions, coloration, pattern, and hemipenial characteristics.
10.2307/1564470|The lizard Iguana iguana emerges from the egg with a portion of the original yolk remaining; this yolk mass is drawn into the body cavity by contraction of the embryonic membranes, and is metabolized during the first weeks of life. Iguanas from the same clutch were forced to hatch by rupturing the embryonic membranes artificially: in half of these animals, the posthatching yolk was permitted to retract into the body, and in the other half, the yolk was tied off and removed before it could be internalized. The individuals that were hatched forcibly, but were allowed to internalize their yolk, grew more rapidly than their siblings whose yolks were removed, and as rapidly as siblings that were allowed to hatch without any interference. The posthatching yolk in I. iguana can contribute significantly to growth during the first month of life; for reptiles in general, the posthatching component of yolk provisioning represents an aspect of maternal investment that may critically influence offspring fitness.
10.2307/1562691| The Infraorder Alethinophidia is divided into 6 superfamilies: 1) Anilioidea (with palatine meeting palatal plate of vomer to form a complete bony floor to choanal passage; very large footplate of stapes facing laterally in a juxtastapedial fossa); 2) Booidea (with a wing of the prefrontal roofing the aditus conchae, shaft of stapes extending to middle or lower part of quadrate; left lung large and no tracheal lung); 3) Acrochordoidea (with juxtastapedial fossa barely indicated; frontal-parietal contact slightly kinetic; greatly reduced prefrontal bone); 4) Tropidophoidea (with tracheal lung and with left lung vestigial or absent; stapes meeting upper end of quadrate; no protractor quadrati muscle); 5) Bolyerioidea (with maxillary bone divided by an articulation, the skull otherwise much as in Tropidophoidea; left lung small and no tracheal lung); 6) Colubroidea (so far as known [but many forms uninvestigated], with a protractor quadrati muscle; primitively with serous [venom-producing] gland cells in upper lip; except in some viperids, with only one carotid artery). The Anilioidea are divided into 4 families: Loxocemidae, Xenopeltidae, Aniliidae, and Uropeltidae. The Uropeltidae, characterised by lack of premaxillary teeth and by unforked sulcus spermaticus, are divided into two subfamilies, Cylindrophinae (with pelvic girdle) and Uropeltinae (without pelvic vestiges); the Cylindrophinae are represented in the area covered by Cylindrophis aruensis Boulenger of the Aru Islands, closely related to C. boulengeri Roux of Wetar and the Babber Islands. A key to Lesser Sunda, Moluccan, and Aru Island species of Cylindrophis is presented. The Booidea contains a single family Boidae, divided into two subfamilies: Pythoninae (with supraorbital bone; palatine not adapted to motion independent of maxilla) and Boinae (no supraorbital; palatine adapted to erection independent of maxilla). The New Guinea members of the Pythoninae are divided into three genera: Liasis Gray (tail not prehensile, most scales with apical pits), Python (tail prehensile, no scale pits or only a few scattered scales with pits), and Chondropython (similar to Python but hemipenis unforked, coronoid bone reduced, and back ridged). Chondropython is monotypic, for C. viridis (Schlegel). Liasis is represented in New Guinea and the Bismarck Archipelago by: L. mackloti Dumril and Bibron (including L. fuscus Peters as a synonym); L. papuanus Peters and Doria (specifically distinct from the Australian L. olivaceus Gray); L. albertisii Peters and Doria (specifically distinct from L. mackloti or "fuscus" and here first recorded from Mussau Island); L. boa (Schlegel) (previously referred to a monotypic genus Bothrochilus; erroneous records from New Guinea are discussed). Python is represented by: P. amethistinus (Schneider) (here removed from Liasis and considered closely related to the Asiatic P. reticulatus); P. boeleni (Brongersma) (previously referred to Liasis); P. spilotus (Lacpde) (previously referred to Morelia Gray, but linked to P. amethistinus by P. boeleni). All species show some geographic variation and distribution is discussed; records of pythons from the Solomon Islands are probably erroneous. 
23326904|Tail autotomy has clear advantages regarding predator escape, but it also has several associated costs (i.e., impaired locomotion, loss of social status, and reduced growth and reproductive output). We examined the costs of severe autotomy on growth rates of hatchlings of the lacertid lizard Psammodromus algirus during the first weeks of postnatal development. Hatchlings from two populations in central Spain were autotomized on the fifth day after hatching and kept in common garden conditions for 35 days when they were measured again. Hatchlings from both populations, independently of the autotomy treatment, did not differ in the mass gained during the experiment. However, there were differences in body growth between tailless and tailed hatchlings; tailless hatchlings grew at a slower rate than tailed ones, after controlling for the effects of body condition at the onset of the experiment and the resources assimilated. Moreover, independently of their population of origin, hatchlings that invested more in body growth also invested more in regenerating their tails, and no trade-offs were apparent. Because hatchlings were housed in common garden conditions, this result could be attributable to differences in individual capacity to obtain and assimilate resources.
4498569|Predators use visual and olfactory cues to locate turtle nests. Since 1999, we marked Painted Turtle (Chrysemys picta) nests at a long-term study site by inserting
1565852|Three "identical" haploid genomes (N = 22; 10M + 12m) comprise the 3n = 66 (30M + 36m) karyotype in the parthenogenetic gymnophthalmid lizard Leposoma percarinatum from Brazil. A hybridization event between a bisexual and a diploid unisexual species might explain the origin of L. percarinatum.
10.2307/1563321|A small crocodile tooth from a cave fossil deposit on Grand Cayman provides the first reliable record of a crocodilian from that island. Although the tooth is not diagnostic beyond the generic level, it is referable to Crocodylus. Previous accounts of crocodile sightings in the Cayman Islands from both the herpetological and historical literature are reviewed and their reliability commented upon. The present recrod, in addition to a comparatively modern specimen of C. acutus from Little Cayman, confirms the former presence of crocodiles in the Cayman Islands. The lack of sightings or specimens of Crocodylus from the Caymans in the past 40 years provides strong evidence that crocodiles no longer occur in that island group.
1565831|Altitudinal variation in larval growth and development rates in low- and high-altitude populations of two subtropical species of frog, Litoria chloris and Litoria pearsoniana was examined in the field using reciprocal transplant experiments. The larvae of both species raised at high altitudes (regardless of tadpole origin) had slower development rates than larvae raised at low altitudes. Slower growth rates were found in larvae from high altitudes in L. chloris, whereas a similar (but not significant) trend was recorded in L. pearsoniana. Despite slower growth rates overall, tadpoles raised at high altitudes tended to be larger at each Gosner Development Stage than those raised at low altitudes independent of tadpole origin. These results suggest that most of the variation in growth and development rates in the two species was caused by environmental factors (water temperature) rather than genetic or maternal factors. Tadpole survival in either species did not appear to be significantly affected by environmental or genetic factors in this study.
10.2307/1564899|Turtle assemblages at two adjacent farm ponds in east-central Alabama were monitored during 1972-1974 and 1988-1990. At pond 1 a drift fence with pitfall traps was constructed during both study periods. Aquatic trapping was conducted in both ponds during both study periods. Pond 1 had been fertilized for 15 consecutive years prior to 1972-1974 but subsequently received no fertilizer. Aquatic vegetation was absent in pond 1 during 1972-1974 but was dense by 1988. Pond 2 had almost no fertilization history and underwent little vegetational change over time. In both study periods pond 1 had a higher density of Kinosternon subrubrum, and both ponds held more K. subrubrum during 1972-1974 than during 1988-1990. Twenty-three K. subrubrum marked during 1972-1974 were still alive during 1988-1990; all but one individual were six years old or older when first captured. Physical condition was inversely proportional to density: individual K. subrubrum during 1972-1974 weighed less per cm than their descendants during 1988-1990, and female K. subrubrum in pond 1 weighed less per cm than females in pond 2. In contrast to K. subrubrum, populations of Trachemys scripta and Chrysemys picta exhibited relatively stable abundances through time. Sternotherus odoratus was the only species to show an obvious increase in abundance with time in both ponds. Chelydra serpentina decreased in abundance in pond 1, while remaining scarce in pond 2. These results may be due to several factors, including colonization, fertilization, cattle grazing, and succession.
10.2307/1563264|The known range of Graptemys pseudogeographica (Gray) is extended some 250 miles up the Missouri River and a specimen representing the first state record for North Dakota is reported. The use of wire funnel traps proved an effective method for collecting G. pseudogeographica. G. pseudogeographica is really much more abundant in the upper Missouri River than had been reported, and this species is probably much more abundant in the northcentral United States than has been believed. A new record for maximum size is reported for the species. Population data concerning sex ratios and size classes of turtles larger than 8.0 cm plastral length are discussed. A larger total number of females existed in the population studied, but the ratio of sexually mature females to sexually mature males was about equal. The largest group of individuals in the population was composed of immature females. It was determined that males probably became sexually mature at some plastral length below 10 cm; female sexual maturity occurs at a plastral length of 18 cm to 19 cm. Coloration and marking patterns of these turtles are discussed.
10.2307/1563350|Macroscopic and histological analyses of the ovarian cycle of Crotaphytus collaris were conducted during 1971 and 1972. The reproductive season extends from April to late June; examination of ovarian histosections revealed two distinct sets of corpora lutea, indicating that two clutches of eggs are produced per season. The average clutch size was 6.4. Corpora lutea regress into permanent ovarian scars (corpora albicantia). Consequently, corpora albicantia may be used to estimate total reproductive potential for an animal. In addition, two types of atretic follicles were staged according to their degenerate morphology. The similarity and persistence of these ovarian structures (atretic follicles and corpora albicantia) may limit the value of macroscopic interpretations.
10.2307/1564122| Of two extant syntypes of Sceloporus jarrovi Cope, USNM 8495 is designated lectotype and USNM 8611 a paralectotype. A map depicts the travel-routes of the collector Henry W. Henshaw in southern Arizona in 1873 and 1874. The type-locality cannot be restricted to one specific site, but is somewhere between Fort Grant and the Fort Bowie National Historic Site, Arizona, in an area encompassing the southeastern Pinaleo (Graham), Dos Cabezas, and northwestern Chiricahua mountains. 
10.2307/1563507|The effect of light on pineal gland weight and pineal hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase (HIOMT) activity was monitored in parietalectomized and/or blinded lizards during the winter and spring. The average weight of the gland increased in winter but enzyme activity was higher in the spring. Sexual differences were evident with females generally having heavier pineal glands than males during both seasons. Light intensity in the test environment was inversely related to pineal HIOMT activity, but parietal eye removal partially reduced this effect, especially in brighter environments. These observations lead to the conclusion that the light simulated parietal eye will cause decreases in pineal HIOMT activity. This effect is similar to that of the lateral eye but does not occur to as great a degree. Besides causing highly significant increases in pineal HIOMT activity, blinding also resulted in pineal weight gain, an effect not seen upon parietalectomy. Removal of the parietal eye in blinded animals did not significantly increase activity of the melatonin forming enzyme. It is concluded that the parietal eye of certain lizards can effect alterations in pineal gland HIOMT activity but that the influence of this photoreceptor on pineal function is more subtle and more restricted than that of the lateral eyes. The possible significance of parietal eye-pineal gland interactions in lizards is discussed.
43287349|We examined variation in body size, head width, and head shape between males and females of two ecologically distinct species of plethodontid salamanders, Eurycea aquatica (Brownback Salamander) and Eurycea dirigera (Southern Two-lined Salamander). Femalebiased sexual dimorphism in body size occurred in E. cirrigera but not in E. aquatica, Male-biased sexual dimorphism in relative head width occurs in both species. Furthermore, male E. aquatica had larger heads than did male E. cirrigera. We also found significant differences in ventral and lateral head shape between male and female E. aquatica (sexual dimorphism in head shape), but male and female E. cirrigera did not differ in head shape. Males of the two species also significantly differed in both ventral and lateral head shape, while females of the two species differed in ventral head shape but not in lateral head shape. Because sexual dimorphism differed between the two species in different characteristics (body size, relative head width, and head shape), we concluded that these species experience dissimilar levels of sexual selection, ecological selection, or both, possibly as a result of their divergent habitat preferences. Our study represents one of the few reported examples of sexual shape dimorphism in salamanders.
10.2307/1564178|Specimens of Psammophis biseriatus differing in number of labials bordering the orbit have been collected together at three localities in northern Kenya. When 47 P. biseriatus from eastern Africa were assigned to taxa on the basis of the number of labials entering the orbit, 29 had three and 18 had two. These conditions characterize the two recognized subspecies of P. biseriatus, tanganicus and biseriatus, respectively. In addition, the two were found to differ significantly in color pattern and numbers of temporal, ventral, and caudal scales. Discriminant analysis using 15 ratios indicated that differences in head shape observed at one sympatric locality are not consistent from sample to sample. The study indicates that P. biseriatus Peters 1881 and P. tanganicus Love-ridge 1940 are reproductively isolated.
10.2307/1563370| Oxygen consumption of Plethodon glutinosus, ranging from 0.80 to 6.50 g, was measured in a Gilson differential respirometer at 10, 15 and 20C. The estimated relationship between oxygen consumption (V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub>) and weight (W) in inactive salamanders with fully-exposed surface areas was V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> = 19.52W + 5.00 (r<sup>2</sup> = .96) at 10C, V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> = 30.94W + 3.80 (r<sup>2</sup> = .97) at 15C, and V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> = 41.69W + 6.13 (r<sup>2</sup> = .97) at 20C. Salamanders with partially-exposed surface areas had depressed metabolic rates at 10 and 20C, but not at 15C. Also noted was an increase in salamander activity from 10 to 15C. A field method is suggested for estimating V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> from the relationship between head width (hw) and W (log W = 3.81 log hw -- 3.187, r<sup>2</sup> = .98) and body length (bl) and W (log W = 3.06 log bl -- 4.777, r<sup>2</sup>). 
10.2307/1565582| A population of Hyla boans was studied in central Amazonian rainforest during 15 years. The species differs from other intensively-studied gladiator frogs, Hyla rosenbergi and Hyla faber, in that males reach larger sizes than females, most reproduction is in the dry season, males call mainly from trees and rarely from nest basins, and most nest basins have aquatic connections to streams. Many adults (15% of females, 21% of males) were captured over more than one breeding season, and some were captured over five breeding seasons. Sizes of juveniles, and growth of one individual, indicate that males require at least two years between hatching and entering the breeding population. Daily calling was bimodal, with peaks after dusk and before dawn. Rainfall reduced calling activity during the peak of the breeding season. The population at the site declined to zero density after nine years of study and the site still had not been recolonized six years later. The exponential rate of decline of the population (-0.58) was more than three times the exponential rate of increase (0.15) at the beginning of the study. /// Reproduo de uma populao de Hyla boans foi estudado em floresta tropical mida na Amaznia central durante 15 anos. A espcie difere de outras espcies do grupo que tem sido estudados intensivamente, Hyla rosenbergi e H. faber, em que a maior parte da reproduo ocorre na poca seca, machos atingem tamanhos maiores que fmeas, chamam principalmente de rvores e raramente de bacias de nidificao, e a maioria das bacias de nidificao tem coneces aquticas com os riachos. Muitos adultos (15% de fmeas e 21% de machos) foram capturados sobre mais que uma estao reprodutiva, e alguns foram capturados sobre cinco estaes reprodutivas. Os tamanhos de jovens, e crescimento de um indivduo, indicam que machos requerem pelo menos dois anos depois da ecloso para entrar na populao reprodutiva. Vocalizao diria foi bimodal, com picos depois do crepsculo e antes do amanhecer. Chuva reduziu atividade de vocalizao durante o pico da poca de reproduo. A populao local foi extinta depois de 9 anos e o stio de estudo ainda no foi recolonizado depois de seis anos. A taxa exponncial de declnio na populao (-0.58) foi mais que trs vezes a taxa exponncial de aumento (0.15) no comeo do estudo. 
41515049|We captured 32 Common Snapping Turtles (Chelydra serpentina) in a Canaan Valley, West Virginia lake and equipped them with radio-transmitters during 1988 through 2007 to describe their hibernation behavior and examine the relative importance of temporal and environmental effects on hibernation. We monitored entry date, exit date, and location of hibemacula. The mean date of entry into hibernation was 9 October, and the mean date of exit from hibernation was 13 April, with a mean duration of 185 days. Turtles moved a mean distance of 117 m to hibemacula and were located most often along small streams bordered by speckled alder (Alnus rugosa). Hibernation entry date was influenced by lake temperature and hibernation exit date was influenced by water temperature at hibemacula sites. We suggest that small streams are important to Common Snapping Turtles as hibemacula because they provide protection from predators and remain above freezing temperatures.
41515007|We studied the reproduction, sexual dimorphism, and diet of Oxyrhopus trigeminus from two sites in southeastern Brazil. Oxyrhopus trigeminus from Irap Power Plant (IPP) contained vitellogenic follicles and eggs in both rainy and dry seasons and clutch size was not correlated with female snout-vent length (SVL). Sexual dimorphism was evident. Females attain larger SVL but males have longer tails. We found three females from Santa Clara Power Plant (SPP) with vitellogenic follicles, all of them collected in the dry season. Mean SVLs of adult females from IPP and SPP were 717.7 mm and 786 mm, respectively. Mean SVL of adult males from IPP was 553.4 mm and the single adult male from SPP was 507 mm. The diet of O. trigeminus from IPP included rodents (46.7%), lizards (33.3%), and birds (20%). The volume of individual prey items was not correlated with snake SVL. The diet of O. trigeminus from SPP included rodents (37.5%), lizards (37.5%), birds (12.5%), and marsupials (12.5%). It seemed that an ontogenetic shift may occur in individuals of this snake species from IPP.
1566164| We examined whether display behavior of territorial male lizards (Anolis sagrei) differed between locations within heavily used portions of their activity areas (cores), and locations outside of these heavily used regions. In a southern Florida hardwood hammock, we observed six males in each of four 20  20 m plots, recording each male's location and display behavior for three, 1-h sessions. When males were outside of their core activity areas, they produced more bobbing displays relative to nodding displays than when they were within their core areas. Similar relationships have been reported in other taxa, such as birds, but they have been little studied in reptiles. The causes and consequences of this display variation remain to be determined. 
10.2307/1563646|We studied 438 three-toed box turtles (Terrapene carolina triunguis) from a natural preserve near Norman, Oklahoma to assess shell variation within a natural population. Three quantitative traits--carapace length, width, number of marginal scutes--and eight qualitative traits--carapace height and color, presence of carapace patterning, sculpturing, dorsal keel and flange; color of plastron scute margins and shape of plastron--were determined for each turtle. A hypothetical "modal box turtle" had a 13 cm long and 9 cm wide brown-green carapace with a medium dorsal keel and flange and dark margins on the plastron scutes. Carapace scute sculpturing was pronounced, but carapace height and scute patterning were variable. The population had a 1:1 sex ratio. Females had larger carapaces than males, but males had better-developed dorsal keels and flanges. Several shell traits were correlated with carapace length, implying some correlation of those characteristics with age and growth. As length increased, sculpturing of the carapace scutes and dorsal keel development became less pronounced, carapace patterning faded and carapace color and the margins of the plastron scutes became lighter.
10.2307/1565572|Tactile stimulation to the Sonoran coral snake (Micruroides euryxanthus) and the western hook-nosed snake (Gyalopion canum) induces an expulsion of air from the cloacal vent which results in an audible popping sound. The behavioral context of cloacal popping differs in these two species, as does the acoustics of the popping sound. The cloacal pops produced by M. euryxanthus are rather consistent and show a low amplitude (50-53.5 dB), limited frequency range (442-5523 Hz), distinct temporal patterning, and harmonics. The cloacal pops released by G. canum are more variable; the initial pops are of high amplitude (70-73 dB) and broad frequency range (359-15,178 Hz), but in subsequent pops the amplitude falls off and the frequency range narrows; no temporal patterning or harmonics were observed. Cloacal popping is driven primarily by the M. Sphincter cloacae but may involve other extrinsic cloacal musculature. The presence of this unusual defensive sound in only these two sympatric snakes suggests its function against a common predator.
10.2307/1565606|Colombian and Ecuadorian populations formerly referred to Hyla carnifex are different species. The name H. bogerti is available for the Colombian species, and a new diagnosis of that species is provided.
1566216| A new Andean species of Phyllonastes is described from east-central Peru (Departamento de Pasco, 2900 m elevation). The new species differs from all known Phyllonastes by lacking discs with circumferential groove on the toes, inguinal spots, and dorsolateral stripes. The new species shares characters with members of the genus Phrynopus, which suggests possible relationships between the genera. /// Se describe una nueva especie andina de Phyllonastes procedente de la vertiente oriental del Peru central (Departamento de Pasco, 2900 m de elevacin). La nueva especie se diferencia de todas las especies conocidas de Phyllonastes por carecer de discos con surcos circunferenciales en los dedos de las patas posteriores, manchas inguinales, y bandas dorsolaterales. La nueva especie comparte caracteres con los miembros del gnero Phrynopus, lo que sugiere posibles relaciones entre los gneros. 
10.2307/1563622|Cloacae of 15 Plethodon cinereus and 14 P. dorsalis females from seasonal samples were studied anatomically by light microscopy. The cloaca is linned with epidermis except for the anterior portion of the cloacal tube. The spermatheca is the only type of gland in the female cloaca. In both species, the common duct of the spermatheca passes proximally into the anterior dorsal roof of the cloacal tube at the cephalic end of a middorsal cloacal papilla which extends posteriorly into the cloacal chamber. The distal portions of the spermatheca are expanded, lateral to the midline, and oriented transversely. In P. cinereus the distal portions of the spermatheca consists of up to six relatively long tubular branches. The distal portion of the spermatheca of P. dorsalis is a large tubule which may have up to four short irregular outpocketings. Interspecific variation also occurs in the shape of the cloaca. In P. dorsalis there is a dorsoventrally flattened recess of the cloacal chamber which extends anteriorly dorsal to the cloacal papilla to dorsal of the spermatheca. No such extensive recess occurs in P. cinereus. Sexual dimorphism includes not only the numbers and types of cloacal glands but also the shape of the cloacal cavity and the anatomy of its linings.
10.2307/1564617|Influences of simulated flooding on metabolism and water balance of Florida red-bellied turtle (Pseudemys nelsoni) eggs and embryos were investigated. Eggs were assigned randomly to a control (non-flooding) and three flooding groups: one, three, and six days of submergence. Flooding experiments were started at day 19 of incubation. Egg mass and oxygen consumption, V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> of nine randomly selected eggs from each group were measured from day 19 to 43. Hatching success decreased and incubation time increased as the duration of submergence increased. No eggs in the 6-day submergence groups survived. Hatchling size did not vary among the control and submergence groups. For eggs that did not hatch, dry mass of dead embryos of the control and 1-day submergence groups was heavier than that of at day 19, and the age of dead embryos was estimated to be 42 days. In contrast, dry masses of dead embryos of the 3- and 6-day submergence groups did not differ from those of day 19. The embryonic V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> of the control group increased during incubation. In contrast, embryonic V<sub>O<sub>2</sub></sub> of submergence groups was suppressed during submersion. Eggs submersed in water for one and three days took up more water than those buried in sand, but opposite results were found when eggs were submersed in water for six days. Eggs of the 1-day submergence group continued to increase mass but eggs of the 3- and 6-day submergence groups started to lose mass following removal from water. Results show that simulated flooding significantly influenced water balance, hatching success, and embryonic metabolism of embryos.
43287345|Many studies indicate that various vertebrates and invertebrates use sensory cues to recognize predators and to evaluate prdation risk. Lizards and birds frequently occupy the same habitats; consequently, avian prdation on lizards has been implicated as an important selective pressure on lizard behavior. However, there are few studies on how lizards respond to nonvisual cues. The response of adult male Brown Anoles (Anolis sagrei) to calls of birds was studied to determine whether they use auditory cues as an indicator of prdation risk from birds. Anoles responded significantly more often with head tilt (increased vigilance) during playback of predatory vocalizations (Kestrel and Red-tailed Hawk calls) compared with low-risk stimuli (nonpredatory bird calls and white noise). Responses to auditory cues suggest that male Brown Anoles are able to distinguish the calls of birds known to prey upon lizards from the calls of nonpredatory birds. More important, this study demonstrates that anoles, most of which are nonvocal, are able to obtain information about prdation risk through the use of auditory cues and that the role of hearing in these lizards has been underappreciated.
4092920|We tested whether the presence of an iridovirus (Ambystoma tigrinum virus; ATV) could alter patterns of larval life histories in Arizona Tiger Salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum). Viral epidemics cause extreme mortality in natural populations and, thus, impose a strong selective force. We tested how exposure to ATV during larval development influences survival, growth, and frequency of cannibalism by manipulating the presence of ATV in replicated experimental tanks. ATV significantly reduced survival and larval growth. Propensity to become cannibalistic was not related to ATV exposure, suggesting that salamanders cannot facultatively respond to the presence of diseased conspecifics by reducing cannibalism. Our results demonstrate that viral pathogens may have both a direct and indirect effect on A. tigrinum fitness by reducing survival and growth rate.
10.2307/1565899| A new species of Tropidophis is described from the province of Villa Clara in north-central Cuba. It has a buff ground color with bold brown spots fused to form zebra-like bands. In scalation and coloration it differs from all other species in the genus, but is tentatively placed in the Tropidophis maculatus group. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Tropidophis de la provincia de Villa Clara al norte de la regin central de Cuba. Es una especie de color casi beige con marcadas manchas pardas que estn unidas entre s semejantes al patrn de una zebra. Se diferencia de todas las especies del gnero en base a la escamacin y a la coloracin. Tentativamente lo situamos en el grupo Tropidophis maculatus. 
1566221|We investigated the aspects of the reproductive characteristics of three species of Phyllomedusa, identified the main embryo predators, and quantified the impact of different predators on clutches of each Phyllomedusa species in Central Amazonia, Brazil. Clutches of Phyllomedusa tarsius had the lowest proportion of attack by predators (29%), 59% of Phyllomedusa tomopterna clutches were attacked by predators, and 61% of Phyllomedusa bicolor clutches were attacked by predators. Staphilynid beetles and phorid flies were the main causes of clutch loss (18 and 17 clutches, respectively), followed by mammals (6), and unidentified (13) predators. Our field observations showed that egg mortality per clutch resulting from phorid flies and staphilynid beetles predation that varied from 67% in P. tomopterna to 77% in P. tarsius. Mammal predation was registered only in P. bicolor clutches, and it was 100%. High clutch attacked rates and within-clutch mortality suggest that predation plays an important role in determining larval recruitment for arboreal egg-laying in Central Amazonia.
10.2307/1566190|We describe the diet of Desert Massasauga, Sistrurus catenatus edwardsii, in Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico using fecal remains and gut contents obtained from field encounters and museum specimens. From these, 165 prey were identified, including 97 (58.8%) lizards, 51 (30.9%) mammals, 15 (9.1%) centipedes (Scolopendra sp.), one (0.6%) anuran, and one (0.6%) snake. Analyses of geographic, sexual and ontogenetic variation within S. c. edwardsii suggest diet is homogeneous among populations and between the sexes but that juveniles consume significantly more lizards and fewer mammals than adults. We assess rangewide variation in diet of Sistrurus catenatus using our data from Arizona, Colorado, and New Mexico (S. c. edwardsii) and previously published studies of populations in Wisconsin (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus), Michigan (S. c. catenatus), Missouri (Sistrurus catenatus tergeminus) and Texas (S. c. tergeminus) as well as new data from Texas (S. c. tergeminus). Significant geographic variation in diet parallels ecological and behavioral variation across the range of S. catenatus. Sistrurus c. edwardsii are xeric grassland-adapted snakes dependent on lizard and centipede prey, whereas both eastern subspecies favor more mesic environs and prey primarily on small mammals with juveniles occasionally feeding on snakes or lizards.
40983594|The jaguar (Panthera onca) is the largest Neotropical felid and in many parts of its range reptiles form a significant but relatively minor component of its diet. However, in the seasonally flooded vrzea forests of the Amazon, terrestrial mammals, which form an important component of jaguar diet in other habitats, are largely absent and jaguars switch to alternative prey, including arboreal mammals and reptiles. In the Mamirau Sustainable Development Reserve in the western Brazilian Amazon, we document prdation by jaguars on two species of caiman (Caiman crocodilus and Melanosuchus niger), which are abundant in this vrzea habitat. The smaller C. crocodilus seems to be particularly vulnerable because of its size and tendency to spend more time on land than the larger M. niger. Jaguars not only kill and eat caiman but are also a significant predator on eggs of both species. We place our findings into the context of jaguar prdation on reptiles by reviewing studies of jaguar diet in a variety of biomes.
10.2307/1564531| I studied the thermoregulatory behavior of a field population of the Canarian lizard Gallotia galloti, using null hypotheses based on (1) the measurement of operative temperatures available in full sun and in the shade (T<sub>e</sub>), and (2) the distribution of randomly positioned models with respect to sun and shade. The activity curve of the lizard population was unimodal, with a pronounced peak in the morning and lower (though roughly constant) levels at later times of day. Activity levels were positively correlated with the difference between T<sub>e</sub> in the sun and T<sub>e</sub> in the shade, but negatively correlated with T<sub>e</sub> in the shade. The distribution of lizards into sun-shade categories was highly selective relative to paper models, with an overall daily selectivity pattern that was symmetrical around midday (selection of sunlit perches early and late in the day, shade seeking at midday, and random distribution at intermediate hours). The low dispersion of hourly mean operative temperatures at lizard perching sites relative to random locations of models (average values calculated weighting mean T<sub>e</sub>s with frequencies of sun-shade use and sun-shade availability) suggested a high degree of thermoregulatory precision. Dark, adult males basked for longer periods than juveniles, whereas subadults/females showed intermediate basking times, which suggests that body size and color differencs may play a role in behavioral thermoregulation by these lizards. /// Se ha estudiado el comportamiento termorregulador de una poblacin de Lagarto Tizn Gallotia galloti galloti en el sur de Tenerife, Islas Canarias, a partir de hiptesis nulas basadas en: 1) las temperaturas disponibles para los lagartos al sol y a la sombra (temperaturas operativas) medidas utilizando modelos de cobre; y 2) la distribucin (al sol, a la sombra, o al sol filtrado por la vegetacin) de modelos de cartn distribuidos al azar. La curva circadiana de actividad result monomodal, con un mximo por la maana y niveles ms bajos aunque constantes durante el resto del dia. La actividad se correlacion positivamente con la diferencia de temperaturas operativas entre el sol y la sombra (rango de temperaturas al alcance de los lagartos). La distribucin de los lagartos en reas de sol y sombra fue claramente selectiva en comparacin con los modelos distribuidos al azar, con un patrn global simtrico en torno al mediodia (seleccin positiva de las areas al sol por la maana y por la tarde, bsqueda de refugios a la sombra en las horas centrales del dia, y distribucin al azar en las horas intermedias). La baja dispersin a lo largo del tiempo de las temperaturas operativas en los microclimas seleccionados por los lagartos, respecto a las temperaturas correspondientes a las posiciones al azar de los modelos (medias de las temperaturas al sol y a la sombra ponderadas con la distribucin de frecuencias de animales o modelos en esas mismas categorias), sugieren un alto grado de precision termorreguladora. La duracion media de los periodos de exposicin al sol, en individuos cuyo comportamiento pudo cronometrarse, fue superior en los machos adultos, de coloracin ms oscura, que en los juveniles, mientras que hembras y subadultos mostraron valores intermedios, lo que sugiere que tanto el tamao corporal como el colorido desempean algun papel en la termorregulacin comportamental de estos lagartos. 
10.2307/1564055|A new species of Rana (Paa) from southwestern Azad Kashmir is described. Relationships of this species within subgenus Paa are discussed and geographical distribution of other members of the subgenus in Pakistan outlined.
10.2307/1565204|Western pond turtle (Clemmys marmorata) populations were examined on two forks of the Trinity River in northern California, one of which is subject to the impacts of damming and one of which is free-flowing. Mark-recapture was conducted over a three-year period for each population, and the Jolly-Seber model was used to estimate population size. Size/age structures were compared with reference to potential impacts of damming on this species. The density of populations (turtles/ha) on the dammed fork (mainstem Trinity) did not differ significantly from that on the undammed fork (south fork Trinity). However, both populations were much sparser than western pond turtle populations elsewhere. Higher-order streams, in general, do not appear to support high densities of western pond turtles, possibly because of the sparse distribution of resources. The mainstem population had an age structure dominated by adults relative to a population with a known stable age distribution, suggesting that damming of the mainstem Trinity may have negatively impacted juvenile turtles.
1565854|The three species of chameleons inhabiting the primary forest on the western slope of Mount Kupe, Cameroon, Chamaeleo montium, Chamaeleo pfefferi, and Chamaeleo quadricornis, are compared with respect to elevational distribution, diet, and body size. Chameleo montium is restricted to lower elevations and markedly separated in elevational distribution from its congeners, which are exclusively found in the submontane forest. The three species prey almost entirely on arthropods, mostly coleopterans, heteropterans, hymenopterans, dipterans, and spiders; niche breadth values that incorpate prey availability are high and suggest opportunistic feeding. Niche overlaps are high with respect to prey type, but the smallest species, C. pfefferi, differs significantly from its congeners in terms of prey volume. Body size difference is largest between the two syntopic species, C. pfefferi and C. quadricornis, and identically low to the allotopic C. montium. The results on dietary segregation and morphological similarity are in accordance with competition limiting elevational distributions of the chameleons on Mount Kupe.
10.2307/1565167|In snakes and other predators that swallow their food whole, gape size sets an upper limit to ingestible prey size. Individuals that vary in body size and swallowing capacity will therefore differ not only in energy requirements but also in rates of food intake. Here I show that size-frequency distribution of available prey may be an important determinant of life-history evolution in snakes and other gape-limited predators. A simple model is presented for the rate of net energy gain of gape-limited predators during food scarcity as a function of body size and swallowing capacity of the predator. Net energy gain is defined as the difference between rates of energy intake and expenditure while searching for prey, and thus represents the energetic scope available for growth, storage, reproduction, and survival. The model suggests that rate of energy intake will increase asymptotically with predator body size until it reaches an asymptote that differs depending on the size-frequency distribution of available prey. Rate of net energy gain will reach a maximum at intermediate or large predator size, but shift towards smaller predator body size if energy demands increase, maximum ingestible prey size increases more rapidly with predator size, or if mean body size of available prey decreases. Variation in swallowing capacity among equal-sized predators results in a difference in net energy gains that is at a maximum in intermediate-sized individuals. The model generates seven testable predictions. (1) Smaller body size does not confer an energetic advantage during periods of prey scarcity. (2) Mortality due to energy shortage sets lower and upper limits to body size. (3) Temporal shifts in size-frequency distribution of prey will result in oscillating survival selection on body size. (4) The proportion of resources allocated to energy storage and reproduction should increase with increasing body size at the expense of energy allocated to growth. (5) The reproductive advantage of large body size in females will increase with prey availability. (6) The intensity of selection on characters determining swallowing capacity will vary with body size and be lowest in larger individuals. (7) Discrimination against small prey is more likely among larger than among smaller individuals. Examples from natural populations relating to these predictions are provided.
10.2307/1564906| The ovarian cycle in an oviparous gymnophione amphibian, Ichthyophis beddomei (Peters), was studied in captivity for 12 consecutive months from June, 1984 to May, 1985. A significant increase in the relative weight of the ovary, ovarian follicular diameter, recruitment of 70-80% of previtellogenic follicles (PVF) to vitellogenesis, and a significant decrease in the percentage of atretic follicles (AF) during August-November indicate that August-November might be the prebreeding phase of the ovarian cycle. The presence of the maximum number of the largest vitellogenic follicles (VF), the reduced number of AF, the minimum number of PVF, and presence of dividing oogonia during December-February suggest that the latter might be the breeding phase. A significant decrease in ovarian follicular diameter and number of VF, accompanied by a significant increase in the number of AF, and the presence of postovulatory follicles during March-July, reveal that March-July might be the postbreeding phase of the ovarian cycle. Histochemical studies showed that activity of  <sup>5</sup>-3-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase ( <sup>5</sup>-3-HSDH), 17-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17-HSDH), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), and sudanophilic lipids was greater during November-December, the breeding phase of the ovarian cycle. 
1566087|Female salamanders in the suborder Salamandroidea store sperm in cloacal glands called spermathecae. Scanning electron microscopy was used to study these glands in females of the Southern Torrent Salamander, Rhyacotriton variegatus (Rhyacotritonidae), from northern California. Sperm initially enter the cloaca in a tangled mass from the spermatophore cap, but within the spermathecal tubules, small groups become aligned along their long axes. Sperm nuclei typically are embedded in apical microvilli of the secretory cells forming the distal acini of the spermathecae. Junctional complexes between apices of adjacent epithelial cells are occasionally broached or otherwise absent, and sperm can be found in the intercellular canaliculi between such cells. Spermathecae of R. variegatus are simple glands that branch off a tube extending dorsally into cloacal tissue. This spermathecal anatomy is in-between that of the Plethodontidae, which have a compound tubuloaveolar gland as the single spermatheca, and other salamandroids, in which sperm storage occurs in numerous simple tubular glands, each one a spermatheca. Sperm associations in the simple spermathecae of R. variegatus, however, are most similar to those reported for plethodontids.
10.2307/1565801|A new species of Rhampholeon from the montane and submontane escarpment forests of the Udzungwa Mountains is described. This pigmy chameleon has a maximum total length of 64 mm and bears a close morphological resemblance to Rhampholeon uluguruensis, differing mainly by possessing finer cranial scalation and more thornlike hemipenal papillae arranged in two proximal rows of four (occasionally five) and two followed by a single terminal row of four (occasionally five) papillae. The only known populations of this species are found in Udzungwa escarpement forests between 1200 and 2000 m a.s.l. The zoogeography and systematics of related species of the genus Rhampholeon in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Tanzania and Malawi are reviewed and an updated key to the Genus Rhampholeon is presented.
10.2307/1562813|Gerrhonotus coeruleus principis were collected in Seattle, King County, Washington in June and August 1972. Energy content of eggs, neonates and adult bodies averaged 6401, 5608, and 5512 cal/gm AFDW, respectively. There was a high positive correlation between calories invested in eggs and adult size and likewise there was a high correlation between number of eggs and adult size. The ratio of total egg calories to total body calories was not correlated with adult size. Individual neonates averaged 820 cal compared to 1389 total cal per egg, 41 per cent of the initial energy being utilized for development. Neonates and adults were relatively the same in per gram energy content. Data from this study are compared to data from studies on other lizard species.
23327181|Natural refuges constitute a fundamental resource in the habitat of any given species. Consequently, the knowledge of those elements that are used as protection from predators is a priority for conservation. We studied the antipredatory mechanisms of an assemblage of sand dune lizards, determining whether refuge sites are random or whether particular types are chosen depending on their availability. We also compared the frequencies of the use of refuge sites with the use of perch sites by individuals at initial detection. Liolaemus multimaculatus used sites under rocks, either as refuges or as perches, and sites under sub-shrubs (Senecio bergii) and clump herbs (Spartina ciliata) as refuge only. Liolaemus gracilis used sites under creeping herbs (almost exclusively Panicum racemosum) and sub-shrubs (Senecio bergii) as refuge and perch sites more frequently than expected. Liolaemus wiegmannii only used sub-shrubs (mainly Melilotus indicus but also Achyrocline satureioides and Senecio bergii) both as refuge and perch sites. We show that lizards of Costa Bonita select certain types of native psammophytic grassland plants as refuge. Most of the plants used as refuge are also used as perch sites. Los refugios naturales constituyen un recurso fundamental del hbitat de una especie. En consecuencia, el conocimiento de aquellos elementos utilizados como proteccin ante los depredadores, constituye una medida prioritaria para su conservacin. Estudiamos los mecanismos antidepredatorios en un ensamble de lagartijas arencolas, explorando si el uso de los refugios es al azar o si hay una seleccin de determinados tipos dependiendo de su disponibilidad. Tambin se compar la frecuencia de uso de sitios de refugio con los sitios de percha donde los individuos fueron detectados inicialmente. Liolaemus multimaculatus utiliz los sitios bajo roca, ya sea como refugio o como percha y slo como refugio a sitios bajo subarbustos (Senecio bergii) e hierbas en mata (Spartina ciliata). Liolaemus gracilis utiliz ms frecuentemente a lo esperado como sitios de refugio y percha a aquellos bajo hierbas rastreras (casi exclusivamente Panicum racemosum) y subarbustos (Senecio bergii). Liolaemus wiegmannii slo utiliz subarbustos, tanto como sitios de refugio como de percha (principalmente Melilotus indicus pero tambin Achyrocline satureioides y Senecio bergii). Este trabajo demuestra que las lagartijas de Costa Bonita seleccionan determinados tipos de plantas del pastizal psamoftico nativo para reducir los riesgos de ser capturadas. La mayora de estas plantas son sus principales sitios de percha.
4498583| We describe a new species of Anolis from the highlands of western Panama. The new form is phenetically similar to lemurinus-group Anolis, especially to Anolis pachypus and Anolis tropidolepis. It differs from these two species in possessing fewer loreal scale rows, larger middorsal scales, and a solid red dewlap. We present a phylogenetic analysis of the new species and find that it nests within mainland Beta anoles as sister species to A. tropidolepis. /// Describimos una especie nueva de Anolis de las tierras altas del oeste de Panam. Esta forma nueva es fenticamente similar al grupo-lemurinus de Anolis, especialmente a Anolis pachypus y Anolis tropidolepis. sta difiere de estas dos especies en que posee menos hileras de escamas loreales, escamas medio-dorsales ms grandes y un abanico gular rojo uniforme. Presentamos un anlisis filogentico de la especie nueva y encontramos que sta encaja dentro de las anolis Beta de tierra firme como especie hermana de A. tropidolepis. 
1565885|The endangered Pygmy Blue Tongue Lizard, Tiliqua adelaidensis, occupies narrow vertical burrows, probably constructed by spiders. We assessed the fitness of female lizards in artificial burrows added to a 1-ha plot within a natural population, over a three-year period. Compared with females in natural burrows, females in artificial burrows had significantly better body condition and produced larger offspring with better body condition. We discuss possible explanations for these differences but conclude that adding artificial burrows was not detrimental to reproductive females in a population and could be used in the conservation management of this species.
41415308|The acoustic structure of 18 male advertisement calls of the "music frog" (Babina daunchina), indigenous to the Emei mountain area of Sichuan province in southwest China was analyzed. Previous results showed that Babina typically call from within hidden burrows made by the males and must rely strongly on acoustic information for mate choice. Functioning ecologically as nests, burrows are used for mating, egg-laying, and pre-and postembryonic development. Male Babina calls are spectrally and temporally complex consisting of a sequence of 3-8 notes. Each note consists of a stack of frequency bands, which are nearly integer multiples of the fundamental residue. For all calls the fundamental frequency of successive notes increases monotonically. Moreover, there is a negative correlation between the lowest harmonic (F0) value of the first call note and the increments in fundamental frequency between notes in the same call, implying that constraints exist in the production mechanism. Hierarchical cluster and multidimensional scaling analysis of 29 temporal and spectral call parameters indicate that most of the variance between calls and between males is accounted for by three clusters of call features. The first includes 19 tightly correlated temporal and modulation features including note durations and modulation patterns and total call duration. The second cluster includes the successively increasing fundamental frequencies of the call notes and may reflect that individual males can alter fundamental frequency from call to call. The third cluster includes the dominant frequency bands in calls and may reflect the filter properties of each male's burrow.
43287368|Phylogeographic studies that seek to understand how a species responded to past climate change are largely lacking for the Great Basin of North America. Here we investigate the response of the Northern Desert Nightsnake (Hypsiglena chlorophaea deserticola) to the recession of the Cordilleran glacier at the end of the Pleistocene. Using mtDNA markers, we inferred the lineage age and historical demography of this widespread desert taxon. We find that H. c. deserticola maintained a stable population size throughout the late Pleistocene despite icesheet advance and retreat. These conclusions agree with other phylogeographic studies that show stable or growing population sizes throughout the Pleistocene as well as fossil evidence that sheds light on the historical distributions of snakes, suggesting that snakes have been adaptable to historical climatic fluctuations.
10.2307/1565474| Females of Eumeces lynxe in the temperate environment of the Transvolcanic belt of central Mexico mated in August-October, ovulated in the December, and produced live young in April during 1988. Brood size averaged 4.7 neonates, and there was no relationship between brood size and female SVL. Young were produced at the beginning of the summer. Most of the annual rainfall occurs during summer, and we suggest that, similar to other species in this environment, offspring production is timed to the best season to promote juvenile growth and survivorship. Testes increased in size from May-October and declined rapidly in November. Because ovulation in females occurred considerably later than mating, females likely store sperm as reported in other Eumeces. The reproductive cycle of E. lynxe is very similar to other montane species of Eumeces in the Transvolcanic belt of central Mexico as well as lizards in the families Phrynosomatidae and Anguidae occurring in the same environment. Taken together, these studies suggest that the montane environment (relatively cool temperatures, short growing season, and rainfall during the summer) in which E. lynxe lives has played a role in the evolution of the set of reproductive characteristics shared by evolutionarily-distant montane lizards. /// Las hembras de Eumeces lynxe que habitan en un ambiente templado del Eje Neovolcnico de la regin central de Mxico, se aparearon en agosto-octubre, ovularon en diciembre, y dieron nacimiento en abril, en 1988. El tamao promedio de la camada fue de 4.7 crias, y no hubo relacin entre el tamao de la camada y la LHC de las hembras. Las crias nacieron a principios del verano. La mayor precipitacin ocurre durante el verano, y sugerimos que, similar a otras especies que habitan en este tipo de ambiente, la produccin de crias est sincronizada con la mejor estacin para promover el crecimiento y supervivencia de los juveniles. Los testculos de los machos increment en tamao de mayo-octubre, decreciendo rapidamente en noviembre. Puesto que la ovulacin en las hembras ocurri en diciembre, es posible que el apareamiento ocurra antes de la ovulacin, y las hembras almacenan el esperma, como se ha reportado en otras especies de Eumeces. El ciclo reproductivo de E. lynxe es muy similar a otras especies de Eumeces del Eje Neovolcnico de la parte central de Mxico, como tambin de lagartijas de la familia Phrynosomatidae y Anguidae que ocurren en el mismo tipo de ambiente. Estos estudios sugieren que el ambiente de montaa (temperaturas relativamente frias, estacin de crecimiento corta, Iluvias durante el verano) en la cual E. lynxe vive, ha jugado un papel importante en la evolucin del grupo de caractersticas compartidas por las lagartijas de montaa evolutivamente distintas. 
4498577| A new species of Tantilla is described from a single specimen obtained from Volcn Ceboruco, southern Nayarit, Mexico. The new species closely resembles other species of the Tantilla calamarina group. With the addition of the taxon described herein, the calamarina group now contains seven species, T. calamarina, Tantilla cascadae, Tantilla coronadoi, Tantilla deppei, Tantilla sertula, Tantilla vermiformis, and the new species described herein. Collectively, members of the group are distributed along the Pacific versant of Middle America in three disjunct regions: (1) from northern Sinaloa to Guerrero, including the Tres Maras Islands; (2) the Balsas Basin of Morelos, Puebla, Distrito Federal, and the State of Mexico; and (3) from El Salvador to northwestern Costa Rica. We provide a small list of specimens collected in the highlands of Nayarit, and report Lithobates psilonota, Ambystoma rosaceum, Elgaria kingi, Plestiodon lynxe and Rhadinaea hesperia for the first time from the state. We report the second specimen of T. sertula, known previously only from the holotype. /// Se describe una nueva especie de serpiente del gnero Tantilla a partir de un solo espcimen del sur de Nayarit en el Volcn Ceboruco. Esta especie se encuentra ms cercanamente relacionada a aquellas del grupo Tantilla calamarina. Con la adicin de esta nueva especie, el grupo contiene ahora siete especies, representado por T. calamarina, Tantilla ceboruca (nueva especie), Tantilla cascadae, Tantilla coronadoi, Tantilla deppei, Tantilla sertula, Tantilla vermiformes y la nueva especie aqu descrita. La distribucin del grupo Tantilla calamarina en la Vertiente del Pacfico se puede dividir en tres reas disyuntas: 1) del norte de Sinaloa hasta Guerrero, incluyendo las Islas Tres Maras, 2) la Cuenca del Balsas en Morelos y Puebla, Distrito Federal y el Estado de Mxico, y 3) desde El Salvador hasta el noroeste de Costa Rica. Se agrega una lista de especies recolectadas en las tierras altas de Nayarit, registrndose Lithobates psilonota, Ambystoma rosaceum, Elgaria kingi, Plestiodon lynxe y Rhadinaea hesperia por primera vez para el estado. En este trabajo registramos el segundo espcimen de T. sertula, previamente conocida slo del holotipo. 
10.2307/1563804|Most mortality of eggs of Crocodylus porosus in northern Australia is caused by flooding. Floods are of two types, short-term caused by the interaction of rainfall and tidal movements, and long-term caused by heavy rain. The duration of inundation necessary to kill eggs in laboratory experiments is longer than that normally experienced during tidal flooding, but less than that experienced during long-term flooding. Nests beside rivers are more likely to be flooded than those in swamps. Predation by varanids and humans causes fewer losses but this is probably because eggs are killed by floods in most years before predators have a chance to take them. The presence of an adult crocodile at the nest appears to deter varanids. Aboriginal hunters apparently are less efficient at finding nests in swamps than nests along rivers.
40983601|Body temperatures (T b ) of eight free-ranging Heterodon platirhinos were measured with radiotelemetry throughout the year. Body temperature ranged from 5-37 C and varied with air temperature and activity. During the active season, T b of active snakes (~ 30.5 C) averaged about 3 C higher than that of inactive snakes (~ 27.4 C). Body temperature did not differ between the sexes or between resident and nonresident snakes. At air temperatures below 30 C, T b averaged ~ 3 C above air temperature; at air temperatures above 30 C, T b averaged ~ 0.2 C below air temperature. Basking appears to be important in the thermal ecology of H. platirhinos. Body temperature of free-ranging active platirhinos monitored with radiotelemetry was similar to previous reports on T b s of active H. platirhinos measured with cloacal thermometers. A thorough knowledge of basic thermal requirements of platirhinos may be useful in its conservation.
1565863|We describe a new species of Austrochaperina from the Bewani Mountains of northwestern Papua New Guinea. The new species is a member of Zweifel's (2000) "Large" group of Austrochaperina closely related to A. hooglandi, from which it differs in size, color pattern, call parameters, and ecology. It differs from its other 23 congeners in a variety of morphological and color pattern attributes, and in advertisement call.
10.2307/1563070|A new subspecies of the colubrid snake Leptophis mexicanus from Big Cay Bokel, Belize, is described. It is distinctive from other subspecies of L. mexicanus in having a uniform green dorsum, only a very faint indication of a postocular stripe and 182-183 ventrals. A key to the subspecies of L. mexicanus is presented.
10.2307/1563739| Twenty-three turtles were recovered from a total of 5844 green turtles (Chelonia mydas agassizii) tagged in the Galpagos Islands between 1970 and 1979. Three recoveries are from Costa Rica, four from Panama, one from Colombia, five from mainland Ecuador and ten from Peru. As with other green turtle populations, the Galpagos breeding colony (or at least part of it) undertakes long-distance movements to, and is thus recruited from, distant and widespread feeding grounds. Minimum distances range from 1233 to 2143 km and the times between last recorded sighting and recapture from 98 days to 3183 days. One turtle, recaptured off the coast of mainland Ecuador after nesting in Galpagos and re-released, subsequently renested in Galpagos, thus representing one of the few documented instances of two-way migration. Three of the recoveries are males; only two other males have made longer recorded one-way journeys. The recapture rate of 0.5% for males and 0.4% for nesting females is lower than for green turtles elsewhere. 
23327164|A new species of Cyrtodactylus is described from foothill forest on the northern edge of the Finisterre Range, northeastern Papua New Guinea. The new species can be distinguished readily from all other Melanesian Cyrtodactylus by the combination of small size (adult SVL <72 mm), males with small number of pores in independent precloacal (11 pores) and femoral series (seven pores on each leg), possession of a patch of enlarged precloacal scales, absence of transversely enlarged subcaudal scales, and light-brown dorsal coloration with indistinct to distinct thin darker-brown transverse bands. The new species is the second-smallest Cyrtodactylus known from New Guinea. We propose that it may be a relic of a formerly insular fauna originating on the Finisterre Terrane but now accreted onto mainland New Guinea.
10.2307/1566114| A cross-sectional population biology study was performed on a translocated Allen's Cay iguana (Cyclura cychlura inornata) colony 10 years postintroduction. Between 1988 and 1990, eight iguanas (4, 4) were translocated to 1.8-ha Alligator Cay in the Exuma Island chain, Bahamas. Of the original eight translocated iguanas, seven were recaptured. Twenty-eight descendants were captured; 39% male, 57% female, and 4% juveniles. An estimated minimum population size of 62 individuals was calculated using a revised Petersen mark-and-recapture method and flush transect data. Nine descendant age classes were represented in the capture data or via visual observation. Descendant iguanas demonstrated a significantly higher average annual growth rate for both males and females (35.3 and 30.1 mm, respectively) than iguanas from the founder population (17.6 and 11.4 mm, respectively). The two most observed plants (34.8%) in scat samples included the leaves, buds, and stems of Rhachicallis americana and Suriana maritima. Rhachicallis was more prevalent (19.8%) than Suriana (15.0%) in scat samples. However, Rhachicallis was more abundant on the island and the Electivity Index indicates that it was a slightly less preferred food item than Suriana (-0.02 and 0.50, respectively). Alligator Cay possesses numerous vegetative and topographic characteristics, which are ideal for iguana habitation and population growth, and contributed to the successful translocation. Conservation initiatives involving translocation programs should be considered a sagacious method if proper precautions are undertaken prior to iguana release. 
10.2307/1563361|Current differentation of tetraploid Hyla versicolor LeConte and diploid H. chrysoscelis Cope relies upon acoustical or chromosomal analyses requiring live specimens. The tetraploid cells have larger nuclei and more nucleoli so it is possible to identify both preserved and living specimens simply and reliably. The possibility of identifying preserved museum specimens should ensure a more accurate and complete range for this interesting species pair.
10.2307/1563477|The ventilatory action of Siren lacertina and Amphiuma tridactylum were investigated by x-ray cinematography. The lungs are ventilated infrequently. Two fillings of the buccal cavity during exhalation result in the complete collapse of the lungs. One to four fillings of the buccal cavity are required to reinflate the lungs with air on inhalation. The ventilatory cycle lasts 1.016 s in Siren and 4.591 s in Amphiuma. Ventilation mechanisms are compared to those of other amphibians and air-breathing fish.
10.2307/1566025|We studied the home ranges and movements of 50 bog turtles (Clemmys muhlenbergii) at two sites in Harford County, Maryland, from April 1996 to August 1997. These sites differ in size, land use, and stage of vegetative succession. One site (HA406) was intensively studied 17 years ago. Using radiotelemetry, we located turtles two times a week during the active season. The 95% Adaptive Kernel home range estimator was used to determine home ranges. Individual turtle home ranges varied from 0.003 ha to 3.12 ha with considerable variation between sites and years. There were no significant differences in home range size or movements between sexes or seasons (mating vs. postmating), although males had larger home ranges during the mating season. Many turtles at site HA406 had home ranges far larger than the average home range reported in the earlier study. An expansion in turtle home ranges may suggest a decrease in site quality resulting from invasion of multiflora rose. Some turtles moved out of their wetlands and across barriers, a finding that demonstrates the importance of appropriate habitat in corridors that connect populations.
10.2307/1564881|Frog remains from a mid-Hemphillian site in SW Nebraska include at least three bufonids, two ranids, and a hylid. Frog remains from three late Hemphillian sites of NE Nebraska include at least two bufonids, two pelobatids, two ranids, and two hylids. All of the mid-Hemphillian and late Hemphillian genera are extant, but extinct species occur in both faunas. Bufo holmani, described here, is a large, robust, late Hemphillian bufonid distinct from other fossil and living species, but of uncertain group relationship. The temporal ranges of Bufo valentinensis and Bufo pliocompactilis are now known to extend from the Clarendonian into the mid-Hemphillian, and Scaphiopus wardorum from the Barstovian into the late Hemphillian.
23326913|Feeding ecology is one of the most important aspects in the life history of snakes; however, studies about their trophic ecology are scarce and sometimes inaccurate. Liophis poecylogyrus is a medium-sized snake distributed widely in South America and relatively abundant in the study area. We describe the diet and sexual dimorphism of L. poecilogyrus from northeast Argentina based on the examination of museum specimens, and we compare our data with studies that include representative samples of this species. Amphibians were the most frequent prey (75%), but only one reptile was found (1%). Families represented were: Bufonidae (53%), Leiuperidae (19%), Leptodactylidae (14%), Hylidae (7%), Cycloramphidae (3%), Microhylidae (2%), and Gymnophthalmidae (2%). We observed that L. poecilogyrus has significant sexual size dimorphism in all morphometric characters analyzed but not in scalation variables. Despite the fact that L. poecilogyrus is considered by some to be an omni-carnivore, our data and other quantitative studies on distant populations from South America lead us to suggest that this species eats primarily anurans. The population studied has its own characteristics but retains similarities with geographically nearby and remote populations. This species is a specialist and its feeding habits seem to be conservative both in different populations of the same species and in phylogenetically related species. Sexual size dimorphism may be a common feature of the taxonomic group.
10.2307/1563329|Vipera latifii Mertens, Darevsky & Klemmer, a recently described viper from northern Iran, is in severe need of conservation. Its range is restricted to the unique, alpine Lar Valley, which in a few years will be used as a huge water reservoir. Observations on the biology of Vipera latifii are given. Sympatric amphibians and reptiles show ecotypic adaptations.
10.2307/1564222| We quantified the habitat use of the endangered Virgin Islands boa (Epicrates monensis) and its prey (Anolis cristatellus) on Cayo Diablo, Puerto Rico. Although anoles occurred throughout the island, boas selectively foraged within groves of Coccoloba uvifera. Boas and anoles did not differ significantly in their plant species use within these groves. Adult male and adult female (>400 mm SVL) boas did not differ significantly for six measures of microhabitat use, but when juvenile snakes (400 mm SVL) were included in the analysis, there was a significant correlation between boa SVL and foraging height. Adult male anoles occupied sleeping perches that were higher, of larger diameter, and farther out on branches than those of adult female and juvenile anoles. Principal components analysis revealed that anoles sleep on short, thin branches relative to those favored by foraging boas; adult male anoles occupy sleeping sites most similar in structure to those used by boas. We suggest that foraging by boas does affect habitat use of anoles, and that adult male anoles are constrained to sites similar to those used by boas by the need to hold territories or for high-quality thermal environments. Closed canopy woodland seems to be an important habitat requirement for the endangered E. monensis. 
10.2307/1563501|Injection of mammalian LH into female turtles (Chrysemys picta bellii) bearing oviducal eggs resulted in approximately an 18% decrease in luteal abscorbic acid content (P<0.005) when the left ovary (before LH) was compared with the right ovary (after LH), suggesting a functional relationship between LH and steroidogenesis in turtle corpus luteum as in mammals.
41515009|This study explores the feeding ecology, habitat use, and fecundity of Phyllodytes luteolus inside bromeliads in the restinga of Regncia (sandy coastal plain), Esprito Santo state, southeastern Brazil. Because bromeliads are harvested for commercial use, and frogs may be collected accidently, the ecology of this frog is of particular interest. We collected 363 individuals of P. luteolus (103 tadpoles, 74 juveniles, 64 males, and 122 females) from three species of bromeliads in a 4-km area bimonthly from February to December of 1998. Ants and termites were the dominant food items in terms of number and mass over time. The percentage of prey items and the size of prey eaten by juveniles differed significantly from those of adults. Dominant prey items were relatively similar across the sampled bromeliad species and locations. Phyllodytes luteolus preferred Vriesea procera, the most-complex bromeliad in our study site. Half of the individuals were found in bromeliads located transitional zones. Female P. luteolus were slightly larger than the males, which may have determined the strong sex ratio bias toward females. We found females with developed oocytes (range 11-15) in every sampled month, indicating a protracted spawning period. This frog can be considered an active forager and specialist, feeding preferentially on colonial insects. Phyllodytes luteolus uses several species of harvested bromeliads and possesses several attributes that could facilitate its success as an invasive species.
10.2307/1564852|Aspects of the reproductive biology and diets of nine species of Varanus from the seasonal tropics and temperate zones of Australia were examined by dissection of 386 preserved museum specimens. We investigated whether morphological and habitat diversity in the varanids was expressed in reproductive and dietary diversity. Most species from seasonal tropical areas had enlarged testes in the dry season (June-October) and females with oviductal eggs were collected at the end of the dry season and the beginning of the wet season (September-January). However, three species seemed to be exceptions to this trend, with an extended reproductive season (V. storri), or reproductive activity in the late wet season (V. semiremex and V. kingorum). A diversity of reproductive seasons for varanids from seasonal tropical regions in Australia was also found in a review of the literature. Temperate zone species had enlarged testes in spring (September-November) and laid eggs in spring or late summer. Clutch sizes ranged from 1-7 eggs. Regression slopes of maternal SVL and clutch size seemed to be higher for the smaller-bodied species compared to the larger-bodied species, but sample sizes were too low to compare them statistically. A review of reproductive data on Australian varanids suggested that some large-bodied species (e.g., V. varius) had relatively small clutch sizes. Most species had generalized diets with lizards and orthopterans being the most important prey. Large-bodied species such as V. giganteus and V. glebopalma tended to eat larger prey items, and specialized on vertebrate prey. Varanus semiremex ate mostly aquatic prey. Diets were relatively similar for most species but appear to be influenced by body size and habitat.
40983662|Advertisement calls of the West Australian frogs Crinia pseudinsignifera and Crinia subinsignifera are distinct. I report a natural hybrid between subinsignifera and pseudinsignifera based on initial detection of an intermediate call and confirmed by allozyme data. I discuss patterns of hybridization among C. subinsignifera, C. pseudinsignifera, and Crinia insignifera.
10.2307/1563010|Six new species of Eleutherodactylus are described from the south island of Hispaniola, and a discussion of the south island Eleutherodactylus fauna, with details of geographic and altitudinal distributions for all species, is presented. A comparison of the Hispaniolan north and south island Eleutherodactylus faunas is also made.
25599261|Lentic (i.e., lake) and lotic (i.e., river) environments differ in several biotic and abiotic variables such as water velocity, productivity, thermal regimes, and depth. These variables can interact with important factors such as sex, body size, and life-history stage to shape the spatial ecology of aquatic animals such as freshwater turtles. We used radio-telemetry to study seasonal movement patterns and home-range size of juvenile and adult Northern Map Turtles (Graptemys geographica) both in a small lake and in a large river in eastern Ontario, Canada. Adult females in the lotic environment moved longer distances and had larger home ranges than conspecifics from the lentic environment. Males and juvenile females at each site had similar patterns of space use. A seasonal effect on movement was only apparent for adult females in the lotic environment in which adult females moved longer distances during the nesting season. Differences in swimming abilities resulting from a larger body size, in natal homing, or in nest site availability are potential factors explaining the site difference in the spatial ecology of adult females. Our findings illustrate the complexity of interactions shaping patterns of space use by aquatic reptiles.
10.2307/1563250|Short-term mark recapture study indicates that Anolis pulchellus occur in densities greater than previously reported for any other lizard. Estimates are up to 20,000 individuals per hectare (biomass of 10 kg). Despite dwelling in areas that are relatively uniform and temporary, A. pulchellus have relatively small home ranges (<20 m<sup>2</sup>), and show little vagility.
1565751|We report on the influence of observer presence and handling on activity patterns (stride frequency) of the Australian sleepy lizard (Tiliqua rugosa). Over a 17-week period, we maintained continuous records of activity of 10 adult lizards using lightweight activity loggers recording lizard body temperature and stride frequency every two minutes. At all times of day and throughout the season, we recorded the effect of three levels of observer disturbance (observed only, briefly handled [< 60 sec], and held for an extended period [30-45 min]), on lizards either inactive or active at the time of interaction. Following all disturbance types, there was an increase in average stride frequency that lasted for up to an hour. This is a significant period for an animal that is generally active for only a few hours in the day. The extent of this effect was higher for active than for inactive lizards, when observed or briefly handled, and increased with the level and duration of the disturbance. Both inactive and active lizards when held for an extended period responded with a very high average level of activity. We found that shifts to behavior following brief handling (e.g., attaching a cotton spool) can be minimized or prevented by working with inactive lizards early in the morning, when ambient temperatures (and hence lizard body temperatures) are relatively low. Protocol design for field-based behavioral studies involving lizards must avoid, or if necessary compensate, for biases that result from the effect of different levels of observer disturbance on activity patterns.
10.2307/1565414| The eastern massasauga (Sistrurus catenatus catenatus) is listed as endangered in New York and is currently known from only two locations in the state. Characteristics of this species' spatial ecology and habitat preferences were investigated between 1989 and 1992 in Cicero Swamp, a large wetland complex near Syracuse, New York, which contains a 37 ha peatland of critical importance to massasaugas. Radiotelemetered male (N = 11) and nongravid females (N = 2) left the peatland for nearby swamp forest soon after spring emergence while gravid females (N = 2) remained in the peatland until parturition. All telemetered snakes overwintered in the peatland. Of individuals tracked for the entire active season, gravid females moved significantly shorter distances per day (x = 7.1 m) and per season (x = 751.9 m) than either males (mean distance/day = 20.5 m; mean distance/season = 2940.2 m) or nongravid females (mean distance/day = 22.9 m; mean distance/season = 3712.2 m). Similarly, 100% minimum convex polygon activity range estimates were smaller for gravid females (x = 2.0 ha) than for either males (x = 27.8 ha) or nongravid females (x = 41.4 ha). These findings suggest that conservation efforts for eastern massasaugas in Cicero swamp should focus on peatland habitat used by gravid females. 
10.2307/1564220| Selected life history traits were studied in a breeding population of gray treefrogs (Hyla chrysoscelis) in western Tennessee. The breeding season lasted four mo (mid-April to mid-August 1988) with choruses taking place at night, during or after periods of rainfall, when the air temperature exceeded 15.5 C. The minimum size of males in choruses was 39.0 mm SVL while the minimum size of gravid females was 45.0 mm. Mean SVL (54.2 mm) and mass (11.2 g) of females were significantly greater than those of males (45.9 mm, 7.6 g). During the breeding season, marked females mated 0-3 times (x = 1.24). Average clutch size (number of eggs per clutch), including second and third clutches, was 2060 eggs (range = 628-4208). There was a significant correlation between female body size and clutch size, but most of the variation in clutch size was not accounted for by body size (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.26). On average, clutches accounted for 45% of the female's post-gravid body mass. For females of the same size, second and third clutches were smaller than initial clutches. A female's ability to produce multiple clutches was not related to body size, but females ovipositing their first clutch earlier in the breeding season had a relatively greater chance of producing multiple clutches. 
10.2307/1564594|A new species of Mabuya is described, based on material collected from Kalakkad forest, Tamil Nadu State, southern India. The new species is compared with other previously described species of the genus Mabuya from India.
10.2307/1564311|Liolaemus fuscus and L. lemniscatus are two similarly-sized, completely sympatric species of central Chile. In some localities they are also syntopic, sharing the same microhabitat (rocks). We studied the microhabitat, time, and food use of these two species throughout one year, computing standard niche metrics. Between-species similarities on these three niche dimensions were very high at all times of the year (mean = 82% for all three microhabitat, time, and food overlaps), slightly decreasing during winter. The "feast" seasons of plentiful food, when dietary overlaps reached 90 and 99% (spring and summer, respectively) were associated with the two species overlapping broadly in microhabitat (77 and 81%, for spring and summer, respectively) and activity time (92 and 91%, respectively). "Lean" times were associated with decreased overlap in both diet (59 and 81% for fall and winter, respectively) and activity time (87 and 58%, respectively), but not in microhabitat (71 and 97%, respectively). Our data provide limited support for the view that interspecific niche relationships in fluctuating environments may be understood within the "lean" versus "feast" times scenario.
10.2307/1562693|Specimens from Peru represent a new species of the recently described genus Syncope Walker. The new species, S. carvalhoi, differs from the Ecuadorian type species, S. antenori, in the absence of a tympanum, in having more reduced digits, in coloration, and in having the eggs larger and unpigmented.
10.2307/1563069| Variation in the Hispaniolan colubrid snake Uromacer frenatus is discussed throughout its range, including the satellite islands of Ile Grande Cayemite, Ile--Vache and Isla Beata. Details of coloration and pattern are given, and sexual dimorphism in two characteristics is shown. Specimens from the Dominican Pennsula de Barahona differ from their relatives (U. f. wetmorei) on adjacent Isla Beata in color and presumably scutellation, and the peninsular population is named as a new subspecies. 
43287355|Crawfish Frogs (Lithobates areolatus) are a North American ranid, considered near threatened globally with populations in decline throughout their range. We studied populations of Crawfish Frogs on local and regional scales at their northeastern range limit to (1) assess the level of genetic diversity within populations, (2) estimate fine-scale genetic structure, and (3) estimate genetic differentiation between populations at the regional level. We used 10 microsatellite loci to genotype frogs collected from three regional sites in Indiana separated by 50-172 km and at one of these sites within a network of three breeding ponds <1 km apart. Heterozygosity estimates revealed high levels of diversity within these populations (mean HO: 0.54-0.67 per site), which is encouraging for future management. The degree of population subdivision was low at the regional level (FST = 0.071 for sites within 172 km). Genetic differentiation was related to geographic distance between sampling sites, as predicted by an isolation-by-distance model. We observed no genetic differentiation between individuals sampled from ponds approximately 250 m apart and slight divergence of individuals from a pond approximately 750 m away. This suggests ponds within 1 km form a genetically distinct single breeding unit composed of multiple subpopulations. Finally, we observed high genetic differentiation between southwest and southeast Indiana sites indicating historical (rather than recent) isolation of these sites. These data will be applied to a regional management plan in an attempt to recover Crawfish Frogs along the northeastern extreme of their range.
23327192|We hypothesized that Palestine Saw-Scaled Vipers (Echis coloratus) select ambush sites that allow them to remain in a relatively cooler microclimate. During spring 2010, we identified the locations of 27 vipers in the Eilat Bird Sanctuary, Israel. Twenty-six (96%) of Vipers were recorded in 15 Salvadora persica, one (4%) in Zygophyllum dumosum, and none in Ochradenus baccatus. The temperature at the base of the S. persica was on average 6C lower that in O. baccatus. We also found that the greater the apron radius of S. persica, the lower the temperature in the bush, and that bushes of S. persica occupied by vipers, have greater apron radius that those without snakes. We found that each of the snakes remained in the bush in which it was found during the whole three months of the study. We conclude that the cues used by E. coloratus for predicting future prey availability seem to be the structure of the microhabitat rather than prey odor. Our study is of conservation importance and enhances our understanding of habitat choice in this little-studied snake.
40060505|Information on the importance of captive turtles as sources of human Salmonella infections is well established; however, data on the potential of free-ranging turtles as carriers of salmonellae are scarce and contradictory. We combined traditional culture techniques and molecular tools to analyze swabs obtained from the cloacae and from different body parts of captive and free-ranging turtles for salmonellae. Salmonellae were detected in 50% of captive turtles (N = 10). A similar percentage of detection (51%) was obtained for salmonellae in free-ranging turtles from the Rio Grande (N = 80) with six sites at Big Bend National Park, Texas, and one site at Elephant Butte Reservoir, New Mexico, analyzed. Here, 46% of Trachemys gaigeae (N = 36), 56% of Apalone spinifera (N = 43), and the only individual of Chrysemys picta were positive for salmonellae. These percentages of detection of salmonellae in turtles were independent of the location of the sampling in the Rio Grande, the species and the gender of the turtles. Although individuals of captive turtles testing positive for salmonellae were generally positive for all body parts tested (i.e., the cloacae, the carapace, the ventral base of the left rear leg, underneath one or more of the claws on the front feet, and the ventral base of the tail), individuals of free-ranging turtles testing positive for salmonellae were often positive for only one or two body parts. Our results demonstrate that salmonellae are prevalent in high rates in both captive and free-ranging turtles.
10.2307/1565245|The colorful dewlaps of Anolis lizards have long attracted the attention of biologists interested in the evolution of animal signals. Work on the North American green anole (Anolis carolinensis) and the anoles of Puerto Rico has shown that skin coloration results from the combined effects of pigments-pteridines, carotenoids, and melanin-and structural colors produced by reflecting platelet arrays in dermal iridophores. We conducted a study of skin pigments in the Jamaican radiation of anoles, known as the 'grahami series', to examine how these anoles compare with those previously studied. We also wished to determine the histological basis for a strongly UV reflective dewlap that occurs in the only non-Jamaican member of the seven-species radiation, Anolis conspersus from Grand Cayman. We used thin layer chromatography to identify pteridines, spectrophotometry to detect carotenoids, and histology to reveal patterns of melanin in the skin of the study species. Our results are discussed in light of previously published work on Anolis coloration, and we describe a pigmentary novelty that is unique to A. conspersus within the grahami series.
10.2307/1564416|An investigation of tooth surface features in a number of snake taxa revealed that, in addition to the typical lateral and medial dental ridges, some species possess accessory ridges that are generally confined to the posterior tooth surface and are most pronounced at the tooth base. The presence of accessory dental ridges appears to be confined to species with relatively long teeth that are piscivorous or feed on soft-bodied invertebrates. Several hypotheses are presented regarding the functional significance of these dental features.
25599190|Secondary sexual characteristics are often under intense sexual selection as ornaments for attracting mates or as traits associated with male-male competition such as combat. Secondary sexual traits under sexual selection are predicted to be related to male phenotype, because only high-quality males should be capable of developing these costly and exaggerated traits. Therefore, high-quality males should have larger or more elaborate secondary sexual traits than poor-quality males. We used the Green Frog (Rana clamitans) to test this hypothesis using three sexually dimorphic traits (the enlarged forelimbs, enlarged tympanum, and yellow throat of the male Green Frog) and two measures of male phenotype (body condition and size). Forelimb size was condition-dependent-males with larger forelimbs were in better condition than males with small forelimbs. Males with an intermediate shade of yellow on their throat tended to be in better condition than males with dark and light yellow throats, but the degree of yellow was related to body size-males with a dark yellow throat were larger than males with a light yellow throat. There was no evidence of condition-dependence of tympanum diameter; although after correcting for body size, males with a large tympanum had large forelimbs suggesting that tympanum size reflected some other, unmeasured, indicator of male quality. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that males produce multiple signals and cues that reflect different aspects of male quality. Females can maximize the benefits of mate choice by using multiple traits to assess male quality.
40060524|Wetlands are essential breeding sites for many amphibians. The importance of terrestrial habitat for many aquatic-breeding amphibian species is well known, although often understudied and understated. This study examined the recapture rates, habitat use, and site fidelity of Cope's Gray Treefrogs (Hyla chrysoscelis) within and surrounding a wetland for 15 months. Using visible implant elastomer and visible implant alpha tags, we tracked individuals as they used a grid of 110 PVC pipes as refugia. PVC pipe refugia allow treefrogs to be sampled when not actively calling or breeding. We captured 82 individual frogs a total of 141 times (59 recaptures). Treefrogs occupied pipes every month except during winter (December, January, and February). Recapture rates decreased during the breeding season (May, June, and July). Preferred pipes were in terrestrial habitat or close to trees instead of in aquatic habitat devoid of trees. Treefrogs displayed high site fidelity; only three frogs were recaptured in pipes different from those in which they were originally captured. Our results suggest that H. chrysoscelis select terrestrial habitat adjacent to wetlands and have high site fidelity, which could have important implications for the conservation of treefrogs and other wetland-breeding amphibians.
10.2307/1564927|Flooding of nests and predation were identified as the major mortality agents of eggs of Caiman crocodilus yacare in Brazil. Nests on floating grass mats and in forests were flooded in 1989, but only floating grass mats nests were flooded in 1990. Predation on eggs was high in forest nests, but my presence may have increased predation. No nest on floating grass mats was attacked by predators. The period of sex determination of C. c. yacare can extend to 40 d of incubation. I predicted nest temperature with a multiple regression model incorporating weather variables during incubation. The predicted nest temperatures for nests on floating grass mats and nests in forest were correlated with the sex ratio of the clutch. High nest temperatures (> 31.5 C) produced mostly males, and low nest temperatures (<30.5 C) produced only females. The estimated sex ratio varied between years in nests on floating grass mats, but not in forest nests. Estimated nest temperatures significantly affected the snout-vent lengths of hatchlings but not their masses. Fifty percent of nesting occurred on floating grass mats, so the destruction of this habitat by introduced animals such as the water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) will adversely affect the productivity and hence long-term density of caimans in the Pantanal.
10.2307/1563082|Plethodon nettingi hubrichti were distasteful and avoided by avian predators. This supports the hypothesis that several species of Plethodon may serve as models for Desmognathus ochrophaeus which is a polymorphic Batesian mimic.
10.2307/1563712| We investigated the effects of extended starvation upon male A. tigrinum by maintaining them in aquaria without food for a period of up to 70 days. Serum lipase activity increased significantly during each of the first four weeks of starvation. At 35 days lipase activity reached a maximum level that was maintained the remainder of the 70 days. Hepatic glycogen steadily decreased from an average value of 3.32 g glycogen/100 g liver at the time of capture to less than 0.50 g glycogen/100 g liver after 70 days. Visible fat body content varied erratically for the samples of this study and showed no clear pattern except for the very significant reduction in mean fat body mass from the time of capture to the 70 day measurements. Body mass decreased to 45.5% of the initial weight during the study but, as was the case for fat bodies, did not show a sequential decrease among samples. Gonadal tissue was catabolized from 1.64% of body weight to 0.25% of body weight within 21 days of starvation and shows no further reduction as a percentage of body composition. Although absolute liver weight decreased during the study, it remained an extremely consistent 2.66  0.22% of body weight throughout the entire study. 
4093001|In lizards identification of food using chemical cues allows active foragers to locate hidden prey and omnivores and herbivores to identify palatable plant food, but ambush foragers identify food visually rather than chemically. Omnivores and herbivores derived from ambushing ancestors discriminate food chemicals from control substances. The only known exception is the omnivorous phrynosomatid lizard Sceloporus poinsettii, which lacks food chemical discrimination and which might have been constrained from evolving it by scarcity of chemoreceptors. We studied food chemical discrimination by the phrynosomatid Uma exsul, an omnivore whose diet is 25% plant by volume. In 60 s trials in which chemical cues from mealworms, romaine lettuce, cologne, and water were presented on cotton swabs, lizards responded more strongly to plant and animal chemicals than control stimuli. Food chemical discrimination by Uma exsul strengthens evidence that plant chemical discrimination evolves in tandem with plant diet and prey chemical discrimination also appears in omnivores or herbivores derived from ambush foragers. Confirmation of food chemical discrimination in U. exsul vitiates the evolutionary constraint hypothesis for S. poinsettii. That lizards tongue-flicked and bit infrequently, yet discriminated, is unusual, suggesting that lingually mediated plant chemical discrimination may have evolved recently, few tongue-flicks are needed to evaluate nutritive properties of plant foods, or plant chemical discrimination is an adaptively unimportant epiphenomenon of plant consumption. Because they do not search actively for prey or tongue-flick before attacking, phrynosomatids presumably evolve prey chemical discrimination by genetic correlation with plant chemical discrimination.
10.2307/1565925|We describe a new species of Phrynobatrachus from the Western part of the Upper Guinean rain forest, West Africa. Phrynobatrachus phyllophilus sp. nov. differs from all other known West African Phrynobatrachus by a combination of morphological and acoustical characters. It is most similar to Phrynobatrachus guineensis from which P. phyllophilus is distinguished by its almost white belly, presence of only one dark bar on femur and tibia, shape of the thumb in reproductive males, advertisement call, reproductive mode, and selection of different forest types. Phrynobatrachus phyllophilus is the first known species of the genus that deposits small clutches of eggs rich in yolk on leaves, in close vicinity to extremely small puddles on the forest floor. Its preferred habitats are swampy areas of primary rain forest. We also describe the tadpole of P. phyllophilus and the advertisement call of P. guineensis.
10.2307/1565396|The courtship of the southern dusky salamander, Desmognathus auriculatus (Plethodontidae), is described for the first time. Most of a male's effort is expended in orienting to and stimulating (or 'persuading') his partner. Much of the stimulation provided by the male is tactile (nudging and rubbing), although he also exhibits behavior patterns associated with the transfer of courtship pheromones (snapping and pulling). Movements of the male's forelimbs may stimulate the female visually. The consummatory act of courtship is indirect sperm transfer by means of a spermatophore, and this stage of courtship appears identical in all desmognathines yet described. Courtship behavior patterns in the subfamily Desmognathinae are an apparent mosaic of ancestral and derived characters, with some evidence for homoplasy. Formal analyses of behavioral evolution await a robust phylogenetic hypothesis and detailed ethograms for multiple populations of all recognized taxa.
10.2307/1562840|Leopard frogs from the lower Rio Grande valley of Texas and Mexico normally have mottled throats and pectoral areas which distinguish them from otehr species of leopard frogs in the United States. Varying melanism of the undersurfaces is due in part to pigment concentration and dispersion in melanophores under environmental changes. We conclude that these features among others characterize Rana berlandieri Baird and that the species is primarily a Mexican member of the pipiens complex. About 1 percent of the Rio Grande population is afflicted with papilla-like structures, termed skin tags, as the result of wounding. A yellow-legged population, believed to be of the same species, occurs in the state of Sinaloa of western Mexico, for which the name forreri Boulenger is available. It is concluded that Rana berlandieri is a Mexican species with several subspecies encircling the central plateau (except to the north) and entering the United States on its southern borders. This postulates two separate groups of leopard frogs, those in the United States being referred to as Rana pipiens with its subspecies and those of Mexico as Rana berlandieri with its subspecies.
40060462|Using karyotypic, morphological, and molecular data, we compared Hynobius yunanicus with a sympatric species, Pachyhynobius shangchengensis. Similar to P. shangchengensis, H. yunanicus has a diploid chromosome number of 64, with five large pairs, six medium pairs, and 21 microchromosome pairs. In both H. yunanicus and P. shangchengensis, the vomerine teeth are arranged in two arched series, the lacrimals do not reach the orbits but are in touch with the external nares, and a gap between the pterygoid and maxillary is always present. The two species not only clustered together on a phylogenetic tree based on mitochondrial DNA sequence data but also share an identical haplotype. Therefore, H. yunanicus is not a valid species but a synonym of P. shangchengensis.
4498528|Reproductive cycles and patterns of sperm storage were examined for three regionally sympatric species of cold-temperate viviparous Australian skinks previously reported to have Type II reproductive cycles (autumn spermatogenesis and mating, with oviductal sperm storage (OSS) and spring ovulation). Histological examination of oviducts, testes and epididymides of winter- and spring-collected skinks were combined with data on monthly variation in gonad size (ovarian follicle diameter and testis length) obtained from museum specimens. Pseudemoia entrecasteauxii exhibited autumn spermatogenesis and mating, OSS over winter, and spring vitellogenesis and ovulation, concurring with previous studies for more southern populations. In contrast to previous studies from more southern populations, Niveoscincus coventryi and Hemiergis decresiensis displayed autumn spermatogenesis with epididymal sperm storage (ESS) over winter and spring vitellogenesis, mating and ovulation. Timing of mating and sperm storage patterns may vary geographically or possibly be plastic in response to local or annual variation in environmental factors. Autumn-onset vitellogenesis with OSS is hypothesized to be the optimal cycle for producing offspring earlier in the breeding season.
10.2307/1563430|The complex of red-legged Plethodon jordani (model) and red-legged (mimic) and non-red-legged (non-mimic) Desmognathus ochrophaeus appears to be a weak Batesian mimetic system. Experimental predators (chickens) showed neither increased avoidance nor increased attack latency in single salamander presentations of models and non-mimics. In choice presentations of non-mimics with models or mimics, however, some chickens showed reduced preference for both models and mimics compared to non-mimics.
10.2307/1564335| Aspects of the life history of two species of nocturnal, arboreal gecko were examined in a disturbed and isolated 1 ha woodland in southwestern Australia between 1980-1986. Oedura reticulata occupies, almost exclusively, smooth-barked Eucalyptus trees, while Gehyra variegata occurs on a variety of shrubs, dead trees, and logs. Both species are long lived (>9 yr); have dense and relatively stable populations; weigh the heaviest and lightest in November and December-February, respectively; have relatively low survival during incubation and early juvenile stages, with greatest survival (>75%) as adults; and have an adult sex ratio of parity. Growth rate is similar in yearlings of both species, but O. reticulata grows significantly faster in the second year. Female O. reticulata begin breeding in their fifth year at ca. 95% of adult size and lay a clutch of two eggs between late October and late December. Female G. variegata breed in their third year at ca. 90% of adult size and lay a single egg clutch between late October and late January -- older females may produce two clutches. Oedura reticulata females are larger than males, but G. variegata is not sexually dimorphic. Both species are out of their rest sites and generally active at ambient temperatures above ca. 15C. General activity is positively correlated with temperature in O. reticulata, but not in G. variegata. 
10.2307/1562900| Sceloporus graciosus, at 1600 m on the western slope of the California Sierra Nevada, is active from mid-April (males) or early May (females) until late August (females) or late September (males). Young and immature lizards are active from mid-April to early October. Fat accumulates at the end of the breeding season to maximal levels prior to hibernation. During dormancy, males use about half the autumnal fat, at a rate of 0.04 KCal/gm body weight/month. During dormancy, females use 0.01 KCal/gm body weight/month. In the spring in females fat is used for egg production, and fat bodies shrink as eggs develop. Liver lipids of females are maximal during ovogenesis. Breeding females comprise two size groups: about 2/3 females are estimated 2-3 years old (49-58 mm SLV) and 1/3 are estimated 4 or more years old (59-64 mm SVL). The smaller group has a mean clutch size of 4.80  and the larger has a mean clutch size of 5.41  .23. Most of the larger females breed at the beginning of the breeding season (in late May) and younger females may breed from the same time until July. A few large females may lay a second clutch, but a single clutch is the rule. Incubation takes at least 6 or 7 weeks but a late summer decline in soil temperatures seems to prolong development. It is suggested that, under certain conditions, a few young may not emerge until spring. 
10.2307/1563900|Hematological studies involving reptiles and amphibians are often limited by the techniques used to obtain adequate blood samples. An RF transcutaneous blood velocity detector (Doppler Model 802-A and Model 812, Parks Electronics, Beaverton, OR) was successfully used to determine the location of the heart, facilitating cardiac blood sampling. Additional arterial and venous points were located in lizards, turtles, snakes, crocodilians, and amphibians. Displacement of RF sound waves by blood flow within vessels or heart was monitored through earphones, loud-speaker, or oscilloscope. Strip recorder pulse tracings were made. Animals studied ranged in size from a 5.0 cm long, 1.5 cm thick Hyla gratiosa to a 333 cm long, 12 cm thick Python molurus. No specimens appeared to be adversely affected by ultrasound scanning.
10.2307/1565607|Radiotelemetry and implant procedures were validated and used to examine the occurrence and variability of emigration and terrestrial refuge use between breeding periods in Ambystoma maculatum. Studies of feeding and weight change showed no long term effects of the implant procedure, and the survival of implanted salamanders in the field was similar to that in natural populations. Emigration was facultative and occurred during the spring, fall, was split between spring and fall, or it did not occur. The inhibition of emigratory behavior during the summer caused a conspicuous seasonal bimodality in movement that was hypothesized to be a consequence of increased predator activity from late spring through early fall. Small mammal burrows were used almost exclusively as terrestrial refuges, and those of Blarina brevicauda were used the most, especially between spring and fall. Deeper, Peromyscus-type burrows were commonly used during winter. An early spring snowstorm revealed that occupying small mammal burrows was extremely important to survival. It is hypothesized that A. maculatum, through a special association with Blarina brevicauda, is able to readily access the protective leaf litter runways.
10.2307/1565603|Caiman crocodilus crocodilus and Melanosuchus niger occur throughout most of the Anavilhanas Archipelago, located in the lower Rio Negro, Central Amazonia. The observed densities of these species vary from 0 to 58 per km of shoreline and 0 to 8 per km of shoreline, respectively. Multiple regression analysis indicated that the temperature difference between the water and the air, and water depth affected the observed density of C. crocodilus during spotlight surveys in the Archipelago. Percentage illumination by the moon, cloud cover, frequency of occurrence of grass, and food availability did not significantly affect the observed density of C. crocodilus. Nine hatchling groups of M. niger that hatched in 1992 were found on islands near the north bank of the Rio Negro, and 15 of 20 hatchlings groups of C. crocodilus were found closer to the south bank, indicating a tendency for separation of nesting areas. Discriminant function analysis indicated that water depth and presence of grass were correlated with the occurrence of hatchling groups. Melanosuchus niger hatchling groups occurred in areas with deeper water and more grass than those of C. crocodilus. This study showed that surveying hatchling groups in the Anavilhanas Archipelago is more efficient than surveying for subadults and adults, which, by itself, can give false impressions about the suitability of areas for conservation of breeding populations of these species.
1566089|The postsupraocular, a small oblique scale just posterior to the supraoculars and medial to the pretemporal scales, is a derived character within the taxonomically difficult Sphenomorphus group of lygosomine skinks. This character occurs in 22 of the approximately 125 described species of Sphenomorphus currently recognized. The species with this distinctive character occur in the southern Philippine Islands, New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands and are called, informally, the Sphenomorphus maindroni group. A new species in the group is described from New Guinea, where most of the species occur. A key to the species with the distinctive character is provided.
4092924|I evaluated the life history of Florida Sand Skinks (Neoseps reynoldsi), fossorial lizards endemic to central Florida. Based on museum specimens, literature records, and field captures, sand skinks have a single mating period each year, lasting from February through May. Females produce a single clutch each year between May and June, although some reproduce biennially or less frequently. Mean clutch size from counts of enlarged follicles and eggs was 2.2 (range two to three; if only oviducal eggs are counted, clutch size was two). Mark-recapture data indicate that sand skinks do not reproduce before 19-23 months of age and that sand skinks can live to at least eight to 10 years of age. The suite of life-history traits shown by sand skinks (low frequency of reproduction, small clutch size, late maturity, and long lifespan) is similar to those of other fossorial lizards.
10.2307/1563927|Seasonal spermatogenesis was examined in sympatric Crotalus viridis and Arizona elegans in New Mexico. Seminiferous tubule recrudescence and spermatogenesis were similar in these species but were delayed six weeks in A. elegans. This delay appeared to be due to differences in seasonal and diel activities of the two species. The initiation and completion of spermatogenesis can be experimentally induced by warm temperatures, in the abence of a photoperiod (OL:24D) in A. elegans.
10.2307/1563088|A new genus Lubuya is described to accommodate the species Mabuya ivensii which differs significantly from all other members of that genus. It is tentatively suggested that 2 of the principal adaptations -- the position of the nostrils on top of the snout and the restricted keeling of the dorsal scales -- are functions of a semiaquatic way of life.
41415263|In applying foraging theory to cryptic predators like many snakes, one of the most difficult variables to measure is effort spent in foraging. We estimated foraging effort from time invested in foraging using records for habitat use accumulated over a period of three years for 50 radio-tracked adult watersnakes (Nerodia sipedon). Because watersnakes eat predominantly aquatic prey, and limited prey records for the population studied were all fish, time spent foraging was estimated from the number of records in which snakes were found in water compared to the total number of records. Based on the data collected, this population of watersnakes devoted 1.432.38% of its time to foraging. Although the data do not permit allocation of foraging effort for most snakes to specific times, combining all relocation data suggests that adult watersnakes in this population forage infrequently. Opportunistic records of stomach contents regurgitated by captured snakes of all sizes suggest that these watersnakes find fish prey by active foraging and that the adult population benefits from periodic exploitation of dead or dying large fish (trout) following stocking.
10.2307/1562826|A small population of Ctenosaura similis was studied in Belize, British Honduras. Ctenosaurs were most abundant in areas disturbed by man. Juveniles and adults were ecologically separated in the study area. Courtship behavior was observed in the early part of the dry season. Eggs hatched in June or July and a hatchling tripled in length during its first year. C. similis is omnivorous. Most activity occurred near burrows and the greatest distance moved was 88 m. Ctenosaurs basked in heliothermic and thigmothermic positions and shifted locations as the day progressed to remain in the sun. They were often active during the hottest hours of the day. Overt aggressive behavior was not observed within the population although an outsider was attacked and the population's males generally were not seen in close proximity to one another. Territoriality was probably present within the population.
10.2307/1565991|Various aspects of population structure and dynamics of Eleutherodactylus coqui in two forest reserves (Maricao and Guilarte) of the central mountain range of Puerto Rico were determined between July 1997 and June 1998. Adult density ranged from 8-25 animals/100 m<sup>2</sup> for the wet season and 3-19 animals/100 m<sup>2</sup> for the dry season. Abundance of froglets and juveniles was also greater in the wet season compared to the dry season. By contrast, egg mass counts were greater in the dry season compared to the wet season. Adult body size increased from wet to dry season as population density declined and was found to differ significantly between forests. Adult E. coqui trapped at similar elevations were larger in Guilarte compared to those in Maricao. Average body size for Maricao and Guilarte populations were smaller than those reported for populations in eastern Puerto Rico. Comparing average snout-vent length among frogs from the Luquillo Mountains, Guilarte Forest, and Maricao Forest, a gradient of decreasing body size was observed from east to west across the island.
10.2307/1564900|In the West Indies, the arboreal boid Corallus enydris usually forages from 1800 h to about 2400 h, and usually between 1-4 m above ground, but very large snakes (>110 cm SVL) frequently forage at <1.0 m. Tree boas exhibit ontogenetic variation in diet: snakes <60 cm SVL prey exclusively on anoles; snakes 60-110 cm SVL take anoles and endotherms, with the latter comprising a greater proportion of total prey with increasing SVL; and snakes >110 cm SVL prey exclusively on endotherms. Although snakes >75 cm SVL still prey on anoles, there is virtually no overlap in prey size with snakes <75 cm SVL. Snakes >85 cm SVL ate anoles that were larger than some rodents. The diet of Corallus enydris in the West Indies differs dramatically from that of neotropical mainland populations.
10.2307/1565583|When swimming, as when jumping, frogs typically kick synchronously and symmetrically with both hind legs. This is an evolutionarily derived, drag-based mechanism employing the feet as paddles and the hind limbs as thrusters. But morphologically archaic frogs of the genera Leiopelma and Ascaphus, although they jump when on land, obligately swim using alternating leg movements. We video-recorded swimming Leiopelma hochstetteri, L. archeyi, and Ascaphus truei, and other frogs. Leiopelma spp. and Ascaphus always swam with alternating movements of their hind limbs, holding their forelimbs forward and outstretched. One leg always trailed the body acting as a rudder reducing yaw. The frogs swam with near constant velocity and, like swimming tadpoles, the body swung from side to side, pivoting at the level of the otic region. All other species swam with simultaneous and symmetrical movements of the hind limbs, without lateral movement, and with forelimbs pulled back to lie alongside the body; asynchronous leg movements were associated only with mid-water directional changes. The locomotor behavior of Leiopelma and Ascaphus demonstrates that frog jumping and frog swimming are independent locomotor modes with separate evolutionary derivations and neural controls. Therefore, even though the earliest known anurans may have jumped like frogs it does not follow that they swam like frogs.
10.2307/1563330|Lizard communities in Chile and California have been shown (Fuentes, 1976) to exhibit rock versus ground microhabitat partitioning. In this paper we investigate two hypotheses explaining this phenomenon (1) zonation due to differences in food requirements by the species and (2) zonation due to different needs for hiding places from predators. Observations and collections of two species of Liolaemus (Iguanidae) lizards in a simple habitat suggests: (1) the two lizard species do not differ significantly in their food preferences and (2) morphological and behavioral differences between species can be related to different predation risks. In addition to reporting on lizard predators this paper shows that the species using rocks, presumably the more protected area, tends to be larger, more color and size dimorphic than the species foraging preferentially on the open ground. A "natural experiment" of decreased effective bird predation risk, further suggests predation is a likely factor in the explanation of rock-ground zonation in these lizards. The roles of interspecific competition and lizard predation are discussed in relation with the Liolaemus community we investigated.
10.2307/1563035|Clutch sizes of Sceloporus occidentalis were measured during 1971-1973. Females contain oviducal eggs from April-July. Differences in the ovarian cycle were correlated with yearly rainfall. Slightly smaller clutch sizes were produced during the drought year of 1972. The unusually wet winter of 1973 caused a delay in onset of yolk deposition resulting in the first oviducal female being collected three weeks later than in previous years.
10.2307/1564960|I used a replicated factorial experiment in artificial streams to study the effects of large and small larval Gyrinophilus porphyriticus on larval Eurycea cirrigera and on other larval G. porphyriticus. Both small and large Gyrinophilus predation significantly reduced Eurycea survival. Large Gyrinophilus also reduced the growth of small Gyrinophilus through interference competition or threat of predation, but the reverse did not occur. In a second experiment in small artificial stream pools, large Gyrinophilus inhibited Eurycea nighttime activity more strongly than small Gryinophilus. The results of a laboratory experiment suggest that as Gyrinophilus grows, its ability to prey on Eurycea increases, becoming asymptotic near 30 mm snout-vent length. Size-specific interactions demonstrated in this study may influence the population dynamics and life history evolution of these species.
4092926|West Indian rock iguanas (genus Cyclura: Iguanidae) are among the most endangered lizards in the world, and many species will need to occupy human-modified and -occupied habitats to escape extinction. The Grand Cayman Blue Iguana, Cyclura lewisi, is critically endangered with fewer than 25 wild iguanas remaining. To aid the conservation of this and other iguanas, we investigated the spatial ecology of a captive-bred, released population of C. lewisi occupying a botanic park on Grand Cayman. Iguanas were monitored using transect walks and radio telemetry during the summer and fall of 2002. Males used larger areas and had greater movement distances than females during tracking periods in the summer but not in the fall. Overall home ranges for both seasons combined were larger in males than in females. Some home-range estimates were greater than any previously reported in Cyclura. Several iguanas, especially males during the breeding season, used areas outside the park where they are vulnerable to increased predation, death by vehicle, and hunting or collection by humans. This, combined with the large average home-range sizes for this species, indicate that future reserves for C. lewisi should be large and surrounded by buffer zones or fences.
10.2307/1564424| The cottonmouth (A. piscivorus) is a semi-aquatic fresh water snake which is closely related to the terrestrial copperhead (A. contortrix). Despite the differences in habitat preference, both species have similarly low integumentary water permeability in the summer. Influx and efflux of water measured between tritiated distilled water and a 1 M NaCl solution were about 20-50 moles/cm<sup>2</sup>h. These are fairly typical values for terrestrial snakes, but abnormally low for fresh water species. A. piscivorus were caught soon after emergence from hibernation, and successive shed skins tested under constant conditions over a five month period showed significant declines in water permeability with a minimum of about 20 moles/cm<sup>2</sup> h in June-September. Newborn A. piscivorus placed in water for three weeks had significantly lower cutaneous water permeabilities than those dehydrated by about 27% of their initial body mass in air. Thus integumentary permeability may vary in response to the state of body fluid hydration. Skin water permeability appears to be controlled by lipids since their extraction causes an enormous increase in influx and efflux. The lipid extracted shed skin of A. piscivorus demonstrated a marked asymmetry in downhill water diffusion, with influx exceeding efflux. 
10.2307/1564392|We studied the annual reproductive and fat body cycles of the oviparous lizard Lacerta lepida in central Spain. Testicular recrudescence started in late summer and testes attained their maximal sizes during the following spring. Females exhibited ovarian growth during spring and most oviposited in July. Fat bodies of males were smallest during the mating period. Female fat body volumes declined during vitellogenesis. No significant decline of lipid stores was detected during the hibernation period (October-March).
10.2307/1564125|Most species of the Australian legless lizards (Pygopodidae) feed primarily on arthropods, but one genus (Lialis) feeds on other lizards, chiefly skinks. Feeding behavior and structure of the skull and jaw muscles were studied in Lialis burtonis, Pygopus lepidopodus and Delma inornata. Pygopus and Delma resemble other gekkotan lizards in these respects, but Lialis is convergent on saurophagous snakes. In particular, Lialis possesses (i) pointed, recurved, hinged teeth, (ii) highly mobile mesokinetic and hypokinetic joints, and (iii) an extraordinarily elongate skull. All of these modifications can be interpreted as adaptations to increase the ability of Lialis to seize, handle and ingest large scincid prey. Further work is required to distinguish among alternative hypotheses on the roles of these cranial modifications.
10.2307/1564832| A study was conducted in 1991 on the population dynamics of the Peaks of Otter salamander, Plethodon hubrichti, a salamander with an extremely limited distribution. From a 10 m  10 m site in central Virginia, a total of 250 P. hubrichti were collected with 42 recaptures. The population size for P. hubrichti was estimated to be 450 salamanders. There was a slightly clumped distribution of salamanders throughout the site. The overall growth rate for young of the year was 0.10 mm/d and 0.08 to 0.11 mm/d for older animals. Surface activity occurred primarily between 2100 and 2300 h in the spring, 2200 and 2400 h in the summer, and 2000 and 2300 h in the fall. There was a positive linear relationship between the percentage of surface-active salamanders and the number of days between rains. Salamanders were often observed on vegetation; the percentage of salamanders on vegetation increased in relation to understory denseness. The median area for home ranges was 0.6 m<sup>2</sup>; with this limited movement, the potential for fragmentation of the population was discussed. An alternative study plot design was considered based upon the clumped distribution and limited movements. The use of three 4 m  4 m plots instead of one 10 m  10 m plot reduced the amount of field time by 20% while still obtaining similar information. 
25599235|Some freshwater turtle species show substrate color-convergence of the dorsal integument, thus facilitating crypsis. Because turtles move among aquatic habitats with variable substrate colors, we tested whether melanization was reversible in juvenile Midland Painted Turtles (Chrysemys picta marginata) and Red-Eared Sliders (Trachemys scripta elegans). We reared individuals as controls (those reared on black or white substrates for 160 days) or as reversal treatments (those reared on black or white substrates for 80 days and then reversed treatments from black to white or white to black). Mean intensity (a measure of total reflectance of the visual spectrum) of the third vertebral scute of the carapace (TVSC) and dorsal head skin (DHS) of black substrate control groups declined (turtles darkened) slightly in C. p. marginata but more so in T. s. elegans. In the white substrate control groups, mean intensity of TVSC and DHS increased (turtles lightened) substantially in both species. During the first 80 days in both species, intensity of the TVSC and DHS of black-white and white-black reversal groups largely paralleled the black and white substrate control groups, respectively. Following reversal of substrates in both species, mean TVSC and DHS intensities of the black-white and white-black reversal groups converged with the white and black substrate control groups, respectively. Therefore, reversal of TVSC and DHS melanization was complete, or nearly complete, by day 160. Therefore, it seems plausible that, in both species, reversible melanization could allow substrate color convergence in juveniles that experience different environments with variable substrate colors.
10.2307/1566175|A new ranid frog of the genus Cacosternum Boulenger, 1887 is described from the semiarid Karoo region of South Africa. This species is the putative sister species of Cacosternum namaquense Werner, 1910, but differs in that the two characteristic longitudinal dorsal glands of the latter species are absent and the musculus cutaneous pectoris is present. The two species differ further in their advertisement calls and substratum preferences. A discussion of the ecology and breeding biology of the two species is presented and their distributions mapped. Observational data suggest that growth to metamorphosis is rapid in these arid-adapted frogs, which are cued to breed primarily by rainfall events, not temperature or seasonality.
40060452|The tadpole of Melanophryne carpish is described based on two specimens found in an arboreal, water-filled bromeliad in humid montane forest at 2,870 m in the eastern Andes of northern Peru (Departamento de San Martn). It differs from all known New World microhylid tadpoles in having unpigmented, keratinized, jaw sheaths. The lower labium is expanded and platelike. The body is depressed with eyes located dorsally, and the spiracle is ventral. The presence of jaw sheaths suggests that the larvae might feed while undergoing development in aerial plants. The tadpole of Nelsonophryne aequatorialis is described based on a series of 17 specimens in Gosner Stages 37-42, which were found in a water canal in a pasture at 2,535 m in southern Ecuador (Departamento de Azuay). These tadpoles lack jaw sheaths and have a ventral spiracle with medial subdivision evident anterior to the gut. The tadpoles of M. carpish and N. aequatorialis are compared to one another, as well as other microhylid larvae. The nature of characters used to describe microhylid larvae, especially their mouthparts, is discussed and clarified. /// Describimos el renacuajo de Melanophryne carpish, basndonos en dos especmenes encontrados en una bromelia arbrea en el bosque hmedo montano de la vertiente amaznica de los Andes del Per (Departamento de San Martn). Este renacuajo difiere de otras larvas de microhlidos del Nuevo Mundo por presentar un pico queratinizado y sin pigmentacin alguna. El labio inferior est expandido y se asemeja a un plato. El cuerpo es aplanado, los ojos estn orientados dorsalmente y el espirculo es ventral. La presencia del pico queratinizado sugiere que la larva se alimenta mientras se desarolla en las plantas hepfitas. Tambin describimos el renacuajo de Nelsonophryne aequatorialis, basndonos en una serie de 17 individuos entre los estados 37 y 42 de Gosner; estos renacuajos fueron encontrados en un canal de agua en un pastizal a 2,535 m de altitud en el sur del Ecuador (Provincia del Azuay). Las larvas carecen de pico y tienen un espirculo con una subdivisn medial que se evidencia en el rea anterior al intestino. Comparamos los renacuajos de M. carpish y N. aequatorialis entre ellos y, de igual manera, con otras larvas de microhlidos. Discutimos y clarificamos el tipo de caracteres utilizados en las descripciones de renacuajos, con nfasis en las caractersticas de la boca.
43287369|Previous studies have shown that brooding Burmese Pythons, Python bivittatus, use endogenous heat production to buffer clutch temperature against suboptimal environmental temperatures and that heat production is correlated with body muscle twitch rate and metabolic rate. Improving our understanding of the patterns of thermogenesis and the mechanisms that regulate it will provide insight into the proposed link between parental care and the evolution of endothermy. We measured body, clutch, and nest temperatures and also muscle twitch rate and metabolic rate to evaluate the buffering capability of thermogenesis during brooding as well as the thermal cues regulating thermogenesis. We found that, as expected, both muscle twitch rate and metabolic rate were correlated negatively with nest temperature. Furthermore, at nest temperature 6 degrees below optimal developmental temperature, females maintained body temperature at the optimal temperature. However, while thermogenesis increased clutch temperature significantly, clutch temperature decreases with decreasing nest temperature. Our results confirm general patterns of facultative thermogenesis reported previously and, in addition, strongly suggest that females use core body temperature to regulate their thermogenic activity.
10.2307/1565895|We monitored emergence, egress, and ingress of a population of Crotalus viridis oreganus from 1982-1990 at a hibernaculum in north central Idaho. Snakes were captured by hand and by drift fence traps throughout their active season. We made 1071 field observations of snakes, of which 493 (235 males, 258 females) were individually identified and 578 were observed but their identity was not determined. Estimated median maximum period of activity was 206 days (1 April to 21 October). Mean date of first emergence was not significantly different for males and females, and there was no significant difference in mean spring emergence date among adult, immature, and newborn snakes. Hand captures of mature males occurred mostly in spring and fall. This pattern differed significantly from that of mature females, who had three peaks of captures: spring, summer, and fall. Captures of snakes in drift fence traps generally began a month later than the first hand captures in spring, but the last captures in fall occurred approximately at the same time for both methods. Most captures of mature males in drift fence traps occurred in summer. We suggest that the hibernaculum was located within the summer feeding range of this population of C. v. oreganus. In addition, we found a longer active season than might be expected based on latitude and altitude of the hibernaculum.
10.2307/1563226| Two undescribed subspecies, one of Leiocephalus lunatus and the other of Leiocephalus personatus, are named from the Repblica Dominicana. The geographic relationships of the new subspecies in reference to those already named are discussed in detail. 
10.2307/1564625|In gape-limited predators, such as snakes, the availability of potential prey is partly determined by swallowing capacity, i.e., maximum ingestible prey size. Relative head size in snakes influences swallowing capacity and has been shown to vary among species, populations, and sexes. Here I examine individual variation in relative head size in a natural population of adders (Vipera berus) and test for an association between relative head size and two important fitness components, individual growth rate and survival. I found a linear relationship between head size and snout-vent length. Individual differences in relative head size, i.e., the residuals from the regression of head length on snout-vent length, were equivalent to that expected, on average, from snout-vent length differences of up to 90 mm. There was a close association between rates of head and body growth and no difference in variability between the two traits. Individual relative head size did not change as a result of different rates of body growth. Snout-vent growth rate increased significantly with increasing relative head size in males, but not in females. In small males, surviving individuals had significantly larger relative head size than those that died, but there was no association between survival and relative head size in large males or in females. I conclude that, by influencing survival and growth rate, relative head size may be associated with individual variation in lifetime reproductive success.
10.2307/1565643|Roughly a third of Bombina v. variegata (Bombinatoridae, Anura) males performed a sex-specific territorial behavior in temporary pools during short-term spawning aggregations. The males rhythmically struck the water with their hind legs, creating wave patterns that demarcated territories which were situated in relatively deep and almost vegetation-free areas of the ponds. In such areas the probability of egg and tadpole development was increased, as compared to the shallow areas of the same pools. Non-territorial males actively searched for females and engaged in intrasexual scramble competition for access to females but rarely performed the water-wave-making behavior. Males performing water-wave-producing behavior were larger and had greater mating success than non-territorial males.
10.2307/1562953| Field work on the high eastern slopes of the Ecuadorian Andes resulted in the collection of specimens of two species of Eleutherodactylus heretofore known only by holotypes from "Equator." The species are redescribed based on fresh material and are compared with other Ecuadorian Eleutherodactylus. Eleutherodactylus devillei is a member of the surdus group, and E. glandulosus is a member of the curtipes group. The specimens of E. devillei are all females and in explanation of the unbalanced sex ratios observed in this and two other species of Andean leptodactylids from Ecuador the hypothesis is advanced that the unbalanced sex ratios may reflect the collectors' bias. Eleutherodactylus chloronotus is named on the basis of material collected in the valley of the Ro Papallacta, Napo Province, Ecuador. Breeding was observed in March but not in July. The nonpolymorphic species occurs at high elevations (2500-3350 meters) and is related to E. devillei and E. surdus. Young specimens characteristically have a bright green dorsal stripe which fades with an increase in size. 
10.2307/1565515|Do the ecological traits of tropical snakes differ from those of temperate-zone species? We examined preserved specimens in museums to quantify body sizes, sexual dimorphism, dietary habits, and reproductive cycles of the proteroglyphous snake lineages endemic to New Guinea and the Solomon Islands for comparison with previously-studied Australian and Asian species. The Melanesian snakes comprise a diverse group in terms of body sizes (adult sizes from <50 cm to >1 meter), body shapes (slender to heavy-bodied), and behavior (nocturnal to diurnal). Males attain larger sizes than do females in Aspidomorphus and Micropechis, but the reverse is true in Loveridgelaps, Salomonelaps, and Toxicocalamus. Aspidomorphus and Toxicocalamus show significant sex differences in relative head length, but species in the other genera do not. All taxa for which we have data on reproductive mode are oviparous, and produce an average of 3 to 9 large eggs per clutch. Relative to maternal body sizes, Melanesian elapids have significantly smaller clutches than do Australian elapids. The two smaller-bodied genera showed dietary specialisation (on earthworms by Toxicocalamus, and on skinks by Aspidomorphus). Toxicocalamus and the Fijian Ogmodon are thus the only Old World elapids to specialise on invertebrate prey. The larger-bodied taxa (Loveridgelaps, Micropechis, Salomonelaps) have more generalised diets, consisting primarily of lizards and frogs. The distinctive features of the Melanesian elapid fauna (low fecundity in all taxa, and earthworm-eating by Toxicocalamus) may reflect adaptations to tropical habitats, but generalizations about the ecological adaptations of tropical snakes remain elusive.
41415291|Quantifying and comparing habitat selection of related, syntopic species may help elucidate how species partition resources and compete. The Florida Bog Frog (Lithobates okaloosae) is endemic to northwestern Florida and is syntopic with the more widely distributed Bronze Frog (Lithobates clamitans clamitans). Our objective was to determine whether these closely related frogs selected different microhabitat characteristics at male calling sites, which in turn may influence successful reproduction or survival. From 2006 to 2008, we quantified microhabitat characteristics of male calling sites used by both species on Eglin Air Force Base, Florida. We created a suite of a priori models and used paired logistic regression to assess each species' habitat selection. Further, we compared habitat characteristics from each species' most highly supported model to directly compare habitat use. Model selection indicated that calling sites for L. okaloosae were best described by habitat features related to microhabitat cover (i.e., submergent vegetation, emergent vegetation, woody debris, frog-level canopy cover, distance to cover), whereas L. c. clamitans selected sites based on features that may be favorable for female oviposition or egg development (i.e., depth, water movement, depth X water movement interaction). Further, L. c. clamitans selected sites with 3.7 times less submergent vegetation and 1.6 times greater water depths than L. okaloosae. At this scale, these ranids select microhabitat differently; however, there is overlap among some selected variables. The habitat characteristics used by L. okaloosae may be associated with fire in the uplands and occasionally in the wetlands.
10.2307/1565385|Male Urosaurus ornatus have polychromatic dewlaps in many populations which have been suggested to be reliable and honest indicators of fighting ability and status. Males with an orange-green dewlap tend to dominate males with an orange dewlap in short-term encounters. Thus, females conceivably could gain access to 'high quality' dominant males by using this secondary sexual character as the basis for mate preference, preferring males with an orange-green dewlap to those with an orange dewlap. To test this hypothesis, individual females were sequentially presented with pairs of size-matched males which differed in dewlap color during each of two field seasons. Of the nineteen females tested, five exhibited a significant preference for a particular color morph. Of these, four preferred orange-green males while one preferred orange males. This finding was not significant. We discuss these results in light of recent studies on the role of dewlap coloration in male-male competition and possible reasons, both biological and experimental, for the lack of positive female choice in this species.
10.2307/1565990|Our objective was to develop a long-term monitoring program that quantified anuran population trends in Rhode Island. Because road-based, manual call surveys are widely used in North America to monitor anurans, we assessed the efficacy of using this method to monitor the impact of anthropogenic change of anuran populations in the state. We quantified interspecific variation in calling chronology, calling frequency, and calling intensity at 31 breeding ponds in southern Rhode Island in 1998. Four distinct sampling periods were needed to monitor the seven species we detected. During a species' peak sampling period, males of some species called only sporadically within our 16-min surveys, such as pickerel frogs (Rana palustris), whereas other species called continually [spring peepers (Pseudacris crucifer) and green frogs (Rana clamitans)]. Based on accumulation curves, we suggest that call surveys in Rhode Island be conducted for 10-min at breeding ponds to have a high probability of detecting all species. Assuming we conduct one call survey annually during the four sampling periods, a power analysis estimated that we need to conduct 283 or 690 10-min surveys annually to detect 10% or 5% annual declines, respectively, to monitor most anurans in Rhode Island. Common species that are widespread and call frequently could be monitored with road-based call surveys. However, rarer species or those that call infrequently would be difficult to monitor with call surveys in Rhode Island; therefore other monitoring methods might be more appropriate.
10.2307/1564593|Sub-zero winter air temperatures are common throughout much of the geographic range of Terrapene c. carolina. To examine the consequences of such conditions, we monitored microhabitat and body temperatures of box turtles in southwestern Ohio over three hibernal seasons. A simulated hibernaculum was constructed and monitored over three seasons to further explore the potential exposure of these turtles to freezing conditions. We obtained multi-year field data for three turtles and single-season data for seven others. All of our turtles hibernated in the woods and all survived hibernation. The depth of hibernacula beneath the soil was variable but never exceeded 14 cm, and averaged only 4-5 cm. The amount of leaf litter varied, but averaged about 8 cm. Snow cover was uncommon, sparse, and ephemeral. The duration of hibernation averaged 142 d and showed no significant annual variation. Some turtles moved to a new hibernation site early or late in the hibernal season, but most did not. The weather pattern varied from year to year, but no winter was atypically severe. Body temperatures approximated, but were sometimes lower than, adjacent soil temperatures. In spite of the considerable insulation provided by the cover of leaf litter, some box turtles experienced body temperatures of -0.3 C or below during each winter of our study. Although freezing can be a significant contributor to winter mortality, these composite data suggest that body freezing is neither a rare nor necessarily a lethal event in the life history of T. carolina.
10.2307/1563259| Three new frogs of the genus Hyla from the Plateau of Maracs, central Bahia, Brazil, are described: H. camposseabrai, distinguished by a small head and elongate body; H. novaisi, closely related to H. senicula; and H. eurydice, belonging to the H. rubra group, and related to H. trachythorax. Males of all three new forms were observed calling. 
10.2307/1563406|This project was designed to determine the status of the American Crocodile in Florida and the factors regulating that population. Estimates of the historical and present range show that the nesting range has been considerably reduced during the 20th Century, including continued reduction in Florida Bay since that region became a part of Everglades National Park in 1950. Crocodiles in Florida Bay and on Key Largo are mound nesters, utilizing well-drained beaches, creek banks and abandoned canal levees as nesting sites. Females usually maintain primary and secondary mounds that are repeatedly used through many years. Average clutch size is 44; about 48% of the eggs hatch in successful nests, while the annual average number of successful nests is 65%. Most nesting failures are due to raccoon predation or failure of eggs to hatch, the latter probably a temperature problem in certain types of nests. The total number of crocodiles in south Florida early in the 20th Century may have been between 1,000 and 2,000 animals, but that total has steadily declined to the present. Based on an estimated 20 breeding females per year and an average 275 hatchling crocodiles produced annually, the 1970s population is estimated to be between 100 and 400 animals. Factors that regulate the population, including low nesting success, human disturbance, and hurricanes, are discussed.
10.2307/1564736|The feeding habits of five species of turtles were studied from June-November 1989 and March-June 1990 in the Guapore River and its tributaries (San Domingos and San Miguel) in Costa Marques, Rondonia, Brazil. Turtles were captured using unbaited fyke nets. Stomach contents were flushed from Podocnemis unifilis (N = 351), Podocnemis expansa (N = 3), Phrynops geoffroanus (N = 31), Phrynops raniceps (N = 5), and Chelus fimbriatus (N = 5). We found no seasonal differences in food consumed by P. unifilis; however, differences were found between the sexes. Females consumed more seeds and fruits, whereas males consumed more shoots and stems. Consumption of seeds and fruits increased linearly as a function of the mean carapace length of P. unifilis, whereas the consumption of fish eaten decreased with increase in mean CL. Seeds and fruits were consumed at higher frequency and volume in flooded forest than in lakes and rivers. We found no difference in types of food consumed between habitats or sexes in P. geoffroanus. Adult Gerridae, Libellulidae larvae, and crustaceans of the family Palaemonidae occurred in high numbers in the stomach contents of P. geoffroanus when water levels were falling, whereas only fruits of Myrtaceae and Sapotaceae were found during the season of rising water levels. Podocnemis expansa consumed primarily plant material, and P. raniceps fed predominantly on Gastropods. Chelus fed on the fish Crenicichla (Cichlidae) and Triportheus (Characidae). /// La alimentacion de cinco especies de quelonios fue estudiada de Junio-Noviembre de 1989 y de Marzo-Junio de 1990, en el Rio Guapore y sus tributarios San Domingos y San Miguel, en Costa Marques, Rondonia, Brasil. Las tortugas fueron capturadas con trampas sin cebo. Los contenidos estomacales fueron obtenidos mediante lavado con agua en Podocnemis unifilis (N = 351), Podocnemis expansa (N = 3), Phrynops geoffroanus (N = 31), Phrynops raniceps (N = 5), y Chelus fimbriatus (N = 5). No se encontraron variaciones estacionales en la alimentacion de P. unifilis, pero si se encontraron diferencias en la alimentacion entre los machos y las hembras. Las semillas y frutos fueron consumidos mas por las hembras, mientras que los tallos y los brotes mas por los machos. Se observo un aumento en el consumo de las semillas y los fruitos en funcion del tamano de las tortugas. El volumen de peces consumidos diminuyo con el tamano de las tortugas. Las semillas y los frutas fueron consumidas mas en la selva inundada que en los lagos o en el rio. No se encontraron diferencias en la alimentacion entre los sexos o entre los tipos de habitats en P. geoffroanus. Los adultos de Gerridae, las larvae de Libellulidae, y los crustaceos (Palaemonidae) se encontraron en altos numeros en los contenidos estomacales de P. geoffroanus durante la epoca seca, sin embargo en la epoca lluviosa, solamente encontramos semillas y frutos de Myrtaceae y Sapotaceae. Podocnemis expansa se alimento principalmente de materia vegetal, mientras que P. raniceps consumio predominantemente Gastropodos. Chelus alimento de peces del genero Crenicichla (Cichlidae) y Triportheus (Characidae).
1566147|We investigated reproductive and hatchling ecology of Gopher Tortoises at Camp Shelby Training Site in southern Mississippi from 1997-2000. Data were collected on nesting, hatching success, hatchling survivorship, and hatchling movements. Nests were deposited between 19 May and 17 July, with a peak of nesting activity between 26 May and 8 June. Mean clutch size was 4.8; mean nest depth was 16 cm; mean distance of nests from a burrow mouth was 46 cm; and eggs in most nests were laid in one or two horizontal planes. Eggs hatched in an average of 88 days. Mean hatching success was 28.8%. We found no significant differences in hatching success, incubation time, and hatchling carapace length and mass, between ruderal and forested sites. Forty-eight hatchlings were radio-tracked to determine survivorship and activity patterns. Hatchlings were tracked for up to 736 days; however, most hatchlings (65%) were killed within 30 days of hatching. Survivorship of hatchlings was low, with only one hatchling still alive at day 736. Most mortality was attributed to mammals (54%), although predation by red imported fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) was considerable (27%). Hatchlings that survived through their first overwintering period moved further from their nest sites than previously reported. Overall the tortoise poputlation had low recruitment rates, which likely influences demography at Camp Shelby.
25599193|The effects of sex, ontogeny, and season on the diet of Ranitomeya virolinensis were studied over one year. The diet of this Andean species is composed mainly of small prey; the most important prey categories according to index of relative importance (IRI) were Acari, Formicidae, Holometabolous larvae, and Collembola. There were no differences in total prey gut content over time assessed in number and volume; however, the diet composition of this Santander Poison Frog changed between dry and wet seasons, with Formicidae, holometabolous larvae and Collembola as the prey categories that contributed most to the difference. Males had fewer prey in their guts than females, but there were no compositional differences between sexes. There was a shift in the importance of prey caused by ontogeny. Mean prey volume increased with body size, whereas the occurrence of Acari and Formicidae varied inversely with SVL. Formicidae was the second most important prey category according to IRI. Therefore it is an important category as has been described previously for other Dendrobatid species. However, its importance fluctuated with the season. Acari was the most significant prey type in R. virolinensis as is the case for other small related species of the genus, although its importance changed with the ontogeny. The diet of this frog had a substantial phylogenetic component because closely related species have similar diets; nevertheless, its diet is clearly affected by other intrinsic and extrinsic factors.
10.2307/1563946|Field, acoustical, morphological, and electrophoretic analyses confirmed that more than 20 years after it began due to pond construction, hybridization between Hyla cinerea and H. gratiosa persists near Auburn, Alabama. Hyla gratiosa males began calling three weeks before H. cinerea or hybrids appeared at the ponds. Electrophoretic analysis demonstrated that the first backcrossed animals found in the breeding season were backcrossed towards H. gratiosa, while f<sub>1</sub> hybrids and H. cinerea-like backcrossed animals appeared later. Morphological and electrophoretic identification of treefrogs generally coincided; however, 38% of individuals morphologically identified as H. cinerea were electrophoretically H. cinerea backcrosses. The data indicate that F<sub>1</sub> hybrids, and possibly backcrossed individuals, may have reduced fitness.
10.2307/1564175| Female reproductive cycles and life history attributes were studied over a two-year period in a population of Chrysemys picta picta in central Virginia, U.S.A. Ovarian cycles were phenologically similar between years despite differences in temperature and rainfall. Vitellogenesis began in August and continued, except during brumation, into the following May. Clutches averaging 4.2 eggs were laid mid-May to July and did not differ between years. Females matured at six years of age and plastron lengths of 105 mm. Several females each year produced two clutches, and although second clutches were not significantly different from first clutches, they averaged slightly larger. Clutch size and egg width were positively correlated with female body size. A multiple regression model explained over 89% of clutch size variation with the independent variables plastron length, egg mass, and month. Between-year differences in egg measurements were insignificant. Several recent generalizations about aspects of freshwater turtle life histories are supported by results of this study. 
10.2307/1564535|We examined effects of predation by larvae of the caddisfly Ptilostomis postica on survival of embryonic and larval wood frogs (Rana sylvatica) and spotted and Jefferson salamanders (Ambystoma maculatum and A. jeffersonianum). Studies of predation were conducted both in the laboratory and natural ponds. We also estimated the tolerance to low pH of P. postica in laboratory trials. There were significant effects of predation by P. postica on overall hatching success of A. maculatum in one laboratory experiment; there was no difference between embryos from opaque versus clear egg mass morphs. Ptilostomis postica preyed on larvae of R. sylvatica and A. jeffersonianum in the laboratory and showed no preference in choice of prey. There were no differences in survival of prey due to density of amphibians or presence or absence of leaf and twig cover. Ptilostomis postica was considerably more tolerant to low pH than the amphibians. We observed no mortality of P. postica in any pH treatment (as low as pH 3.2 for 96 h). Field surveys showed that densities of P. postica were quite variable among ponds and years. Embryos of A. maculatum suffered severe (>90%) mortality due to predation by caddisflies in three ponds, whereas caddisfly predation was not observed in two ponds in which it had been observed in previous years. These results suggest that predatory outbreaks of these acid-tolerant insect larvae can dramatically affect amphibian recruitment, especially in systems already stressed by acidic conditions.
10.2307/1563136| Fifty-nine specimens of Lampropeltis triangulum triangulum were collected from two abandoned quarries in McHenry County, Illinois. The adults had a mean total length (TL) of 83.6 cm (n = 18). Nine females deposited 80 eggs (x = 8.9) which hatched with a mean duration of 56.6 days. It is suggested that similar ecological conditions within this population allowed for a relatively constant hatching date, since development was not influenced by possible artificially delayed oviposition. Viability of the eggs was 72.2%. Mean egg size was 16.4 mm  32 mm. Hatchling L. t. triangulum averaged 24.8 cm (n = 53) TL. Ontogenetic trends in tail length were found. A significant difference (P = 0.05) in hatchling TL was noted among clutches. It is suggested that larger size could possibly give a selective advantage to hatchlings of these clutches. 
10.2307/1565018|I studied the ecology of a discrete population of Graham's crayfish snake (Regina grahami) in northwestern Missouri continuously from 1979-1983. As is true of other natricines, females were significantly longer and heavier than males. Snakes were active from April through early November, with peaks of activity in early spring and late autumn. Regina in this population were mainly diurnal; nocturnal activity was confined primarily to summer months. In comparison with R. grahami from Missouri, snakes in Louisiana began and ended their activity season much earlier and had a unimodal activity pattern. Females in Missouri produced a single brood each year, with a mean brood size of 11.6 (range = 5-16). Larger females produced larger broods. The sex ratio of offspring was skewed in favor of females, and there was evidence of sexual size dimorphism among neonates, with males larger than females in body length but not body mass. All prey items were molting crawfish; feeding frequency was highest among juveniles. Except for sexual dimorphism in offspring size and a biased sex ratio at birth, few major ecological differences were found between R. grahami and other natricine snakes.
10.2307/1565547|The objective of this study was to evaluate the thermal biology of the Mexican lizards Sceloporus aeneus and Sceloporus bicanthalis (Phrynosomatidae). Sceloporus aeneus is oviparous, and has an elevation range of approximately 2400-3000 m. It is replaced at elevations above 3000 m by its viviparous sister species, S. bicanthalis, whose elevational range extends to at least 4250 m. Selected body temperatures (T<sub>sel</sub>) were measured on a laboratory thermal gradient. Mean selected body temperatures of S. aeneus and S. bicanthalis were 35.5 and 34.9 C, respectively. T<sub>sel</sub>'s for these two high elevation species were thus similar to T<sub>sel</sub> of low elevation Sceloporus, an observation that supports the static view of the thermal physiology of Sceloporus lizards. For neither species did selected body temperature vary as a function of sex or reproductive status of females. Body temperatures during activity in the field were not related to the time of year or the reproductive status of females, although male S. bicanthalis at one site had higher body temperatures than females. The mean daily maximum air temperature declined from 22 C at the S. aeneus site at 2800 m, to 19 C at the S. bicanthalis site at 3200 m, and to 8 C at the S. bicanthalis site at 4100 m. Mean body temperatures at these sites were 32, 32, and 29 C, respectively. These species were thus active at body temperatures lower than their "preferred" body temperatures, presumably because of increasingly limited thermal opportunities at high elevations.
10.2307/1563378|Painted turtles sampled from the northern limit of their range exhibited a high average number of shell abnormalities per individual. Distribution of abnormalities on the shell is described. Females had a significantly higher incidence of abnormalities than did males or juveniles. Neither incidence nor number of abnormalities were correlated with size. Reticulate melanism occurred in 19 of the males in the sample.
1566213|The previously recognized subspecies (used here as a heuristic tool) of Phyllorhynchus decurtatus artificially compartmentalize the inconsistent geographic variation in this species. Principal component analysis did not identify consistent geographic groupings of individuals. Regression Analysis revealed a longitudinal cline in number of ventral scales, as well as some weaker clinal trends in other characters. There is extensive overlap in all morphological and color-pattern characters examined between four subspecies of P. decurtatus and their intergrades. There are differences between mean scale and blotch counts between previously recognized subspecies, but they do not represent discrete differences among these taxa. Discriminant Analysis demonstrated the inconsistency in the observed geographic variation in this species. We conclude that P. decurtatus represents a geographically variable species lacking consistent geographic pattern classes.
4498617| Geckos are generally nocturnal and show no sexual dichromatism, and males are usually smaller than females. Ptyodactylus guttatus is an unusual gecko. It is active by day and night and is sexually dichromatic, and males are larger than females. We studied P. guttatus at two sites in southern Israel. Eggs were laid between May and October at Haluqim, where we studied eggs in natural caves. At a second site, Hazeva, P. guttatus occur on buildings at a density of 390 ha. This is 195 times the density that the species occurs in natural habitats. At Hazeva, adult males inhabited large home ranges, which generally overlapped with one or more smaller home ranges of females. The pattern of home-range overlap presumably reflects the opportunities for mating. A path analysis was consistent with the hypothesis that females spaced themselves to gain access to insects (which they eat) attracted to wall lights on the buildings, and that males space themselves to gain access to female mates. We did not find evidence of territoriality in this population but observed males guarding females. Large male body size may provide priority access to mates, and the distinct male dorsal pattern may have arisen because light does not constrain the use of visual signals in these unusual, largely diurnal geckos, to the same extent as it may in nocturnal geckos. 
10.2307/1564737|A new species, Emydoidea hutchisoni, of the heretofore monotypic genus Emydoidea is described from the Late Barstovian Land Mammal Age (Medial Miocene) of the West Valentine Quarry (University of Nebraska State Museum Locality Cr 114), Cherry County, north-central Nebraska. The fossil species differs from the modern one in having a smaller, thicker, less kinetic shell and in other details of individual shell bones. The transition from Emydoidea hutchisoni to the modern species Emydoidea blandingii took place sometime between the Late Barstovian (Medial Miocene) and the Late Hemphillian (Late Miocene). An evolutionary tendency in Emydoidea appears to have been an increase in the size of the shell, a thinning of the shell, and an increase in plastral kinesis.
4092849|We examined aspects of pre- and postprandial metabolism in the diurnally active Western Fence Lizard, Sceloporus occidentalis, by measuring rates of oxygen consumption (
10.2307/1564931|Rana subaquavocalis, a distinctive new leopard frog species of the Rana pipiens complex, is presently known only from the Huachuca Mountains of southeastern Arizona. It can be distinguished from other leopard frog species on the basis of morphology and mating call characteristics. Males are unusual in that they offer the mating call entirely underwater from a depth of more than a meter, making it completely inaudible in the air.
40665007|Amphibian populations, particularly anurans, are declining worldwide, and programs that use calling surveys have been established to monitor anuran populations. Models that describe the environment's influence on calling may be useful to increase detection allowing optimization of surveys. Using an automated recording system, we evaluated the calling activity of Pseudacris crucifer, Pseudacns feriarum, and Rana sphenocephala at an ephemeral wetland in the Piedmont of North Carolina. We used stepwise logistic regression to model environmental variables that significantly affected calling activity. Models revealed that, for P. crucifer, water and air temperature positively influenced calling, whereas day of year, barometric pressure, and light intensity negatively influenced calling. For P. feriarum, air temperature positively influenced calling, and day of year, relative humidity, wind speed, barometric pressure, and light intensity negatively influenced calling. Finally, air temperature positively influenced calling for R. sphenocephala, whereas water temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, and light intensity negatively influenced its calling. Using these results, we developed comprehensive as well as simpler, "user-friendly" models, predicting the best conditions under which to conduct anuran calling surveys. The user-friendly models were tested using previously collected data from calling surveys performed in the same region of North Carolina and found to accurately predict calling activity approximately 70% of the time. We discuss how weather forecast data may be applied to these models to determine the best times to conduct calling surveys and how models such as those developed in this study can be used to interpret data previously collected during amphibian calling surveys.
25599246|Turtle body size and growth rates are affected by several environmental factors, including thermal regimes. Small lentic habitats in northern latitudes often are thermally stratified in summer and, overall, provide a warmer environment than lotic habitats, which usually lack stratification because of flowing current. Several studies indicate that the amount of food consumption and rate of growth of turtles are higher, and body size larger, in warmer environments than cooler habitats. However, few sites have been examined. To better test these patterns, we compared the growth, body size, and population structure of the Western Pond Turtle (Actinemys marmorata) from six small lentic and four lotic habitats in southern Oregon. We found that adult size and growth rates were the same for the four lotic habitats and variable but not consistently greater at lentic sites. There were a high proportion of large turtles at all lotic sites but a variable proportion of sizes among lentic sites. Age structures did not match size structures for most populations because we found many young turtles in these populations but few small-sized turtles. Thus, we caution against reliance on size alone as a measure of population structure or trends in turtle populations. Further, our study suggests that sampling at a relatively large number of sites (e.g., 3 of each habitat type) improves inference of results.
4092980|Comprehensive investigations of thermoregulation have been primarily performed on diurnal lizards. The nocturnal gecko, Hemidactylus turcicus, was used to test a protocol proposed by P. E. Hertz, R. B. Huey, and R. D. Stevenson in 1993. Measures of body temperatures of field active geckos (T
10.2307/1565052|The Glaphyromorphus isolepis species complex is diagnosed and its range identified as northern Australia and the Lesser Sunda Islands. A new species in the taxon from Timor is much larger than the only other two species in the Lesser Sundas: G. antoniorum (type locality, Timor) and G. emigrans (type locality, Sumba). These latter two species can only be readily distinguished by the number of phalanges in the fourth toe of the manus: five in G. emigrans and four in G. antoniorum. Morphometric and reproductive data are provided for G. antoniorum.
10.2307/1564639|I used morphometric data from nesting crocodilians and associated clutch characteristics to develop regression models whereby demographic profiles of the female reproductive segment of populations could be reliably estimated on the basis of clutch mass or clutch size alone. Comparisons were made between nesting populations of temperate American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) and tropical New Guinea crocodiles (Crocodylus novaeguineae). Alligators exhibited a discrete pulse mode of reproduction in contrast to the near continuous flow pattern of the crocodiles. Reproductively active female alligators from widely disjunct harvested populations were significantly smaller than those in a protected population where larger females may have precluded smaller animals from nesting. Most of the nesting female crocodiles were smaller than the size protected by law and were thus exposed to harvest, which presumably led to a higher turnover rate of the breeding segment and a reduced production of hatchlings.
10.2307/1564770|The foods of wild juvenile saltwater crocodiles (Crocodylus porosus) are described, and rates of feeding, nutrient intake and growth are quantified. The size of prey eaten is strongly bimodal: large numbers of small prey (mainly crustaceans) and small numbers of large prey (mainly rats). The nutrient intake levels reflect size related changes in diet (more larger prey in larger crocodiles). The average juvenile diet is characterized by 70-71% water, low fat levels (3.0-4.5%), high protein content (12.7-14.7%), and calcium:phosphorus ratios which decline from 7:1 in animals 300-599 mm total length (TL), to 2:1 in animals 900-1200 mm TL. A mean food conversion rate (wet weight to wet weight) of 82.4% is derived, which is appreciably higher than results obtained from captive crocodilians (17-40%). To maintain similar growth rates, a wild juvenile C. porosus of 682 mm TL requires food equivalent to 4% of its body weight per week, whereas captive counterparts require four times that amount. The physiological mechanisms associated with digestion and assimilation may not function as efficiently when the stomach is repeatedly filled to capacity, as occurs in captivity.
4092905|We present the first report of aural abscesses in Ornate Box Turtles, Terrapene omata, and of an epidermal inclusion cyst in Painted Turtles, Chrysemys picta. These observations were made in a mark-recapture study in eastern Iowa conducted over 25 yr. Detailed records of facial lesions in these species have been maintained for the last 12 yr. The prevalence of aural abscesses is lower than that reported for Eastern Box Turtles, Terrapene carolina. Aural abscesses tend to develop in Ornate Box Turtles at least 13 years old and are more common in females than males. The cysts sometimes spontaneously resolve but, in one instance, returned after being expelled in the field. In Ornate Box Turtles, they arise in the middle ear and displace the tympanum and its cartilaginous inner coat outward. Infection sometimes results in reactive bone formation with distortion of the cranium. A similar appearing lesion in a Painted Turtle arose in the skin covering the tympanum, and a second arose anterior to the ear. These were epidermal inclusion cysts and not abscessed.
10.2307/1565897| A new species of Pristidactylus from the southern Patagonian region of Argentina is described. This new species shows peculiar throat coloration in males, a secondary sex character that is unique in this genus. Different character combinations led to the revalidation of Pristidactylus araucanus from the basaltic districts of Mendoza and Neuqun, Argentina. The conservative retention of the juvenile pattern in adult females, besides other mensural characters in both sexes, indicates its specific identity relative to Pristidactylus scapulatus and Pristidactylus fasciatus. General considerations of the evolutionary history of the genus Pristidactylus are reviewed and a key to the Argentinean taxa is provided. 
10.2307/1563139|An ethogram of the blue spiny lizard, Sceloporus cyanogenys, was derived from laboratory studies of feral populations in various enclosures designed to maximize the expression of behavior patterns by providing a diversity of natural and semi-natural environmental cues. A behavior inventory enumerating and defining 76 distinctive postures, orientations, and simple movements is presented and then inventory units are grouped into functional categories for discussion. Thermoregulatory behavior was divided into basking and thermal comfort patterns. Perching behavior was characterized by distinctive postures which suggested a readiness to act rapidly. Both perching and basking behavior took place not only at exposed sites but also within a shelter or at its inner threshold. Predatory behavior consisted of two distinct strategies: perch feeding in which lizards fed opportunistically on moving prey, and foraging, in which lizards would move in the environment investigating non-moving potential prey. Feeding was generally inertial but supplemented with shaking and scraping movements when a lizard was contending with large prey. Courtship behavior and mating were typical of iguanid lizards but courtship included an unusual tail-grip "restraint" by a male of a retreating female. "Assertive" and "aggressive" displays could be distinguished by both form and context.
4092896|Snakes are frequent predators of eggs and nestlings, but general patterns of snake predation at bird nests are not well known. We reviewed 84 video observations of snakes visiting nests of four songbird species in Texas and Missouri to identify patterns of predatory behavior. Eastern Ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta) were the most common species, and coachwhips, racers, kingsnakes, and a garter snake also were recorded. Snakes almost always removed all nest contents during a single visit but sometimes force-fledged nestlings that were old enough to escape. During many visits late in the nestling period, snakes pinned their prey in the nest while feeding, thereby preventing many of the young from escaping. Snakes spent an average of 13 min and 23 sec at each nest (1 min and 52 sec before striking), and the duration of nocturnal visits exceeded the duration of diurnal visits. Snakes sometimes returned to empty nests after they caused failure but only after nestlings were depredated. Visits by Texas Ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta lindheimeri) were mostly nocturnal, whereas visits by Black Ratsnakes (Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta), coachwhips, racers, and kingsnakes were diurnal. Snake predation increased as the nesting cycle progressed with the highest rate occurring in the last few days of the nestling period. Increased predation at the end of the nestling period suggests that avian activity (i.e., feeding visits, nest defense, and nestling movement) contributes to the foraging success of snakes at our sites.
10.2307/1563808| Five adult timber rattlesnakes (Crotalus horridus) were tracked using temperature-sensitive radio transmitters during their movements away from a den and on summer habitat. The snakes dispersed a mean of 504 m (  280 m,  1400 m) and gained a mean of 102 m in elevation. One gravid female was relatively sedentary (39 m/move) between 20 June-5 August. Non-gravid females moved farther. Immediately after ecdysis movements of three snakes were suddenly extensive. Two females appeared to use the same migratory routes returning to the den in autumn as they did at spring egress. Minimum and maximum voluntary temperatures were 12.5 and 33.3C, respectively. The overall mean body temperature (T<sub>B</sub>) was 26.9C (N = 157). On the surface in clear weather, T<sub>B</sub> averaged 30.1C while mean air temperature (T<sub>A</sub>) was 26.0 and substrate (T<sub>S</sub>) 20.6C. On the surface in cloudy weather and underground in clear weather, mean T<sub>B</sub> was 27.8C. Snakes underground in cloudy weather had a mean T<sub>B</sub> of 20.2C, not significantly different from mean T<sub>A</sub> and T<sub>S</sub>. Thermoregulation was accomplished by moving in and out of rock crevices and by moving slightly within the sunshade interface in grassy-shrub locations. Body color, reproductive condition, stage of ecdysis, and feeding are four factors that may have important effects on thermal relationships of C. horridus. Controlled experiments to examine these factors are needed. 
10.2307/1565423|In order to characterize the differences in chemical composition between male and female integument, shed skins of corn snakes (Elaphe guttata guttata) were sequentially extracted with hexane, dichloromethane, and methanol. Nonpolar (hexane) and polar (methanol) organic solvents extracted greater mass from male than female shed skins. A comparative analysis of the fatty acid composition of hexane extracts indicated no significant sexual differences in the chemical composition of nonpolar lipids found in the shed skins. Within the detection limits of this analysis, it is unlikely that corn snakes use nonpolar lipids for sex identification during the non-breeding season, because the fatty acid composition of the nonpolar fraction of male shed skins is only slightly different than female corn snakes.
10.2307/1563495|A review of various solutions proposed by investigators of the coral snake mimic problem precedes a suggested alternative explanation. Pseudomimicry is the term applied to the condition under which similar color patterns have arisen independently of natural selection in unrelated sympatric species occupying similar habitats. It is further suggested that the resemblances among Micrurus fulvius, Cemophora coccinea, and Lampropeltis triangulum are an example of pseudomimicry.
43287386|Frog calls are often stereotyped and only a few species are known to vary the emission of a single note or call greatly. Calls of Physalaemus spiniger were recorded in the field and analyzed in the laboratory. We recognized and describe five different notes or calls: advertisement, territorial, fighting, release, and amplexus. These notes differ in duration, number of pulses per call, and fundamental frequency (Fh1). There was a great variation in the spectral structure and frequency modulation of the advertisement call, which had up to six harmonic frequencies (H). Of these, one to three were visible and two to three were estimated. The greatest sound intensity was recorded in H3 (1.27 kHz) and H4 (1.68 kHz). The note had an average duration of 237.63 ms and 371.57 pulses/note. The advertisement note (A) may occur in conjunction with the territorial note (T), in this case by changing its physical characteristics. The frequency modulations in the notes were both ascendant and descendant and were located anywhere in the note. We identified at least 22 different ways in which the advertisement call was emitted. The function of this variation and the observed patterns are unclear; however, this species is an excellent model for investigating call parameters as only two other species of frogs are known to possess such extensive vocal repertoires.
10.2307/1564468|Differences in diets among Amazonian crocodilians can largely be related to habitat selection. Caiman crocodilus, Melanosuchus niger and Paleosuchus palpebrosus, which occur around rivers and lakes have similar diets: small individuals eat invertebrates and large individuals eat invertebrates and fish. Juvenile Paleosuchus trigonatus, which live in small forest streams, eat larger numbers of terrestrial vertebrates than other similar-sized crocodilians. Large P. trigonatus eat many snakes and mammals but few fish. Mean, minimum, and maximum sizes of most prey types increase with crocodilian size for all species. There is an inverse relationship between the number of terrestrial invertebrates eaten and the number of fish eaten by different size classes of Caiman crocodilus, suggesting that mutually exclusive foraging modes are used for those prey categories.
23327167|Urban areas can contain habitat that supports amphibian populations, such as artificial ponds. We sampled a less than 3-m 2 pond in the city of Oviedo (North Iberia) and found abundant populations of two anurans (Alytes obstetricans, Discoglossus galganoi) and one urodele (Lissotriton helveticus). The three species present at the urban site exhibited high diversity in their mitochondrial DNA, comparable to levels found for populations in nearby rural areas that contained more and larger water bodies. Our results suggest that urban ponds should be incorporated into amphibian conservation plans.
10.2307/1566022|An experimental study was carried out to determine whether self and conspecific chemical recognition occurs in Liolaemus bellii, a Tropidurid lizard from Central Chile. Experiments were performed during the autumn and the spring. Using the number of tongue flicks as an indicator of discrimination, it was found that L. bellii showed both self and conspecific chemical recognition. Lizards recognized their own territories, and conspecific chemical recognition showed seasonal changes. During autumn, lizards showed higher exploratory behavior (higher numbers of tongue flicks and motion time) than in spring, and female enclosures elicited in males higher numbers of tongue flicks. Similar results were previously found in other Liolaemus species from a different habitat. The information available at present for Liolaemus suggests that recognition of own territory is more important than recognition of conspecifics, and the latter seems to be associated mainly to the reproductive season. Therefore, conspecific and self-chemical recognition seem to be independent of the habitat used by the species, although habitat could modulate the use of chemical signals.
10.2307/1565927|Phrynosoma orbiculare bears one pair of horns on the midline parietal bone (P<sub>2</sub>), two pairs on each squamosal bone (S<sub>1</sub> and S<sub>2</sub>), and one horn on each frontal bone (F<sub>0</sub>). Reduced major axis (RMA) regression statistics for the relationship of each horn to head length, and of head length to body length, were estimated and compared for significant differences in slopes, size at smallest head length, and size at greatest head length. F<sub>0</sub> and P<sub>2</sub> increase at different but low rates, but S<sub>1</sub> and S<sub>2</sub> grow at a significantly faster rate and approach P<sub>2</sub> length toward the upper end of the head length range. This suggests an adaptive role for the cranial horn array in adult lizards. No sexual differences were found in these relationships, but there were significant subspecific differences in the relationships of head length to body length and of S<sub>1</sub> and S<sub>2</sub> to head length. This allometry of the cranial horn array is hypothesized to represent a plesiomorphic condition among the horned phrynosomatids.
43287375|Plethodontid salamanders in general and the genus Desmognathus in particular exhibit extreme morphological conservatism and rampant homoplasy so that cryptic lineages are common. In spite of this, multivariate morphometric analysis has proven a useful tool in detecting subtle morphological differences among cryptic forms. We used this technique to investigate subtle differences in morphology among populations of Desmognathus quadramaculatus (Black-bellied Salamander) and its cryptic congener, Desmognathus folkertsi (Dwarf Blackbellied Salamander). We found significant morphological variation among five populations of D. quadramaculatus but not between two populations of D. folkertsi. We also determined there to be a significant, albeit weak, correlation between genetic distance and morphological (Mahalanobis) distance. Given the relationship between genetic and morphological distance, the high morphological variation within D. quadramaculatus, relative to that within D. folkertsi, is not surprising. What is surprising is the significant amount of morphological divergence among populations of D. quadramaculatus within the same stream system. This result indicates that morphological variables may be more labile than is generally believed given the morphological conservatism of Desmognathus. While two cryptic species such as these might be expected to exhibit character displacement in morphology in areas of sympatry, we found no evidence of this.
40060537|According to the venom-metering hypothesis, snakes have the cognitive (decision-making) capacity to control, or meter, how much venom is ejected from the fangs. Critics of venom metering have argued, largely from absence of evidence, that differential venom gland contraction in snakes is trivial or nonexistent. To address this criticism, we videotaped the defensive bites of Naja nigricollis nigricollis during routine venom extractions. Mean duration of venom flow during a single pulse from a fang, when biting (0.35 sec) was significantly longer than that reported previously for spitting (0.066 sec). Moreover, mean mass of venom expended per pulse from a fang during biting (juveniles: 14.2 mg; adults: 188 mg) significantly exceeded that reported for spitting (1.85 mg). During a single bite, both juveniles and adults delivered venom via pulses that were single, multiple (each associated with a jaw contraction), unilateral (from one fang), or bilateral (from both fangs more or less simultaneously). Although juveniles and adults exhibited similar venom flow duration, adults delivered significantly more venom during biting at significantly greater rates of venom flow through the fang. Because venom gland contraction provides the only propulsive force for venom expulsion, our results confirm that N. n. nigricollis meters larger quantities of venom during biting than spitting via differential venom gland contraction. Because of the high degree of functional convergence between venom delivery systems of elapids (including Spitting Cobras) and viperids (the other large family of venomous snakes), the capacity for differential venom gland contraction may be widespread among snakes.
10.2307/1565511|Three species of Anolis lizards were introduced in this century to Bermuda, an archipelago formerly lacking anoles. A previous study conducted in the early 1960s indicated that A. grahami, the first species introduced, rapidly expanded over almost all of the archipelago. By contrast, the other two species had only attained limited ranges by 1963. I surveyed the extent of range expansion by all three species in 1991 and studied habitat use and behavioral interactions. All three species have been able to expand their ranges into areas occupied by other species, but the rate of range expansion has been relatively slow. The species are ecologically similar, but subtle differences in habitat use exist. Behavioral interactions indicate that A. grahami aggressively responds to conspecifics, displays less aggressively to A. extremus, and flees from the larger A. leachi.
10.2307/1563691|A new species of Leptodactylus is described from cloud forest habitats in Honduras. This new species may be distinguished from other members of the genus Leptodactylus by the combination of the presence of two thumb spines and strongly hypertrophied forelimbs in adult males, a dark interorbital blotch, postorbital bar, and lateral body stripe, a smooth dorsum, and the absence of chest spines, dorsolateral folds, and lateral toe fringes. It occurs at the highest known elevation of any member of the genus.
10.2307/1564352|The behavior of Anolis auratus, a Panamanian grass anole, was observed in a natural population and in an outdoor enclosure at a natural density. Adult males were either territorial or non-territorial. Territorial adult males gave challenge displays to other individuals and excluded other adult males if they attempted to give challenge displays in return. Males which gave a head nod display (little or no dewlap extension) in response to the initial challenge display were tolerated by the territorial male as were females and immatures. An outdoor arena was used to stage a series of nine encounters between pairs of adult males of equal size. The interactions were characterized by one or more agonistic contests, and a dominant/subordinate relationship was usually established within a few hours. The dominant and subordinate males behaved, respectively, like the territorial and non-territorial males observed in the natural population. The presence of subordinate adult males within the territories of territorial adult males during the breeding season has not been previously reported for any Anolis species. The existence of this social structure is attributed to aspects of the physical structure and to the transient nature of the grass habitat.
10.2307/1563851|A mathematical relationship was established between the widths of gopher tortoise burrows and the carapace lengths of their occupants. This relationship was used with burrow width measurements taken in 13 northern Florida tortoise colonies to provide an approximation of the size class composition and the average reproductive success of the colonies.
10.2307/1563905|A second species of the southwest Pacific island skink genus Geomyersia is described from Manus Island. The species is compared in detail with its congener in the Solomon Islands and with superficially similar species in the New Guinea-Solomon Islands region. A comprehensive diagnosis of the genus is given and its distribution is discussed.
10.2307/1565574|The theoretical construct of an optimal offspring size remains widely cited in life history literature, despite the regular failure of the central prediction of that theory, that offspring size should not vary within populations. Here we used data from 77 litters collected over four years from captive and free-living northern water snakes (Nerodia sipedon) to test several hypotheses proposed to explain within-population variation in offspring size. Neonate mass varied from 1.5 to 6.1 g. Neonate mass did not increase as a simple function of maternal size, contrary to the hypothesis that maternal body size physically constrains offspring size. Holding litter size constant, larger females and females in better condition produced larger offspring. The variance in neonate size greatly exceeded the maximum that could be accounted for by the fractional-offspring hypothesis. We found some evidence that females that acquire food during the protracted period of follicular enlargement can invest that energy into those follicles, and thus increase offspring size. We found no evidence that embryos trade off condition with body size when they are born earlier. The strongest correlate of offspring size was litter size: offspring were smaller in larger litters. Because larger litters were born earlier, we propose that large females (i.e., those producing large litters) may have an energetic advantage that allows them to ovulate earlier. If early birth increases neonate fitness, then a small offspring born early may have the same fitness as a larger offspring born later, thereby allowing larger females to trade off offspring size against offspring number. Collectively, our results suggest that offspring size in northern water snakes varies as a consequence of constraints imposed by reproductive physiology, and potentially by adaptive maternal manipulation of offspring size. Understanding why offspring size varies is more likely to be advanced by an approach that incorporates both these types of factors, while discarding the construct of optimal offspring size.
10.2307/1566028|Twelve adult and 25 larval Yosemite toad (Bufo canorus) specimens from the eastern Sierra Nevada of California were examined histologically for evidence of infectious, toxicological, and degenerative diseases. The preserved toads were selected from 21 that had been salvaged or collected during a die-off in 1976-1979 that immediately preceded a population decline. Causes of death of four toads were determined histologically; clinical signs and field observations suggested causes of death of three more. Four toads died of infectious diseases, including chytridiomycosis of the skin (N = 1), bacillary septicemia (N = 2), and combined chytridiomycosis and bacterial septicemia (N = 1). Infections by a funguslike organism (Dermosporidium penneri), renal myxozoa (Leptotheca ohlmacheri), larval Rhabdias, various gastrointestinal nematodes, urinary bladder flukes, and lung flukes were detected in five specimens. No evidence of degenerative diseases, virus infections, or intoxications was found. The variety of lethal diseases and our inability to determine the causes of death of five specimens suggests that one or more histologically undetectable diseases or intoxications may have also contributed to the deaths and population decline.
23326902|The histological characteristics of the gonads and paramesonephric ducts were investigated to allow a quantitative distinction among male, female, and intersex hatchling Green Sea Turtles (Chelonia mydas) from peninsular Malaysia. Hatchling sexes were identified initially as either males or females based on the incubation temperatures, and intersex hatchlings were collected from in situ nests. Traditionally, this assignment is confirmed by qualitative visual assessment of histological sections of the gonads and paramesonephric ducts. We describe a quantitative method for measuring these parameters to distinguish hatchling sex. The thickness of the paramesonephric duct epithelium area, the height of the nucleus in cells within the gonadal cortical epithelium, and the width of the gonadal ridge were measured in sections from 116 hatchlings. Upon examination of the histological material, hatchlings identified initially by incubation temperature as females were found to have significantly thicker paramesonephric duct epithelium and greater gonadal ridge width and cortical epithelium nuclear height compared with hatchlings identified as males. In addition, some hatchlings demonstrated histological characteristics of both sexes (designated here as intersex hatchlings) in some or all of the traditional histological sexing criteria. The "intersex" group could be divided into two subgroups by the quantitative measurements described here. Using this method, hatchlings could be classified as either males, females, or intersexes with a male-appearing gonad and female-appearing duct or a female-appearing gonad and male-appearing duct. The method outlined here provides a quantitative way to distinguish sex and provides insight in intersex grouping in hatchling C. mydas.
1566066|Sex ratio, group composition, and male spacing were studied in Cordylus macropholis, a terrestrial lizard that inhabits the succulent Euphorbia caput-medusae. Repetitive sampling of two populations revealed highly female-biased sex ratios for adult, as well as juvenile size classes. The near 1:1 ratio observed in the smallest size class, however, suggests that the sex-ratio is 1:1 at birth. Sex ratio was found to relate positively to population density. Among aggregations containing more than one adult individual, a composition consisting of a male/female pair with or without juveniles, was the most common. Few cases were recorded where an adult male shared a plant shelter with more than one adult female or with another adult male. Adult males were randomly spaced among plants, both in and outside the mating season. Data on group structure and male spacing, especially the lack of clear differences between the mating and the nonmating season, provide little indication that male territoriality may be the cause of the highly female-biased sex ratio recorded for C. macropholis in the E. caput-medusae habitat.
10.2307/1565716|We sampled movements and microhabitat use of cane toads (Bufo marinus), as well as environmental variables (soil moisture, air temperature, and relative humidity), monthly for 16 months. Toads emerged significantly more often at night during the wet months (February-May) compared to the dry months (September-December). Distance moved per night increased with soil moisture initially, but asymptoted at 0.4-0.5 ml/g dry wt. Minimum convex polygon areas fitted to toad locations were significantly larger during January-April (wet) than September-December (dry). Toads used daily shelters similar to those described for other terrestrial amphibians, but there were significant differences between months in the types of shelter used. Rock crevices were used as shelters throughout the year, but toads sheltered in hollow trees mainly in the drier months and in dense vegetation in the wetter months. When emerging at night, toads remained under canopy cover in the drier months, but increasingly moved in the open grass as conditions became wetter. Occasionally, toads returned to the same shelter site after activity at night, but the frequency of homing was not greater than expected from a random model. Seasonal patterns in movement and microhabitat use were primarily related to soil moisture, rather than air temperature or relative humidity, and compared to their native range in South and Central America, toads were more active and moved further at night.
10.2307/1562836| All Galapagos green turtles are referred to the subspecies Chelonia mydas agassizi; the subspecies carrinegra is considered invalid. The so-called 'yellow' turtle is considered to be a sterile mutant form of agassizi. Nesting green turtles were tagged on James and Indefatigable Islands. The carapace length of nesting females varied from 28 to 37 inches. The mean clutch size was 89.9 on James Island and 71.4 eggs on Indefatigable; hatchlings average 46.2 mm in carapace length. The survival prospects of Galapagos green turtles appear good. The hawksbill turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) is the only other sea turtle known from the Galapagos, and is rare. 
10.2307/1563546|The effect of variable and constant temperature regimes on skin shedding frequency has been studied in Tokay geckos of Northern and Southern Asian origin. At temperatures of 32 C and above, shedding cycle duration shows a minimum of approximately 17-19 days, but at lower temperatures, cycle length increases steadily. No evidence of circannual rhythms in shedding behavior has been found. We conclude that shedding frequency is a function of general metabolic status in tokays.
10.2307/1564680|The reproductive cycle of the habu, Trimeresurus flavoviridis, was annual. Vitellogenesis and mating began in late April, and both ovulation and parturition occurred in early June. After parturition, no sperm was found in the genital tract except for the infraepithelial alveolar glands of the transition region. Vitellogenesis progressed in parallel with an increase in serum estradiol. The level of estradiol fell abruptly at the time of ovulation. An immunohistological study by anti-estradiol antibody suggested that estradiol is synthesized in the adrenals. FSH in the hypophysis was recognized by immunohistological staining in October. LH in the hypophysis occurred from July to October. The other pituitary hormones, GH, ACTH, and prolactin also exhibited seasonal changes.
10.2307/1562695|Hearts of 14 species of snakes were studied. There is an apparent correlation between the habits of a snake and the muscularity and architecture of its ventricle. Active and aggressive snakes have a compact and muscular type of ventricle; less active and non-aggressive snakes have a loose and less muscular type of ventricle; heavy-bodied and sluggish snakes have a moderately muscular or intermediate type of ventricle. The muscular architecture of the ventricle also shows corresponding differences.
10.2307/1563207|A population of Xantusia vigilis was examined at the northwest extremity of its total range with special attention directed toward local distribution, habitat, and microhabitat utilization. The population appears to be restricted to the Chalone Creek drainage system (a branch of the Salinas River) particularly in associations with massive rhyolite outcroppings. Ecologically, Pinnacles Xantusia appear to be restricted entirely to the Foothill Woodland Community. In terms of ground cover utilization, they are also restricted at lower elevations to moderately large and well fissured objects, especially the logs of Pinus sabiniana. However, at elevations above 3000 ft (900 m), small stones and wood fragments only a few inches in diameter were utilized. Comparisons were made with ecological reports on this species in the Mojave Desert. It was found that the Joshua Tree Woodland has much in common with Foothill Woodland in terms of climate, slope, vegetation and fauna. It was further revealed that desert populations of Xantusia cease to be restricted to massive ground cover above 5000 ft (1500 m). The authors suggest that above 3000 ft in the Coast Ranges and 5000 ft in the Mojave Desert the dangers of sterility and death due to heat stress are sufficiently reduced to allow Xantusia the opportunity of utilizing much smaller objects as ground cover.
10.2307/1564226|The annual ovarian cycle of the frog Rana ridibunda in northern Greece was studied from 1986 to 1988. Young females reached sexual maturity at a mass of 22-25 g and SVL of 62-66 mm. The maximum ovarian mass occurred in March and the minimum in August. Mass changes of the oviducts followed those shown by the ovaries. Three waves of oviposition were observed in a breeding season, and clutch size ranged from 500-7000 ova in the first wave of oviposition. The smallest ovarian follicles were observed in August and the largest in late February to early March. Females oviposit when the mass of their ovaries is at least 5% of the total body mass. Ovarian mass, clutch size, and ovum size were positively correlated with body mass. The masses of the fat body and liver peak in autumn at the onset of hibernation, and were reduced in spring after oviposition. A pause in the reproductive events was observed only in December and January.
10.2307/1564996| A new species of salamander of the genus Bolitoglossa is described from a cloud forest locality in northwestern Honduras. Its combination of strongly sexually dimorphic color patterns, extensively webbed feet that lack subdigital pads, and well-developed terminal phalangeal elements with most terminal phalanges expanded distally easily distinguish the new species from all other species of the Bolitoglossa beta assemblage. The new species cannot be confidently placed into any of the recognized species groups of Bolitoglossa, but may be most closely related to B. cuchumatana and B. helmrichi. /// Se describe una especie nueva de salamandra del genero Bolitoglossa de una localidad de bosque nublado en el noroeste de Honduras. Se distingue fcilmente de los otros miembros del Bolitoglossa beta por la combinacin de patrones de color fuertemente dimrficos sexualmente, membranas indigitales extensas que faltan cojinetes subdigitales y elementos terminales de los falanges bien desarrollodos con la mayora de los falanges terminales expandidas distalmente. La especie nueva no puede ser puesta dentro de ningn grupo de especies reconocido des Bolitoglossa, pero quizs es mas cercanamente relacionado a B. cuchumatana y B. helmrichi. 
10.2307/1562773|Desmognathus f. fuscus and Desmognathus o. ochrophaeus were individually desiccated to a critical activity point in an air flow apparatus. In both species the rate of water loss was inversely correlated with body weight, the time to reach the critical activity point (CAP) was positively correlated with body weight, and tolerance to water loss (per cent initial body water lost at the CAP) was positively correlated with body weight. Interspecific comparisons revealed that D. f. fuscus of larger mean body size lost water significantly slower than D. o. ochrophaeus, showed no significant difference in time to the CAP than D. o. ochrophaeus and tolerated significantly less body water loss than D. o. ochrophaeus. When groups of similar mean body size were compared, D. f. fuscus lost water at approximately the same rate as D. o. ochrophaeus, took a significantly shorter time to reach the CAP and showed significantly less tolerance to water loss than the more terrestrial D. o. ochrophaeus.
10.2307/1564706|Reproductive and nesting ecology of Chirixalus eiffingeri was studied in two bamboo tree habitats in the Chitou area, Taiwan. Water-filled cups in cut bamboo were visited weekly between 0900-1700. Oviposition site characteristics, clutch size, and snout-vent length of male frogs, if present, were recorded. 205 egg clutches were deposited between 21 February, and 5 August 1994. 39% of the bamboo cups were used as deposition sites, and one third of used cups were reused at least once. Complete mortality occured in 21.5% of the clutches, and fungal infections, flooding, dehydration, and predation were sources of mortality. Frogs chose higher bamboo trunks with less vegetative cover and deeper cups with more water for nesting, suggesting that water availability was the most important determinant of oviposition site selection. Egg clutches that were deposited in short bamboo trunks (BTH) with large hole diameters (ID) were more likely to produce tadpoles. In a laboratory experiment, tadpoles that were fed eggs increased in mass throughout the study period, whereas unfed tadpoles did not grow at all. Tadpoles consumed an average of 87 eggs from hatching to metamorphosis (Gosner stage 41), suggesting that the cost for maternal brood care is expensive.
4498529|We review the geographic distribution of diploid and tetraploid populations of the Odontophrynus americanus species complex. Ploidy was determined using chromosome count as well as erythrocyte size. We found a complex geographic pattern of populations with different ploidy, including areas of syntopy and sympatry. The tetraploid 0. americanus presents three disjunct population groups, which were isolated from one another by diploid populations. One of these tetraploid groups is distributed in central and eastern Argentina, southern Brazil, southern Paraguay, and Uruguay, with the other two population groups of the tetraploid 0. americanus inhabiting southeastern Brazil, and northwestern Argentina respectively. We extend the distribution of both diploid Odontophrynus lavillai and Odontophrynus cordobae, and we present new records of three more allopatric diploid population groups, referred to here as Odontophrynus sp. Some of these population groups are associated with biogeographic regions. The karyotypes of the three currently known taxa of the 0. americanus species complex are given. We report the occurrence of a naturally occurring triploid specimen and the first occurrence of B-chromosomes in the genus. Our review indicates that there is a complex distribution pattern of populations of different ploidy, including areas of syntopy and sympatry, and cytogenetic variability. This could indicate the presence of more species, occurrence of auto and allopolyploidy, and multiple origins of tetraploidy.
10.2307/1562723|The amounts and fatty acid composition of the main lipid classes were determined for pre- and post-ovulatory oocytes of the unisexual lizard Cnemidophorus uniparens. Lipid weight/dry weight ratios (0.29 to 0.38) remained fairly constant throughout vitellogenesis. Triglyceride was the major lipid class at all stages of oogenesis and in oviducal eggs (52.2 to 86.0%), with phospholipids next in abundance (11.7 to 18.6%). Also present were cholesteryl esters, free fatty acids, diglycerides, and free cholesterol. Oleic acid (18:1), palmitic acid (16:0), and linoleic acid (18:2) were the major components of triglycerides and phospholipids throughout oocyte development. The proportion of unsaturated fatty acids in the triglycerides (64.0 to 69.5%) are discussed in relation to the thermal regime, mode of reproduction, and diet of C. uniparens.
25599225|Descriptions of the advertisement call are provided for three species of arthroleptid frogs from Malawi. The call of Arthroleptis reichei consists of the irregular repetition of one single whistling note with a frequency range of 1,600-4,000 Hz and a dominant frequency of 3,400-3,500 Hz. Although pulses are not clearly recognizable, notes show an evident subunit structure. The call of A. stenodactylus consists of the regular repetition of one single unpulsed whistling note with a frequency range from 2,700-4,900 and a dominant frequency of 3,200-3,400 Hz. The call of A. xenodactyloides consists of the regular and virtually endless repetition of one single clearly pulsed note with a frequency range of 4,900-7,500 and a dominant frequency of 6,300-6,500 Hz. On the basis of the available published data, two different call patterns are preliminarily recognizable in south and eastern African species belonging to Arthroleptis: (1) the repetition of one single unpulsed whistling-like note at low-medium (1,600-4,900 Hz) frequencies; and (2) the repetition of single pulsed cricket-like note at medium-high (4,600-7,500 Hz) frequencies.
10.2307/1564250|Examination of contact areas between sibling species of the Anolis distichus complex at several montane sites in the Sierra de Baoruco, Dominican Republic, and at those nearby lowland localities reported by T. P. Webster, indicates a multiplicity of interactions between species in this complex. Anolis distichus and A. brevirostris exhibit diverse interactions at the montane localities, including parapatry with dewlap similarity, syntopy with dewlap similarity, and sympatry with marked dewlap difference. No evidence of hybridization between the two species was found at any montane site. At the two lowland localities, where interspecific difference in dewlap coloration was either variable or minimal, hybridization between Anolis distichus and A. brevirostris was common, with hybrids representing 18 and 31% of the two samples. A difference in dewlap coloration appears to be only one of several factors required for proper species recognition. Habitat and behavioral differences, as well as historical factors, also influence the present interactions between the two species.
23327162|We describe Incilius aurarius sp. nov., a new species of toad known from several localities on the humid Caribbean slopes of the Sierra de los Cuchumatanes in Huehuetenango, Guatemala, and adjacent highlands of Chiapas, Mexico. This species previously has been confused with populations of Incilius valliceps and Incilius macrocristatus. The new species is morphologically similar to the Mexican species I. macrocristatus but differs by having less prominent crests, a distinctive golden coloration in the males, and the absence of vocal slits.
10.2307/1563849|Concentrations of blood protein and urea were measured in captive Sternotherus carinatus, S. depressus, S. minor and S. odoratus. Different levels of plasma urea were observed comparing S. minor and S. depressus to S. odoratus. Interspecific variation in total plasma protein was not observed. Fasted S. odoratus showed decreased plasma urea and protein concentrations compared to all turtles which were fed. Only one Sternotherus individual had a higher concentration of urea in plasma compared to bladder urine.
10.2307/1563551|Techniques for re-locating and obtaining body temperatures from reptiles in the field are discussed. In most cases commercial equipment is preferable to that built by the investigator. However, three simplified circuits are presented: an LED flasher for nocturnal studies, an FM-band temperature telemeter, and a 27 MHz band beacon transmitter.
1565760| At its southwestern range limit in southeastern Arizona, the Desert Box Turtle Terrapene ornata luteola, takes refuge in subterranean mammal burrows, primarily those of the Kangaroo Rat Dipodomys spectabilis, from November through June. I inferred temporal and physiological characteristics of turtles in burrows from temperatures collected with miniature data loggers buried in the soil and attached to turtles from August 2001 through June 2003. In the fall, entrance into hibernation varied among individual turtles and between years from 18 October to 6 December. Mean daily body temperatures at the beginning of hibernation were about 14-18C. From December through February, body temperatures averaged about 9C and were slightly less than and highly correlated with the 30-cm soil temperature. By April, body temperatures of turtles approached levels exhibited by surface-active turtles (minimum approximately 18C for moving turtles) but turtles did not emerge from burrows until the summer monsoons began about three months later. Thus, the five-month hibernation period of T. o. luteola was contiguous with a three-month estivation period for a total annual period of subterranean refuge of about eight months. Except for extending into warm months, the annual inactive period of T. o. luteola in southeastern Arizona was not remarkably different from that in other parts of the species' range. 
25599271|Pseudopaludicola are small diurnal leiuperid frogs that are recognized by a hemispherical tubercle on their forearms. Members of this genus are broadly distributed over northern and central South America with 12 species currently recognized. Pseudopaludicola mirandae was described from six individuals and discriminated from Pseudopaludicola boliviana based solely on putative differences in head width. We reexamined the type series of P. mirandae and a large series (including topotypes) of P. boliviana. We show broadly overlapping ranges in the ratio of head length/width between P. boliviana and P. mirandae. Also, both taxa share a character state (a tubercle on the heel) that was previously considered autapomorphic for P. boliviana. Additionally, we document a number of omissions and errors in the original description of P. mirandae including comparisons with P. boliviana. Our analyses provide evidence suggesting that P. mirandae is a junior synonym of P. boliviana. /// Pseudopaludicola comprende pequeas ranas Leiuperidae que se reconocen por la presencia de un tubrculo en los antebrazos. Los miembros de este gnero estn ampliamente distribuidos en el Norte y Centro de Sudamrica con 12 especies actualmente reconocidas. Pseudopaludicola mirandae fue descripta a partir de seis individuos y discriminada de Pseudopaludicola boliviana en base a presuntas diferencias en el ancho de la cabeza. Nosotros reexaminamos la serie tipo de P. mirandae junto a una gran muestra de P. boliviana (incluyendo material topotpico). Notamos que a diferencia de lo descrito para P. mirandae, encontramos rangos ampliamente solapados en la relacin largo: ancho de la cabeza entre sta y P. boliviana. Adems, P. mirandae y P. boliviana muestran el mismo estado de carcter (un tubrculo del taln) el cul fue previamente considerado como autopomrfico para P. boliviana. Adicionalmente se listan errores y omisiones durante la descripcin original de P. mirandae y en su comparacin con P. boliviana. Nuestro anlisis provee evidencia de que P. mirandae es un sinnimo junior de P. boliviana.
1565867|We examined the relationships between ambient temperature, activity level, and vegetation structure of microhabitats used by Ornate Box Turtles; vegetation structure of these habitats should influence microclimatic conditions and, thus, the thermoregulatory value of microhabitats. Thirty-four Ornate Box Turtles (Terrapene ornata ornata) were radio-tracked during 1997 and 1998 in the Nebraska Sandhills. Activity level was negatively related to ambient temperature. Active turtles used areas with more bare ground in both years, and more forb cover in one year, whereas inactive turtles used areas with more shrub and litter cover. Providing habitat components that function as thermoregulatory cover may be an important consideration for land management plans in areas where this species is found.
25599266|Habitat fragmentation is a significant threat to biodiversity worldwide. Habitat loss and the isolation of habitat fragments disrupt biological communities, accelerate the extinction of populations, and often lead to the alteration of behavioral patterns typical of individuals in large, contiguous natural areas. We used radio-telemetry to study the space-use behavior of the Coachwhip, a larger-bodied, wide-ranging snake species threatened by habitat fragmentation, in fragmented and contiguous areas of coastal southern California. We tracked 24 individuals at three sites over two years. Movement patterns of Coachwhips changed in habitat fragments. As area available to the snakes was reduced, individuals faced increased crowding, had smaller home-range sizes, tolerated greater home-range overlap, and showed more concentrated movement activity and convoluted movement pathways. The behavioral response shown by Coachwhips suggests, on a regional level, area-effects alone cannot explain observed extinctions on habitat fragments but, instead, suggests changes in habitat configuration are more likely to explain the decline of this species. Ultimately, if "edge-exposure" is a common cause of decline, then isolated fragments, appropriately buffered to reduce emigration and edge effects, may support viable populations of fragmentation-sensitive species.
10.2307/1565446|Conventional Very High Frequency (VHF) transmitters encased in a float were attached by a lanyard to ten adult green turtles foraging in Repulse Bay, central Queensland, Australia. Short term movements of 4-25 km and foraging ranges between 84-850 ha were recorded during attachment times of 4-29 days. Recaptures of tagged turtles in this area support radio tracking data. These are the largest movements reported by green turtles in a foraging ground and the only foraging movement data published on adult green turtles. Large foraging movements are attributed to the low-average above ground seagrass biomass in southern Repulse Bay. The seagrass community comprised Zostera capricorni, Halodule uninervis and Halophila ovata. Lavage samples revealed green turtles in Repulse Bay selected for Z. capricorni.
10.2307/1564826| We examined the reproductive cycles of four species of lizards through one year in the middle-latitude (19S) seasonal Australian tropics. The gonads of male Cryptoblepharus virgatus were active all year except during mid-summer (January-March), while female gonads were active August through January. The reproductive condition of male Carlia pectoralis peaked during September through November, while female condition peaked in November through February. Male Heteronotia binoei reached peak reproductive condition in July-September, but appeared to be capable of reproduction in April through November. Female gonadal activity in H. binoei commenced in July, and continued through January. Lampropholis delicata males were in reproductive condition in all months, while females were reproductive September-February. Female reproductive activity in all species except C. pectoralis commenced earlier in the year than in related species at higher latitudes. Because female reproductive activity in two of the species commenced in mid-winter, which is also the middle of the dry season, we do not believe that it is triggered by increasing temperature, photoperiod, or rainfall. Instead, reproductive activity may be controlled by total exposure to solar radiation, either across the spectrum or concentrated in the ultraviolet. 
41415323|Ephemeral, fishless wetlands with open canopies are known to be quality breeding habitats for pond-breeding amphibians. Yet many wetlands including these are commonly invaded by exotic plants, resulting in vegetation shifts from diverse native vegetation to monotypic stands of novel material. I tested the hypothesis that an invasive grass, reed canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea), would reduce survival, growth, and development rates of four tadpole species relative to a mixture of native grasses. I manipulated grass type and amount in fully replicated mesocosm experiments that contained American Toads (Anaxyrus amencanus), Cope's Gray Treefrogs (Hyla chrysoscelis), Pickerel Frogs (Lithobates palustris), or Wood Frogs (Lithobates sylvatica). Counter to expectations, I found little evidence that diverse vegetation enhanced wetland quality for amphibians, because the quantity of decomposing plant matter influenced tadpole performance more than type of plant matter. Growth and development of tadpoles was generally not affected by RCG, indicating that this invasive grass produced minimal direct (e.g., toxic alkaloids) or indirect (i.e., through the food web) effects on tadpoles. However, differences in survival were found. I suggest that large amounts of grass supplied excess organic matter that decomposed rapidly underwater, potentially causing a pulse of nutrients early in the larval period and anoxia. Wetlands invaded by reed canary grass may successfully produce metamorphs given that hydroperiods are adequate and eutrophic conditions do not occur in the wetland.
4093013|We investigated whether incubation treatment or size influence sprint speed of tuatara (Sphenodon punctatus) as artificial incubation is often used to produce founders for new populations of this endangered reptile. Sprint speed was affected by age, clutch and incubation regime (natural vs. artificial incubation). Older juveniles ran faster than younger juveniles. Maternal influence, represented by clutch, accounted for 18% of the variance in sprint speeds at one month of age. Naturally incubated juveniles were the smallest animals of any incubation regime, but at 10 months of age these juveniles were the fastest runners. Naturally incubated juvenile tuatara were more aggressive and faster for their size than artificially incubated juveniles, suggesting they may have higher fitness when released.
40060515|The phylogenetic placement of the limbless lizard genus Anelytropsis within Squamata was investigated using partial mitochondrial 16S rRNA sequences (422 bp). A total of 30 species, representing most of the major currently recognized squamate clades, was included in the analysis. As in previous morphological studies, Anelytropsis was strongly supported in Bayesian (mixture and unpartitioned models) and maximum-likelihood analyses as the sister taxon of Dibamus. Thus, a monophyletic Dibamidae composed of these two genera is supported by molecular data for the first time. Furthermore, several relationships in the inferred tree, although weakly supported, were congruent with those found in previous molecular phylogenetic analyses. Among these, Gekkota and the Dibamidae were recovered as relatively basal groups within Squamata. A nonmonophyletic Scleroglossa and Lacertiformes (= Amphisbaenia + Lacertidae + Teiidae + Gymnophthalmidae) also were recovered. Although only weakly supported, a major difference from other recent molecular studies is the basal position of Serpentes.
4498578|A new, lowland species of the Ingerophrynus biporcatus group is described from the EndauRompin National Park in southern, peninsular Malaysia, Johor. It is unique in various aspects of morphology and color and is the third, new herpetological species discovered and described from this region of the Malay Peninsula since 2005. This suggests that the biodiversity of this part of southern Malaysia may be significantly underestimated and underscores the importance of continued field research in these lowland forests which are currently being logged and converted to oil palm plantations.
4498600|Aggregations are a common feature of many species although for most taxa, the mechanisms underlying these aggregations are poorly understood. The Augrabies Flat Lizard (Platysaurus broadleyi) is a sexually dimorphic lizard that experiences intense conflict as a result of sexual selection. In the wild, P. broadleyi share communal crevices and aggregate in the presence of large insect plumes. We experimentally tested whether lizards aggregate as a result of social factors. We also tested whether aggregative behavior differed between the sexes and depends on density. We found no evidence that Augrabies Flat Lizards preferentially group for social reasons in the absence of resources or thermoregulatory benefits. This was true for both sexes and at both densities (two-lizard and four-lizard trials). Although social factors did not promote grouping, males sheltered alone significantly more often than expected by chance, suggesting that males actively avoid one another. Therefore, social factors may work to promote social isolation rather than aggregation, under certain circumstances.
10.2307/1565714|The population structure and ecology of Triturus boscai were studied during eight years in northern (high and low altitudes) and central Portugal. Newts were censused monthly by dip-netting aquatic habitats. Annual activity cycles and reproductive phenologies varied among populations. Northern newts enter into winter dormancy and Central newts into summer dormancy. Individual age was assessed by skeletochronology using lines of arrested growth in the humeri. Females were larger than males in each population, but there was no difference between the sexes in age frequency distribution. The youngest mature newts were three years old. A higher growth rate in females, both before and after maturity, was responsible for the sexual size dimorphism. The growth curve showed a strong inflection after maturity in newts from Central Portugal; these were the smallest newts although mean age and longevity (7-8 yr) were greater than in the two northern populations (6-7 yr). Interpopulation differences in phenology are explained by differences in local climatic conditions, although differences in demographic parameters did not follow expected trends.
10.2307/1565393| Vocal behavior and advertisement call structure of the Majorcan midwife toad (Alytes muletensis) are described. Both sexes possess courtship vocalizations. Females called in response to calls of males, in the initiation of courtship, and while physically competing over access to mates. Females advertised for mates only when heavily gravid and in danger of losing their eggs. Advertisement calls of females were shorter, repeated at a faster rate, and produced at a lower sound pressure level than the calls of males. The sound pressure levels of both male and female calls were low relative to other anurans. Male body size was positively correlated with call duration and sound pressure level, and negatively correlated with dominant frequency. Female body size was not significantly related to any call parameters. The evolution of female advertisement calls is discussed with reference to other anuran species in which females are known to produce courtship vocalizations. A hypothetical evolutionary pathway is proposed in which a dispersed breeding habitat and a female-biased OSR facilitate the evolution of female advertisement calls. /// Describo la conducta vocal y las caracteristicos acsticas del canto del sapo de Mallorca, el Ferreret (Alytes muletensis). En esta especie, los dos sexos emiten vocalizaciones de cortejo. Las hembras cantan en respuesta al canto de los machos, en el inicio de cortejo y cuando compiten por tener acceso a los machos. Las hembras se anuncian a los machos slo cuando estn en estado de gravidez y en peligro de perder los huevos. El canto de anuncio de las hembras es mas corto, se repite con mayor frecuencia y es de intensidad mas baja que el canto de los machos. La intensidad del canto tanto de los machos como de las hembras es menor que la de otras especies de anuros. La talla de los machos muestra una correlacin positiva con la duracin y la intensidad de su canto y una correlacin negativa con la frecuencia. La talla de las hembras no presenta ninguna correlacin significativa con las caracteristicas de su canto. Por ltimo, se discute la evolucin del canto de anuncio de las hembras con referencia a otras especies de anuros en las que se sabe que las hembras producen vocalizaciones de cortejo. 
10.2307/1563284|An instance of finding individuals of Batrachoseps attenuatus recently dead or dying in the field provides evidence that heat stress and desiccation are important selective factors in the surface activity of this species. Another instance of finding a recently dead salamander suggests that tail autotomy is not elicited when the salamander is caught by the body although it is elicited by severe nonspecific as well as specific stress. Flatworms may eat salamanders.
10.2307/1565718|The cloacal region of male Chioglossa lusitanica was studied using light and scanning-electron microscopy with the aim of describing its anatomy, in particular the accessory glands. Unlike other male salamandrids, which exhibit dorsal, Kingsbury's, pelvic, and ventral glands, the cloaca of male C. lusitanica lacks dorsal glands. This condition is a loss that has occurred more than once within the Salamandridae. The absence of dorsal glands cannot be explained on the basis of aquatic versus terrestrial breeding habits or mode of mate capture.
1566076|To determine the response of Mountain Yellow-Legged Frogs to short distance translocations, I placed transmitters on 20 adult frogs and moved them short distances from 144-630 m and monitored their responses for up to 30 days. Of the 20 translocated frogs, seven frogs returned to their original capture site, four frogs moved in the direction of their capture site but had not returned by the end of the study, and nine frogs did not return and were found at the translocation site. Apparently, displacing frogs was stressful, and translocated frogs lost body mass during the study period. Eighteen translocated frogs that were weighed at the beginning and end of the study lost body mass (mean loss was -1.2 g) compared to a group of 18 randomly selected PIT tagged frogs also weighed during the same tracking period (mean gain in body mass = 2.5 g) at our Kings Canyon study site. Translocation of adult Rana muscosa as a conservation tool may not be effective because some would simply attempt to return to their original capture site, and their homing may be stressful to an already declining frog population.
10.2307/1565020|We examined the relationship of size to sex, hybridity, and ploidy in five central Ontario populations of the Ambystoma laterale-jeffersonianum complex. For one extensively sampled population, we also considered time-related changes in size for each class of biotype during the breeding period. In addition, we compared the efficiency of visual and mathematical discrimination between hybrid and non-hybrid biotypes via linear discriminant function and subsequent analysis of error rates. Our results demonstrate that: (1) there is no significant sexual dimorphism in A. laterale; (2) there are some size differences among populations in both A. laterale and hybrids; (3) changes in mean size in all classes of biotypes are correlated with timing of breeding; (4) rates of maturation of wild polyploids are identical to those of lab-reared forms; and (5) hybrid: non-hybrid ratios can be estimated reliably for populations, either by eye or by discriminant function analysis of three simple morphological variables.
41515043|New salamanders of the genus Oedipina are described from the xeric Motagua Valley in eastern Guatemala, the El Trifinio highlands near the Honduras/El Salvador borders, and the Pacific versant of south-central Guatemala. These new species have been previously associated with known species, but possess distinctive foot morphology, different numbers of teeth, and body morphology and inhabit distinctive environments.
4498608|Auditory surveys are being used increasingly to monitor amphibians and assess amphibian declines. Interobserver differences in detected number of species during amphibian call surveys have not been widely studied, yet previous studies have assumed these differences are minimal. We examined interobserver variation in 269 frog call surveys conducted along 20 standardized routes in central Texas. Two trained observers, listening simultaneously 10 m apart, agreed on number of species calling in 79.4% of 5min surveys and 78.6% of 30- surveys. The level of observer agreement varied among species. Observers in the present study were more likely to disagree about the presence of a species when only one or a few frogs called from distant sites. Wind and road noise had no significant effects on interobserver variation. Presence of moonlight was negatively associated with interobserver agreement. Because sampling variation and biases arising from observer effects may lead to inappropriate inferences and misdirected conservation efforts, it is important to control for interobserver differences during the design and analysis phases of research.
25599233|A new species of Hemidactylus gecko (Squamata: Gekkonidae) is described from Girnar in the Junagadh district of Gujarat, India. This medium-sized, chiefly rupicolous gecko may be distinguished from its south Asian congeners by having 12-16 rows of irregularly arranged, flattened to weakly conical dorsal tubercles, 7-9 subdigital lamellae on digit I of the pes and 10-11 on digit IV, and 12-14 femoral pores on each thigh separated by a median diastema. This is the second Hemidactylus currently regarded as endemic to Gujarat and the 10th member of the genus recorded for the state.
25599258|In reptiles, phenotypic measures such as body size usually predict a male's success in territorial interactions. Recent evidence from fish, birds, and mammals has shown that genetic heterozygosity also has a strong influence on competitive ability and territory quality. Here, we provide a comprehensive assessment of the social structure and factors affecting male territory quality and aggressive behavior in a dense population of Tuatara, a long-lived reptile that maintains long-term territories, on Stephens Island, New Zealand. The only significant predictor of female access and competitive ability was male body size, and there was no relationship between male body size or condition and individual genetic heterozygosity. Body size, body condition, and heterozygosity did not predict territory size. Also, heterozygosity, body condition, and territory size had no relationship with the number of females to which a male had access. Large males were more effective at (1) monopolizing areas where females were most dense and (2) guarding females by consistently winning aggressive encounters with other males. Our finding of no relationship between territoriality and heterozygosity probably reflects the genetic background of this large, outbred population or that behavioral attributes or neutral heterozygosity are not appropriate individual fitness correlates for these long-lived reptiles.
40060470|Amphibians are declining globally at an unprecedented rate. Disease and climate change are implicated as causes of enigmatic declines. Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd) is an amphibian pathogen prevalent in the Neotropics and is commonly associated with declining populations. Another amphibian pathogen, ranavirus, has not been detected in the nontemperate areas of the Neotropics, but few investigators have sampled for it. We used molecular techniques to test for Bd and ranaviruses in two areas of Costa Rica with a history of amphibian declines. We detected Bd from field-sampled amphibians in Monteverde and Las Cruces, Costa Rica; ranaviruses were not detected in either area. Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that Bd was involved in declines at both sites, and provides additional information on its distribution in Costa Rica.
10.2307/1564590|One hundred twelve plots were established in coastal scrub and slash pine flatwoods habitats on the John F. Kennedy Space Center (KSC) to evaluate relationships between the number of burrows and gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) density. All burrows were located within these plots and were classified according to tortoise activity. Depending on season, bucket trapping, a stick method, a gopher tortoise pulling device, and a camera system were used to estimate tortoise occupancy. Correction factors (% of burrows occupied) were calculated by season and habitat type. Our data suggest that <20% of the active and inactive burrows combined were occupied during seasons when gopher tortoises were active. Correction factors were higher in poorly-drained areas and lower in well-drained areas during the winter, when gopher tortoise activity was low. Correction factors differed from studies elsewhere, indicating that population estimates require correction factors specific to the site and season to accurately estimate population size.
4498605| A new species of the Eleutherodactylus unistrigatus group is described from the area of the lake Los Cndores, Department of San Martn, Peru, at elevations of 2800-3000 m in the Cordillera Central in northern Peru. The new species differs from the other described species of the genus by having smooth dorsum with large tubercles on the flanks, some of which are longitudinally ovoid or longer than wide, and by having bright red or orange (bright cream in preservative) coloration with transverse black bars on the posterior surface of thighs. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus del grupo unistrigatus procedente del rea de la laguna de Los Cndores, Departamento de San Martn, Per, a elevaciones de 2800 a 3000 msnm, en la Cordillera Central del norte Per. La nueva especie difiere de todas las especies descritas del gnero por tener el dorso liso con grandes tubrculos en los flancos, siendo algunos de estos tubrculos longitudinalmente ovoides o alargados, y por tener una coloracin rojo o anaranjado brillante (crema brillante en preservativo) con marcas negras en la superficie posterior de cada muslo. 
10.2307/1563875|Variation, natural history, and distribution of Chamaelinorops barbouri on Hispaniola are given; no subspecies are recognized, although variation suggests that there may be two populations that have differentiated.
1565774|The North American Amphibian Monitoring Program uses a ranked, categorical calling index to estimate anuran abundance. However, there are few data assessing the assumption that calling index values are accurate indicators of population sizes or to suggest ranges of population sizes associated with specific values of the calling index. This study compared mark-recapture population estimates and call rates to calling index values for Green Frogs (Rana clamitans) in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Mean mark-recapture population size estimates and mean calls per minute were greater in ponds with larger calling index values. Similarly, calls per minute increased with increasing population size, although rate of increase declined at high population sizes possibly caused by a higher proportion of noncalling satellite males at high densities. Sex ratios in breeding habitat along the edges of ponds were increasingly male biased as population size increased. These data support the assumption that calling index values are useful indicators of abundance of R. clamitans.
10.2307/1564584|Using temperature-sensitive radio transmitters, we tested the hypothesis that recently fed snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) would inhabit warmer microhabitats than would unfed individuals. We used free-ranging adult turtles from a population in Ontario, Canada near the northern limit of the species' distribution. In late July 1989, four radio-transmittered adults were fed by hand and their subsequent behavior and ambient temperature were recorded. Seven other radio-tagged individuals served as a control group. Following feeding, experimental turtles did not bask or experience an increase in habitat temperature, nor did they experience significantly warmer temperatures than did unfed controls. Instead, fed turtles buried themselves in the substrate and were less active and remained in shallower water than the control group. We conclude that in this population turtles do not use basking and thermophilic behavior to accelerate their rate of digestion.
10.2307/1563923|Motion picture analyses of tongue flicking behavior by 15 neonate northern watersnakes (Natrix s. sipedon) to chemical extracts were used to investigate possible evidence for: (1) increased tongue flicking to air-borne chemicals; (2) modification of chemical preference by early feeding experience; (3) a relationship between the number of tongue flicks per extract and the mean flick duration. A novel technique for presenting only air-borne chemical extracts without any visual cue indicated more tongue flicking by s. sipedon to air-borne odors of frog extract than to a distilled water control. Early feeding experience had no effect on subsequent chemical preference. Natrix s. sipedon demonstrated a preference for extracts from a sympatric species of frog (Rana sylvatica) but not for extracts from a nonsympatric species of fish (Gambusia affinis), regardless of being fed exclusively on either this species of frog or fish or on earthworm (Lumbricus terrestris). This finding supports the hypothesis that newborn snakes show innate preference for sympatric species of normally eaten prey, and further suggests that this preference predominates over the effect of early feeding. A significant correlation between increasing number of tongue flicks and increasing mean flick duration was found only for presentations of distilled water. A relationship between increased number of tongue flicks and longer flick duration for preferred odors may be masked, since these are competing responses.
23326903|Sexual dimorphism in size or shape is common in many reptile species. Amphisbaenians are morphologically specialized for a fossorial life, which might constrain the evolution of sexual dimorphism. This might explain why some amphisbaenian species, but not others, show some type of sexual dimorphism. To understand the differential occurrence of sexual dimorphism in amphisbaenians, studies on a wide number of species belonging to different families and inhabiting different ecological conditions are needed. We measured several morphological variables in a population of the amphisbaenian Trogonophis wiegmanni, a representative of the little-studied family Trogonophidae from North Africa. Results show that males and females have similar body size; but for individuals of similar size, males are heavier, have longer tails, and have larger heads than do females. These differences might be explained by sexual selection, if males with larger heads had advantages in intrasexual contests, or by sexual diet differences. However, most ecological and behavioral aspects of this and other amphisbaenian species remain poorly known, thereby leaving unresolved which selective pressures are responsible for the sexual dimorphism that was evident in this species.
10.2307/1564699|Estivating crocodiles were studied at their dry season refuge in northern Australia over six years. The crocodiles spent three or four months a year underground without access to water. Doubly labeled water was used to measure field metabolic rates and water flux, and plasma and cloacal fluid samples were taken at approximately monthly intervals during some years to monitor the effects of estivation with respect to the accumulation of nitrogenous wastes and electrolyte concentrations. Estivating crocodiles expended a mean of 26.1 kJ kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>. Although environmental and, hence, body temperatures increased with increasing time in estivation, water efflux decreased with increasing time in estivation to 9.3 mL kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>, which was only 23% of the flux rate of crocodiles in water before estivation (40.2 mL kg<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>). The absolute size of body water pools declined proportionately with body mass and body solids; thus the crocodiles were not dehydrated even after three months without access to water. With increasing time in estivation, the following parameters increased in the cloacal fluid: osmolality, potassium, and magnesium; and the following increased in the blood plasma: osmolality, and protein concentration. Electrolytes in plasma were highest when the crocodiles were in the water and late in the estivation period. Freshwater crocodiles do not appear to have any specific adaptations for estivation, but given an adequate refuge, they can survive many months without access to water.
1566103|Juvenile male Collared Lizards (Crotaphytus collaris) have orange, dorsolateral color patterns that closely resemble those of gravid, adult females, and it has long been hypothesized that they serve as a form of female mimicry, reducing aggression from adult males. We experimentally tested this hypothesis by painting juvenile males to remove or maintain orange coloration and measuring the agonistic response of adult males but found no significant differences between treatments. These results do not support the hypothesis that orange coloration of juvenile male Collared Lizards is used as a form of female mimicry to reduce aggression from adult males.
1565788|The Smooth Snake, Coronella austriaca, is an ambush predator that waits for its main prey, the Wall Lizard, Podarcis muralis, inside dark rock crevices where lizards retreat. Pheromonal secretions of lizards could be used by snakes to select foraging sites but also during predatory episodes when identifying lizards under conditions of low visibility is beneficial. We used cotton applicators labeled with lizard scent to determine whether Smooth Snakes can discriminate the chemical cues of Wall Lizards. We also asked whether snakes could discriminate between male and female lizards, or detect male scents before female ones, which could indicate differential susceptibility of the sexes to predation. The greater tongue-flick rate in response to Wall Lizard scent than to deionized water or cologne indicated that C. austriaca is able to discriminate the chemical cues of Wall Lizards, but it did not discriminate between the sexes of lizard prey.
10.2307/1563781| A new snake of the Tantilla taeniata group from Volcn Tacan in Chiapas, Mxico is described. Its relationship to other members of the taeniata group is discussed. 
10.2307/1565571|We examined site-specific variation in the response of red-eared slider (Trachemys scripta elegans) embryos exposed to similar incubation environments, and collected at five nearby sites in west-central Illinois. Overall, site was not a significant source of variance in change in egg mass during incubation, in hatchling wet mass, and in hatchling carapace length. However, site was a significant source of variance in incubation period. Nonetheless, significant site-specific differences in each trait were detected in pairwise comparisons. The actual difference between extremes was small. Eggs from the site with the longest incubation period also gained the most water during incubation. Our study has important implications for future studies of geographic variation in the physiological response of embryos to incubation environments. Comparisons between eggs and embryos from geographically distant sites would benefit by inclusion of as many clutches as possible. Larger numbers of clutches reduce the possibility that any differences between geographically distant regions are due to maternal differences rather than region-specific differences. Studies comparing embryonic responses from geographically distant regions would be strengthened by including turtles from as many local collecting sites for each region as possible. Sampling a single site per region may be inadequate because any geographic variation in embryonic response could just as well be due to undetected local site-specific differences.
10.2307/1564557| A stratified systematic sampling design was used to quantify the habitat relationships of the Del Norte salamander (Plethodon elongatus) in northwestern California. We sampled 57 sites, each within at least 5-7 ha of relatively homogeneous forest or post-forest habitat, where we measured 83 characteristics of the environment. Salamander sampling consisted of area-constrained sampling of 7  7 m plots with at least 25% rock cover at each site. A subset of 43 variables was used in a hierarchical analysis of habitat associations using discriminant analysis and regression. Variables included attributes at the landscape, macrohabitat, and microhabitat scales. Results indicate a significant association of the Del Norte salamander with older forests with closed, multi-storied canopy (composed of both conifers and hard-woods), with a cool, moist microclimate, and rocky substrates dominated by cobble-sized pieces. These habitat attributes appear optimal for survival and reproductive success throughout most of the range of this species. The Del Norte salamander may require ecological conditions found primarily in late seral stage forests. 
10.2307/1565484| To quantify the impact of garter snakes (Thamnophis hydrophilus, formerly T. couchii) on tadpole prey (Hyla regilla), I experimentally examined whether: (1) garter snakes have greater impact on tadpole numbers or on behavior; (2) tadpole patch choice follows the rule of minimizing the ratio of mortality risk, , to foraging gain, g; and (3) predator-induced resource avoidance influences algal production. In replicated enclosed pools constructed on gravel bars of a northern California river, garter snakes did not significantly reduce the number of tadpoles but did alter patch choice. Tadpoles spent less time in high food quality algae mats (Cladophora glomerata with epiphytic diatoms) and more time in low food quality patches (Zygnematales algae mats and sediments) when garter snakes were present than when they were absent. In mortality risk experiments, however, there were no significant differences in the numbers of tadpoles consumed among patch types, and garter snakes were not size selective. Therefore, patch choice did not follow the rule of minimizing /g. The change in patch choice was likely a consequence of the sublethal effect of garter snakes in which tadpole activity is decreased. For negatively buoyant tadpoles, decreased activity results in sinking away from floating algal resources. This apparent resource avoidance by tadpoles did not affect algal mass over the relatively short duration of the experiments. 
10.2307/1565640| A new species of Tropidophis is described from the province of Sancti Spritus in central Cuba. This small, spotted, gracile species differs from all others in the genus by a combination of scalation, head shape, and color pattern. It is tentatively placed in the semicinctus group of gracile, boldly spotted species, but it does not appear to be closely related to any species in the genus. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Tropidophis de la provincia Sancti Spritus, en la regin central de Cuba. Es una especie grcil, pequea y moteada, diferenciable de las restantes del gnero por una combinacin de caracteres de escamacin, forma de la cabeza y patrn de colorido. Ha sido tentativamente incluida en el grupo semicinctus, que incluye especies grciles con manchas muy definidas, pero no muestra relacin cercana con ninguna de las especies del gnero conocidas. 
4498589| A new species of Chaunus, apparently related to Chaunus arenarum, Chaunus rubescens, and Chaunus achavali is described. The new species occupies Cerrado habitats in southwestern Piau and Bahia states and in northwestern Minas Gerais state, Brazil. The species is characterized by anterior interruption of the supraocular crest; weakly developed cranial crests; short and robust limbs; several pointed spiculae on dorsum, head, and limbs; male coloration; small to medium size; and by the short and narrow head. 
10.2307/1563316| Volumetric reduction of nest contents prior to hatchling emergence was determined for natural hatchery nests of loggerhead sea turtles by implantation of a disc apparatus. The hypothesis that significant reduction occurs at hatching has been falsified. Reduction of nest contents occurred prior to hatching due to a loss in egg turgor. Initial reduction occurred in most nests within 7 to 8 days of emergence. The maximum depth of air space created above the eggs was 4.0  .26 cm (x  SE, n = 52). Amount of egg-mass reduction was significantly correlated to the number of hatchlings and full-term embryos per nest and not correlated to egg number. The rate of volumetric reduction varied seasonally and can be explained by temperature. 
10.2307/1566110| We studied the egg-laying activities and the relationships between basic reproductive traits of Oplurus cuvieri cuvieri in a deciduous dry forest area of Madagascar. Oviposition was observed after the first heavy rain of the rainy season. Females migrated to the trails from their shelter trees in the forest and moved around along the trail, presumably making nest site selections. The egg-laying activities were divided into four phases: digging, laying eggs, filling, and covering. Females left the nests with a rapid bipedal locomotion after oviposition. Mean body temperature of the oviposited females was 42C. Extensive predation on the eggs by snakes was confirmed. Clutch size was variable (2-5) and depended on maternal SVL. With female body size held constant, egg mass and egg length exhibited negative correlations with clutch size. Mean relative clutch mass was 20.4%. Behavioral elements such as migrations to egg-laying site should be evaluated as the female reproductive investment as well as relative clutch mass. 
4092857|Previous studies have shown that territorial Red-Backed Salamanders (Plethodon cinereus) react aggressively toward intruding Eurycea cirrigera. Our study tested the hypotheses that male and female Red-Backed Salamanders have short-term memory of such territorial intrusions. We allowed focal males and females of P. cinereus to establish territories in laboratory chambers and then presented them with a caged E. cirrigera (treatment 1) or a caged surrogate control (treatment 2). When the cages were removed, the focal salamanders were alone for 5 min and then exposed to an intruding conspecific of the opposite sex. Males (but not females) exhibited significantly more time in threat displays toward the conspecifics in treatment 1 (displacement of territorial aggression) than in treatment 2. We infer, then, that at least males have short-term memory of a past "event" of territorial intrusion.
40983661|Posthatching parental care is known in amphibians for frogs and caecilians but, thus far, has never been reported for salamanders. Here, we describe the parental behavior of a female Northwest Italian Cave Salamander, Speleomantes strinata, from egg deposition to nest site abandonment. The female was kept in seminatural conditions and flmed in complete darkness by an infrared video camera. In November 2007, the female laid nine eggs in a small depression of the terrarium floor, displaced the clutch with hind limbs, and showed antipredator behaviors toward a conspecifc female and an intruding Roof Rat (Rattus rattus). During egg brooding, the female remained in contact with the clutch for about 98% of the time. In September 2008, two young hatched and shared the nesting site for six weeks with the female, which attended the nesting site for 87% of the time. Hatchlings repeatedly climbed over the female's body, lying on her for hours. The female walked out of the nesting site with a young on its back twice. These prolonged skin contacts between parent and offspring should be considered as the first certain case of young attendance in salamanders. This behavior may be related to increased survival of hatchlings during their first weeks of life, when young are particularly vulnerable to prdation, skin infection, and dehydration.
4092933|A new species of ranid frog of the genus Nyctibatrachus is described from Castle Rock, Karnataka State, Southwest India. The new species is compared with all known congeners and is diagnosed by the following combination of characters: head wider than long; snout projecting beyond mouth; supratympanic fold poorly defined; webbing on toes reaching base of disks except on Toe IV, where it reaches distal subarticular tubercle; tips of digits on fingers and toes flattened to form disks with distinct grooves separating dorsum of disks from venter; and femoral gland present. The largest specimen in the type series has a snout-vent length of 43.2 mm. Nyctibatrachus hussaini Krishnamurthy, Reddy and Gururaja, 2001, is shown to be an invalid nomen, for lack of typification.
10.2307/1566021|Courtship behavior has been documented in detail for only a few species of Eleutherodactylus, all from the Puerto Rico bank. Here we report on courtship, calling, nest sites, and egg clutches of Eleutherodactylus diastema from Gamboa, Panama. In July 1999, we observed five natural and four staged courtships in the natural habitat. The courtship consisted of an approach by a female, a visual-tactile display when the pair first made contact, and a phase when the male led the female to an oviposition site. Within the first 2 min after contact the male bumped the female 9-12 times with his partly inflated vocal sac, most bumps being initiated by an approach by the female. The male then led the female to a nest site located within his calling territory. Oviposition took place in a variety of concealed or partially concealed sites between leaves or plant stems or inside a bromeliad. Once we observed an agonistic interaction between two females competing for a male in his nest site. Four of the five nests located contained multiple clutches in different developmental stages (one nest had seven clutches and three each had three clutches). We detected no parental care. This study revealed three particularly interesting aspects of the reproductive behavior of E. diastema: the occurrence of a visual-tactile bumping display at the beginning of the courtship, female-female competition for mates, and repeated use of nest sites by individual males.
41415254|Nez (2004) examined the syntypes of Liolaemus pictus major Boulenger in the British Museum of Natural History and concluded, without supporting data, that this taxon is a senior synonym of Liolaemus capillitas Hulse. We show that the evidence does not support Nunez's (2004) proposal. We first document the complex taxonomic history of L. p. major, the lack of a precise or even definitive type locality, and the implications of the latter on subsequent checklists and research. Second, we note differences between Boulenger's (1885) type description of L. p. major and Hulse's (1979) type description of L. capillitas. Third, we show that the syntypes of L. p. major photographed by Nez (2004) do not exhibit the character states of L. capillitas. We conclude that L. capillitas is not a synonym of L. p. major. Based on the available evidence, the syntypes of L. p. major are probably assignable to Liolaemus elongatus from populations occurring in Patagonia (southern Argentina or adjacent Chile). However, the precise identity of the syntypes requires additional study and perhaps a type locality restriction or redefinition of L. elongatus, which is itself in a state of flux. Nez (2004) examin los sintipos de Liolaemus pictus major Boulenger en el Museo Britnico de Historia Naturale y concluy, sin datos que lo sostengan, que este taxn es un sinnimo seor de Liolaemus capillitas Hulse. Nosotros mostramos que la evidencia disponible no apoya la propuesta de Nez (2004). Primero documentamos la compleja historia de L. p. major, la carencia de una localidad tipo o la restriccin de una, y las implicancias de esto ltimo en subsecuentes checklists e investigaciones. Segundo, notamos diferencias entre la descripcin tipo de Boulenger (1885) de L. p. major y la descripcin tipo de L. capillitas de Hlse (1979). Tercero, mostramos que los sintipos de L. p. major fotografiados por Nez (2004) no exhiben los caracteres presentes en L. capillitas. Concluimos que L. capillitas no es un sinnimo L. p. major. Basados en la evidencia disponible, los sintipos de L. p. major son aparentemente asignables a Liolaemus elongatus de poblaciones que se encuentran en la Patagonia (sur de Argentina o adyacentes en Chile). De todos modos, la identidad precisa de los sintipos requerir de estudio adicional y quizs la restriccin de una localidad o la redefinicin de L. elongatus, especie que por s misma se encuentra pobremente definida.
41515039|Oudri's Fan-Footed Gecko (Ptyodactylus oudrii) is a common North African desert lizard that lives in dense colonies. Reproductive behavior shows a number of peculiarities in egg laying. Females select communal oviposition sites in rocky recesses at humanmade structures. Individuals of both sexes perform communal parental care of the eggs. We performed field observations to analyze the extent of communal nesting in nature in southeast Morocco. We also carried out laboratory experiments to analyze the function of this behavior. In Experiment 1, we assessed whether the presence of previous clutches influenced whether females select a site for oviposition. In experiment 2, we tested whether parental egg-attendance influenced the hatching success of eggs. Finally, in Experiment 3, we compared hatching success of communal and solitary clutches under laboratory conditions. Communal nesting was the generally observed in the field. With a single exception, all clutches were restricted to one area. In 32% of colonies, individuals of both sexes and all ages remained in close vicinity to clutches. Females preferred oviposition sites where freshly laid eggs were present. Hatching rate significantly decreased when adult lizards were experimentally excluded from the oviposition site, and hatching success of solitary clutches was significantly lower than that of communal ones under laboratory conditions. Our results suggest that communal nesting in this species is highly adaptive, because aggregation favors parental care, defense against predators of eggs or hatchlings, and increases incubation success. These benefits are likely to be important in geckos that live in extremely dry environments.
41415299|Brachymeles bicolor (Gray 1845), from the Sierra Madre Mountain Range of Luzon Island, and Brachymeles pathfinderi Taylor 1925, from southern Mindanao Island, are among the most distinctive species in the genus, representing the largest species and one of only two known nonpentadactyl species with unequal digit numbers respectively. However, both species are inadequately diagnosed, based on a total of only five specimens. Here we provide brief taxonomic histories, discuss and clarify type localities, and redescribe each species using larger sample sizes and specimens well documented and collected during our recent biodiversity surveys. We include new information on morphological variation, distribution, ecology, and microhabitat.
23326917|The general public prefers to support conservation projects that focus on a few, easily "loveable" species; consequently most of biodiversity is neglected. It is essential to redress such bias and to educate children about the value of a wide diversity of organisms, including those labeled by social bias as less appealing. Because snakes are among the most disliked animals, they are suitable candidates for such endeavor. We evaluated the impact of a single field trip on the attitudes of more than 500 schoolchildren. The participants were involved in snake catching and were allowed to manipulate nonvenomous snakes. The organizers limited their intervention to providing natural history information and carefully avoided saying that snakes should be protected. We used pre- and post-field trip questionnaires to gauge the feelings of the children. Although pre-surveys suggested that many schoolchildren like snakes a priori, their attitudes improved following field experience: almost all children declared then that they liked snakes and expressed a strong willingness to protect them. Such change was associated with an increase of the frequency in the responses of the terms linked with affectivity (e.g., "snakes are cute"...). Snake handling was the favorite activity, and physical contact with animals appears to be a crucial element to improve schoolchildren's attitude for an unpopular organism. Our results support the promotion of field trips that include physical contact with wildlife over the current trend in the educational systems that promote virtual approaches.
10.2307/1566026|This study examines spatio-temporal dynamics of Florida gopher frog (Rana capito aesopus) breeding and juvenile recruitment. Ponds were situated within a hardwood-invaded or a savanna-like long-leaf pine-wiregrass upland matrix. Movement (N = 1444) was monitored using intermittent drift fences with pitfall and funnel traps at eight isolated, ephemeral ponds February 1994 to January 1999. Adult pond use was low but relatively constant among years and did not differ between habitat matrices. Juvenile recruitment was significantly higher in the savanna-like upland matrix. The number of adults using ponds was positively correlated with the number of next-year's recruits in only one year. Recruitment rates were relatively low (maximum 175 captured/pond/yr), but juveniles were produced from most ponds in three of five years. Recruitment was negligible in 1994 because of ponds drying and in 1997 for unknown reasons. Juvenile body size differed significantly among years and ponds. Body size was negatively correlated with the number of juveniles exiting ponds in only one year, suggesting that intraspecific competition is only one of many factors affecting juvenile body size. Most emigration by metamorphic juveniles occurred May through August and was unrelated to rainfall. Dates of first emergence and length of emigration periods varied. A high proportion of juveniles with tailbuds and similar tailbud lengths in most months suggest that metamorphosis occurred throughout the emigration period. High variability in juvenile recruitment success and significant differences in body size among years and ponds suggests that each is influenced by factors at both a landscape (e.g., rainfall and pond hydrology) and within-pond scale (e.g., competition and predation).
10.2307/1563373|Playback tapes of conspecific mating trills evoked positive phonotaxis in gravid (but not ovulated) female Rana pipiens under laboratory conditions, whereas, playbacks of mating trills of Rana blairi and a putative hybrid elicited what is interpreted to be negative phonotaxis and no response, respectively. It is concluded that the mating trill of Rana pipiens may function as a premating isolating mechanism as predicted by the currently accepted theory.
10.2307/1563089|Laboratory tests of premetamorphic Ascaphus truei tadpoles showed a substrate preference for smooth rocks above 55 mm diameter. The tadpoles were strongly rheotactic and were photonegative in the absence of a current. The tadpoles feed by removing material from the rocks and not by filtering respiratory currents. Passive respiration and feeding do not occur; respiratory currents are caused by undulation of the body wall instead of a gular pump.
25599200|Rana sylvatica tadpoles have been shown to alter their oral structures in response to increased competition. The placement of mirrors on tank walls has previously been used to simulate increased density and to induce phenotypic changes in tadpole size and timing of metamorphosis. Here, we examine the effects of simulated overcrowding, induced with mirrors, on the oral structures of R. sylvatica tadpoles. Our data suggest that, although phenotypic changes caused by visually simulated competition are not as drastic as those produced by actual competition, they do occur. These alterations manifest in a failure to develop specific tooth rows.
10.2307/1564426| In Israel M. caspica feeds throughout the year except when the water temperature is below approximately 13C. Feeding activity is more intense in summer than in winter. Turtles older than one year are opportunistic omnivores, feeding on the wide range of animal, plant and detrital matter readily available in their habitat. Younger turtles tend to be more carnivorous, changing to more herbivorous with age. In both unpolluted and polluted habitats aquatic insects constitute the major source of animal food. In sewage contaminated habitats saprobiontic material replaces vascular aquatic plants and filamentous algae eaten in unpolluted habitats. The importance of detritus in the turtle's diet increases with an increase in organic pollution. Under conditions of diverse food resources M. caspica may exhibit some degree of food selection. 
10.2307/1563779|Sympatric box turtles (Terrapene carolina) and wood turtles (Clemmys insculpta) in south-central Pennsylvania possess the following contrasting constellations of characteristics. Clemmys have large home ranges and long daily foraging paths, include green leaves among their major diet categories, remain active during summer dry periods, and are restricted to lowland areas. Terrapene have small home ranges and short daily foraging paths, do not eat green leaves, generally are inactive during dry spells, and occur in both the lowlands and the dry summits of the folded Appalachians. These differences appear to be associated with the turtles' different ways of combatting desiccation, and with spatial and temporal food distribution patterns.
10.2307/1565690|To investigate whether ambient temperature constrains behavioral performance in high-elevation anurans I studied the thermal dependency of field calling rate and locomotor performance of four Colombian Andean frogs at 2900-3500 m (Atelopus sp. nov., Colostethus subpunctatus, Eleutherodactylus bogotensis, and Hyla labialis), and compared them with low-elevation (<350 m) congener species (A. varius, C. talamancae, E. diastema, and H. microcephala). Apparently low temperatures constrain only high levels of sustained performance. Body temperature explained 40% of the variance in calling rate of high-elevation frogs that call vigorously (H. labialis and C. subpunctatus), but did not affect the lower calling rates of A. sp. nov. and E. bogotensis. High-elevation frogs in the genera Eleutherodactylus, Atelopus, and Colostethus may exhibit less energetically demanding vocal behaviors than low-elevation congenerics. Both high-elevation and low-elevation frogs moved at low speeds with sporadic bursts of activity. Body temperature did not correlate with the time, speed, or distances that high-elevation frogs moved, which were similar to those of low-elevation congenerics. Reliance on glycolysis, presumably less sensitive to temperature than aerobic metabolic pathways, may partially explain the thermal independence of field locomotion patterns in high-elevation anurans.
10.2307/1563764|Female Arkansas mud turtle (Kinosteron subrubrum) mature between their sixth and eighth winters at a plastron length of 75 to 80 mm. Vitellogenesis apparently begins in early fall and continues until the following nesting season. Ovulation and oviposition occur at least from early May through June and probably from early April to Mid-July. During this period yolked follicles continue to mature, replacing those ovulated. Egg size is not correlated with female plastron length or clutch size. Incubation period averages 106 days. Clutch size ranges from one to six, the mode being three, and is positively correlated with female plastron length. At least three clutches are laid each year.
10.2307/1565368|We examined morphology, habitat use, movement patterns, and sprinting capacities of juveniles and adult males of two distantly related, yet ecologically similar species, Anolis lineatopus and A. gundlachi. Juveniles of both species tended to perch on lower and narrower perches than adult males, a finding that is consistent with other studies of Anolis. Juveniles used jumping more often as a mode of locomotion than adult males, with jumps constituting 54.1% (A. lineatopus) and 41.6% (A. gundlachi) of the movements of juveniles for these two species. Adult males of both species also were, on average, 25.9% (A. lineatopus) and 29.7% (A. gundlachi) faster than juveniles. Differences in sprinting capacity may have influenced the evolution of escape behavior of adult males and juveniles: juveniles typically run shorter distances and frequently escape by jumping to the ground rather than relying only on speed to elude a threat. By contrast, adult males more frequently escape by running longer distances on branches or tree trunks. Comparisons with other lizard taxa show that slower juveniles frequently use escape behaviors that rely less on sprinting capacities than adults.
4092904|Toe-clipping is a simple and widely used method for permanently marking small lizards. Although some studies have shown negligible effects of toe-clipping on locomotor performance and survival in terrestrial lizards, less is known about effects of toe-clipping on arboreal lizards. We evaluated effects of toe-clipping on clinging performance of the small arboreal, pad-bearing lizard Anolis carolinensis. We also examined how clinging ability scaled with size within this species. We measured clinging ability in the same lizards with undipped toes and with one (two toes clipped total) and two toes (four toes clipped total) clipped per each forelimb. We found that clinging ability decreased dramatically even after clipping only two toes (about a 40% decline) and even more dramatically after clipping four toes (about a 60% decline). We also found that clinging ability scales isometrically with body size within undipped anoles. Because dinging ability was measured on a smooth substrate and was not influenced directly by claws, toe-clipping appears to directly affect toepad function. Toe-clipping may affect clinging ability because of the severing of a tendon that plays a key role in toepad function. Thus, we suggest that researchers should be cautious before applying toe-clipping as a marking technique to pad-bearing lizards.
10.2307/1564317|The number of frogs emerging at night in a field population of the terrestrial frog Leiopelma archeyi was examined in relation to environmental conditions. Frogs emerge at or about dusk from retreat sites on the forest floor, climbing up to 2 m high in the vegetation before returning to their retreats at dawn. Emergence is strongly and positively correlated (P < 0.005) with the following moisture-related factors: relative humidity, rainfall, and wetness of vegetation, and negatively (P < 0.001) with vapor pressure deficit. Air temperature showed a weaker and barely significant (P < 0.05) correlation with emergence, and strength of wind gusts no significant correlation (P > 0.1). Frogs which emerged on nights when the vegetation was dry probably suffered little water loss by evaporation, because of the high humidities and cool temperatures which prevailed in the forest habitat. Experimentally dehydrated L. archeyi rehydrated rapidly from wet foliage, increasing from 92 to 99% of original body weight over 4 hr. Although emergence of most L. archeyi was limited to times of high moisture availability, rapid water uptake through ventral skin allowed this species to utilize sources of water which were only present ephemerally.
1566170|Xenopeltis hainanensis jidamingae is placed in synonymy with Xenopeltis hainanensis based on new material from Yen Bai Province, Vietnam.
10.2307/1564498|Cnemidophorus arubensis, an endemic teiid lizard of Aruba island, Netherlands Antilles, is parasitized by a haemogregarine protozoan. The proportion of animals infected (prevalence) was greater for males than females and for adults compared to juveniles. Brightly colored males were more likely to be infected than blandly colored males of the same body size. Percent of erythrocytes infected with parasite gametocytes, and parasite prevalence, were similar in both wet and dry seasons. Infected and noninfected lizards were similar for several hematological, physiological, anatomical, and behavioral measures of parasite virulence. The Aruban haemogregarine appears to have an avirulent effect on Cnemidophorus arubensis.
1566094|Experimentally elevated testosterone has been shown to increase the daily activity period of free-ranging lizards, but it is unknown whether the effect depends upon additional factors present in nature (i.e., conspecific interactions) or whether it can be elicited in the laboratory. In a relatively simple laboratory environment, male Mountain Spiny Lizards (Sceloporus jarrovi) implanted with testosterone had significantly greater activity levels throughout the day than sham-implanted males. Differences were greatest during the morning and late afternoon, with testosterone-treated males more likely to be out earlier and to stay out later. This general result was repeated in both spring and fall experiments using separate groups of males. Although testosterone-treated males were more active (i.e., out in the open) than control males, there was not a significant difference in the frequency of movements (>20 cm), nor did the groups differ in selected body temperature in their home cages. Nonetheless, testosterone-implanted males lost significantly more body mass than controls over the course of the experiments. Because the effect of testosterone on daily activity period occurs in the laboratory as well as in the field, it is suggested that the effect is not dependent upon interactions with complex environmental stimuli.
10.2307/1565148| A new species of Megaelosia is described from the Atlantic Forest in the northern part of So Paulo, southeastern Brazil. Based on examination of topotypic specimens of Megaelosia massarti, this species is removed from the synonymy of M. goeldii. Tadpoles of M. lutzae and M. massarti are described and natural history observations of M. massarti and M. goeldii are reported. Diagnoses, measurements, figures, distributional data, and a key for the species of Megaelosia are provided. 
10.2307/1564420|Western North American races of the gopher snake Pituophis melanoleucus share aspects of coloration, pattern and defense behavior with the sympatric rattlesnake Crotalus viridis, and have been suggested to be Batesian mimics. Strong geographic variation in appearance and behavior occurs in Pituophis; in southwestern California the adjacent races P. m. annectens and P. m. catenifer appear to be "poor" and "good" mimics of C. v. helleri and C. v. oreganus, respectively. Resemblance corresponds to convergence in habitat utilization: analysis of background matching shows that coastal Pituophis and Crotalus are cryptic in different microhabitats, whereas inland populations are cryptic in a shared shortgrass environment. Phenotypic similarity may thus be due to convergence on a common cryptic pattern rather than or in addition to selection for mimicry. Geographic variation in intensity of defense behavior provides evidence for the latter view; Pituophis populations that are dissimilar to C. viridis or occur outside its range seldom display an active defense (except as juveniles), whereas those occurring in close association with C. viridis defend vigorously. The importance of mimicry thus varies geographically as a secondary result of selection for cryptic coloration.
10.2307/1563943|Growth rate and adult body size of the Puerto Rican ground lizard (Ameiva exsul) are compared for two populations from Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. The population with apparently greater food supplies and less predation shows higher absolute growth rates and larger asymptotic sizes. Within populations, males grow faster than females and reach larger asymptotic sizes. For large animals tail autotomy is significantly more frequent in males than in females.
10.2307/1565416|Closely related clonal and sexual populations may coexist in spite of the theorized lower potential for the evolution of clonal genotypes. Water frogs of the Rana esculenta complex have hemiclonal inheritance but most populations coexist with one of the recombinant parental species. We examine whether hemiclonal lineages may counterbalance their limitations of genetic variability by the adoption of one or more non-exclusive mechanisms: the general-purpose genotype or the frozen niche-variation model. Three coexisting hemiclones of the hybrid R. esculenta (GUT1, GUT2, GUT3) and both parental species (syntopic R. lessonae and allopatric R. ridibunda) were raised at two larval densities to examine morphological traits affecting jumping performance at the time of metamorphosis and size-independent jumping ability tested at three temperatures. Hind leg length and body mass at metamorphosis, traits that explain most of the variance in jumping performance, differed across hemiclones of R. esculenta. Metamorphs of hemiclone GUT1 had the longest hindlimbs and were bigger than metamorphs of the other hemiclones at low larval density but not at high density. Size adjusted jumping performance exhibited a significant genotype by larval density interaction. Metamorphs of GUT1 showed maximal jumping performance when raised at low larval density but at high density metamorphs of GUT2 were the best jumpers. In addition, within particular traits, differences were found between hemiclones across densities. These results appear to be consistent with both frozen niche-variation model and the general-purpose genotype model. Comparison with parental species revealed syntopic R. lessonae was smaller than hemiclones at metamorphosis but conversely exhibited better size-adjusted jumping performance when raised at low larval density. Temperature affected size-adjusted jumping performance only for frogs raised at low larval density but not for those raised at high larval densities. There was no significant temperature by hemiclone interaction.
10.2307/1562734| Ecology of hellbenders (Cryptobranchus alleganiensis) was studied in French Creek of northwestern Pennsylvania. The 220 m  70 m study area formed a grid with markers at 10 m intervals. Hellbenders were individually marked; 152 individuals were captured and 81 recaptured at least once. Hellbenders were most abundant in relatively shallow rapids areas and utilized large rocks for cover. The mean distance between successive captures was small, 54.8 per cent showing inter-capture distances of 10 m or less; maximum distance was 160 m. Males did not differ significantly from females in the median distance between successive captures. The average mean activity radius was 10.5 m and most home ranges were small. Hellbenders showed a tendency to home upstream or downstream after displacement. They defended the area under a cover rock. The sex ratio was 1.58 males to one female. Most captured were sexually mature. 
10.2307/1564954|Field and laboratory studies were conducted to determine the times of mating and egg deposition of Aneides aeneus in West Virginia. Spermatogenic wave studies indicated that mating occurs in the spring (late May and early June) and possibly fall (September or October). Follicle analysis and field observations indicated that eggs are deposited in June. Examination of follicles and observations of non-brooding females disclosed a biennial egg-laying cycle. Comparisons are made to more southern and higher elevation populations of A. aeneus.
10.2307/1563315|Polymorphism of male secondary sexual characters occurs among populations nominally assignable to Eurycea bislineata in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Two male morphs are recognized, one identified as E. b. wilderae and the other designated morph A. Male E. b. wilderae possess mental hedonic glands, seasonally enlarged premaxillary teeth, cirri and reduced temporal musculature. Male morph A lack mental hedonic glands, seasonally enlarged premaxillary teeth and cirri and possess strongly developed temporal musculature.
41515036|The House Gecko, Hemidactylus frenatus, is one of the world's most invasive vertebrate species and is spreading rapidly across the South Pacific, displacing other species of geckos that are native or were already resident. We studied the adhesion and locomotor capabilities of H. frenatus and the resident Lepidodactylus lugubris on the island of Moorea in French Polynesia where they are syntopic. Our goal was to determine whether H. frenatus could stick or sprint faster than L. lugubris, two types of performance measures that could underlie superiority of H. frenatus in foraging and agonistic interactions hypothesized in other studies. The clinging ability of H. frenatus and L. lugubris are comparable suggesting that the potential for sticking to vertical and over-hanging surfaces as geckos move through their environments does not differ between species. In contrast, H. frenatus have maximal sprint speeds that are approximately fourfold higher than L. lugubris, an advantage in speed that is even greater than that measured previously for the two species running on horizontal surfaces. Proposed superiority in foraging and agonistic interactions of H. frenatus compared to L. lugubris are potentially traceable to performance characteristics such as adhesion and locomotion. We demonstrate that comparatively high maximal locomotor speeds may contribute to the observed success of H. frenatus over resident geckos in French Polynesia, and possibly in other areas where they have been introduced.
40060487|Southern Leopard Frogs, Rana sphenocephala, are habitat generalists occurring in virtually all freshwater habitats within their geographic range, whereas Gopher Frogs, Rana capito, typically breed in ponds that do not normally contain fish. To evaluate the potential for predation by fish to influence the distribution of these species, we conducted a randomized factorial experiment. We examined the survival rate and behavior of tadpoles when exposed to Warmouth Sunfish, Lepomis gulosus, Banded Sunfish, Enneacanthus obesus, and Eastern Mosquitofish, Gambusia holbrooki. We also conducted a choice experiment to examine the survival rate of the two species of tadpoles when a predator is given a choice of both species simultaneously. Lepomis gulosus consumed the most tadpoles and ate significantly more tadpoles of R. capito than R. sphenocephala. Gambusia holbrooki injured the most tadpoles, especially R. capito. Enneacanthus obesus did not have an effect on behavior or survival of either anuran species. Tadpoles of both anurans increased hiding when in the presence of L. gulosus and G. holbrooki, but a greater proportion of R. capito hid than did R. sphenocephala. Our results suggest that R. capito are more vulnerable to predation by fish than are R. sphenocephala. The introduction of fish may play a role in population declines of certain anurans breeding in normally fish-free wetlands, and even small fish, such as mosquitofish, may have significant negative effects on the tadpoles of R. capito.
4092962|A critical component of amphibian life history relates to understanding the role of embryonic mortality in regulating recruitment and, therefore, population size. We examined the predictions that small populations have higher embryonic mortality and reduced clutch sizes in the Western Australian frog, Heleioporus albopunctatus. Embryonic mortality was low, averaging 3% per clutch. Four of 55 clutches examined (~ 7%) were infested by dipteran larvae. We found no significant relationship between clutch size or embryonic mortality and population size.
10.2307/1563401|Representatives of Rana clamitans, R. palustris, R. pipiens, Bufo americanus, B. terrestris, B. quercicus, Hyla cinerea, H. chrysoscelis, H. crucifer, H. femoralis, Acris gryllus, Limnaoedus ocularis, Gastrophryne carolinensis, and Scaphiopus holbrooki were placed into an enclosure with a snake predator. Escape strategies, including crouching, chin tucking, body inflation, flight, backing, climbing, digging, holding, walking and remaining motionless were observed and evaluated in relation to anuran survival.
10.2307/1564644|An attempt is made to identify all squamate lineages having undergone limb reduction in the sense of having lost one or more bones from either the front or rear limb. The limb osteology of the ancestors of these limb reduced lineages is also inferred. On this basis squamates have undergone limb reduction at least 62 times in 53 lineages. Most reductions begin with the loss of a single phalange; however, some may begin with loss of all elements more distal than the mesopodials. Three different patterns of incipient loss occur in the front limb and two in the rear limb. These trends are discussed in the light of the "developmental constraint" and "adaptation" hypotheses.
10.2307/1565360|The large-scaled girdled lizard, Cordylus macropholis, uses the succulent Euphorbia caputmedusae as microhabitat in the dry western coastal regions of South Africa. Up to nine individuals were found to share the same plant shelter. No cases were recorded where two or more adult males shared a plant. Groups consisting of an adult pair and a varying number of juveniles predominated, but several cases were recorded where an adult male shared a plant with more than one adult female. The largest individuals in the sample were females. The axilla-groin length of adult females was significantly larger than in males, but males had larger heads and longer tails than females. Adult males had twice the number of femoral pores as females and also significantly more generation glands. Neonates had the same number of pores as adult males indicating that males and females are born with the same number of pores, but that the outer pores degenerate in females during maturation. The ratio of adult males to adult females was highly skewed towards females (1:2.39). This female-biased sex ratio was also observed in the juvenile size class (1:2.07). The scar incidence recorded for adult males was two times that recorded for adult females.
10.2307/1565022|Dissection of >400 preserved museum specimens of the three Candoia species, an Old World boine lineage, provided information on body sizes, body shapes, sexual dimorphism, adult sex ratios, reproductive biology, and food habits. Body shape apparently covaries with habitat use within Candoia: the heavy-bodied C. aspera is terrestrial, the elongate C. bibroni arboreal, and C. carinata intermediate in both respects. Females grow larger than males in all three species, and mature at larger sizes. Cloacal spurs were absent in all female C. carinata, most female C. aspera, and almost half of the female C. bibroni. Where present, spurs were smaller in females than in males. Adult females outnumbered males in collections of C. aspera, but not in the other two species. Litter sizes were similar among the three species, averaging 15 to 18 young, with larger females producing larger litters. Only about one-third of adult females were reproductive in each species, suggesting that reproduction may not occur every year in every female. Diets were similar among the three species, with smaller snakes eating lizards (mostly skinks) and larger snakes taking a higher proportion of mammalian prey (mostly rats and mice, but occasionally bandicoots). The diets of Candoia are broadly similar to those of other small boid snakes, both boines and pythonines. However, Candoia tends to resemble boines rather than sympatric pythonines in being relatively heavy-bodied, and (perhaps for this reason) has significantly larger litters relative to maternal SVL than do the Australian pythons.
10.2307/1564640|Functional teeth from Andrias davidianus and Onychodactylus japonicus were prepared for transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and electron microprobe analyzer (EMPA) of the elements of the enamel layer. The enamel layer is thin and the arrangement of the enamel crystals is regular in the outer enamel layer of Onychodactylus japonicus; on the other hand, the crystals of Andrias davidianus show irregularities in different tooth regions. Based on calcium and magnesium distribution levels using electron microprobe analyzer (EMPA), the enamel layer lacks enameloid in these species. Concentrations of iron and fluoride are located in the outer enamel layer. The presence of trace elements is related to the formation and mineralization of enamel.
10.2307/1565956|The distribution of maximum snout-vent length for 1206 of the approximately 1227 described species of scincid lizards ranges from 23-490 mm, has a mode of 55 mm, a median of 69 mm, a mean of 82 mm, and is strongly right skewed. At both the small and large ends of the distribution, there are noticeable lineage effects, that is, a few lineages contribute a large proportion of the species. Perhaps surprisingly given the surface-volume relationships of small animals, many of the smallest species occur in arid or seasonally arid habitats. Egg size may be the limiting factor in the evolution of small adult size. The larger species tend to be burrowers (litter and sand swimmers), have diets different from the usual (for scincids) arthropods, occur on small oceanic islands (absence of predators?), or are live-bearing. Species of skinks that have gone extinct in the last 200 years have been relatively larger than species that have survived. The overall shape of the size distributions for scincids and gekkonids, the only other major group for which there are comparable data, are surprisingly similar, suggesting a common cause such as tracking evolutionarily the same size spectrum of arthropod prey.
10.2307/1563209| Anolis duellmani, a small brown species with darkened undersurface, weakly keeled ventrals and rose red dewlap, is named from 4 adult males obtained on Volcn San Martn Tuxtla, near San Andrs Tuxtla in the coastal region of southern Veracruz, Mxico. 
40664958|The thermal quality of diurnal refuges is important to the performance and survival of nocturnal reptiles. We studied refuge use on both slopes of an east-west-oriented hill by the thigmothermic gecko Homonota darwini, the southernmost-distributed nocturnal lizard in the world, in the vicinity of Bariloche, Rio Negro, in the Patagonia of Argentina. Because of the harsh climatic conditions in Patagonia, suitable refuges are limited, and retreat-site use is important for these geckos. Homonota darwini used refuges significantly more frequently on the warmer western slope in our study site. Geckos on the western slope used those refuges with higher temperatures regardless of size and thickness of rocks that acted as retreats. We tested whether refuge temperature affected locomotor performance of these lizards. Performance experiments showed that maximum sprint speed was affected by the temperature of the refuges. Refuges at 22.5C allowed lizards to achieve their fastest sprint performance. Unexpectedly, sprint performance of lizards that used refuges with temperatures > 32  C was the lowest among all tested refuge temperatures (18, 22.5, 27.5, and 33C). Our data illustrate the importance of the thermal quality of refuges for reptiles living in extreme environments.
43287341|During gravidity lizards experience a striking decrease in lung volume as a result of lung compression by eggs growing within the body cavity. In order to understand the effect of this decrease in lung volume on the respiratory biology of gravid egg-laying lizards, we measured changes in total lung volume, resting and postexercise expired volume, minute volume, respiratory frequency, and carbon dioxide production rate during reproduction in the Collared Lizard, Crotaphytus collaris, and the Leopard Lizard, Gambelia wislizenii. We found that compression of the lungs by shelled eggs resulted in an average 48% (range: 26-70%) decrease in total lung volume compared to the same postlaying collaris females, and an average 38% (range: 29-46%) decrease in G. wislizenii. CO production rates were altered significantly during reproduction in female C. collaris and were 58% higher in females carrying late-stage follicles, compared to after laying. Despite the remarkable reduction in lung volume in both of these species and the increase in CO production rates in C. collaris, no ventilation parameters changed over the course of reproduction. The highly distensible body cavities of C. collaris and G. wislizenii appear to be able to accommodate both growing eggs and adequate lung volumes for normal respiratory function during gravidity.
40060547|A new species is described from the southern Western Ghats of India. The new species was wrongly identified as Calotes andamanensis and is distinguished from it in lacking the antehumeral pit and possessing acutely keeled scales. It is distinguished from all species of the Calotes versicolor group of Smith in having posteroventral orientation of dorsal body scales and is distinguished from all species of the Calotes liocephalus group of Smith in lacking the antehumeral pit. A redescription of C. andamanensis is provided based on the holotype. Calotes andamanensis is a valid species with type locality in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, India.
10.2307/1565111|The effects of low pH on fertilization and embryonic development in Rana temporaria (L.) were studied in the laboratory and field. In the field, fertilization success was reduced principally by high concentrations of inorganic monomeric aluminum, while embryonic mortality was caused mainly by low water temperatures. Most dead eggs were at the mid to late cleavage or early gastrula stage. In the laboratory, embryonic survival decreased with increasing inorganic monomeric aluminum concentration at pH 4.5. High concentrations of inorganic monomeric aluminum also increased the number of embryos which died in the early stages of development, and increased the proportion of embryos which remained constricted within the perivitelline membrane and failed to hatch. The body length of surviving larvae was decreased by both increasing aluminum concentrations and low pH. In acidic water, the body length of larvae from parents caught in an acidic pond in Northumberland was decreased less than that of larvae from parents caught in a circumneutral pond in Nottinghamshire. In both the laboratory and the field, most embryonic abnormalities were associated with the incomplete absorption of the yolk-plug during gastrulation. High inorganic monomeric aluminum concentration was the principal factor associated with this type of abnormality, although in the laboratory this abnormality also occurred at pH 4.5 in the absence of aluminum. Liming of acidic ponds can increase fertilization success and the survival of R. temporaria embryos.
10.2307/1564085|Dermal ossifications -- osteoderms -- are more common in anurans than has been generally acknowledged. In the hylid Phyllomedusa bicolor osteoderms are located in the dermis, cover the dorsal surface of the head and body, and are scattered on the lateral and ventral surfaces and the limbs. Each osteoderm consists of a vascularized bony basal plate (0.1 mm thick) from which bony lamellar spines protrude into the epidermis. The dorsal body osteoderms are approximately 3 mm<sup>2</sup> in area. Similar osteoderms are present in Phyllomedusa vaillanti and Gastrotheca weilandii. In the pelobatid Megophrys nasuta osteoderms are present in the dorsal body skin and although comparable to the osteoderms of Phyllomedusa in size and shape they are histologically very different. Megophrys osteoderms are avascular and composed of calcified collagen bundles in an orderly three-dimensional arrangement. The leptodactylid Hylactophryne augusti also has small bony osteoderms in the skin of the dorsum. They differ from the hylid osteoderms and resemble Megophrys osteoderms in being avascular and having a matrix composed of horizontal and vertical bundles of collagen. Larger dermal bony dorsal plates are present in Lepidobatrachus and Ceratophrys (Leptodactylidae) and in Brachycephalus (Brachycephalidae). Anuran osteoderms are structurally different from, and not homologous with, caecilian dermal scales. Given the histological differences among the various anuran osteoderms and the taxonomic diversity (Hylidae, Pelobatidae, Leptodactylidae, and Brachycephalidae), osteoderms appear to have been independently evolved a number of times within the Anura. It is suggested that the term dermal scale be restricted to the bony scale of fishes and caecilians, and osteoderms be used to denote the dermal scutes of anurans and reptiles.
4092929|A new species of Crytodactylus from Pulau Aur in the Seribuat Archipelago off the southeast coast of Peninsular Malaysia is differentiated from all other Sundaland species in having a unique suite of characteristics involving tuberculation, scale counts, and color pattern. This increases the total number of endemic species in the Seribuat Archipelago to at least 18 and is the second endemic gecko known from Pulau Aur.
25599224|Males of the glass frog Hyalinobatrachium valerioi engage in diurnal and nocturnal attendance of egg clutches. To study the effect of parental care on embryonic survivorship, we conducted a male removal experiment and measured embryonic survival rates on day 4, 8, and 12 after oviposition in attended and unattended clutches. Embryonic survivorship was significantly higher in the control group than in the male removal group but decreased with time in both groups. Arthropod predation accounted for most of the mortality in both groups. Desiccation of clutches only occurred in unattended clutches. We hypothesize that egg attendance in H. valerioi increases embryonic survivorship by deterring egg predators and preventing desiccation.
40060561|To test the hypothesis that male Korean salamanders, Hynobius leechii, respond to water vibrations via the mechanosensory lateral line system, we conducted a series of experiments. First, we examined behavioral responses of males to 0, 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 Hz water vibrations generated by a model salamander, and we measured the number of times the males (1) oriented their heads toward the vibrating model; (2) approached within a 15-cm-diameter circle centered on the cloaca of the model; and (3) touched the model, as well as (4) the length of time the male stayed within the circle. To determine whether the mechanosensory lateral line system mediated these responses, we measured the same behavioral responses to 1.0 Hz water vibrations (1) both with and without a transparent vibration blocker placed between the model and test males, and (2) after exposing the test males to 0, 0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 mM concentrations of cobalt chloride for 1 h to disrupt the mechanosensory lateral line system. Test males showed significant responses to water vibrations from the model regardless of the vibration frequencies. Males showed significantly lower responses when a vibration blocker was placed and after cobalt chloride treatments. These results indicate that H. leechii males respond to water vibrations via the mechanosensory lateral line system. In addition, we describe aspects of the body undulation of mating males. This is the first clear result in urodeles that the mechanosensory lateral line system plays a role in male-male mating competition.
10.2307/1563265|A classical conditioning procedure was used to determine the degree of conditioning which could be achieved with frogs. An experimental and a pseudoconditioning control group were used. The CS consisted of bubbles and the UCS was a mild electric shock. The results showed that after 75 trials, some conditioning was achieved which, for the experimental groups, stabilized at a level of 30% CR's, while the controls reached a level of less than 15% CR's.
4092936|Green Salamander (Aneides aeneus) habitat has been described traditionally as rock outcrop formations that contain moist, but not wet, crevices. Early studies of Green Salamander natural history claimed arboreal habitat was used secondarily to rock outcrops and in situations where more suiTable habitat was unavailable. Although arboreal behavior of western Aneides has been well established, arboreal habitat has been deemed "not typical" for Green Salamanders. This study examined the extent to which Green Salamanders use arboreal habitat. Surveys were conducted between August 2001 and July 2004 at a study area in Pickens County, South Carolina. Salamander size influenced arboreal habitat use, but gender and reproductive condition did not. There was a positive relationship between tree diameter at breast height (DBH) and Green Salamander observations and a negative relationship between tree distance to rock outcrop and salamander observations. Tree selection did not reflect tree species relative dominance, and salamanders favored hardwoods over conifers. Seasonal use of arboreal habitat was distinct, implying that salamanders overwinter in rock outcrops and move into trees and logs at the onset of spring. Salamanders observed during summer were primarily arboreal, but they returned to rock outcrops in late fall. Researchers have largely overlooked arboreal habitat use by Green Salamanders, and consequently, the importance of arboreal habitat near rock outcrops has been underestimated. Arboreal habitat appears to be an important component of the life history of this declining species, and future survey and monitoring efforts should include searches of arboreal habitat.
10.2307/1564197|The swimming speed of alligators, like the locomotory speeds of many ectotherms, is significantly affected by temperature. However, temperature also affects alligators' swimming behavior. The effect of temperature on swimming speed appears to be partly the result of direct effects of temperature on muscle performance and effects of temperature on swimming behavior.
43287332|I re-examine the phenomenon of delayed timing of emergence from the nest by hatchling turtles (known as overwintering in temperate climates) within the context of the original summary of the topic in an article by Gibbons and Nelson in 1978.1 base the overview on cumulative data from research at the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory since 1968 and reports from other locations during the past 34 yr. Investigators have reported known or suspected delayed emergence of hatchling turtles for 43 species, 22 genera, and 8 families from 11 countries and 36 U.S. states and Canadian provinces. The following perspective suggests questions to address and provides recommendations for how herpetologists should proceed in further investigating the phenomenon of hatchling emergence in turtles. The topic is one on which answers must be forthcoming to address turtle conservation on a global scale. For freshwater turtles, which include the majority of the world's turtles, natural selection has favored hatchlings that enter the aquatic habitat at the most propitious season for survival and subsequent growth. Nesting in most species spans several weeks; therefore, at the end of incubation hatchlings must use proximal environmental cues to adjust their timing of departure from the nest and entry into the aquatic habitat. Because of its widespread prevalence, delayed hatchling emergence in a turtle species should be considered the default behavior until evidence to the contrary is provided. Specifically, many turtles emerge several months after hatching, and in temperate climates emergence delayed by up to a year (overwintering) is likely the norm even though conventional wisdom predicts late summer or fall emergence. Reexamin el fenmeno de emergencia retrasada del nido de las cras de tortugas recin nacidas (conocido como estada invernal en el nido en climas templados) en el contexto del resumen original del tema en 1978. La revisin est basada en datos acumulativos de investigaciones en el Savannah River Ecology Laboratory desde 1968 e informes adicionales de otras localidades durante los ltimos 34 aos. Los investigadores han registrado emergencia retrasada de cras de tortuga, ya sea constatada o sospechada, para 39 especies en 22 gneros y 9 familias de 10 pases. Lo siguiente brinda una perspectiva sobre el tema con sugerencias acerca de las preguntas ms significativas a tratar y recomendaciones sobre cmo los herpetlogos deberan continuar investigando este fenmeno. Para las tortugas de agua dulce, que incluyen a la mayora de las tortugas del mundo, la seleccin natural ha favorecido a las cras que entran en el habitat acutico en la estacin ms propicia para la sobrevivencia y consecuente crecimiento. La anidacin de las hembras de la mayora de las especies se extiende por varas semanas y las hembras no pueden predecir con exactitud qu condiciones ambientales prevalecern durante y al final de la incubacin. As, las mismas cras deben usar claves ambientales proximales para a justar el momento de su salida del nido y su entrada en el habitat acutico o para encontrar un sitio terrestre adecuado para pasar el invierno. Debido a la preponderancia de la emergencia retrasada de las cras entre las tortugas, los bilogos que se dedican al estudio de las tortugas deberan considerar este comportamiento como el mecanismo dado por omisin para una especie determinada, hasta que haya evidencia de lo contraro. Los bilogos que estudian a las tortugas deberan considerar a la estada invernal en el nido en climas templados como la norma, en lugar de mantener la idea convencional que la emergencia temprana del nido (al final del verano o en utoo en climas templados) es la que predomina.
4092852| Clearcutting and other forest management practices that remove canopy and disturb ground cover may exacerbate the risk of desiccation, particularly for newly metamorphosed amphibians. We examined dehydration rates of juvenile Mole Salamanders (Ambystoma talpoideum) in relation to burrow availability in four experimental forest management treatments. Juvenile salamanders (N = 41) were confined to small enclosures in four treatments representing a range of habitat disturbance: clearcut with coarse woody debris (CWD) removed; clearcut with CWD retained; thinning; and an unharvested control of second-growth, mature loblolly pine. Half of the salamanders in each habitat treatment were provided with artificial burrows. Water loss over 72 h was significantly higher in the clearcut with CWD retained than in the other three treatments. Most water loss occurred during the first two nights, when salamanders may have been most active. Only 40% of salamanders without burrows survived in the clearcuts, versus 90% in the thinned stand and 100% in the control. Ninety percent of the salamanders with access to a burrow survived in the clearcuts versus 100% in the thinning and control. We found no correlation between soil moisture and water loss and attribute higher desiccation rates in the clearcuts to high temperatures (> 44C). Although habitat changes resulting from thinning did not lead to increased desiccation, complete canopy removal greatly increased risk of mortality caused by desiccation. Our results also demonstrate that this risk is strongly mediated by the availability of burrows. 
4092858|A unique rudimentary ovarian structure known as the Bidder's organ (BO) occurs at the anterior end of the gonads of male bufonids. I examined BO volume in reproductively active (RA) versus nonreproductively active (NRA) males of Bufo woodhousii to examine changes in BO volume in relation to reproductive status. BO volume was larger in NRA males, suggesting that cues associated with sexual maturity influence BO volume.
10.2307/1565644|Stomach contents from 186 Ocadia sinensis collected from the Keelung River, northern Taiwan, between July 1995 and April 1997 were examined. Diet composition varied by sex. Females shifted from an omnivorous to a herbivorous diet as they grew, and they consumed more plant material compared to males. Volumetrically, plant matter represented 87.7% of the total stomach contents in females, whereas it only constituted 39.5% in males. Seasonal differences in diets were also found. Animal matter contributed more to cool season diets. Females, especially, tended to take plants in much greater proportion in the warm season (94.8% in volume) compared to the cool season (50.9%). In males, animal matter occupied 54.4% and 71.1% of the total volume of stomach contents both in the warm and cool season, respectively. The percentage of empty stomachs was greater in the cool season (41.2%) than in the warm season (13.3%).
10.2307/1563381|The name Cnemidophorus dickersonae Van Denburgh and Slevin, 1921, is revived as a subspecific name for the insular populations of Cnemidophorus tigris Baird and Girard inhabiting Isla Angel de la Guarda and Isla Partida Norte, Gulf of California. The name dickersonae has long been treated as a synonym of C. tigris multiscutatus Cope, type locality Isla Cedros, a Pacific coastal island of Baja California del Norte. A comparison of C. tigris dickersonae and C. tigris multiscutatus revealed that the two are divergent forms which are distinguished by distinctive color patterns and numerous characters of scutellation.
23327187|Western Fence Lizards, Sceloporus occidentalis, are frequently parasitized by the malaria-causing protozoan Plasmodium mexicanum, reducing hemoglobin concentrations, increasing reliance on anaerobic metabolism, and elevating the cost of recovery. We examined the influence of malarial infections in Fence Lizards on aerobic capacity, blood metabolites, and cardiopulmonary activity following activity (<2 min of maximal activity) on a treadmill at 35.0  1.0C. Aerobic capacity was determined from resting and maximal oxygen uptake. Blood glucose and lactate were measured before activity and at 15 min intervals during 60 min of recovery. Heart rate and ventilation rate were determined from electrocardiograph tracings. Maximal aerobic capacity was over 35% higher in uninfected lizards compared to both malaria-infected lizards and anemic-uninfected animals. Malarial infection decreased lizard resting blood glucose levels, yet induced hyperglycemia during recovery; blood glucose levels were elevated by about 27% from resting in malaria-infected lizards after 60 min of recovery. Malarial infection significantly increased anaerobic metabolism during activity; blood lactate levels in infected lizards were elevated above those in uninfected animals for 45 min of recovery. Heart rate was limited severely in malaria-infected lizards following activity; mean heart rate was over 20 beats per minute lower (170  6.7 vs. 193  5.0) in infected lizards compared to uninfected animals. The major disruptions to recovery metabolism in malaria-infected lizards, glucose, lactate, and cardiac dysfunction, are similar to those reported for severe Plasmodium infections in mammals.
10.2307/1566187| In 1982, B. Rose pointed out that home-range area could easily be underestimated unless sufficient numbers of sightings were obtained for each individual, and recommended a population-specific test to determine the minimum sample size at which home-range area can be accurately measured. This recommendation has been generally ignored. We explore how sample size affects interpretation of space use data in male lava lizards, Microlophus albemarlensis, and male eastern collared lizards Crotaphytus collaris. Using the criteria established by Rose, the minimum sample sizes for collared lizards and lava lizards were 45 and 84 sightings, respectively. These are much larger samples than we anticipated and reinforce the need for empirical determination of minimum sample size. Our data suggest that lizard movement rate is a better predictor of minimum sample size than home-range area. Collared lizard home ranges were over 10 times larger than lava lizard home ranges, yet the higher movement rates of collared lizards resulted in a minimum sample size that was about one-half that of lava lizards. Restricting data collection to any one-quarter of the total study period would have markedly underestimated home-range area and home-range overlap in both species. Every lizard of both species had a core area within their home range, suggesting the absence of major temporal shifts during the study. On average, lava lizard core areas occupied 21.7  2.8% of total home-range area, yet core areas included 78.8  3.1% of all lizard sightings. Collared lizard core areas averaged 25.4  2.4%, with a lower percentage of collared lizard sightings occurring within core areas (66.3  3.0%). There was only one incidence of core overlap in either species. Lava lizards may be defending core areas but in an unusual manner, what amounts to "sit-and-wait territoriality." This unusual mode of space use would not be detectable from a smaller number of sightings per individual. 
10.2307/1563224| Sphenomorphus quoyii is found near streams in a wide variety of climates; the animals of the present study were from the New England Plateau. In this area minimum winter air and soil temperatures frequently go below 0C. There is a hibernation period from May to September (inclusive). Testis weights begin increasing in April and continue to do so throughout the hibernation period reaching a maximum by the September emergence. Ovary weights also begin increasing before the hibernation period and continue increasing until the ova are released into the oviduct in October. Seasonal variation is found in the number of relatively ripe ova, in ovum diameters and in oviduct diameters. Oviduct diameter varies with snout-vent length; there is no sharp distinction in size between oviducts which contained embryos the previous year and those which did not. From two to seven young are born in December or January. The sex ratio is skewed towards females except for a period of approximately one month after emergence from hibernation. 
10.2307/1564820|Sexual dimorphism was studied in seven colubrid species living in the Mediterranean area of the Iberian Peninsula. Six variables of external morphology were considered: numbers of ventral and subcaudal scales, snout-vent and tail lengths, body and tail surface in a cross section close to the vent, and certain ratios of these variables. To determine which traits enable us to distinguish between the sexes, we used a stepwise discriminant analysis. The ventral and subcaudal scales, because their numbers are fixed at birth, were the best predictors of the sex of a randomly-chosen specimen. Using the number of ventral scales and certain ratios, we correctly identified the sex in all individuals of Elaphe scalaris and Natrix maura, nearly 100% of the individuals of Coluber hippocrepis and Natrix natrix, and almost 95% of Coronella girondica and Macroprotodon cucullatus. The method did not work with Malpolon monspessulanus, which is sexually monomorphic in the characteristics used here.
10.2307/1563141| Two specimens of Telescopus rhinopoma (Blanford, 1874) document the ninth and tenth known locality for the species, including the first for Afghanistan, and provide the first information on natural history. A summary of all data in the literature reveals uncertainty of the status of T. rhinopoma, especially in respect to its nearest relatives, T. tessellatus and T. fallax. The diagnostic characters of the three taxa can be interpreted as forming a geographic cline, or possibly multiple parallel clines. A complete list of the synonyms of T. rhinopoma is presented. /// Zwei weitere Exemplare der seltenen Katzenschlange Telescopus rhinopoma belegen den neunten und zehnten bekannten Fundort, darunter den Erstnachweis fr Afghanistan. Dieser Fund liefert auch die ersten kologischen und biologischen Daten fr die Art. Die Erfassung der verfgbaren Literatur ergibt, da der taxonomische Status, besonders gegenber den nchstverwandten Formen T. tessellatus und fallax, nicht so eindeutig ist wie bisher angenommen. Die Diagnosemerkmale der drei Arten lassen sich als geographischer Klin deuten, der vermutlich mehrfach parallel auftritt. Es wird eine vollstndige Synonymieliste von Telescopus rhinopoma gegeben. 
10.2307/1563197|Growth of the spotted turtle, Clemmys guttata, was studied in southeastern Pennsylvania. Growth is more rapid in juveniles and slows once maturity is reached, but is not as affected by the attainment of maturity as in Chrysemys picta and Chrysemys scripta. Growth in the first season depends on the date of hatching; hatchlings which overwintered in the nest and emerged the following spring grew larger due to a longer season. The usual growth period in southeastern Pennsylvania is from 1 April to 30 June, or 91 days, and is most limited by water temperature. The growth period is compared to that of Chrysemys picta from the same locality.
10.2307/1565989|A new species, closely related to Rhinotyphlops simoni of Jordan and Israel, is described. With this species from the Euphrates River Valley in southeastern Turkey, the R. simoni species group increases to eight taxa (four species in west-central Africa, two species in northeastern Africa, and two species in the Middle East).
10.2307/1566184| We studied movement patterns, activity, and home range of the eastern spiny softshell turtle (Apalone spinifera) in northern Lake Champlain (Qubec, Canada; Vermont) from 1996 to 1999. This turtle population is at the northern limit of its range and considered threatened. Of the 30 individuals captured and marked, 15 females and eight males were equipped with radio-transmitters and monitored from two weeks to 29 months. Mean annual home range size for females (32.06 km<sup>2</sup>, N = 11) was significantly larger than for males (2.75 km<sup>2</sup>, N = 4). Home ranges generally consisted of a spring-summer concentration area (0.90 km<sup>2</sup>) and a fall-winter concentration area (1.80 km<sup>2</sup>), plus the area traversed between these concentration areas. In general, movements did not vary significantly from May to September, but turtles were less active after mid-September. Three hibernacula and three nesting sites were identified. Seventy five percent of the radio-tracked individuals were concentrated in a small area surrounding one hibernaculum from September to April. We hypothesize that habitat fragmentation, both natural and resulting from human activities, was in part responsible for the large home range and long movements observed. Results indicate that, to conserve this spiny softshell turtle population, the seasonal concentration areas need strict protection, although a lakewide approach promoting the preservation of natural habitats is also necessary. 
10.2307/1563650|The monotypic fossorial colubrid snake genus Elapocalamus Boulenger (1911) from the Cameroons is redescribed and allocated to the genus Polemon Jan (1858). Its similarities to other species of Polemon and to Chilorhinophis Werner (1907) are discussed. The fused condition of the brille and postocular in Polemon gracilis (Boulenger) new combination, a significant adaptation in burrowing snakes, is described and its formation and adaptive significance are discussed.
43287337|Radio-tracking studies of African tortoises have elucidated differences in spatial ecology in differing habitats. Our study aimed to demonstrate such patterns by radio tracking the Leopard Tortoise Stigmochelys pardalis in a subtropical savanna, northeast Swaziland. Activity of tracked tortoises was correlated with minimum temperatures and greater in the warm wet months compared with the cool, dry months. All tracked tortoises, however, remained active throughout the cool months, and none were observed entering a burrow or any other hibernaculum. The tortoises typically moved 0-89 m per day, with maximum daily movement of over 300 m. A dry river bed and game viewing road did not appear to obstruct the movement of the tortoises.
10.2307/1564862| A new species of small, terrestrial Eleutherodactylus is described from a restricted area of interandean montane forest in central Ecuador. This species is most similar to E. orestes from southern Ecuador, but is distinguished by differences in coloration, osteology, morphometrics, and allozymes. The new species is a member of the myersi assembly of the unistrigatus species group. A phylogenetic analysis of six species of the assembly using allozymic and morphological data suggests the following relationships: ((E. pyrrhomerus + E. leoni) + ((E. ocreatus + E. trepidotus) + (new species + E. orestes))). Eleutherodactylus anae is a junior subjective synonym of E. curtipes and is not a member of the myersi assembly. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Eleutherodactylus pequeo de hbitos terrestres colectado en un refugio de bosque montano interandino en Ecuador central. Esta especie se parece ms a E. orestes del sur de Ecuador, pero se le distingue por diferencias de coloracin, osteologa, morfometra, y aloenzimas. Esta especie nueva es miembro del subgrupo (assembly) myersi en el grupo de especies unistrigatus. Un anlisis filogentico de seis especies del subgrupo usando datos de aloenzimas y morfolgicos indica las relaciones siguientes: ((E. pyrrhomerus + E. leoni) + ((E. ocreatus + E. trepidotus) + (especie nueva + E. orestes))). Eleutherodactylus anae es sinnimo de E. curtipes y no es miembro del subgrupo myersi. 
40665021|We describe sexual dimorphism in coloration and the reproductive cycle in Tropidurus semitaeniatus, a widely distributed lizard species in the caatinga of northeastern Brazil. Yellow and yellowand-black patches occurred on the ventral surface of the thighs and precloacal flap in 15 and 11 adult males, respectively. Thirteen reproductively active males (collected November to March) had ventral patches with intense pigmentation, contrasting with the faded pigmentation of these patches in two males during the maturation stage (collected in October) and in 11 individuals in regression phase (collected April to September). Thirty-six adult females, reproductively active and not, and 21 juveniles lacked ventral color patches. There was a significant relationship between snout-vent length and testis volume during maturation and regression stages in males with both types of color patches. We conclude that ventral color patches displayed by male T. semitaeniatus are closely associated with their reproductive cycles.
1566100|We describe the tadpole of Physalaemus albonotatus (Anura, Leptodactylidae), from specimens collected from northeastern Argentina. The distinguishing characteristics (Stage 36) are (1) labial tooth row formula: 2(2)/3(1); (2) rostral gap about 2.5 times greater than mental gap; (3) body length of 10.00 mm and total length of 24.20 mm; and (4) body dark brown to dark green dorsally with scattered dark spots. Morphological features were compared with other tadpoles belonging to the Physalaemus cuvieri species group from Argentina.
10.2307/1566017|I investigated the activity, direction of movement, and body size (snout-vent length) of amphibians in both pristine and fragmented bogs of southeastern New Brunswick. I used drift-fences with pitfall traps to capture amphibians in six pristine bogs and six bogs undergoing peat mining (i.e., bog fragments) in 1997 and 1998. Results indicate that seasonal activity patterns of amphibians in bogs peak during August and correspond to movements of adults (following breeding) and juveniles (after metamorphosis) from adjacent wetlands. A seasonal shift in species composition occurred, as most captures early in the season consisted almost exclusively of ranids, with an increase in salamander captures in late summer and fall. Climatic variables generally explained more of the variation in amphibian activity in fragments than in pristine bogs. Wood frog activity near fragment edges was more dependent on amount of precipitation than in pristine bogs. Wood frog and green frog movements were nonrandomly oriented relative to mined fragment edges. Orientation of leopard frog movements was strongly influenced by year. Wood frogs occurring in fragments were larger than those in pristine bogs. The size difference in green frogs was not significant but followed the same patterns as wood frogs. Leopard frogs within bog fragments were larger than those in pristine bogs but only in 1998. This study implies that peat mining influences amphibian activity and movement patterns in neighboring bog fragments. Larger individuals may be better suited for survival in disturbed environments, such as mined bogs, because they are less sensitive to desiccation than smaller ones.
10.2307/1564106|The dorsal scales of 16 iguanid species representing eight generic groups were examined by scanning electron microscopy. Iguanid lizards exhibit significant variation in (i) the arrangement of the epidermal cells and (iii) the micro-ornamentation of the cell surface. A honeycomb cell arrangement variously modified by imbrication and/or flattening of the cell borders occurs in most species. The completely flat cells of anoloids and the oplurine, Chalarodon, are the extreme in the trend for flattening of the honeycomb cell boundaries. Agamids and iguanids share a honeycomb cell arrangement, and it probably represents the primitive condition for iguanids. There are four types of micro-ornamentation among iguanids: a bare, unsculptured surface, a textured surface created by ridges and grooves (the pit and groove pattern), a pitted surface and a spinulate surface. A bare, unsculptured surface occurs in the morunasaurines, Iguana, a number of other lizard families and Sphenodon. It may be the primitive morphology for iguanids. Pitted and spinulate surfaces appear to be derived from the pit and groove pattern, and morphotypic series based on topographic variation over the scale surface suggest how spinules and pits evolved. Spinules have a wider distribution among iguanids than previously known; they occur among sceloporines and anoloids (both previously described), tropidurines, oplurines and basiliscines. There is no obvious correlation between spinulate scale surfaces and a particular habitat or locomotor behavior.
10.2307/1566176|Conservation efforts for two endangered lizard species, the chevron skink (Oligosoma homalonotum) and the striped skink (Oligosoma striatum), have been hindered by a lack of knowledge on their habitat preferences. Reports of some individuals being found in moist microenvironments has led to speculation that both species may be physiologically restricted to such habitats. Estimates of water loss in these two species were compared with water loss in two relatively common species, the speckled skink (Oligosoma infrapunctatum) and Falla's skink (Oligosoma fallai), that are inhabitants of semiarid habitats. When the effect of body size was accounted for using analysis of covariance, results indicated that chevron and striped skins lost 34% more water through evaporation than the semiarid inhabiting species did. When compared to water loss rates in lizards elsewhere, all New Zealand species had relatively high rates of loss for their size. It is predicted that high rates of water loss in chevron and striped skinks would lead to these species preferentially inhabiting moist sites. Recommendations include that future survey effort for both species should be focused on areas with high moisture content. The results also raise implications for land management on Great Barrier Island and provide insight into the current distribution of chevron and striped skinks.
4498525|Acris gryllus paludicola, the Coastal Cricket Frog, was described from Sabine Pass, Jefferson County, Texas, by L. W. Burger, P. W. Smith, and H. M. Smith in 1949. Additional specimens have not been reported or examined in the literature. At the time of its description, the association with Acris gryllus was parsimonious with the then-current understanding of the taxonomic position of the two species within the genus, A. gryllus and Acris crepitans. All subspecies within the genus were described within four years of each other, and all were subspecies of A. gryllus. The Coastal Cricket Frog is currently treated as a subspecies of A. crepitans but without an explicit treatment resolving its species level affinity. Seven individuals found on 19 May 2005 near the type locality are relatively smooth skinned; have reduced, or lack, anal warts; and retain ill-defined postfemoral striping; vocalizing males have pink-rose colored vocal pouches. Phenotypic comparison of the seven specimens fails to eliminate their inclusion in the species A. gryllus. Concurrent mtDNA sequence comparisons with A. gryllus from Florida and a series of A. crepitans from Texas confirm that the Coastal Cricket Frog is nested within the A. crepitans clade distinct from A. gryllus. We conclude that the original description of the "pink" frog is supported by examination of living specimens and have no evidence indicating that its subspecific status within A. crepitans should be questioned. Recent work within this genus has highlighted the need for an exhaustive study of the variation it presents rangewide.
10.2307/1563736|The Puerto Rican gekkonids Sphaerodactylus nicholsi and S. townsendi have been alternately considered as separate species or subspecies of the taxon S. nicholsi. In distribution these taxa are largely allopatric, but the presence of apparent intergrade populations in southcentral Puerto Rico suggest that they are not reproductively isolated. Hybridization between these two taxa may have become possible when extensive agriculture created a patchy field-and-woods environment that resulted in a mosaic of proximate populations of S. townsendi, typically found in open coastal environments, and S. nicholsi, typically found in areas of dense vegetation and substantial ground cover. Electrophoretic data for 23 loci imply that highly restricted gene flow has occurred between S. nicholsi and S. townsendi without substantial genetic differentiation. The analysis of alleles in a suspected intergrade population suggests hybridization, and that S. nicholsi and S. townsendi are indeed not totally reproductively isolated. Several unique alleles were found in the suspected hybrid zone, and this phenomenon is discussed as it relates to hybridization. Although not conclusive, the data most strongly support the recognition of both S. nicholsi and S. townsendi as species.
10.2307/1565114|We monitored the demographics of the salamander Ambystoma tigrinum nebulosum as part of a community-wide study on the effects of acidification in sub-alpine (elevation 3600 m) ponds in central Colorado. A decline in A. t. nebulosum at this site from 1982 to 1988 has been hypothesized to result from embryonic mortality during a pulse of acidity that accompanies snowmelt in spring. Since 1988 we have monitored salamander population size, reproduction, and recruitment, and compared survival and individual growth rates among ponds which differ five-fold in acid-neutralizing capacity (ANC). Larval recruitment fluctuated dramatically from year to year, but we found no evidence that survival of either embryos or larvae was affected by pH. In each year, the pulse of snowmelt acidification was either benign, or occurred earlier than egg deposition. During 1990 and 1991 we followed individual egg masses and found that embryonic survival was high in all ponds and did not differ between high and low ANC ponds. In permanent ponds, survival of first-year larvae was high and independent of pH. Within cohorts, second-year larvae were actually larger in ponds with low ANC than in high ANC ponds. The largest source of mortality in the population between 1988 and 1991 was related to pond drying; about half of all hatchlings that survived to July perished in autumn when many of the ponds dried. Our results suggest that fluctuation in hydroperiod is as viable a working hypothesis as snowmelt acidification for the recent decline in this population. Our water chemistry data show that many ponds at Mexican Cut remain poorly buffered and that this acid-sensitive watershed should continue to be closely monitored.
10.2307/1565053|Populations of Rana clamitans and R. virgatipes at Cedar Run Lake, Medford, New Jersey had overlapping breeding seasons, and males exhibited similar territorial behavior, calling site preferences, and vocal repertoires. The spatial distribution of male calling sites was non-random. Nearest-neighbor analyses demonstrated that males formed mixed-species aggregations along the perimeter of the lake. Within these aggregations, male R. virgatipes positioned themselves closer to conspecific than heterospecific males. Rana virgatipes shifted from advertisement calls to single-note aggressive calls in response to the playback of a heterospecific advertisement call. By contrast, R. clamitans gave no significant response.
41415327|Caiman latirostns (Broad-Snouted Caiman) is widely distributed in wetlands and rivers of South America. Hematological and blood chemistry reference values are necessary for detecting the effects of environmental, infectious, parasitic, or toxicological stress on C. latirostns health. Peripheral blood samples were obtained from 24 healthy 6- to 18-month-old caimans. Blood cell dimensions and cytochemistry profiles were described; and reference intervals for hematological parameters, enzyme activities, and clinical analytes were established. Based on the caiman mass frequency distribution, two classes were distinguished: 125-900 g and 901-3,100 g . Although an overlap in age ranges was observed, total length and snout-vent length range values from both mass classes differed. This finding is particularly useful because, in the wild, caiman age is unknown, whereas growth parameters can be easily recorded. Caiman blood cells exhibited morphological features similar to those of other reptiles, with lymphocytes being the most numerous type of leukocytes. Significant positive correlations between mass and hemoglobin concentration, hematocrit, red blood cell, and white blood cell counts were observed. Neither sex nor age was associated with differences in these parameters. Analysis of blood chemistry values found in this study was done by comparing with values reported for related species. Both similarities and discrepancies with values from other crocodiles are discussed. This study provides baseline information from healthy juvenile caimans to which subsequent measurements can be compared. These data will aid in the medical management of caiman farms, zoo conservation programs, and field studies.
10.2307/1565543|The effects of temperature, body size, and inter-individual variation on forced and voluntary swimming and crawling velocities were tested in Nerodia sipedon and Regina septemvittata. All measures of velocity generally increased with temperature, although the magnitude of increase depended on the locomotor substrate and whether the animal was being tested under forced or voluntary conditions. Aquatic velocity exceeded terrestrial velocity during both forced and voluntary movement by a factor strongly dictated by temperature and substrate. Voluntary velocity was much closer to forced velocity during swimming than during crawling. Forced velocity scaled with body size in many instances, but there was little correlation between voluntary velocity and body size. Nerodia sipedon demonstrated some correlation between forced and voluntary performance levels, and there was some evidence of correlation between aquatic and terrestrial performance under forced conditions in R. septemvittata. These findings suggest that a rather complicated array of environmental and organismal factors may influence overall performance in semi-aquatic snakes.
40983598|Although investigators have determined that some anurans can influence nutrient availability in terrestrial systems, ecological interactions among salamanders, invertebrates, and leaf litter decomposition in the detrital ecosystem are poorly understood. We examined the effects of the Eastern Red-Backed Salamander (Plethodon cinereus) on leaf litter decomposition rates and invertebrate populations in the mixed oak forests of southwestern Virginia from May 2006 to June 2008. We constructed 12 in situ mesocosms with 0,1.0, or 2.0 P. cinereus/m (4.0 P. cinereus/m in year 2). We quantified decomposition rates of leaf litter and numbers of invertebrates with litter bags that were removed from mesocosms monthly throughout the experiment. Further, we assessed what taxa of invertebrates were preyed upon by salamanders with gastric lavage. Across our 2-year experiment, we were unable to detect an effect of salamander abundance on rates of leaf litter decomposition, numbers of broad invertebrate taxonomie groupings, or functional guilds of invertebrates. Stomach analysis confirmed that salamanders were euryphagic, but they consumed more herbivores than detritivores or predators. Although we are unclear why these results conflict with earlier work indicating that salamanders can influence invertebrates and leaf litter decomposition, variability of canopy trees or microclimate may have contributed to a lack of control of invertebrate populations or litter decomposition by salamanders in the complex mixed-oak forests of the Appalachian Mountains.
10.2307/1562703| Males and tadpoles of Telmatobius somuncurensis, living in thermal springs (20 - 22C) are described. Preliminary observations on the spermatogenic cycle of the species are discussed. Ecological observations on the Somuncura plateau, 700-800 m, are reported. 
4498582|We conducted nocturnal surveys of postmetamorphic Ascaphus truei on six streams in north coastal California from 2002-04, using mark-recapture techniques to determine sizes of age classes, growth rates, site fidelity, reproductive chronology, and seasonal activity within the stream channel and riparian zone. Ascaphus truei grew year-round, but grew faster during the summer (
10.2307/1563412|Mark-release-recapture data were collected over a 9-year period on a population of the chicken turtle (Deirochelys reticularia) in South Carolina. The capture of more than 350 individuals provided data on growth rates, reproduction, size structure, and terrestrial activity. Juveniles grew more rapidly than adults, as expected, and adult growth rate appeared to diminish at larger sizes. Some individuals did not grow for periods of 1 to 2 years. Females with eggs were captured in early spring each year as soon as temperatures were consistently warm. None of the few captured during the summer had oviducal eggs; however, nine females with eggs left the aquatic area in early fall. The population size structure of adult females in 1967-70 was not appreciably different from that in 1975-76. The only consistent pattern in terrestrial activity between years was that females emerged for egg-laying in spring and fall and hatchlings entered the water in the spring. Inconsistencies between the present terrestrial activity data and those of a previous study are attributed to habitat features which vary annually.
10.2307/1565796|The dramatic amphibian population declines reported worldwide likely have important effects on their predators. In the Sierra Nevada, where amphibian declines are well documented and some are closely tied to the introduction of nonnative trout, the mountain garter snake, Thamnophis elegans elegans, preys predominately on amphibians. We surveyed 2103 high-elevation lakes in the Sierra Nevada, quantified the distributional relationship between the mountain garter snake and anuran amphibians (Pseudacris regilla, Rana muscosa, and Bufo spp.) and used this information to evaluate the possibility that amphibian declines lead to declines of garter snakes. We observed a strong association between amphibian presence and garter snake presence. The probability of finding snakes in lakes with amphibians was 30 times greater than in lakes without amphibians. Lakes with snakes had higher numbers of amphibians within 1 km (mean = 4018.8) than did lakes without snakes (mean = 642.1). On a landscape scale, in Kings Canyon National Park (where 40% of larger lakes contain nonnative trout) amphibians were found in 52% of lakes, and 62 garter snakes were found in 33 of the 1059 lakes surveyed. In contrast, in the John Muir Wilderness (JMW; where 80% of larger lakes contain nonnative trout), amphibians were found in 19% of lakes, and no snakes were found in any of the 1044 lakes surveyed. Based on these data, we suggest that the introduction of nonnative trout has led not only to the decline of amphibians but also to the decline of garter snakes. This study supports the hypothesis that the presence of amphibians is a prerequisite for garter snake persistence in high-elevation portions of the Sierra Nevada and that the introduction of trout into an ecosystem can have serious effects, not just on their prey but also on other predators in the ecosystem.
10.2307/1563529|The epidermal cocoon of Pternohyla consists of multiple sheddings of the stratum corneum interspersed with mucus filled subcorneal spaces. The rate of water loss through the cocoon is very low (0.6 mg g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>) under the experimental conditions of flowing dry air. The cocoon of Pternohyla represents the first known case of cocoon formation in a hylid frog.
10.2307/1563714|A comparative morphological study of the digestive tract during larval development between two species of the genus Rhinoderma is presented. The digestive tract of R. rufum shows the structure typical of species with free living larvae; a large intestinal mass and early differentiation of the duodenal epithelium. On the other hand, R. darwinii with nonaquatic development, lacks the morphology associated with exogenous feeding and the histogenesis of the duodenal epithelium reaches its maximum degree of differentiation only in the last stages of the metamorphosis. For R. darwinii a mixed trophic mechanism is suggested involving yolk dependence and a paternal larval relation. This proposition is supported by previous findings which indicate the existence of absorption across the larval skin and inability of the larvae to survive in Ringer's amphibian solution. There is some evidence suggesting that a similar mechanism could operate in R. rufum.
10.2307/1565569|Hatchling painted turtles (Chrysemys picta), Blanding's turtles (Emydoidea blandingi), slider turtles (Trachemys scripta), and snapping turtles (Chelydra serpentina) were inoculated with ice at temperatures near the equilibrium freezing point for their body fluids (ca. -0.7 C) and then frozen at -2.0 C. All animals survived freezing for up to 30 h, but mortality among sliders and snapping turtles increased rapidly with longer exposures. Despite the fact that neonates of all four species are able to recover from freezing at a high subzero temperature, the adaptive strategy manifested by animals in the field is to avoid freezing altogether via attributes of morphology (painted turtles), behavior (Blanding's turtles, snapping turtles), or distribution (slider turtles). The discovery of a tolerance for freezing in hatchlings of species having diverse distributions and natural histories raises the possibility that such tolerance is a trait of general occurrence among neonatal turtles and that it is not an adaptation specifically enabling animals to withstand the rigors of winter.
10.2307/1564994|Population sizes of Graptemys oculifera were estimated using two mark-recapture procedures at five sites on the Pearl River in Mississippi. These were compared with density estimates from basking counts at the same sites to determine if the latter could be used as indices of population size. Density estimates from the mark-recapture studies ranged from 85 to 341 G. oculifera per river km. Jolly-Seber and Schnabel population estimates were similar at three sites, but low numbers of recaptures resulted in inflated Jolly-Seber estimates at the two remaining sites. The Schnabel mark-recapture model appeared to be better suited for estimating population sizes of G. oculifera. Basking surveys provided a rough index to population sizes, but comparisons between sites were potentially complicated by differential wariness of basking turtles. Growth curves were constructed for each sex by fitting data from recaptured turtles to the von Bertalanffy and logistic growth models. The former model provided a better fit to the data than did the latter. Juveniles of both sexes grew at approximately the same rate. Males matured at 3.5 yr of age and females between 10 and 16 yr. Sex ratios were biased toward males at all sites.
4092848|I describe a new species of blindsnake of the genus Typhlops from Rossel Island, off the southeastern tip of New Guinea. The new species is a member of the Typhlops ater species group and is characterized by having 18 scale rows, 343 middorsal scales, T-V supralabial-imbrication pattern, a distinct pupil, single subocular scale, and by lacking a presubocular scale. Its closest living relative is probably Typhlops inornatus, known from forested habitats on the nearby mainland of New Guinea. The new species is known from only two specimens from northeastern Rossel Island, and it remains uncertain whether it occurs on adjacent islands of the Louisiade Archipelago.
10.2307/1565267|We tested the hypothesis that large eggs of a terrestrial turtle when exposed to stressful hydric environments are more likely to hatch than are small eggs of an aquatic turtle. Eggs of terrestrial Terrapene carolina were compared to eggs of two aquatic species; Trachemys scripta, whose eggs are similar in size to those of T. carolina, and Chrysemys picta, with smaller eggs than either of the other two species. Eggs of all three species were incubated on wet and dry substrates with nominal substrate water potentials of -150 kPa and -1500 kPa, respectively. Overall, eggs of all three species on wetter substrate gained mass during incubation, whereas eggs on the drier substrate either gained less mass (T. carolina) or lost mass (T. scripta and C. picta) during incubation. Eggs of T. carolina on the dry substrate gained more mass during incubation than did eggs of either of the aquatic species on wet substrate. The ability of eggs of T. carolina to maintain a positive water balance on a substrate with water potential less than -300 kPa is unique among turtles that lay flexible-shelled eggs. All three species are consistent in that hatchlings from wetter substrate tended to incubate longer, to be heavier, and to have longer carapaces than those from drier substrate. The pattern of survivorship on the dry substrate did not support the hypothesis that larger eggs are more likely to survive to hatch than are smaller eggs when exposed to a stressful environment because survivorship was equivalent between larger eggs of T. carolina and smaller eggs of C. picta. In contrast, survivorship of T. scripta eggs was reduced compared to the other two species despite the relatively large egg size of T. scripta.
10.2307/1564120|Hybridization between the Southwestern toad, B. microscaphus, and Woodhouse's toad, B. woodhousei, was investigated in central Arizona. Allopatric populations of these two taxa differed significantly in their morphology. Five regions of sympatry were identified, and morphological intermediates (hybrids) were present at three of these sites. Based on morphology and male advertisement calls, back-crossing may have occurred in at least one of the hybrid zones. Aquatic habitats have been altered by man in all zones of sympatry and B. woodhousei may have only recently arrived in these regions. It is suggested that Moore's (1977) 'ephemeral-zone' hypothesis may account for hybridization between these distinct taxa.
4498543|TWO localities in the Panaca Formation, Meadow Valley, Lincoln County, Nevada, have produced squamate remains that date to 4.9-4.7 Ma. Included are fossil maxillae of Crotaphytus sp. (Collared Lizards) and a dentary of Gambelia sp. (Leopard Lizards). To identify these fossils, diagnostic dental characters were used to distinguish the two genera. The toothrow of Crotaphytus exhibits wide, robust teeth and consists of mostly tricuspid teeth that show little or no recurvature. Gambelia dentition differs in having highly recurved, parallel-sided teeth throughout the toothrow, which contains more unicuspid than tricuspid teeth. Published records of valid Crotaphytus date to the middle Pliocene (3.7-3.1 Ma) and Gambelia date to the early to middle Pliocene (4.18-3.58 Ma). The Panaca Formation fossils described herein mark the oldest known record of both taxa.
10.2307/1564441|Ambystoma maculatum egg deposition, larval growth, and larval survivorship were investigated from 1981-1985 in two ponds in Virginia. Larvae in Tate Pond were not exposed to interspecific predation whereas larvae in Quesenberry Pond were preyed on by fish. The number of hatchlings ranged from 350-638/1000 eggs and was not significantly different between the ponds. The number of eggs deposited in the ponds was not significantly correlated with the number of transformed individuals leaving the ponds. Although larval density was different between ponds, growth rates of all cohorts were similar. Larval survival was similar from year to year within each pond, but was greater after 30 days post-hatching in Tate Pond during all years. Survival at 120 days after hatching ranged from 42-125/1000 hatchlings in Tate Pond to 0-3/1000 hatchlings in Quesenberry Pond. The number of transformed individuals leaving Tate Pond ranged from 9.54-31.42/1000 hatchlings. No transformed individuals left Quesenberry Pond. Survival curves for all cohorts approximate the type II pattern.
43287314|According to kin selection theory, competition among monoclonal animals must be lower than between unrelated individuals. Thus, we propose that home range and core area overlap in parthenogenetic lizards will be broader than female range overlap in similar gonochoristic species. To test this hypothesis, we examined home range locations and space use of parthenogenetic Armenian Rock Lizards (Dareuskia armeniaca) and compared them with home range locations and space use of gonochoristic species. We demonstrated that parthenogenetic Rock Lizards have a total range structure typical of insectivorous lizards, consisting of a sally zone, a home range, and one or more core areas. Some core areas contained activity centers, associated strongly with key basking sites and shelters. Provisional residents were found within the same range for 1 or 2 years, whereas wanderers visited study sites for 1 or 2 weeks per season. Settlement structure varied greatly among years. Home ranges, core areas, and even activity centers and basking sites of parthenogenetic females overlapped extensively, unlike in females of nonparthenogenic species. Monoclonal origins and high level of relatedness within unisexual species are possible explanations of the extended range overlap among parthenogenetic females.
41415329|Morphological and molecular information is invaluable in the description of cryptic diversity and the evolutionary processes driving diversification within closely related species that exhibit morphological homoplasy. We present a distribution-wide data set consisting of both molecular and morphological information, providing a taxonomic revision of the Diporiphora nobbi species group, and develop preliminary hypotheses regarding the evolutionary history of D. nobbi. We show deep molecular divergence between D. nobbi and a newly described sister lineage associated with divergence in meristic characters. Our molecular data also show large divergences among subclades within nominate D. nobbi associated with different habitats rather than specific biogeographc barriers. We further discuss potential diversification mechanisms within the D. nobbi species group.
10.2307/1563064|Aggression (including territoriality, social dominance, and feeding competition) was observed among and between salamanders of different eastern large and eastern small Plethodon. The aggression affects the overlapping food and shelter use in sympatric Plethodon species, and so is a part of competition. The occurrence and frequency of observed interactions are summarized, and certain sequences are narrated, such as P. cinereus versus P. nettingi shenandoah. Eastern large Plethodon tend to behave aggressively toward any Plethodon invading their territory, sympatric or not, unless the invader is much larger. Attack is more likely if the first salamander has a high social ranking in the "neighborhood." The eastern small Plethodon were less well studied. Some did attack other entities, both sympatric and allopatric, but some appeared less aggressive than others, or than eastern large Plethodon. Size and frequency data support size effects and species differences in Plethodon. The effect of age, sex, the territory, and season or time of day are discussed briefly. Aggression between eastern small and eastern large Plethodon was also observed, aggression between genera, and attacks by plethodontids against salamandrids and ambystomids. Less surface activity, and habitat displacement (through increased arboreality) can occur in less dominant Plethodon. Terrarium behavior versus behavior "in nature" is discussed, as well as the probable non-learned nature of many of the poses and movements.
10.2307/1565299|The habitat of the flat-tailed horned lizard (Phrynosoma mcallii) is usually described as desert flats with fine, aeolian sand, at the edges of or away from dunes. At Ocotillo Wells State Vehicle Recreation Area the highest densities of P. mcallii were correlated with sparsely vegetated gravelly habitats and mud hills. These findings suggest that either P. mcallii has shifted or dispersed to other habitats as a result of off-highway vehicle activity in sandy areas, or that the species has wider habitat preferences than previously described. No apparent correlation existed between lizard and scat densities suggesting that scats may not be a reliable indicator of lizard abundance and distribution in this population.
10.2307/1563244|A case of symbiosis between the centrolenid frog Centrolenella fleischmanni and the drosophilid fly Drosophila sp. nov. is documented. The fly lays her eggs near the surface of the frog's egg mass. Upon hatching, the larvae feed upon the frog embryos, killing many or all of them. Pupation occurs within the egg mass before the embryos hatch. Flies emerge about 10-13 days after the maggots hatch, and after the tadpoles have left the egg mass. For the "frogflies" the relationship appears to be obligatory, but not so for the frogs, which derive no obvious benefit from the association.
10.2307/1564076|Gopher tortoises (Gopherus polyphemus) typically occur in upland xeric habitats, where long-term stability is thought to be required for population persistance. The southernmost population on Cape Sable, Florida, occupies 113 ha of unstable coastal dunes. This isolated population is relatively dense, estimated at 11.3 tortoises/ha, and consists of over 1200 tortoises. Burrows are randomly distributed over the coastal grassland habitat. The size distribution of burrows suggests the occurrence of larger animals than in other populations studied, probably owing to the long-term absence of human predation. Population density seems to have increased substantially in the 16 years since the last hurricane passed over the area. Environmental conditions, particularly storms and drought, may explain the recent population trend, size structure, and distribution of this coastal population.
23326898|Body size and morphology are important traits that can strongly influence the life history of an organism. One important factor affecting these traits is habitat. Urbanization has resulted in the significant modification of many habitats, and thus, it may be a factor affecting the body size and morphology of species living in the urban environment. In this study, we compared body size and morphology in urban and bush populations of the lizard Lophognathus temporalis in and around Darwin, Australia. We made monthly measurements of invertebrate abundance and soil moisture during one year to compare seasonal variation in resource availability between habitats. We also collected all matter excreted by L. temporalis during their first four days in captivity as an index of food consumption in the field. We found that male L. temporalis were larger than females and that urban L. temporalis were larger than bush L. temporalis. Males had longer front limbs, hind limbs, and tails than did females; and in urban populations, they also had larger heads. Urban L. temporalis had longer front and hind limbs than did bush L. temporalis, although head size and tail length were similar for both groups. Resource availability was seasonally more stable in urban habitats than in bush habitats, and urban L. temporalis consumed more than bush L. temporalis all year round. We conclude that differences in resource abundance between habitats may be an important factor contributing to the morphological differences between urban and bush-dwelling L. temporalis.
10.2307/1564398|During rainstorms, Texas horned lizards in enclosures were observed to exhibit a stereotyped behavior termed "rain-harvesting." The behavior involves: (1) raising the abdomen in an arch; (2) splaying and extending the legs; (3) dorso-ventral flattening and lateral spreading of the body; (4) lowering the head and tail; (5) opening and closing the jaws; and (6) drinking water collected on the dorsal body surface. Ingestion of integumentally-derived water was verified by recovery of dyed water from the gut. SEM stereophotographs illustrate the interscalar channels through which water is carried, apparently by capillary action, over body surfaces to the jaws. During light rainfall water flow to the jaws occurs within interscalar channels, but during heavy rainfall gravitational sheet flow may increase the amount of water arriving at the jaws. This integumental rain-harvesting system is similar to reported interscalar water transport in two agamid lizards, Moloch horridus and Phrynocephalus helioscopus. Apparently, Phrynosoma and P. helioscopus have similar behaviors for rain-harvesting. This is the first report to provide observations of a lizard obtaining water from natural precipitation for drinking by integumental interception and transport.
43287392|The genus Aparasphenodon is poorly known. Of the four species, the larvae of only one have been described, and the advertisement calls of all taxa remain unknown. Here, we describe the tadpole, adult coloration, and advertisement calls of Aparasphenodon arapapa. We also provide data that extend its known distribution 170 km to the south, from the type locality in Ituber to Una, Bahia, Brazil. In addition, we report larval morphology related to bromeligenous habitat specialization of tadpole and metamorph oophagy for the first time in the genus. The advertisement call is composed of one multipulsed note with mean duration of 150 ms. Whether the observed oophagy is obligatory or opportunistic remains unclear, suggesting that further studies are warranted. Our observations provide insight into the behavioral and morphological diversity in the genus Aparasphenodon, and may guide future studies of this unique group of anurans.
10.2307/1563078|Two new species of the iguanid genus Ctenoblepharis, C. donoso barrosi and C. rabinoi, are described, on the basis of adult specimens collected from the arid lands of the southeastern Mendoza province, Argentina. General notes on the geographical distribution and ecological features of the genus are included.
10.2307/1563971|This experiment showed that the courtship behavior of Desmognathus aeneus includes a prolonged biting phase, during which the male bites the female tenaciously. This unusual behavior has been described in only one other plethodontid, Desmognathus wrighti. In most other respects, the courtship behavior of D. aeneus is similar to that of its congeners. Morphological characters associated with biting, as well as the functional and evolutionary significance of biting, are evaluated.
10.2307/1566116|We conducted experimental tests of the responses to food chemicals presented on cotton swabs or ceramic tiles by tuataras and insectivorous species from several families of iguanian lizards. Tuataras, which are primarily carnivorous, never tongue flicked but frequently bit cotton balls bearing prey surface chemicals, suggesting that they may be able to detect airborne prey chemicals via olfaction. None of the lizards tested, the agamids Chamaeleo pardalis and Acanthosaura crucigera, the polychrotids Anolis smallwoodi and Chamaeleolis chamaeleonides, the phrynosomatids Sceloporus variabilis and Uta stansburiana, and the crotaphytid Crotaphytus collaris, exhibited any differential responses among prey chemicals, chemicals from palatable plants, and pungency control or odorless control stimuli. The findings buttress previous work that has shown a lack of prey chemical discrimination in ambush foragers, including all sampled iguanian insectivores. Given that all tested omnivores and herbivores respond strongly to plant chemicals, they are also consistent with the hypothesis that discriminatory lingual and biting responses to plant chemicals occur only in species having diets with a large plant component. Correlated evolution between herbivory and plant chemical discrimination remains to be established. For unknown reasons, Sceloporus variabilis tongue flicked less frequently in tile tests with romaine lettuce stimuli than with cricket and banana stimuli.
10.2307/1565117|Most researchers who have studied effects of low pH on amphibians that breed in temporary ponds measured direct lethal effects on single species. We summarize here results of a study conducted over 4 years in central Pennsylvania that illustrate the potential ecological importance of direct and indirect effects of low pH at lethal and sublethal levels. We argue for use of a multilevel approach (field sampling and experimentation in the laboratory, simulated ponds, and natural ponds) to study such effects on embryonic and larval amphibians of temporary ponds. A greater proportion of our study ponds was lower in pH than any reported previously in North America. Ponds were soft and often had high [Al<sub>total</sub>]. Median seasonal pHs of 9 ponds were negatively associated with total amounts of rainfall over 4 years, but were not associated with H<sup>+</sup> deposition during that same period. The pHs of many ponds declined as total rainfall increased. Embryonic mortality of the salamander Ambystoma jeffersonianum was high in ponds below pH 4.5. Less pH-associated embryonic mortality was observed among the more tolerant salamander, Ambystoma maculatum, and frog, Rana sylvatica. Laboratory-determined LC<sub>50</sub> values for hatching of R. sylvatica, A. maculatum, and A. jeffersonianum were 4.10, 4.31, and 4.51, respectively, and predicted embryonic mortalities in ponds with good accuracy. More larval R. sylvatica survived at pH 4.1 in the laboratory when initially contained with A. jeffersonianum than at pH >6. This was due to reduced survival of, and subsequent reduced predation by, A. jeffersonianum at pH 4.1. In the same experiment, survival of A. maculatum was not different between pHs as they were eaten by A. jeffersonianum at pH >6 and suffered pH-induced mortality at pH 4.1. More larval A. jeffersonianum survived at pH 4.1 over 7 days when larval R. sylvatica and A. maculatum were available as prey, than when no prey were available. Larval A. jeffersonianum did not survive to metamorphosis in pH 4.2, and survived in low numbers in pH >6, in simulated ponds. Ambystoma maculatum metamorphosed less often, took longer to metamorphose, and weighed less at metamorphosis in simulated ponds of pH 4.2 versus those of pH >6. Reproduction of the newt Notophthalmus viridescens in simulated ponds was significantly lower, and adults were trapped more often exiting ponds, in pH 4.2 than in pH >6. Presence of adult N. viridescens in simulated ponds resulted in significantly lower survival of R. sylvatica at metamorphosis; survival was not significantly affected by pH 4.2. Our results in simulated ponds were likely due to a combination of lethal and sublethal effects that impinged either directly on individual larvae, or indirectly via the food web. These results suggest that studies focused only on direct lethal effects of low pH could substantially underestimate total impacts of low pH on amphibians of temporary ponds. Thus, in addition to the pronounced direct lethal effects we observed on A. jeffersonianum, the chronic and intermittent fluctuations in pHs in our study ponds that were associated with total rainfall could conceivably have induced less obvious effects throughout the food webs.
10.2307/1565325|We studied the activity patterns of two species of viviparous lizards co-occurring in a harsh sub-alpine environment. Activity patterns were studied over the active period, October to March, to investigate differences between an alpine specialist species, Niveoscincus microlepidotus, and a lowland generalist species, N. metallicus, at its altitudinal limit. Distinct differences were found in emergence and retreat times, behavior during the day, activity between the seasons, and total activity over the summer period. Loglinear modeling clearly showed a relationship between sex, season and the behavior of the lizards. Niveoscincus microlepidotus exhibited more variable behavior than N. metallicus, with a capacity to shift from bimodal to unimodal diel activity. Diel and seasonal activity in N. microlepidotus was greatly extended, largely through the use of thigmothermy to supplement shuttling heliothermy.
40060499|There are currently few harvest regulations for the Common Snapping Turtle (Chelydra serpentina) in West Virginia. Uncontrolled harvest of long-lived species with delayed sexual maturity may lead to long-term declines in populations. We analyzed a 17-year data set from a mark-recapture study on an unharvested population of the Common Snapping Turtle in Canaan Valley, West Virginia. We captured 91 snapping turtles (47 female, 44 male). Program MARK was used to analyze 10 competing models predicting adult Common Snapping Turtle survival and capture probabilities and compared the models using Akaike Information Criterion values corrected for small sample size (AICc). The estimated annual survival was 0.97 and the annual capture probability was 0.11. We found that the best performing model involved constant survival and capture probability that varied based on the mass at initial capture. This suggests that there is no difference in survival between males and females. Moreover, the size of trap may affect the capture of smaller and larger individuals and researchers should use multiple trap types to assess turtle abundance.
10.2307/1563544|Bullfrogs, Rana catesbeiana, cause considerable economic damage on the fish hatchery studied. Hatchery fish form a major part of the adult diet throughout the nonhibernating season. Each frog eats several dollars worth of fish per year varying with the value of the fish. Food appears to be more important than temperature in both tadpole growth and transformation; tadpoles in a hatchery pond ate the commercial food provided for the fish and grew and transformed at a rate faster than any previously reported. Tadpoles in a stock pond grew at normally expected rates.
43287338|Golf courses represent a common type of anthropogenically modified habitat in suburban environments. Golf courses may provide suitable habitat for semi-aquatic animals in suburban areas, yet studies comparing animal abundances in golf course ponds with other pond types in suburban environments are somewhat limited. In this study, we compared turtle abundances in golf course ponds with ponds found in residential areas and ponds found in rural (farm) areas and examined the relationship between turtle abundance and residential landcover within individual golf courses. We captured turtles in 10 golf course ponds, 5 ponds surrounded by residential development, and 5 ponds located on farms. We estimated abundance and the effects of pond area, pond type (i.e., residential, golf, farm) and percentage of residential development within golf course boundaries. Using binomial mixture models and Bayesian inference, we found that ponds surrounded by residential development had lower abundances of Painted Turtles (Chrysetnys pict) and Sliders (Trachemys scripta) than ponds located on golf courses and farms. Additionally, golf courses that have a greater amount of residential development within course boundaries had fewer turtles than courses that contained minimal residential development. Our results suggest that golf courses can offer suitable habitat for semi-aquatic turtles in suburban areas. However, residential development within golf course boundaries appears to have a negative effect on local abundances. Thus, if golf courses are to be seen as reserves for wetland-dependent animals, golf courses with low housing density should be considered as a more preferable option than courses associated with extensive residential development.
1565784|Eurycea cirrigera, a relatively small species that occurs in the Allegheny Mountains, appears to fill in the gaps along the aquatic-terrestrial gradient that are left by two sympatric salamander species; the terrestrial Plethodon cinereus and semiaquatic Desmognathus fuscus. To better understand the local distribution of these three species we tested the hypothesis that E. cirrigera is better able to utilize a variety of microhabitats than P. cinereus or D. fuscus. In field enclosures change in mass in relation to initial mass, as a proxy of fitness, was compared for each species, in three different habitats (stream, stream bank, and forest) over time. Independent of species the stream habitat showed a significant negative effect on the fitness of all individuals. Additionally, E. cirrigera showed significantly higher fitness than P. cinereus over all three treatments. The mean fitness of D. fuscus was intermediate, but not significantly different than P. cinereus or E. cirrigera. These results suggest that, in the absence of predation and competition, E. cirrigera is not negatively affected by being a generalist.
10.2307/1564553|Hoplodactylus maculatus is a small, nocturnal and viviparous gecko that is widespread throughout New Zealand and represents a complex of several undescribed species. Common geckos in the Macraes-Middlemarch region of Central Otago in southern New Zealand have a biennial ovarian cycle with virtually continuous ovarian activity. Females begin vitellogenesis in autumn and ovulate the following spring. Pregnant females carry full-term, viable embryos by the end of autumn about 7 mo after ovulation, but remain pregnant during the subsequent winter. Parturition occurs the following late spring or summer, about 14 mo after ovulation. In populations of this species complex in three other regions of New Zealand, annual ovarian cycles with a 3-5 mo pregnancy have been reported. Biennial reproduction in the Macraes-Middlemarch region is associated with colder temperatures during spring-autumn than in regions with annual reproduction. Common geckos from the Macraes-Middlemarch region also have larger body sizes and a smaller mean litter size than in two populations with annual reproductive cycles. Small litter size and biennial reproduction in the Macraes-Middlemarch region result in an annual reproductive output of about 0.85 young, comparable with the lowest value reported for any other lizard. These findings imply a long life-span in common geckos from this region.
10.2307/1564051| The activities of the banded gecko, Coleonyx variegatus, were observed in the field and in an outdoor enclosure. Fieldwork supported previous studies suggesting eurythermy in the species, but it was predominantly the males that exhibited this tendency. The males were also active over a broader range of time. These differences may have been because the males were searching for females with which to mate, as well as for food. In an enclosure, the banded geckos moved about 15 m/hr while foraging, with individuals frequently changing position (x = 34 moves/hr). Banded geckos search for food in a manner which is intermediate between classical sit-and-wait foragers and active foragers. 
4092990|The South American water snake Helicops leopardinus is very abundant in the Pantanal wetlands of Central Brazil. We studied the biology of this species based on specimens collected by local workers in the Paraguay River. Females attained greater body lengths and had larger heads than males, but the latter had longer tails. Helicops leopardinus fed on a wide variety of fishes (70% of the total prey items) and frogs, with fishes of the order Gymnotiformes (33.34%) and frogs of the family Hylidae (23.34%) representing the most common prey items. There was relatively low diet overlap between the sexes and between juveniles and adults. Mean litter size was 6.6 and ranged from 4-11. The reproductive cycle was seasonal, with birth occurring late in the wet season (simultaneous with the flooding of the Paraguay River), facilitating dispersal of young snakes by floating vegetation. Floating vegetation may be a critical habitat for H. leopardinus, and management plans for their maintenance need to be developed.
25599241|Tadpoles can generally increase their probability of survival in the presence of known predators by reducing their foraging activities or modifying their tail shape to increase swimming speed or lure attacks away from the head. However, it is unknown to what extent tadpoles can induce such behavioral and morphological plasticity in response to introduced predators. Lowland Leopard Frogs (Rana yavapaiensis) are native to Arizona and are currently declining because of a variety of factors including introduced predators such as the Green Sunfish (Lepomis cyanellus). We reared Lowland Leopard Frog tadpoles in the presence of tadpole-fed Green Sunfish or in control tanks and tested whether Lowland Leopard Frog tadpoles alter their behaviors or body shape in response to the visual and chemical cues of this predator. We found that tadpoles reared in the presence of Green Sunfish were 90% less active and had significantly different body shapes (including 5% deeper tail fins, 3% larger tail muscle height, and 3% smaller tail muscle area) than tadpoles reared in control tanks. In a subsequent survival experiment with sunfish predators, however, the survival rates did not differ between the two groups of tadpoles. Thus, our results suggest that Lowland Leopard Frog tadpoles perceive Green Sunfish as potential predators, but the induced morphological changes and the experience of prior exposure do not confer a survival advantage.
4092871|To study the movement patterns of Green Seaturtle (Chelonia mydas) populations in the Caribbean region using Cuban habitats, tag-recapture data from local (Cuban National Tagging Program 1989-2002) and international programs (1959-2002) were compiled and compared. Of the 742 turtles tagged in Cuba at fishing areas, nesting beaches and head-start facilities, 5.5% were recaptured, mostly outside of Cuban waters and with a majority of these (76.9%) off the coast of Nicaragua. Green Seaturtles tagged elsewhere and recaptured in Cuba included head-started juveniles from Grand Cayman (45% of the total), Mexico (2.3%), and Florida (1.8%); wild juveniles from the Bahamas (14.1%), Bermuda (5.4%), and Florida (1.5%); and adults from Tortuguero (26%), Florida, USA (1.3%), Mexico (1%), Venezuela (1.3%), and U.S. Virgin Islands (0.3%). Recaptures of tags placed at sites north of Cuba (Bermuda and the Bahamas) clustered in the northeast region of Cuba, whereas those from the south (Grand Cayman) were recaptured in southern areas. Recaptures from Tortuguero tags were concentrated in the southeast and westward regions of Cuba. Turtles from the Bahamas, Grand Cayman, and Bermuda showed the highest recapture rates in Cuban habitats, with 3.2,1.9, and 1.0% of the total number of tags applied, respectively. These results for a broad range of populations and across life stages underscore the regionwide significance of Cuban sites as critical habitats or migratory corridors.
10.2307/1564075|The stereotyped head bob displays of three Anolis sibling species, formerly recognized only as A. brevirostris, were quantitatively analyzed from 736 filmed displays by 46 subjects. The three species are sequentially distributed along the west coast of Haiti, with A. websteri in the north, A. caudalis in the middle, and A. brevirostris in the south. It has been hypothesized that a behavioral isolating mechanism, such as the head bob displays, was serving to separate the species. Our data support this possibility. Each species' behavioral repertoire contained two categories of homologous and species-unique displays: the Type A and B displays. A single Type A display pattern was found in each repertoire, and it served as the species' signature display. The Type B displays were more complex than the A displays, and in A. brevirostris and A. websteri were represented by two and three different variations, respectively. Each species' A display resembled that of its siblings; however, discriminant analysis procedure clearly discriminated between the three A display patterns. Likewise, the B display patterns of the combined sibling repertoires were also clearly separated by the discriminant analysis procedure, confirming their species uniqueness. Interspecific comparisons showed the largest differences in homologous displays to occur among geographically adjacent species, especially between the displays of A. websteri and A. caudalis. Character displacement may have enhanced these differences.
41515030|Lithobates catesbeianus is an invasive anuran introduced in Brazil that can affect population and community dynamics of native frogs. However, the mechanisms that allow the establishment of this species in non-native areas are not known. Considering that reproduction is a key feature in the dynamics and establishment of an invasive species in a new environment, this study investigated the reproductive biology of L. catesbeianus in a subtropical area of southern Brazil. One-hundred and four females and 79 males were collected during monthly sampling from June 2008 to May 2009 in the State of Paran. In the laboratory, sex determination and macroscopic determination of the gonad development stage of each specimen were carried out. Subsequently, the gonads were removed and mass was determined to obtain an individual gonadosomatic index (GSI) for each specimen. We also processed a sub-sample of gonadal tissue for histological analysis. Five stages of ovarian development and four stages of testicular development were determined by microscopic analysis. The maturation curve, using the mean monthly variation of the GSI for females and males, showed that reproductive activity was more intense during spring and summer. The maturation curve of females revealed two reproductive peaks during the study period; one from August to November and another in February. There was little variation in the mean monthly GSI values obtained for males, but with greater values from August to February. The snout-vent length (SVL) of the first maturation (shortest SVL at which 50% of individuals are reproductively active [Vazzoler, 1996]) was estimated for females as 84.5 mm. The SVL of the smallest reproducing male was 76.0 mm.
10.2307/1562842| Six species of reptiles are reported for the first time from Nicaragua: Lepidoblepharis xanthostigma (Noble), Polychrus gutturosus Berthold, Diploglossus monotropis (Kuhl), Coniophanes bipunctatus (Gnther) and Tropidodipsas sartorii annulatus (Peters). Additional specimens of Enyaliosaurus quinquecarinatus Gray, Laemanctus longipes deborrei Boulenger, Dryadophis dorsalis (Bocourt) and Lachesis muta stenophrys Cope are reported. 
10.2307/1562934|Characteristics of external anatomy, osteology, hemipenis, and tongue are compared between the genera Pseudoficimia, Gyalopion, and Ficimia. The phylogenetic relationships between these genera and an important specimen, possibly intermediate between Ficimia and Gyalopion, are discussed. The possible relationships of Conopsis and Toluca to the above genera are considered. Speculations of the evolution of the species of each genus are presented.
10.2307/1563223|Karyotype data are presented for 12 species of lacertid lizards. Of these, 4 Acanthodactylus, 2 Eremias, 1 Ophisops, and 4 Lacerta have n = 19, with all chromosomes acrocentric. This is the typical lacertid karyotype, as reported in previous literature. One species, Lacerta parva, is quite different from all the others. The haploid number is 12, consisting of 7 pairs of metacentric macrochromosomes and 5 pairs of microchromosomes. The fundamental number (number of arms in the karyotype) is the same in L. parva as in all the other species studied. The possibility of female sex chromosomal heteromorphism is raised, but data are not sufficient to confirm this.
10.2307/1563686|A local population of Ambystoma talpoideum in Caddo Parish, Louisiana, was studied by mark and recapture methods to determine the duration of the breeding activity of the population, individual variations in activity periods, and sexual dimorphism in activity periods. During two breeding seasons 323 individuals (157 males, 166 females) were marked and 206 recaptures (103 males, 103 females, including multiple recaptures) were recorded. The total activity periods included 99 and 108 days (December-March). Males arrived at the breeding pond earlier than the females, remained in the pond longer, but left at approximately the same time as the females. The breeding season of the population was a composite of numerous overlapping individual breeding periods. Some individuals displayed a tenacity to emigrate in the direction of their immigration. Immigration was initiated by a combination of rain and temperatures above freezing; emigration was initiated by a combination of rain and temperatures warmer than those of the preceding immigration.
10.2307/1565389| A new species of the genus Amphisbaena is described from Pampa Grande, Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia. The species is externally similar to A. darwini. It differs from other species of the genus by a unique combination of characters including the lack of postmalar row and a relatively high number of segments to a midbody annulus. /// Se describe una nueva especie del gnero Amphisbaena, similar a A. darwini, proveniente de Pampa Grande, Departamento Santa Cruz, Bolivia. Se distingue de las otras especies del gnero gracias a una combinacin nica de caracteres como ser la falta de hilera postmalar y el nmero relativamente alto de segmentos de un anillo del medio cuerpo. 
10.2307/1565411| A new species of Atelopus from the Serrana de Sira, an isolated mountain range in central Amazonian Peru, is described. It is most similar to A. erythropus and A. tricolor from the Peruvian Andes, and A. andinus from the lowlands of eastern Peru. The new species can be distinguished from these similar species by having tan to dark brown color with small yellow warts on all dorsal surfaces, and by lacking light dorsolateral stripes. 
10.2307/1563347|Population structure and seasonal activity are described for the urodele amphibian S. salamandra in the Carmel and Galil Mts. of Israel. Adult salamanders weigh 17.5-167.0 g and are 14.0-29.5 cm long. Males were in general smaller than females, and were more mobile during October-December, whereas females during January-March. Two forms of activity were recognized: local activity--taking place throughout the whole year, and migratory activity towards the ponds. Most adult animals were caught within 10 m from their original point of capture (51%). Others (23.5%) wandered at a distance of 10-40 m and the remaining 23.5% wandered by more than 40 m away from the original point of capture. During winter most activity was associated with rain or high humidity (90-100% RH) and 2-20 C. During summer the salamander aestivates inside cracks and burrows in the ground. Adult population estimate on 3ha was approximately 58 individuals, and at Hammama Spring 50 individuals per 0.1ha. No significant difference was observed between numbers of males and females.
10.2307/1562884|Amphibians possess extraoptic photoreceptors (EOPs) which can be used to perceive light for certain physiological and behavioral activities including pigmentary adaptation, entrainment and phase-shifting of circadian locomotor rhythms, and compass orientation. Several parts of the pineal system seem to be involved in perceiving light: the extracranial pineal end organ (also called frontal organ or stirnorgan) found only in frogs and toads, and the intracranial pineal body (or epiphysis cerebri) found in all Amphibia; both structures possess a retina-like fine structure and have been demonstrated to be functional photoreceptors from neurophysiological studies. Evidence for the use of EOPs and location of specific sites is reviewed drawing upon behavioral, ultrastructural and neurophysiological sources. The existence of non-pineal EOPs in Amphibia and the role of EOPs in other vertebrates are briefly discussed.
41415312|I studied the egg-laying behavior of the frog Buergeria japonica in the coastal areas of Okinawa, Japan, to clarify whether females avoid high salinity areas to reduce egg mortality. I compared the distribution of oviposition sites to the salinity gradient and evaluated the physical cues used by females to select oviposition sites. Females selected oviposition sites above the high tide line at spring tide, where eggs would not be disturbed by incursion of seawater. Above this high tide line, females selected oviposition sites from which eggs would not be washed out or desiccate, by using cues such as water depth and substrate. Examination of conditions at two spatial scales helps to clarify the evolution of oviposition site selection.
10.2307/1563872| The emydid turtle Callagur borneoensis nests on Malaysian ocean beaches with the true sea turtles. Adults were seen mainly in tidal upstream areas of the Perak and Setiu Rivers. It is likely that hatchlings must swim through the sea to reach the river mouths, yet they are intolerant of long term immersion in sea water when tested in the laboratory. Fasting turtles in the initial week of exposure undergo a net weight loss of 0.9 and 1.4% body weight/day in 50% and 100% sea water (35 salinity) respectively. In 25% sea water a net weight gain of 0.9% body weight/day was recorded. Turtles move to or remain in fresh water when given a choice between it and sea water in a divided tank. In 100% sea water, body water influx and efflux were 0.616 and 0.546 ml/100 gh, respectively. This is equivalent to a turnover of 16-18% of the body water daily (81% weight is water). Influx must be mainly occurring through the skin and/or shell since turtles apparently do not drink 100% sea water. This is proven by the very low Na influx, 5.6 moles/100gh, which could be accounted for if a 50g turtle "drank" only 10 l/h of the radioactive bath. Na efflux is even lower (about 1 mole/100gh) and does not increase after injection of salt loads. Less than 0.5% of the total body Na content (82 moles/g) is lost daily. Hatchling C. borneoensis are not physiologically specialized for a life in estuaries of high salinity, yet they can survive for at least two weeks in 100% sea water. 
1565835|A new species of Hyalinobatrachium is described from the highlands of Guyana. This is the third centrolenid species reported from Guyana and the second of the genus Hyalinobatrachium. The new species is one of 13 Hyalinobatrachium found in northeastern South America (Venezuela, Guyana, Surinam, and Guyane); it can be differentiated from Hyalinobatrachium taylori, the only other Hyalinobatrachium in Guyana, by the color of the bones, which are white, and the color of the dorsum in preservative (lavender vs. cream in the new species). Variation and relationships within the genus in this region are discussed. The tadpole of the new species is described and illustrated.
10.2307/1563092|Chrysemys floridana is reported for the first time from West Virginia. Three males and one female from the Bluestone Reservoir near Forest Hill, Summers County, West Virginia, show some morphologic similarity to Chrysemys concinna. Other sightings indicate that a viable population exists in the reservoir. The origin of the population is unknown; the most likely possibilities are prehistoric southward dispersal along the Kanawha and New Rivers and introduction by man.
10.2307/1566027|Spermatogenesis in the southern Australian blindsnake Ramphotyphlops nigrescens is seasonal, with sperm production peaking in autumn, reduced in spring, and testicular recrudescence occurring from late spring to summer. Sperm is present in the epididymides from autumn to early summer. The retrocloacal sacs in this species do not function as sperm storage organs, contradicting the only previous hypothesis on the function of these structures. A peculiar feature of the testes of this species is the large size of the Sertoli cell nuclei, which are much larger than the spermatogenic cells.
10.2307/1565209|Information regarding the harvest of eastern diamondback (Crotalus adamanteus) and timber (C. horridus) rattlesnakes was gathered from commercial dealer reports, phone interviews with dealers and collectors, and examinations of 714 harvested rattlesnakes. Many individuals killed and sold rattlesnakes in north Florida, but relatively few sold snakes repeatedly, and most brought in one snake per visit to a dealer. Collection occurred primarily during the spring, summer, and fall. Most of the 98 interviewed collectors opportunistically killed rattlesnakes on roads, in yards, and, less commonly, in woods; only five indicated that they actively hunted for rattlesnakes. Many interviewees indicated that they would kill rattlesnakes that they encountered, especially near human habitations, regardless of any potential monetary gain. Eightyfour percent of the 714 rattlesnakes examined at a north Florida skin processing facility were C. adamanteus and 16% were C. horridus. Sex ratios were skewed towards males in both species. Mean snout-vent lengths for males and females were comparable, but males attained greater maximum snout-vent lengths. Twentynine percent of females in both species were reproductively active. Mean litter size was 13.8 for 27 C. adamanteus and 10.6 for seven C. horridus. Snout-vent lengths of the smallest mature females were 109.3 cm for C. adamanteus and 109.9 cm for C. horridus.
10.2307/1564447|Two subspecies of Nerodia harteri are currently recognized, N. h. harteri from the Brazos River system and N. h. paucimaculata from the Colorado River system in Texas. We sought information on the degree of divergence of these two groups, using isozymic and meristic characters. Protein electrophoretic analyses of 10 isozymes, two plasma proteins and hemoglobin revealed no genic differences, either within or between populations from the two river systems. No polymorphic loci were found. However, there were also very few differences between N. harteri, N. erythrogaster and N. rhombifera in these same characters, indicating that isozymic analysis may not be appropriate for detecting differences in closely related groups of watersnakes. Thus, we reevaluated published meristic data, and obtained additional morphologic data from the original collections. Significant differences were found between the two subspecies of N. harteri in several meristic characters. Our results suggest that the allocation of the Concho watersnake to subspecific status may be inappropriate considering other specific distinctions within the genus Nerodia.
10.2307/1566119|The Cnemidophorus laredoensis complex consists of two, all-female parthenogenetic lizard species, designated LAR-A and LAR-B, that commonly coexist with their gonochoristic (= bisexual) relative Cnemidophorus gularis in southern Texas. The ecology and behavior of these Cnemidophorus lizards was studied in a Texas state park where LAR-A, LAR-B, and C. gularis coexist. I used time of capture records to estimate daily activity periods and used focal animal observations of free-ranging individuals to determine what proportion of time lizards spent using different microhabitats, occupying different exposures (full sun, partial sun, shade), and performing different behaviors during the May-June breeding seasons of 1994-1996. There was little difference among the three species in daily activity period, microhabitat use, or exposure occupancy; added to previously published data on diet similarity, these results suggest that competition between the two parthenogens and C. gularis potentially is severe. The greatest behavioral differences were between male C. gularis and female C. gularis, LAR-A, and LAR-B: male C. gularis spent a much greater percentage of their time interacting with other lizards and moved significantly farther per unit time than did females. These results reflect the large proportion of time male C. gularis devoted to trailing and courting female C. gularis as well as parthenogenetic females, especially LAR-A. The only major difference between C. gularis and the two parthenogens was that the latter spent a greater proportion of their time searching for prey. Despite this, LAR-A and LAR-B did not achieve a greater prey capture rate, nor a greater success at locating the preferred prey of termites than did C. gularis, suggesting the two parthenogens are less efficient foragers than their gonochoristic relative. This may account for the reason why the two parthenogens are not competitively excluding C. gularis from the park despite advantage of a much greater population size. Overall, data from this and other studies lend support to the idea that parthenogenetic Cnemidophorus are ecologically and behaviorally "inferior" to their gonochoristic congeners and should, therefore, be able to coexist with them only in habitats where selective forces are relaxed.
4498587|Caiman latirostris (Broad-Snouted Caiman) is one of two crocodilian species that inhabit Argentina. Wild populations of C. latirostris in Santa Fe Province are under management by Proyecto Yacare (MAGIC-MUPCN), a program based on a ranching system whose goal is the sustainable use of the species, together with its habitat conservation. We used 233 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers to obtain preliminary data about population structure and genetic variation in four populations of C. latirostris in Santa Fe province, which may be used to provide a genetic framework of conservation units to evaluate, and perhaps to modify, current plans for its sustainable management. Our results suggest low to intermediate levels of mean heterozygosity (H), mean number of alleles per locus (A), and percentage of loci polymorphic (P). Furthermore, the values of Nm and F
43287385|In Jamaica, free-living male and female-sized Anolis sagrei are exposed to more natural ultraviolet-B (UVB) from sunlight than male and female-sized Anolis lineatopus. In the laboratory, we tested predictions derived from the hypothesis that Anolis possess a mechanism for behaviorally photo-regulating their exposure to UVB depending on their dietary intake of vitamin D. Anolis sagrei voluntarily exposed themselves more frequently to visible and UVB light and received higher doses of UVB in an artificial light gradient when fed a low vitamin D diet for 6 weeks than when subsequently fed a high dietary vitamin D diet for 6 weeks. When we returned the anole's diet to the low vitamin D regimen for a third 6-week period, UVB exposure remained lower than in the first 6-week period. This suggests an initial UV photoregulatory adjustment to high dietary vitamin-D but a slow return to greater reliance on UVB-induced endogenous vitamin D production. Conversely, while exposing themselves to UVB with similar frequency and doses as A. sagrei over the course of the 18-week experiment, A. lineatopus did not show the same decreased attraction to visible and UVB light in response to increased dietary vitamin D. The response of A. sagrei in the laboratory to visible light without UVB was similar to their response to visible light with UVB. Therefore, the anoles appeared to be responding primarily to visible light. Anolis lineatopus may be unable to use dietary vitamin D to restore low vitamin D status.
10.2307/1564394|A comparison of the acoustic characteristics (power spectra, intensity) of rattling sounds made by 13 rattlesnakes representing 6 species revealed that rattling conforms to the same general pattern. Although there was individual variation in lowest frequencies and bandwidths of the sounds, differences between species were comparable to within-species variation. The rattlings of the snakes were medium-intensity, broadband sounds (most energy from 2-20 kHz), with rapid onset and no structured changes in frequency pattern over time. In all of these features they resembled the rattling of mechanical rattles such as maracas. The rattling of snakes appears to be a signal designed to attract the attention of other animals whose responses will reflect their hearing characteristics and previous experience.
41515016|Growth, age at maturity, and survival are life-history parameters that provide important information for understanding population dynamics. We modeled growth and age at maturity for an island population of Arboreal Salamanders, Aneides lugubris, using snout-vent length (SVL) growth intervals from a 4-yr capture-mark-recapture study fit to the von Bertalanffy growth interval model. We estimated annual survival as a function of SVL using a multistate open robust design model, and computed age-specific survival using results from the von Bertalanffy growth model. Arboreal Salamanders have indeterminate growth that slows with age from hatchling size (24.4-mm SVL) to the mean adult (asymptotic) size of 66.0-mm SVL. Age at maturity is 2.69 yr, and average adult age is 8-11 yr. Annual survival increased with age from 0.363 in age 0 to 0.783 in ages >4 yr. Our results provide the first estimates of life-history parameters for this species and indicate similarities to other terrestrial salamanders from low-elevation Mediterranean climates.
10.2307/1564445|Field observations, coupled with displacement experiments, suggest that male Acris crepitans are site specific. In two experimental manipulations, when conspecific mating calls were broadcast to resident calling males, there was a significant reduction in the number of notes produced by the test subjects. In another series of playback experiments, a subject's response call was modified by an increase in note duration. We suggest that call modification resulting from the stimulus of a conspecific mating call is a mechanism designed to spatially spread out males.
10.2307/1565296|Biotelemetry and time-lapse video were used in an investigation of thermoregulation in the American alligator. Temperature transmitters were surgically inserted under general anesthesia into the abdominal cavities of five adult alligators. Four were maintained in two outdoor enclosures and one indoors; all had free access to pools with circulating water. Temperature data were recorded every 10 minutes, 24 h per day from November through July. Each enclosure was videographed two or three days per month from February through July. A compilation of data from video and biotelemetry revealed that the outdoor alligators were able to survive at body temperatures as low as 7.4 to 8 C. They most often avoided conditions that resulted in body temperatures above 31 C, although one reached 33.7 C. Alligators regularly moved out of pools to bask while air temperatures were still considerably lower than those of the water. They did not wait until sun struck the pools, but oriented visually toward sunny areas, then emerged from the water and moved into the sun to bask. Movements of the alligators between the thermal zones of their enclosures, represented by pool and land areas, clearly resulted in significant changes in core body temperature.
10.2307/1564501| The common musk turtle, Sternotherus odoratus, was studied in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania from 1965 to 1983. During spring and fall, activity was confined to the morning hours, but in the summer (June-August) activity occurred during the morning and early evening hours. Diurnal trapping never produced S. odoratus, while nocturnal trapping did, probably indicating more nocturnal or crepuscular activity than revealed by visual inspection. The turtles were active from April to October, approximately 200 days per year. Cloacal temperatures of active turtles ranged from 14-30C (x = 21.7); 67% of these temperatures fell between 16-24C. Feeding did not take place at water temperatures below 18C. The earliest date of feeding was 18 April 1967 and the latest 14 September 1966, a maximum observed annual feeding period of 150 days. In Pennsylvania S. odoratus were omnivorous. Growth ranges were calculated, and the oldest individuals, based on known age at initial capture, were 27 and 28 years old. Mating was observed in April and May, nesting during early evening in June. The mean number of eggs per clutch was 3.25 and the realized reproductive potential 0.5 young per clutch. The population density was 24 per hectare. The adult male to female ratio was 1.34/1.00, and the juvenile to adult ratio was 0.40/1.00. The average distance moved between captures was 93.6 m (males 117.3 m, females 89.5 m, juveniles 79.4 m). Home ranges were shifted after a pond, the primary habitat, was drained. Notes are also presented on the extent of predation, injuries, leech parasitism and carapacial algae. 
10.2307/1566186|Body size, age, and growth were studied in samples of Nile monitor lizards from variably exploited populations. One sample originated from the central Niger delta, in Mali, and the other two from Lake Chad. Snout-vent length, mean age, and longevity were reduced in the most exploited animals. These exhibited a characteristic pattern of somatic growth: size increased up to an age of 30 months and then dropped steeply to a negligible level after 54 months. Conversely, in the less exploited populations, initial growth was slower but remained at a sustained level within the limits of individual longevity. With reference to available data on sexual maturation and reproductive output in harvested Varanus niloticus, these results suggest that rapid growth and early sexual maturity both contribute to a demographic accommodation in exploited monitor populations.
43287339|Chelonia mydas (Green Turtle) foraging areas, where juveniles, subadults, and adults of diverse natal origins coalesce and spend a large portion of their lives, can be located thousands of kilometers from nesting beaches. Unfortunately, the natal origin of turtles in many foraging areas remains unknown. Resolution of this issue was recently listed among the conservation priorities for the species by a global panel of Green Turtle researchers. We examined the genetic diversity and natal origins of Green Turtles from a well-known foraging area in the western Gulf of Mexico. Bayesian mixed-stock analysis of mitochondrial DNA haplotypes was used to demonstrate that an overwhelming percentage (~ 95%) of individuals in the western Gulf of Mexico foraging group likely originate in other Gulf of Mexico and northern Caribbean rookeries, with smaller contributions from the western and southern Caribbean, and potentially the Mediterranean Sea. Management of Green Turtles in the western Gulf of Mexico will be improved by linking conservation efforts aimed at this foraging group to turtle aggregates occurring in other critical habitats within the recently defined northwest Atlantic Green Turtle regional management unit.
4092841|Comparison of advertisement calls of Eleutherodactylus guentheri from different localities in southern and southeastern Brazil revealed considerable acoustic variation among populations. Because of significant differences in call parameters, we conclude that the southern form is a distinct species, for which the name Hylodes henselii Peters, 1870, is available. Examination of the holotypes of H. henselii and Hylodes guentheri Steindachner, 1864, along with recently collected material, showed that both species are morphologically similar, possibly sibling species. Eleutherodactylus henselii is the southernmost member of the genus Eleutherodactylus occurring in subtropical Atlantic rain forest and Araucaria forest of the Brazilian states of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina, and Misiones, Argentina. Bioacoustic data suggest that at least one additional cryptic species is involved in the Eleutherodactylus guentheri group.
10.2307/1564898|Body temperatures of Chalcides ocellatus were measured on a thigmothermal gradient five times during their seasonal activity period. Overall, body temperatures differed among observation periods and females had higher body temperatures than males. However, body temperatures of females and males were similar and relatively high in April when mating occurred, and similar and relatively low in September when females were approximately two months post-parturition. In contrast, body temperatures of females were higher than those of males during the three observation periods during June and July, when females were pregnant or within a few days of parturition. This pattern was most distinct at 1600 h and least distinct at 1100 h. Thus, females may enhance embryonic development by maintaining relatively high body temperatures when pregnant. Individuals exhibited consistent body temperatures among times of day and among observation periods. Maximum differences in mean body temperature among pregnant females could represent a five day difference in gestation time.
10.2307/1564124|Prey digestion and body weight increase of juvenile Anolis lineatopus were studied in the laboratory. Caloric assimilation efficiency with respect to 4 prey types varied between 63% and 88%. Weight gain closely followed prey wet weight intake within a certain range of amount of food eaten, and was negatively linked to initial body weight. When food intake surpassed a certain level, weight gain no longer depended on prey intake, but was positively related to initial body weight. This suggests that when the opportunity arises, anoles feed on more prey than they can process and waste increasing amounts of the food eaten. The lizards could sustain low diets, which allowed almost no weight gain, for several weeks with no apparent losses in later growth performance under improved food conditions. They also survived a 10 d period of complete starvation, losing about 0.6% of body weight per day. Variation in extractable energy among prey types did not lead to different growth responses. However, two specific prey types had a complementary effect in a 10 d growth experiment. Anoles gained considerably more weight from a mixture of these two than from single prey diets or 2-prey mixtures which included only one of the specific types. Increase of prey type diversity per se did not enhance growth.
10.2307/1565995| We studied the reproductive cycle of Sceloporus "jarrovii" from a temperate environment of the Sierra Madre Oriental in Mxico. Males reached sexual maturity at a smaller snout vent length (SVL; 46 mm) than females (60 mm). Reproductive activity of both sexes was asynchronous, similar to other species inhabiting montane zones. Testes increased in size from June to November and declined rapidly in November. Vitellogenesis occurred from August to October, with ovulation occurring between November and December. Embryonic development was observed from December to early May. There was a significant positive correlation between litter size and female SVL. The reproductive cycle of S. "jarrovii" is similar to other montane species of several families (Anguidae, Scincidae, Phrynosomatidae). Vitellogenesis, ovulation, and gestation time are shorter in northern (Arizona) than southern populations (Mxico). Females from northern populations are larger in SVL and have larger litter sizes than southern populations. Our study suggests that the montane environment (cool temperatures, short growing season, rainfall during the summer) of S. "jarrovii" has played a role in the evolution of a set of reproductive characteristics shared by evolutionarily distant viviparous lizard species inhabiting the montane zone. /// Estudiamos el ciclo reproductivo de Sceloporus "jarrovii" de un ambiente templado de la Sierra Madre Oriental en Mxico. Los machos alcanzaron la madurez sexual a una LHC menor (46 mm) que las hembras (60 mm). La actividad reproductiva de ambos sexos es asincrnica, similar a otras especies que habitan las zonas de montaa. Los testculos incrementaron en tamao de junio a noviembre y decrecieron rpidamente en noviembre. La vitelognesis comenz de agosto a octubre, la ovulacin ocurri entre noviembre y diciembre, y el desarrollo embrionario tard de diciembre a principio de mayo. Hubo una correlacin positiva significativa entre el tamao de la camada y la LHC de la hembra. El ciclo reproductivo de S. "jarrovii" es similar a otras especies de montaa de varias familias (Anguidae, Scincidae, Phrynosomatidae). La vitelognesis, ovulacin, y periodo de gestacin son ms cortos en el norte (Arizona) que en poblaciones del sur (Mxico). Hembras de las poblaciones del norte son ms grandes en LHC y tienen tamaos de camada ms grande que en poblaciones del sur. Nuestro estudio sugiere que el ambiente de montaa (bajas temperaturas, corta estacin, y lluvias durante el verano) de S. "jarrovii" ha jugado un papel importante en la evolucin de un grupo de caractersticas reproductivas compartidas por lagartijas de especies vivparas evolutivamente distantes que habitan las zonas de montaas. 
40060514|A helodermatid dentary and osteoderms from the Miocene Thomas Farm locality in Gilchrist County, Florida, demonstrate the broad historical distribution of Helodermatidae in North America during the Tertiary. A comparative approach, taking into account variation in extant Heloderma, reveals that the dentary is intermediate in several characters between the plesiomorphically long, low, mediolaterally narrow dentary of Eurheloderma gallicunt and the taller, wider dentary of extant Heloderma. An eminence upon the intramandibular septum in the Thomas Farm helodermatid and some extant Varanoidea is part of a previously unrecognized anatomical structure, a foramen formed by dentary and postdentary elements and normally covered by the splenial. The teeth of the Florida helodermatid are intermediate between the more numerous, shorter teeth of E. gallicum and the fewer, taller teeth of extant Heloderma. Certain dental structures whose evolution is here elucidated are part of the novel helodermatid venom delivery system. The evolution of the dentary and teeth in Varanoidea as a whole is a more complex and informative story than was previously appreciated. No living varanoid displays unmodified the primitive varanoid conical tooth morphology. Extant Heloderma show a dentition modified in association with venom delivery, whereas Varanidae show labiolingual compression of the tooth crown. Varanus in particular is highly modified and should not be used as a proxy for the varanoid ancestor in studies of the dentigerous elements and dentition. The informativeness of isolated squamate dentaries is evidenced by the derivation of 15 new phylogenetic characters from the anatomy of helodermatid dentaries and dentition.
40060559|We studied an Ambystoma maculatum (Spotted Salamander) population whose available terrestrial habitat varied in forest age, forest extent, and edge type to determine how microhabitats differed among habitats, whether A. maculatum displayed a nonrandom distribution of inbound capture locations, and whether individuals captured in different locations differed in age, body condition, and annual recapture rate. In this study, we use inbound capture location to infer direction of migration. Given this inference and the results of principle components analyses on surrounding habitat variables, we suggest that habitat differences in relation to litter depth, canopy cover, and soil water content best described the nonrandom distribution of A. maculatum captures. Differences in forest extent and edge type may also have contributed substantially to the A. maculatum migration capture pattern. Female salamanders arriving from the direction of the relatively mature, extensive forested habitat were significantly older than those arriving from the direction of the mature habitat with an agricultural edge, but there were no age differences among males. Body condition and annual recapture rates were similar among individuals regardless of capture location. Consistent with other work, we suggest that habitat protection efforts for A. maculatum, and similar species, should focus on extensive, forested habitat, with high levels of leaf litter and canopy cover and well-drained soils. Additionally, residential and agricultural edges may be more permeable than road edges for this species.
41515029|We examined relationships between livestock grazing and the activity of introduced rodents and population density of Jewelled Geckos, Naultinus gemmeus (Diplodactylidae) on the Otago Peninsula, South Island, New Zealand. We expected livestock grazing to prevent the proliferation of rank grass (which is often associated with high rodent densities) and thereby reduce the frequency of predation by rodents on Jewelled Geckos. Thus, we predicted activity of rodents to be lower, and density of Jewelled Geckos higher, at sites grazed by livestock. We tested this for two habitats: Coprosma spp. shrubland and regenerating kanuka (Kunzea ericoides) forest. We quantified density of Jewelled Geckos using visual searches, photography and mark-recapture (POPAN formulation). We used tracking tunnel surveys to estimate the activity of introduced rodents. The activity of rodents (Rattus spp. and Mus musculus) was significantly higher at ungrazed compared to grazed sites in both habitats. Density of Jewelled Geckos in Coprosma was over four times higher at grazed sites and decreased with increasing rodent activity; however, in kanuka, we found a contrasting result with density being significantly higher at the ungrazed sites. We infer that in ungrazed Coprosma, rank grasses support high rodent densities and, consequently, high predation of Jewelled Geckos. Thus, grazing by introduced livestock may promote the survival of Jewelled Geckos and the persistence of high density populations in Coprosma shrubland. In contrast, grazing in regenerating kanuka may impact on Jewelled Geckos negatively, possibly by removing thermal refugia.
10.2307/1565017|Reproduction, variation in population density, food availability, feeding, and growth and survival rates of juvenile and adult Leptodactylus pentadactylus were studied from February 1987 to April 1988 in Reserva Florestal Adolfo Ducke (RFAD), Manaus, Amazonas, Brasil. Reproduction occurred only in September and October. Population demography was therefore characterized by the presence of discrete annual generations and a sudden increase in population density following the reproductive season. Individuals were nearly two years old at first reproduction. Survival rate was unrelated to age and relatively constant throughout the year. Food availability was highest in the late dry season and in the wet season. Mean volume of stomach contents was used to index rates of food consumption, which generally varied in concert with food availability. Size-independent, individual growth rates also varied throughout the year and were significantly correlated with rainfall, food consumption, and food availability. Seasonality in reproductive behavior of L. pentadactylus at RFAD may allow recently metamorphosed juveniles to profit from predictable peaks in food availability. It is suggested that prey availability, through its effect on food consumption and hence individual growth rates, influences the time that individuals take to reach sexual maturity.
41515012|The diel and seasonal calling activities of anurans are regulated by several environmental factors. We studied the effect of environmental factors on patterns of calling behavior of six sympatric frogs in an area of Atlantic rain forest at Ilha Grande, south of Rio de Janeiro state, Brazil. The number of calling males and the number of calls of each species were recorded at hourly intervals from October 1998 to September 2000. Two analyses were performed: hourly calling behavior of males of each species was related to air temperature, and monthly calling was related to air temperature and cumulative short-term rainfall. Males of Leptodactylus marmoratus, Aplastodiscus eugenioi, Physalaemus signifer, Scinax hayii, and S. trapicheiroi called mainly at night, whereas male Ischnocnema parva called mostly at dusk and dawn. The species studied at Ilha Grande rain forest called mainly in the wettest and warmest months. Scinax trapicheiroi, P. signifier, and A. eugenioi called throughout the year. Leptodactylus marmoratus was the only species whose calling behavior was restricted to a few months. Air temperature had a significant effect on the hourly number of calls for L. marmoratus, A. eugenioi, S. hayii, and S. trapicheiroi, and rainfall had a significant effect on the monthly number of calls of I. parva.
10.2307/1565599| Two new species of Clelia are described from Brazil: Clelia quimi sp. n., from southern, southeastern, and west-central Brazil, and Clelia montana sp. n., which is probably restricted to the highlands of northwestern So Paulo and southern Minas Gerais. Clelia quimi appears to be closely related to C. bicolor, being distinguished from the latter by the number of ventral scales and the color of the supralabials. Clelia montana sp. n. seems allied to C. rustica, differing from the latter by the numbers of supra- and infralabials and the generalized color pattern. 
43287324|Bone pathology provides a window to environment and prdation, allowing confident comparison of fossils and subfossils with their modern descendente. Exclusive of modern contaminated environments, the frequency of bone disease in frogs does not seem to have changed in the Holocene. Injuries were either quite rare or rarely survived. Associated fractures, however, were frequently infected. Infections appear to have been from a chronic granulomatous disease, apparently fungal in origin. The disorders reported in these fossil bones are identical to those recognized in modern frogs, validating comparison of character and frequency of bone pathology through geological time, as has been documented previously for reptiles and mammals.
10.2307/1564047|Dendrobates pumilio occurs year-round at the La Selva Biological Reserve in northeastern Costa Rica. To determine seasonality in reproduction and age structure, a sample of 468 individuals was dissected and the conditions of gonads, reproductive tracts, and vocal slits were examined. There were no obvious seasonal trends in patterns of overall abundance, although seasonal reproduction was indicated by pulses in the appearance of small juveniles and changes in female reproductive condition.
25599181|I describe a new species of Anolis formerly referred to as Anolis (or Norops) altae from Monteverde, Costa Rica. The new species differs from Anolis altae by having a small unilobate hemipenis (large and bilobate in A. altae), in male dewlap coloration (male dewlap more or less uniformly reddish-orange in A. altae versus basal portion yellow ocher to orange yellow, distal portion reddish-orange in the new species), and in the mean values of several scalation and morphometric characteristics (e.g., ratio tail length/SVL 1.8-2.2, mean 2.1 in A. altae vs. 1.7-1.9, mean 1.8 in the new species). At this point no characteristics, besides geographic location, are known to separate females of the new species from A. altae. /// Se describe una especie nueva de Anolis de Costa Rica anteriormente referida como Anolis (o Norops) altae. La nueva especie difiere de Anolis altae en tener un hemipene pequeo y unilobulado (grande y bilobulado en A. altae), en la coloracin de la papera gular de los machos adultos (relativamente uniforme rojo-anaranjado en A. altae en comparacin con la nueva especie que tiene la porcin basal que vara entre amarillo-beige y naranja-amarillento y la porcin distal que es de color rojo-anaranjado) y en los promedios de varios caractersticas de escamacin y morfometra (ej., relacin longitud de la cola/longitud hocico-cloaca 1.8-2.2, media 2.1 en A. altae en comparacin con 1.7-1.9, media 1.8 en la nueva especie). Todava no se conoce ninguna caracterstica con la que se pueda diferencia a las hembras de la nueva especie con las hembras de A. altae, a parte de sus respectivas ubicaciones geogrficas.
41415310|We studied the movement patterns and habitat selection of 33 radio-tagged Plateau Brown Frogs (Rana kukunoris) in the Zoige Alpine Wetland in southeastern Qinghai-Tibet plateau. Our goals were to (1) understand postbreeding movement patterns of R. kukunoris; (2) describe microhabitat use, with special reference to use of small mammal burrows; (3) test for movement pattern and microhabitat use differences between sexes and between seasons; and (4) provide a preliminary description of overwintering sites. We found no differences in movement patterns between sexes in R. kukunoris, however, directional movement trends differed between habitats. Male and female R. kukunoris showed similar microhabitat selection with regard to air temperature, relative humidity, and vegetation height. Although males used mammal burrows more frequently than females at one study site, BaiHua, both sexes used these microhabitats frequently during their movements. Overwintering sites of R. kukunoris were characterized by year-round flowing water. Results from this study will assist in making decisions about conservation and land protection for this species.
10.2307/1562767|Temperature effects on the function of the inner ear in Anolis lionotus, Crotaphytus collaris, Dipsosaurus dorsalis, Sceloporus occidentalis, Uma scoparia and Uta stansburiana are defined and correlated to the same lizards' known ecological temperature preferenda. Pure tones (50-15,000 Hz) were presented to the anaesthetized lizard's external ear. The sound intensity required to elicit a standard response of the alternating potentials of the cochlea was plotted (db versus frequency). A total of 348 curves were obtained, mostly within 20-40 C. In all species, the basic shape of the sensitivity curve persists at all temperatures, showing the greatest sensitivity in a central region that varies with the species within a range of 400-4000 Hz. In this region multiple peaks of sensitivity occur at low temperatures. With a rise in temperature the sensitivity at high frequencies improves markedly, that at low frequencies somewhat deteriorates. Between these regions, the peak of sensitivity and adjacent maxima and minima become more sensitive and shift to higher frequency. A unimodal curve results - the "optimal sensitivity function". In each species the lowest temperature yielding the optimal sensitivity function equals the ecological preferred body temperature. Similar temperature effects occur when, after extirpation of the middle ear apparatus, the stapedial footplate is stimulated directly by aerial or mechanical vibrations. Hypotheses for their origin are discussed. Hearing appears to be best at ecological optimal temperature. Greater care in regulating and reporting experimental temperatures and other biological parameters is advocated.
1565837|Hatchlings of Leptodactylus fuscus can survive up to several weeks in their foam nests. Field observations showed that later-stage tadpoles could survive several days under leaves or rocks if their pool dried out. Laboratory experiments investigated the basis of these different out of water survival capacities and compared them to three other species. Recently hatched groups of tadpoles of L. fuscus on a damp substrate generated foam whose quality varied with the level of hydration of the substrate: at high hydration, the mucus of the foam drew water from the substrate, but at low hydration, water was drawn from the tadpoles. When such tadpoles remained longer in the foam nest, their ability to generate foam declined. Individual recently hatched tadpoles did not make foam out of water but did absorb water from wetter substrates. Later stage tadpoles of L. fuscus survived well out of water for at least six days but lost water gradually to the substrate (the drier, the faster). The dendrobatid Mannophryne trinitatis showed similar out of water survival to L. fuscus, but the leptodactylid Physalaemus pustulosus was much more limited, and the bufonid Bufo beebei had very little out of water survival ability. Tadpoles of L. fuscus lost water to the substrate proportionately more from the gut than from other organs, suggesting some regulatory capacity. Recently hatched tadpoles of L. fuscus showed better water retention when in groups in foam than when single on a damp substrate.
10.2307/1564859|Scutellation data from 2174 specimens of the smooth green snake, Opheodrys vernalis, were used in an analysis of the association of metamerism with geographic distribution, ambient temperatures, vegetation, topography, and historical events. Coloration and sex were also found to be associated with metamerism. The sex ratio, systematic relationships, and a new subspecies from the northeastern part of the range, are described.
4498549| A fundamental goal in ecology is to understand how environmental variation influences the distribution of individuals within a population. In this study, we used laboratory experiments to examine the population responses of sympatric Wood Frog (Rana sylvatica) tadpoles to native overwintered Bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) tadpoles. For periods of up to two weeks, we measured growth, activity, and refuge use of Wood Frog tadpoles in small mesocosms with and without an overwintered Bullfrog tadpole present. Bullfrog tadpoles had a negative effect on the growth of Wood Frog tadpoles allotopic (nave) to Bullfrogs, whereas the presence of Bullfrogs had no effect on growth of syntopic (experienced) Wood Frog tadpoles. There were also differential behavioral responses of the Wood Frog populations to overwintered Bullfrog tadpole visual and chemical cues. Only allotopic Wood Frog tadpoles decreased activity levels and increased use of refugia in the presence of overwintered Bullfrog tadpoles. These observations indicate overwintered Bullfrog tadpoles might exert a selective pressure on sympatric Wood Frog tadpoles, and that experience might allow for the development of strategies to maximize performance for species coexisting with overwintered Bullfrog tadpoles. 
10.2307/1562890|Variation in and relationships between Drymobius chloroticus and D. melanotropis are discussed. A pattern phase of D. chloroticus from Oaxaca, Mexico is discussed.
10.2307/1564586|Growth rates and ages at maturity of five syntopic species of scincid lizards of the genus Ctenotus were studied in spinifex grasslands near Alice Springs in central Australia. Most species reproduced only once during the 3-year study (in the second year). There was a diversity of growth rates and ages at maturity in these lizards. The von Bertalanffy growth model described growth of Ctenotus better than did logistic-by-length or logistic-by-mass models; however, the von Bertalanffy model underestimated the growth rates of hatchling Ctenotus. Female Ctenotus grew slower than male Ctenotus but reached larger asymptotic body sizes in most species. Most juvenile C. pantherinus and C. piankai continued to grow during winter and reached sexual maturity by 10 to 11 months of age, but there were year-to-year differences in growth rates of female C. pantherinus. Some juvenile C. cf. helenae and C. quattuordecimlineatus reached the minimum size at maturity by 11 months and could have reproduced in the summer of their first year, but most would not have reproduced until their second spring (22 months). Ctenotus leonhardii was the slowest-growing species and did not reach maturity until at least 18 months of age. Growth rate and age at maturity did not correlate with the absolute body size of the species: the fastest growing species were the largest and smallest species, respectively. The results do not support the predictions of the r-K selection model for species living in variable environments. Predictions of the demographic life-history models are more consistent with these results.
10.2307/1565354|The life history and ecology of Plethodon serratus were studied in two populations in south-central and southeastern Missouri, USA. One population was located on private land in Perry County and the other was located in Mark Twain National Forest in Phelps County. Courtship and insemination probably occurred between December and March. Oviposition occurred during May or June and eggs hatched during July or August. Gravid females contained an average of 6.3 (range 4-10) enlarged ovarian follicles. We assume that reproduction among females is biennial on the basis of two distinct groups of mature females, those with enlarged, yolk-filled follicles and those with only small follicles. Hatchlings emerged in September and October and averaged 17 mm SVL (range 15-20 mm SVL). The growing season extended from September to May and little growth occurred during June to August. Growth during the first year after hatching averaged 10 mm. Plethodon serratus was most active on the forest surface between October and May in Phelps County and August and May in Perry County. The life-history pattern observed for P. serratus has characteristics of other small temperate plethodontid salamanders.
10.2307/1565938|We examined feeding relationships between Hyla japonica and Rana nigromaculata in rice fields of central Japan, where they forage syntopically. Hyla japonica and recently metamorphosed Rana nigromaculata overlapped greatly in body size and took prey of similar size and type. However, H. japonica foraged in rice fields during its breeding season (May to July), whereas R. nigromaculata began metamorphosis later in July. Therefore, they seldom coexisted and seemed to partition food resources temporally. By the following spring, R. nigromaculata froglets grew larger than adult H. japonica and used different food resources, suggesting food resources were partitioned by body size. These patterns of food partitioning, which were consistent in two study sites where the dominant species differed, may account for coexistence of H. japonica and R. nigromaculta throughout their wide distributions.
10.2307/1565247|Intuition suggests that large, dangerously venomous snakes should be relatively invulnerable to predators, but actual data on this topic are very scarce. We examined sources of mortality in two species of large elapid snakes (eastern brownsnakes, Pseudonaja textilis, and common blacksnakes, Pseudechis porphyriacus) in the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area in southeastern Australia. Most attacks on snakes were by people and feral cats. Over a three-year period, at least 19% of our radio-tagged brownsnakes were attacked, and eight snakes (14% of this population) were killed. We also examined road-killed snakes in the general area, and surveyed the public about where and when they encountered snakes, and how both they and the snakes responded to those situations. These questionnaire results suggest that about half of the snakes seen by people (whether in towns or on farms) were approached and about one-third were killed. Most of the mortality involved adult male snakes during the breeding season (spring). Snakes encountered by women were more likely to be killed than were those found by men. The response of snakes to encounters with people was quantified (by means of >500 encounters on regularly-walked transects) to compare with people's reports of snake responses. This comparison revealed that people are at least 20 times more likely to advance toward a snake, and 100 times more likely to attack, than is a snake to advance on, or attack, a person. People grossly over-rate the degree of aggression shown by these animals, and frequently misinterpret defensive displays as attacks. Furthermore, people are unaware of most of the snakes they encounter (especially those which use crypsis to avoid detection), and this biases the results towards over-estimation of aggressive responses. Attacks by humans on snakes are largely unjustified, and we need public education to reduce both personal risk and the slaughter of wildlife.
10.2307/1564591| In the Cordillera de Tilaran, Costa Rica, golden toads breed explosively with the onset of heavy rains from March to June. During the 1977 and 1982 seasons, males outnumbered females by more than 8 to 1 at breeding pools. Single males attacked pairs in amplexus twice as often as they attacked individual males, yet no amplectant males were displaced. Male body size was not correlated with mating success; however, size assortative mating occurred in 1977. Life history characteristics, such as small clutch size (x = 228 eggs) and large egg size (x = 3.0 mm), are similar to B. holdridgei, another tropical montane toad. Yearly breeding activity had been observed in B. periglenes since at least 1977 until cessation during 1988-1990. Their limited distribution and relatively slow rate to reach maturity exacerbate their apparent recent population decline. 
40983655|A new endemic species of gymnophthalmid lizard of the genus Riama is described from the Cordillera Occidental of northern Colombia. The new species differs from all known Riama by pholidosis, hemipenial morphology, and color pattern. The four known endemic Colombian species, Riama columbiana, Riama laevis, Riama stellae, and Riama striata, occur in different montane forests and are not known to be sympatric with the new species. The new species most resembles R. laevis from the Cordillera Occidental of the Colombian Andes, but it differs in having 15 longitudinal scale rows, 21-23 transverse scale rows in males and 22 in females, and limbs that do not overlap or just touch when adpressed against the body. Una nueva especie endmica de lagarto gymnophthalmido del gnero Riama es descrita para el norte de la Cordillera Occidental en Colombia. La nueva especie se diferencia de todas las especies conocidas de Riama por folidosis, morfologia hemipenial y patrn de coloracin. Las cuatro especies endmicas de Colombia, Riama columbiana, Riama laevis, Riama stellae, y Riama striata se distribuyen en diferentes bosques montanos, y no se conoce ningn registro de simpatra con la nueva especie. La nueva especie se asemeja ms a R. laevis de la Cordillera Occidental de los Andes Colombianos, pero difiere de esta principalmente por tener 15 hileras longitudinales de escamas dorsales, 21-23 hileras transversas de escamas ventrales en machos, 22 en hembras y las extremidades no se sobreponen o solo se tocan una con la otra cuando son apoyadas contra el cuerpo.
10.2307/1564528| Two new species of centrolenid frogs are described from the Amazonian slopes of the Cordillera Oriental of the Andes in Provincia Morona-Santiago, Ecuador. The first species is a member of the Centrolene prosoblepon group and is distinguished from all other members of the group by having a lateral row of large enameled tubercles that extends from below the eye to just posterior to the insertion of the arm. The condition of the humerus was compared with that of other species of the C. prosoblepon group from Ecuador and was found to be most similar to the condition of C. audax. The second species is a member of the Cochranella ocellata group and is distinguished from all other members of the group by possessing white visceral pigmentation on the esophagus, a first finger shorter than second, and lacking vomerine teeth. Centrolene buckleyi was the only other centrolenid found sympatric with the new species; these are the first centrolenids reported from Provincia Morona-Santiago. /// Se describen dos especies nuevas de ranas centrolnidas de la ladera del Amazonas de la Cordillera Oriental de los Andes en la Provincia Morona-Santiago, Ecuador. La primera especie pertenece al grupo Centrolene prosoblepon y se distingue de los dems miembros del grupo por su hilera lateral de grandes tubrculos esmaltados, la cual se extiende desde debajo del ojo hasta justo detrs de la insercin del brazo. Se compat la condicin del hmero con la de otras especies del grupo C. prosoblepon de Ecuador, y se encontr que es ms similar a la condicin en C. audax. La segunda especie pertenece al grupo Cochranella ocellata y se distingue de los dems miembros del grupo por su pigmentacin visceral blanca en el esfago, por tener el primer dedo ms corto que el segundo, y por la carencia de dientes vomerinos. Centrolene buckleyi fue el nico otro centrolnido encontrado en simpatra con las nuevas especies; stos son los primeros centrolnidos reportados de la Provincia Morona-Santiago. 
10.2307/1563941|Larvae of Rhinoderma darwinii have a nonaquatic development inside the vocal sac of the male. Different authors have suggested the existence of a trophic relationship between the male and the larvae. In order to test this possibility, horseradish peroxidase, <sup>3</sup>H valine and <sup>3</sup>H leucine were injected into the paternal circulation and traced in the larvae at different postinjection intervals. The different tracers were demonstrated in several organs of the larvae thus indicating a possible paternal nourishment. Up to stage 10, the tracers were incorporated into the larvae through their skin and the cephalic and caudal parts of their digestive tract. At later stages, the intestines were the main route for the entry of tracers into the larvae.
10.2307/1563528|Four albino black rat snakes, Elaphe obsoleta obsoleta, one tan or xanthic in color and the other three completely amelanistic, were subjected to various breeding combinations to determine their genetic relationships. They were found to represent three distinct forms of albinism. Skin biopsies from the three forms were subjected to the dopa reaction, and biopsies from two of the forms were examined by frozen section. The two amelanistic forms were found to be non-allelic and to have biochemically different types of albinism, one tyrosinase-positive and the other tyrosinase-negative. The hypomelanistic or xanthic albino form was found to be tyrosinase-positive, allelic with the amelanistic tyrosinase-positive form, differing quantitatively in the biochemical defect in melanogenesis.
41415283|Queen Snakes (Regina septemvittata) are extreme dietary specialists, feeding nearly exclusively on freshly molted crayfish. To elucidate specific cues that mediate prey detection and foraging behavior in R. septemvittata, we examined the response of R. septemvittata and the dietary generalist Nerodia sipedon sipedon, to chemical compounds produced by crayfish during the molting cycle. Ingestively naive neonate snakes were presented with 20-hydroxyecdysone, ecdysone, methyl farnesoate, ponasterone A, xanthurenic acid, and distilled water. Their response was measured using a modification to the tongue-flick attack score. Regina septemvittata exhibited an elevated tongue-flicking response to ecdysone, whereas N. s. sipedon exhibited no differential responses to these same arthropod molting chemicals. In a second experiment, R. septemvittata showed a two-fold higher tongue-flicking response to intermolt crayfish extract that contained ecdysone than to intermolt crayfish extract alone, whereas N. s. sipedon demonstrated no differential response between these extracts. In a third experiment consisting of feeding trials, R. septemvittata was offered live intermolt crayfish with and without ecdysone. The presence of ecdysone increased the feeding scores of R. septemvittata. When ecdysone was present, crayfish were ingested in five of the seven trials, but when ecdysone was absent crayfish were not ingested in any trial. These results suggest that ecdysone may play a critical role in the interaction between R. septemvittata and their prey. With numerous stream contaminants known to imitate ecdysone and disrupt the arthropod molting cycle, this finding may have important implications for the conservation of R. septemvittata.
10.2307/1565173|Examination and dissection of museum specimens, combined with observations of freeranging and captive snakes, provided original data on morphology, sexual dimorphism, feeding habits, and reproductive biology of shieldnose snakes (Aspidelaps scutatus) from southern Africa. These small (to 60 cm snout-vent length) stockily-built snakes are nocturnal, and often fossorial. Females mature at larger sizes than males, and attain larger maximum sizes. At the same body length, males have longer tails, and longer and wider heads, than do conspecific females. The sex divergence in head sizes and shapes may be related to dietary differences between the sexes: males contained a significantly higher proportion of anuran prey, and fewer snakes and mammals, than did conspecific females. However, sample sizes for this comparison were small. Reproduction is strongly seasonal, with mating in spring (October), oviposition in midsummer (December-January), and hatching in autumn (March). Females laid 4 to 10 eggs (mean = 7.9), with clutch size, egg size, and Relative Clutch Mass (RCM) independent of maternal body size. Offspring averaged 16 cm (5 g) and RCM averaged 0.48.
10.2307/1565447| We studied the population dynamics, food habits, and growth of a population of Rana vaillanti in a permanent lake in southern Veracruz, Mexico from April 1984 through March 1985. We collected frogs five consecutive nights each month, after which we measured, marked, stomach flushed, and released them on the same night. We captured 1851 frogs, 608 of which were recaptured at least once. The population size estimate, 1622, did not vary greatly throughout the year. Adults composed the greatest proportion of the population (41.5% males, 52.4% females, 6.1% subadults). Average life expectancy was estimated to be eight months. Females grew faster than males and attained larger sizes. Rana vaillanti is a sit and wait predator with a diverse diet including birds, fish, and conspecifics. They consume a higher proportion of invertebrates than vertebrates, principally insects (Coleoptera and Odonata) and spiders. /// Se estudi la dinamica poblacional, hbitos alimenticios, y el crecimiento de una poblacin de Rana vaillanti en una laguna permanente en el sur de Veracruz, Mxico; desde abril de 1984 hasta marzo de 1985. Se realizaron colectas de ranas por 5 noches consecutivas cada mes, se tomaron medidas morfomtricas, fueron marcadas por falengetoma con marca nica, y se colectaron contenidos estomacales; las ranas fueron liberadas la misma noche. Fueron capturadas 1851 ranas, de las cuales 608 se recapturaron al menos una vez. La estimacin del tamao poblacinal fue estable durante el ao, 1622 ranas. Los adultos representaron la proporcin ms grande de la poblacin (41.5% machos, 52.4% hembras, 6.1% subadultos). La esperanza de vida durante el estudio fue de ocho meses. Las hembras crecen ms rpido que los machos y llegaron a tamaos ms grandes. Rana vaillanti es un depredador "sit and wait" con un dieta diversa, que incluye pjaros, peces, y otras ranas de la misma especie. Consumen mucho ms invertebrados que vertebrados, principalmente insectos (Coleoptera y Odonata) y araas. 
10.2307/1564351|Sceloporus mucronatus is a high elevation, viviparous lizard native to Mexico. Males exhibit testicular recrudescence during the spring and summer whereas females exhibit maximal gonadal activity during late summer and fall. Females are pregnant during the winter and give birth the following spring (April). Clutch size is positively correlated to female body size. Comparison of vitellogenic follicle number and clutch size suggests that atresia is common during vitellogenesis. Courtship and mating occur before the onset of vitellogenesis and fertilization is via sperm stored in the female reproductive tract. Male and female fat body cycles are identical with a peak in stored lipid during spring and early summer. Female fat body/somatic index declines significantly with the onset of vitellogenesis. In contrast, males exhibit no apparent relationship between gonadal and fat body activities.
23327189|Envenomation by snakes of the genus Bothrops is characterized by local pain, systemic bleeding, tachycardia, acute renal failure, as well as swelling and redness caused by the enzymatic and proteolytic action of venom. The toxicological and histological effects of the venom of Bothrops itapetiningae, one of the smallest pit vipers in Brazil, were characterized using BALB/c male mice as models. Venom impacts on liver, kidney, and plasma enzymes that were evaluated at six concentrations. We observed lethality, toxicity, edema forming, and hemorrhagic symptoms such as polymorphonuclear infiltration, hydropic degeneration, and ischemic necrosis. Moreover, increases of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatise, and creatinine levels were observed in the presence of venom. We assessed LD50, minimal hemorrhagic dose, minimal edematogenic activity, and platelet aggregation, improving our knowledge of B. itapetiningae venom toxic activity.
4093008|An incomplete left hypoplastron of a trionychid turtle from the late Miocene-Early Pliocene Cubagua Formation of Margarita Island, Venezuela, represents the youngest occurrence of trionychids in South America. Large size and depositional environment of the Margarita Island specimen indicate marginal marine habits. The Neogene Venezuelan record is more extensive than previously considered and may represent an interval of successful colonization of the northern margin of South America by trionychids, as opposed to previous hypotheses of failed waif immigration.
1565836|Many reptiles have different habitat requirements for different activities (e.g. hibernation and nesting/gestation) that may not be satisfied by a single location. Suitable habitat may not only be limited, but also fragmented, making it difficult for animals to move between sites. In this study, we examine habitat use and movement patterns of Northern Alligator Lizards (Elgaria coerulea) and Western Skinks (Eumeces skiltonianus). In particular we determine the characteristics of hibernation and summer sites for both species and the extent of movement in both species, particularly whether migration occurs between summer and winter habitats. We used mark-recapture (PIT-tags and toe-clips) to do this. Both species coexisted at many of the same study sites, although some sites had only one of the species, and individuals were found in approximately the same locations in spring, summer, and fall. Thus, hibernation apparently occurs in the same habitat where lizards are active during the summer and no seasonal migration occurs. In fact, individuals of either species were recaptured on average within 10 m of a previous capture. Both species were rarely found in the open and more often under rocks than in vegetation or under logs; they also remained close to shrubs and forest edges. Roads apparently are not a major hazard for either species because they have high site-fidelity and do not make long-distance movements between hibernation or summer sites. Their requirement for cover means that any disturbance or removal of rocks from their habitats would be detrimental to both species.
10.2307/1565723|Sexual size dimorphism, aggressive interactions, and mating events were recorded in two populations of the European pond turtle, Emys orbicularis, in central Italy. Females were significantly larger than males in both populations. Fighting between males was observed frequently, and ranking the males according to the outcome of hostile interactions revealed consistent quasi-linear hierarchies in both populations. Rank was not related to males mass. Minor aggressive patterns, involving males, females, and juveniles, occurred in both populations, particularly during basking. Several males were observed mounting more than one female, and most females were mounted by more than one male during the same breeding season. No correlation was found between male rank and total number of matings, or total number of females mounted by each male. Social interactions of Emys orbicularis are discussed with reference to habitat preference and phylogenetic relationships among emydids.
4498602|Phylogenetic relationships and systematics of the eight currently recognized species of the genus Bombina were investigated using four mitochondrial gene fragments (16S rRNA, 12S rRNA,
10.2307/1563969|Morphological and biochemical divergence between Spanish and Moroccan populations of Lacerta lepida demonstrate that these populations are not conspecific; Iberian populations are referred to Lacerta lepida, Moroccan populations to L. pater. An evolutionary scenario, consistent with the biochemical and morphological data, is inferred from the physiographic history of the region.
10.2307/1562736|The daily and annual activity cycles, reproductive potential, population dynamics, and social relationships of the painted turtle, Chrysemys picta, in southeastern Pennsylvania are presented and comparisons with other population studies on this species and other turtles are made. Chrysemys picta was active only during the daylight hours, foraging for food during the late morning and late afternoon hours and basking at other times. The turtles were active as long as the water temperature remained above 10 C. Most were dormant from late October through March, but always some were active. Mating occurred from late April to mid-June, and nesting occurred during June and July. The mean number of eggs per clutch was 4.73 and the realized reproductive potential was 2.6 young per clutch. The density of turtles was estimated at 239 per acre. The adult sex ration was 1:1 and the juvenile to adult ratio 1:4. The rate of turnover in the population was estimated to be approximately 51 per cent with most mortality occurring in the smaller size-groups.
10.2307/1565238| Among clutch variation in reproductive output and egg size of the wall lizard (Podarcis muralis) are reported. Females under semi-natural conditions laid eggs from late April to early July. The smallest reproductive female in our sample was 51.2 mm SVL, and all females larger than this size produced at least one clutch per season. Of the 53 females, 13 laid three clutches, 27 laid two clutches, and 13 laid one clutch. Females that laid only one clutch were smaller than those laying two or three clutches. Oviposition frequency was 16.8-54.7 (mean = 30.4  1.4) d between first and second clutches, and 18.6-32.1 (mean = 25.2  1.2) d between second and third clutches. Clutch size was 3-11 (mean = 5.0  0.2) for first clutch and 2-6 for second (mean = 3.9  0.2) and third (mean = 4.0  0.3) clutches, and was positively correlated with female SVL. Although there was a trade-off between egg mass and the total number of eggs produced per season, eggs from first clutches were larger than eggs from subsequent clutches. In all three clutches, an increase in egg mass was accommodated by a decrease in egg length. There were both among clutch and among individual variation in clutch size and among clutch variation in egg mass, but no individual dependence of egg mass was found. 
10.2307/1565992|Growth of the yellow-margined box turtle (Cuora flavomarginata) was studied in northern Taiwan on the basis of recapture data and estimates using the age-carapace length relationship. The growth rate obtained using mark-recapture data from May 1996 to June 2000 was inversely correlated with the body size in both males and females. Growth trends in individuals for whom sex could be determined (i.e., large juveniles and adults) did not significantly differ between sexes. Growth rate in smaller juveniles, although highly variable compared to that of larger individuals, was collectively greater than in the latter. Mean carapace length of females was consistently greater than that of males of the same age. We used nonlinear regression to describe male and female growth trajectories, and the logistic model better fit data on C. flavomarginata than the von Bertalanffy model. Individuals younger than 11 years old occupied no more than 10.3% of the population, 28.8% of which was considered to exceed 18 years of age.
1566079|Populations ascribed to Dendrobates pumilio, the Strawberry Poison Frog, show extreme variation in color and color pattern among island and mainland locations in the Bocas del Toro Archipelago in Panama. Previous analyses indicate that these different populations are probably members of a single species. Here we present data on crosses between several different color and color pattern morphs. Successful crosses were made between different morphs from seven populations: Bocas Island, Nancy Cay, Pope Island, Bastimentos Island, and Almirante, Rambala and the Aguacate Peninsula on the mainland. The resulting offspring were characterized for color and color pattern. Our study indicates that different color morphs can interbreed to produce viable offspring. The offspring typically displayed a mixture of colors but always showed color pattern if one parent showed color pattern. This suggests that color pattern is under single locus control with dominance, whereas coloration may be under polygenic control, or may represent a single locus system with incomplete dominance.
40060540|We studied the sexual dimorphism, feeding habits, reproductive biology, and seasonal activity of the snake Philodryas patagoniensis in northeastern Argentina, where this species is the most abundant snake. There were differences in snout-vent length, tail length, and scale counts between adult males and females. Juveniles showed significant sexual dimorphism in tail length and scale counts. A total of 92 prey items was recorded from 184 specimens, with reptiles being the most common prey (58%) and Cercosaura schreibersii the most frequent individual prey item (26%). However, amphibians (15%), mammals (10%), and birds (4%) were taken occasionally. We found evidence of an ontogenetic diet shift because adults included endothermic prey. The female reproductive cycle was seasonal, and clutch size was positively correlated with female SVL. Philodryas patagoniensis was active throughout the year but significantly less so in winter and more so in spring. The great abundance of P. patagoniensis in South America may be influenced by its foraging and reproductive plasticity, feeding frequency, and the prey availability and abundance. Therefore, we suggest that this species may be an important predator in South American ecosystems.
4092968|Seasonal changes in the frequencies of green and brown Pacific Treefrogs (Pseudacris regilla) were recorded at a site in southern California. Changes in the proportions of green and brown individuals in the population appear to track seasonal changes in the availability of green and brown background substrates. We show that the change in the frequencies of green and brown frogs is not just caused by a change in the proportion of frogs with fixed green and brown body colors but also by the ability of a newly described morph to change color. The findings add further support to the hypothesis that maintenance of this complex color polymorphism likely involves a response to seasonal change in the abundance of green foliage, perhaps driven by differential predation on green and brown frogs that are either plastic or fixed in color.
41415293|Janthinobacterium lividum, a bacterium that inhibits the growth of the lethal amphibian pathogen Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, has been found in myriad environments, including the skins of amphibians that resist the fungus. We present evidence that the gastrointestinal tract of Plethodon cinereus, the Eastern Red-backed Salamander, can serve as a reservoir for J. lividum. Two of six individuals collected from a natural environment harbored J. lividum in the gut tube. Violacein, whose intense violet color allows for rapid visual detection and chemical analysis, served as a first indicator for the presence of J. lividum. This secondary metabolite of J. lividum was confirmed through reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography, UV-Vis analysis, and high-resolution mass spectrometry. The identity of J. lividum was confirmed by PCR amplification with J. vidumspecific primers of DNA extracted from the isolated bacteria. Because J. lividum survives in the digestive tract, it will likely be inoculated onto skin around the cloaca and into the soil and indirectly onto salamander skins. Thus, the gut may act as an important reservoir for this antifungal bacterium.
41415272|We examined how differences in the allocation of resources influence prebreeding somatic stored energy reserves (fat and glycogen) in males and females of the hylid frogs Pseudacris crucifer and Pseudacris triseriata. Males had shorter snout-vent lengths than did females but similar wet and dry carcass masses. Nonpolar lipid and glycogen contents of the carcass increased with carcass mass in males but not in females. Similarly, triglyceride and glycogen contents of the liver increased more acutely with increasing liver mass in males than in females. Ovarian mass in gravid females correlated with body size and in P. crucifer the gonadal-somatic index increased with increasing body size, indicating a greater than proportional increase in ovary mass with increasing body size. These findings suggest that, during the prereproductive period, larger males allocate more energy toward preparation for courtship activity than do smaller males, whereas larger females may allocate more energy toward production of eggs.
10.2307/1564929| Forty-nine adult male, 30 adult female, and 46 unsexed juvenile olive grass snakes (Psammophis phillipsi) from Africa north of the equator were measured and dissected. Male snout-vent lengths were larger than those of females, and no dimorphism in tail length was found. Vitellogenesis commenced by the end of the rainy season, oviposition occurred by mid-dry season, and hatching occurred at the onset of the rainy season. Mean clutch size is 10.7  1.4 (n = 9, 6-19). No correlation between maternal snout-vent length and clutch size was detected. Testicular recrudescence began at the end of the rainy season, with regression beginning at the end of the dry season and continuing through the rainy season. Most hatchlings mature in the first year. 
41415239|In North America, most efforts to monitor pond-breeding anurans have focused on call surveys. Egg-mass counts offer an alternative monitoring strategy that has been used extensively in Europe because this technique can produce precise and accurate estimates of annual reproductive effort at many study sites. We surveyed egg masses of Wood Frogs (Lithobates sylvaticus) at 18 ponds for up to 16 years from 1993-2008 in the largest contiguous forest tract in southern New England. We detected an average of 441.5  343.7 egg masses per pond. Based on annual egg-mass counts, coefficients of variation (CV) were slightly higher than previous estimates for this species. We detected no relationship between mean annual population size and CV or between length of time series and CV. Population fluctuations in these ponds exhibited evidence of annual synchrony, in part because annual fluctuations at individual ponds were large enough that it was difficult to assess differences in population trends among ponds. However, the overall trend suggests this population was probably increasing slightly, which was expected because ponds were located in contiguous forest that remained intact during the study. Egg-mass counts appear to represent a feasible technique to monitor Wood Frog populations, given that all local breeding ponds are monitored.
25599184|Wild Desert Tortoises, Gopherus agassizii, are eating different foods now than they were decades ago, because exotic plant species have invaded and fluorished in the Mojave Desert over the last century. Reservations about the nutritional quality of exotic vegetation compared to native vegetation led us to conduct feeding experiments with growing, juvenile Desert Tortoises. We determined the digestibility of dry matter, energy, fiber, and nitrogen in four foods: Achnatherum hymenoides (a native grass), Schismus barbatus (an exotic grass), Malacothrix glabrata (a native forb), and Erodium cicutarium (an exotic forb). The largest nutritional differences among diets were between food types (fresh forbs and dry grasses) rather than between native and exotic species. The two grass diets were higher in fiber content and they contained less digestible energy than the two forb diets. The grasses contained little protein, and tortoises actually lost mass and body nitrogen while eating them. The exotic forb yielded more energy and nitrogen per unit dry mass than did the native forb, but this may be related to differences in phenological stages and associated fiber contents of these foods when they were collected. Juvenile tortoises gained weight rapidly when eating forbs and showed no evidence of having a lower digestive capability than did adults, despite their small size and immaturity. Estimates of nitrogen requirements compared to annual nitrogen intake on these diets suggested that growth of juveniles may be limited in part by dietary nitrogen.
4092902| The literature on Eastern Box Turtles (Terrapene carolina carolina: Emydidae) often characterizes them as terrestrial with only anecdotal references to their aquatic habits. The rapid decline in many populations of box turtles suggests an urgent need to assess all aspects of their habitat requirements. In this study, trailing devices and radio transmitters were used to determine seasonal movements and the extent to which turtles used aquatic habitats within their home ranges. Home range sizes averaged 1.88  0.49 ha via minimum convex polygon analysis, and 2.26  0.76 ha via 95% fixed kernel analysis. Kernel estimators were more effective at representing uneven home range use, often demonstrating the extensive use of water. A total of 131 turtles were found in two small temporary ponds from June through August. Individuals remained in the ponds for up to 23 consecutive days. As many as 32 turtles were found at one time in one of these ponds. Turtles often extended their home ranges by means of abrupt linear movements toward water in response to high temperature and low precipitation. Wet areas have a significant influence on Eastern Box Turtle life history. Box turtles should be considered in wetland area conservation decisions where appropriate. 
1566062|Two basic components of overall shape in scincid lizards were examined in 34 representative species: hind limb length and SVL, both relative to head length. In a bivariate plot of the total available morphological space, only 46% was occupied. Six species that represent the boundaries of the occupied morphological space include a climber on rounded boulders separated by precipitous interstices; a secretive litter-dweller; a bulky, slow moving omnivore; a sand walker/swimmer, and two limbless species. The unoccupied spaces in the total available morphological space represent areas where relative SVL may become too short to support sufficient body curvature in locomotion and where relative limb length may become too long to be supported by the body width. The mean number of presacral vertebrae is a strong proxy for a species' relative SVL (elongation).
10.2307/1564043| It is postulated that fitness differences between the color morphs of the salamander Plethodon cinereus are produced through selection on correlated characters and that character covariation plays an important role in the maintenance of the color polymorphism. A difference in temperature-dependent foraging behavior of the morphs was detected as a correlation between temperature and morph frequency on the ground surface at two sites near Princeton, New Jersey. The standard metabolic rate of the morphs differs at 15C, at which the morphs' behavior is most dissimilar. Age specific morph frequencies suggest that the striped morph suffers higher mortality in a warm locality whereas higher mortality of the black morph has been reported from other, colder, localities. These results, along with previous studies strongly support the hypothesis that the maintenance of this polymorphism is associated with fitness differences produced by temperature-related selection on characters correlated with coloration, namely metabolic rate and foraging behavior. The proportions of autotomized tails in the black and striped morphs in the study site were 21% and 4%, respectively, perhaps indicating higher predation on the black morph in this population. A previous hypothesis of protective coloration of the black morph is rejected on the basis of age-specific mortality and tail autotomy data. 
10.2307/1563383| The lectotype of Holbrookia propinqua Baird and Girard, which was chosen from among a series of seven syntypes, is USNM 2671A. This specimen was collected in late April or early May 1851, somewhere between Indianola (Calhoun Co.) and San Antonio (Bexar Co.), Texas, by John H. Clark, an assistant to Lt. Col. J. D. Graham of the U.S.-Mexican Boundary Commission. The original syntypes were probably taken from an area where lizard density was high. This area, from evidence accrued, was probably along a line of passage on one of two alternative roads crossing the "Carrizo sands" formation southeast of San Antonio. It is to this specific region (the area enclosed within a circle, with a 12 Km diameter, centered at coordinates 291620N-980950W) that the type-locality is restricted. Perusal of several historic documents brought to light reasons why all Baird and Girard's early descriptions lacked museum catalog numbers. The specimens had not yet been cataloged into the early Smithsonian collections! Finally, S. F. Baird's REPTILES OF THE BOUNDARY is an important source of basic taxonomic information, especially regarding the type material that Baird and/or Girard used in their earlier undocumented descriptions. 
1566057| With nest incubation temperature determining sex in marine turtle hatchlings, sex ratios among populations and intermediate aggregations are likely to exhibit more geographic and temporal variability than for vertebrates with genotypic sex determination. In this study, we examined the sex ratio of an immature Hawksbill Seaturtle (Eretmochelys imbricata) aggregation at Mona Island, Puerto Rico, using serum testosterone level criteria that were validated through laparoscopy in a subset of turtles. Measured serum testosterone for female turtles ranged between 0.32 and 17 pg/ml and for males between 18.2 and 262 pg/ml. Of 120 turtles sampled, 53 individuals were classified as females and 66 as males, with one individual undetermined. The resulting F:M ratio of 0.80:1 is not significantly different from 1:1. This result contrasts with the highly female-biased sex ratios reported from surrounding Caribbean immature hawksbill aggregations, suggesting that the Mona near shore habitat recruits male turtles from a source uncommon to other aggregations. /// Las proporciones sexuales en tortugas marinas tienen gran importancia para la creacin de planes de manejo efectivos, ya que en estas especies el sexo es determinado por la temperatura ambiental y no por diferenciacin de cromsomas. Esta caracterstica ha creado poblaciones de tortugas marinas con las proporciones sexuales sesgadas a un gnero en particular y no la proporcin sexual de 1:1 propuesta por la teora de alocacin sexual. Varios trabajos han demostrado que estudios de proporciones sexuales en agregaciones de juveniles y sub-adultos de tortugas marinas son los ms apropiados para obtener la razon sexual real de dicha agregacin. Para determinar la razon sexual de una agregacin de la altamente amenazada tortuga marina carey (Eretmochelys imbricata) en la Reserva Natural de Isla de Mona, Puerto Rico se utilizararon los niveles de testosterona como tcnica para distinguir el sexo de cada individuo. De 120 individuos, el 56% fueron machos y el 44% fueron hembras. Estos resultados no reflejaron una diferencia estadsticamente significativa de la razon sexual 1:1. Sin embargo, investigaciones en otras agregaciones de la tortuga carey en el Caribe reportan sesgos sexuales hacia un gnero en particular. Estudios de proporciones sexuales tanto de neonatos en playas de anidacin como de juveniles en reas de alimentacin de la tortuga carey en el Caribe son necesarios para ayudar a explicar la diferencia en las proporciones sexuales de las agregaciones de tortugas carey en el Caribe. 
40060498|Reproduction in amphibians is stressful and perhaps more so in females than males because of the higher energetic costs of producing eggs than sperm. The ratio of two white blood cells, neutrophils and lymphocytes, has been shown in birds, turtles, and amphibians to increase with stress. We captured breeding and nonbreeding, paedomorphic Mole Salamanders (Ambystoma talpoideum), to determine whether the stress of reproduction is reflected by neutrophil:lymphocyte ratios in this species. In blood smears of all individuals, we observed approximately 25.5 leukocytes per 1000 erythrocytes, with 13% of the leukocytes being neutrophils, 41% lymphocytes, and 46% eosinophils. Less than 1% of leukocytes were basophils and monocytes. Neutrophil:lymphocyte ratios of gravid females were significantly higher (and also more variable) than those of reproductive males and of nonreproductive individuals, indicating a higher degree of physiological stress in reproductive females. Reproductive males did not have higher ratios than nonreproductive individuals. We found no effect of body size on neutrophil:lymphocyte ratios. Our hematological stress results are consistent with studies of other amphibians where different methods were used and with other taxa.
1566222|The Cooter, Pseudemys floridana, and the Pond Slider, Trachemys scripta, are two abundant freshwater turtles in the southeastern United States, but little is known of their reproductive ecology in northwestern Florida. I studied their nesting phenology and behavior, clutch size and frequency, rates of nest predation, and hatchling overwintering behavior from 2001-2003 at Lake Jackson, Leon County, Florida. Both species nested from mid-April to mid-July with peaks in May (47% of P. floridana and 55% of T. scripta nests). All 43 nests of P. floridana had a central chamber and two side holes. Nest predation on both species was high and may have been caused by a combination of artificial habitats (road-side and drift fences). Mammalian predators and imported red fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) destroyed all or part of 99 nests (98%; P. floridana, N = 30; T. scripta, N = 69) found at drift fences. Raccoons (Procyon lotor) destroyed eggs in all three chambers in 24 of 26 nests of P. floridana. Mean clutch size for P. floridana was 12.4 eggs and female size and clutch size were positively related. Mean clutch size for T. scripta was 6.6 eggs. There was a weak positive relationship between female size and clutch size of T. scripta. Some hatchling P. floridana and T. scripta emerged from mid-July to early October in the year of oviposition, whereas others remained in nests for up to 10 months and emerged from February to May in the following year. A review of published literature reveals that some reproductive traits, such as nesting season, that vary geographically in P. floridana do not vary substantially among populations of T. scripta. Geographic variation in some reproductive characteristics of P. floridana is apparently the result of a gradient in temperature whereas others (e.g., unique behavioral traits) may be adaptations to past or present regional conditions.
40060550|Smooth Softshell Turtles, Apalone mutica, prefer medium to large rivers with clean sand where they spend substantial amounts of time buried in the bottom sand substrate; however, the habitat requirements of hatchling A. mutica are poorly known. We designed a laboratory experiment to determine whether the presence of an underwater sand substrate affects growth and condition of hatchling A. mutica. We found that hatchlings maintained on a sand substrate grew faster and differed in body appearance compared to hatchlings maintained without a sand substrate. A readily accessible sandy substrate in which to bury may be a significant habitat component for A. mutica hatchlings. In addition, investigators maintaining A. mutica, and likely other softshell species in the laboratory, should consider the species' substrate requirements in their research design.
10.2307/1564391|In six experiments on captive death adders (Acanthophis antarcticus), caudal movements increased in frequency when prey were nearby, and lizards (Hydrosaurus pustolosus) were attracted to the moving tail. We conclude that caudal movements of A. antarcticus serve a luring function, although they may have other functions as well. Two types of predatory caudal movements occur in death adders, those that are stimulated by prey and those that are occasionally made by snakes when no prey have been detected. The latter are conceptualized as "probes" designed to attract prey that might be out of the snake's view but still able to see the lure.
10.2307/1565124|Snapping turtle eggs were collected from contiguous brackish and lower brackish/fresh water habitats within a Long Island, New York estuary. Eggs were also collected from a remote inland fresh water site. Hatchling snapping turtles were exposed to fresh water, 10, 20, 25 and 40% seawater (100% seawater = 35 ppt) for periods varying from 5 to 20 weeks. There were no significant differences in terms of salinity in growth optima between hatchling turtles obtained from contiguous habitats of differing osmotic stress. The estuarine group of turtles as a whole grew significantly better in brackish water (up to 25% seawater) as compared to fresh water. Comparison with hatchlings obtained from an inland fresh water site suggests that observed differences in growth in the estuarine group are due primarily to a marked inability to grow in fresh water rather than enhanced growth in saline water. Salinity did not affect the rate of oxygen consumption of the turtles.
