25082547|More than 400 host records are summarized for 28 Nearctic species of Pompilini in the genera Sericopompilus, Episyron, Tachypompilus, Anoplius, Pompilus, and Aporinellus. Most of the records are based upon specimens collected at Presque Isle State Park, Pennsylvania. Fifty new host species are listed for 20 of the spider-wasp species. New host families are introduced for Anoplius carolinus, A. rectangularis, A. splendens, and A. tenebrosus. Pertinent notes on the nesting behavior of some of the species are included. Host selection among the species, size relationships of wasps and prey, stages and sexes of the spiders, and amputation of the spider's legs are discussed.
25082525|A 62% increase in weight of brood of Augochlora pura, attributed to water uptake by the developing larva, was found between the egg plus provisions and the large larva (pollen consumed). Relative humidity near saturation was necessary for eggs and young larvae to survive to pupal stage, after which time they could tolerate drier conditions. Humidity inside cells was from two to ten percentage points higher than outside the cells, in the nest tunnels. The cell lining is believed to help maintain high humidity within the cells.
25481783|The aphid genus Symydobius is reported from China and represented by two subgenera, Symydobius s. str. and Antisymydobius subgen. nov. There are five species, S. (Symydobius) brevicapillus n. sp., S. (Symydobius) fumus n. sp., S. (Antisymydobius) careofasciatus n. sp., S. (Antisymydobius) kabae (Matsumura), and S. (Antisymydobius) paucisensorius Zhang, Zhang and Zhong, which are distributed in China. A key to species from China, morphological descriptions and illustrations, and information on host plants, distribution and biology are provided in this paper.
25084830|An electroantennogram (EAG) bioassay of gas-liquid chromatographic (GLC) fractions of volatiles collected from virgin female southern corn rootworms (SCR), Diabrotica undecimpunctata howardi Barber, western corn rootworms (WCR), D. virgifera virgifera LeConte, and from D. longicornis (Say) (LON) yielded one active fraction from each species; the active fractions for the SCR and WCR represent structurally known sex pheromones for those species. Males of the WCR and those of the northern corn rootworm (NCR), D. barberi Smith and Lawrence, gave the largest antennal response to the 2R, 8R isomer of 8-methyl-2-decyl propanoate (MDP). Males of LON and D. lemniscata LeConte (LEM) gave the largest antennal response to the 2S, 8R isomer of MDP.
25085243|A replacement ingredient for hard-to-obtain and expensive dried cereal leaves was needed for preparing a low-cost black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), diet. An alfalfa-based rabbit food, commercially prepared and readily available, was substituted for the cereal leaves. The effects of the replacement ingredient on A. ipsilon pupation, emergence, mating, and fecundity were examined for two black cutworm generations. Only pupal development was affected by the alfalfa-based diet. However, these pupal effects were variable between the two generations and no significant differences in pupal weight within the two generations were observed. The replacement ingredient exerted no significant influences on the other life stages examined. This modified diet has been successfully used for rearing black cutworm for 20 generations. Many noctuid species are reared on various ground-leaf products; thus the alternative diet may prove beneficial and economical.
25086411|Specimens of Paleozoic Coleoptera are quite rare, particularly so in North America where they have been hitherto represented by a single specimen. The first Permian beetle from North America was only recently described from a single specimen of a complete elytron (no counterpart). A second specimen from another locality in those same beds, comprised of the part and counterpart of a fragment of an elytron, is figured and discussed here. While representing a somewhat larger individual than the original specimen, the present material appears to represent the same species, Permocoleus wellingtonensis Lubkin and Engel.
25083743|The generic characters of the tachinid genus Erynnia, based on the European type E. ocypterata (Falln), are reviewed. As here considered six species are assignable to Erynnia of which four are described as new: coracina, micida, tricincta, condecens. The allied European species Erynniopsis rondanii Townsend, introduced into the United States and now established on the west coast, is included in the accompanying key for ready distinction from the typical members of Erynnia.
25085163|Melipona favosa is a circum-Amazonian bee having its northernmost population in Panama. Some subspecies are polytopic and do not correspond strictly to one locality but rather to type of environment or possibly to comimics. A lack of genitalic differences in males of a Colombian bee that we describe, and also between the two most widely separated subspecies and their workers, 25S in Argentina and 9N in Panama, and the existence of intermediate forms or hybrids suggest all belong to a single species. We propose that M. favosa orbignyi applies to bees from Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, SE Bolivia, Ecuador, Colombia and Panama, and also recognize as subspecies favosa (Caribbean, N South America), subnitida (NE Brazil) and tentatively baeri (NW Argentina). M. peruviana, by the male genitalia and workers, is a distinct species.
25085862|The width of the head capsule in chironomid larvae is the most important morphometric character controlling retention of specimens in sieving devices. Knowledge of the range in size of these widths within any chironomid community is fundamental to sampling and interpreting the resulting data. We present the head capsule widths of 30 species of chironomids and relate their size distribution to loss or retention in several experiments using graded sieve sizes. Based on our measurements and those found in the literature we found the head capsule width of fourth instars in half the chironomids species to be less than 350 m. Many species may never be collected with the commonly used U.S. Standard No. 30 sieve (589 m), and the No. 60 (246 m) screen appears to retain most species only qualitatively. We found 70 to 90% of the chironomid larvae and 19 to 34% of their biomass can pass through a No. 80 sieve (177 m). The implications of sieve loss and other factors affecting sieving efficiency are discussed.
25085809|A comparative study of the effects of sunflower moth diet, banded sunflower moth diet, and a modified sunflower moth diet was conducted on banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes Walsingham, and sunflower moth, Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst). Developmental times and survival to the pupal and adult stages were measured for each diet and pest species. Modified sunflower moth diet with incorporated sunflower leaf tissue gave faster developmental times and a higher percent pupation and adult eclosion for both sunflower moth species than either sunflower moth diet or banded sunflower moth diet. The modified sunflower moth diet that incorporates sunflower leaf tissue provides a single medium which can be used to successfully rear both species of sunflower moth.
25481818|We investigated the ability of the tropical social wasp Polybia occidentalis to recognize local species of scouting-and-recruiting ants by their odor. Wasps in colonies that had not recently experienced Crematogaster ?rochai or Solenopsis geminata did not respond to the odors of these ants. Following contact with these ants, however, some of the individuals responded defensively to the odor of these ant species, showing that wasps can learn the odor of ants. Wasps were better able to learn to respond to the odor of Crematogaster than to Solenopsis. The results of this preliminary field study point to a role for learning in the defensive behavior of social wasps.
25085213|The availability of pheromones for many species of stored-product insects and the need to eliminate or greatly reduce the levels of insect infestation and contamination has led to increased interest in the development of traps for detecting and monitoring these insects. Traps have been developed for aerial insects (mainly pyralid moths and anobiids), for crawling stages of Coleoptera (Trogoderma, Tribolium and Oryzaephilus spp.) and for insertion into bulk grain for a complex of grain-infesting Coleoptera. Traps for aerial insects are most commonly sticky traps and funnel traps, modified to function in environments which may be dusty and which are observed by the public. Many traps for crawling Coleoptera are of corrugated materials and are designed to cause insects seeking shelter to drop into devices or onto adhesive surfaces. Food-baited traps have also been used for crawling Coleoptera. Perforated probe traps for grain are pitfall drop traps which contain an internal collection device such as a funnel tube. Successful traps are refinements of simple devices which utilize basic behavior to trap insects. Traps, to be popular in the marketplace must be easy to use, maintain and assemble, be reliable, easily produced, and cost effective.
25085752|As part of a study of attractants for western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte) adults, short-chain free fatty acids were placed on yellow sticky traps in a Colorado corn field. Olcella parva (Adams) were attracted to traps baited with 10 or 100 mg pentanoic acid. Hexanoic acid (10 and 100 mg) and propanoic acid (100 mg) were also significantly attractive, but significantly less so than pentanoic acid (propanoic acid was also significantly less attractive than hexanoic acid). Other fatty acids tested (heptanoic, octanoic, and nonanoic acids) were not attractive. Male/female O. parva ratios were 2/17 and 0/17 on traps baited with hexanoic and pentanoic acid respectively. These results are different from those of a similar study in Michigan that found hexanoic acid more attractive than pentanoic acid and reported nearly 5 times more males than females on traps baited with hexanoic acid.
25082722|Descriptions are given for 3 new species of Cydnidae (2 Amnestus, 1 Dallasiellus) found associated with ants in Brazil.
25086197|Trigona (Tetragonula) sirindhornae new species is described on the basis of specimens from the Isthmus of Kra. It is most similar to the Bornean T. melanocephala Gribodo but is also similar to the wider ranging T. drescheri Schwarz; it differs most conspicuously from both in the contrast between the black scutum and the testaceous scutellum (Figs. 1-3).
41681220|A survey of bees (Apoidea) in the Black Belt Prairie of northern Mississippi was conducted from 1991 to 2001. Collecting methods included netting specimens from floral hosts and use of malaise traps. The survey resulted in collection of 6138 specimens, of which 3627 were identified to 118 species. Of the 2511 unidentified specimens, the vast majority (2362) were specimens of Lasioglossum Curtis (Halictidae) in groups that are unrevised. The survey resulted in 51 new state records, increasing the total known species of bees in Mississippi to 177. Five species of Andrenidae have disjunct distributions from the Great Plains and western states. A list of the bee species in the Black Belt Prairie is provided with annotations on collection times, floral hosts, and collection methods.
25082520|Preference for resting sites and the influence of aggregation pheromones on these preferences were studied in six species of cockroaches. Differences were observed between species of three families in preferences for vertical resting sites and in tendencies to rest on surfaces impregnated with aggregation pheromones. Aggregation pheromones were shown to be less than strictly species specific, and they did not appear to be used as an olfactory cue for aggregation in some species.
25085877|All of the 13+ species of Centris bees that occur in the Guanacaste Province of Costa Rica construct brood cells consisting of local materials cemented together by a waxy-resin. A major question to be determined was whether the soil, sand, or wood chips which form the cell wall of the various species of Centris are cemented together by waxy-resin secretions from female bees, from other sources, or a mixture. The nests of Centris flavofasciata generally consist of a single provisioned cell at the end of a short (6-10 cm) tunnel excavated in sand. The nesting behavior is described and can be divided into four major steps once a site is selected by a female. The four major steps are: 1) tunnel construction, 2) cell construction, 3) cell provisioning, and 4) nest completion. These steps are further subdivided and provided a method to investigate the possible source of the waxy-resin.
25085138|During a 4-year study in Fayette County, the first collections of adult potato leafhoppers from mature alfalfa occurred on May 4, 1981, May 7, 1982, May 31, 1984, and May 10, 1985. Populations peaked in early July and averaged 4.9 and 2.2 adults per sweep in spring-seeded (first year) and mature stands, respectively. The sex ratio (F:M) of the early migrants in May and early June ran as high as 4.8:1. Populations in all study fields collapsed after harvest in July and never exceeded 1.1 adults per sweep throughout the remainder of the season.
25085306|Perdita (Macrotera) texana is a ground nesting, univoltine, facultatively communal bee species found in western Texas and southern Oklahoma. As many as 28 females may share a single nest, but most nests have no more than five females and approximately 25% of the nests are occupied by a single female. Most nests are constructed de novo each year but some females reuse their natal nests. These is no apparent reproductive division of labor among nestmates, as all residents of communal nests forage and have developed ovaries. Nests consist of a single main tunnel and several laterals leading to brood cells. Females provision a single cell per day with pollen and nectar collected exclusively from Opuntia (Platyopuntia) spp. All evidence indicates that P. texana is a successful pollinator of Opuntia. Cell provisioning requires an average of 8 pollen trips and occasionally an additional nectar-only trip. Pollen trips average 6 min, while nectar trips average 17 min. The entire cell-provisioning process requires 72 min on average. P. texana is unusual among bees in that males are regular occupants within nests. Males enter nests throughout the afternoon and reside there until the following morning, leaving just prior to the beginning of cell provisioning by females. The biology of P. texana is compared to that of other Perdita species, and the evolutionary implications of communal nesting are discussed.
25085847|The genus Trichosmittia is erected for a new species from Japan. The genus is very distinct from all other orthoclads in having the following characters: bare eyes, many sensilla chaetica, 1-2 subapical setae of ultimate flagellomere of male, four-segmented flagellum in female, antepronotum strongly narrowed medially, many acrostichals starting at anterior-most portion of scutum but here grouped, bare squama, short and stout female legs, tergiate IX clothed with rather strong and straight setae on posterior half and without anal point, well-developed inferior volsella of gonocoxite with a terminal seta, phallapodeme bearing microtrichia posteromedially, and long, lunate gonostylus. Trichosmittia is probably most related to the genus Rheosmittia Brundin.
25084524|A culture of the European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis Hbner, reared for 3 generations on a meridic diet caused severe leaf-feeding damage to maize, Zea mays L. (WF9), during 8 years of evaluation, whereas a culture reared for 76 to 153 consecutive generations on the diet caused little damage. Three ECB cultures reared on maize plants 1 generation/year and on a meridic diet 8 generations/year (from 1965 through 1972) caused severe leaf-feeding damage to WF9 plants in 1973; when we stopped rearing the 3 cultures on maize plants and reared them continuously on the diet (1974-1980), they lost some of their ability to damage WF9 plants.
25083659|Two new genera are established: Anisophyllodes, type species A. pipromorphae, n. sp. from Pipromorpha oleaginea (Tyrannidae) from Trinidad and Ptyctophyllodes, type species Proctophyllodes (Pterodectes) trogonis Trouessart, 1885 from Trogon curucui and T. collaris (Trogonidae) from South America. Polymorphic development of the males, restricted to the terminal hysterosomae, is described.
25083634|Characteristics of the family Liacaridae and the genus Adoristes are reviewed and distinctive features of A. ovatus, A. poppei, A. extraneus noted. The subspecies A. ovatus ammonoosuci Jacot, 1938, is compared with the European species and elevated to specific rank because of differences found. Opsioristes eurhostus, n. gen., n. sp. is described. A key to the species of Adoristes and illustrations of various species are included.
25083767|New species of crane flies are described, chiefly from Panama, including Orimarga (Diotrepha) luteipleura, Polymera (Polymera) cingulata, Atarba (Atarba) fieldiana, Atarba (Atarba) panamensis, Gonomyia (Gonomyia) stenorhabda, Gonomyia (Gonomyia) stylacantha, and Gonomyia (Paralipophleps) uncinata, from Panama, and Gonomyia (Lipophleps) minutistyla from Grenada, Lesser Antilles.
25086247|Wasp ichnofossils are scarce in the record because of their low preservational potential. Evidence comprises perforations in bee cells, cocoons, and paper and mud nests, whose preservation may involve the most unusual taphonomic processes. The record includes trace fossils preserved in other trace fossils; paper nests preserved in amber, ironstones and caves; and fragile trace fossils preserved in conglomerates. Evidence for wasps is weak in some cases and more reliable in others. Perforations in bee cells can be attributed to other insects; likewise cocoons can be attributed to other insects and other organic and inorganic processes. Some fossil paper and mud nests are the most reliable wasp ichnofossils. Brownichnus favosites preserved in ironstone and in Dominican amber, provide the oldest records of polistines known. One of the best-known examples of wasp ichnofossils is Chubutolithes gaimanensis, preserved in intraclast conglomerates. New ichnological and sedimentological evidence suggests that cells were constructed around plant stems from which they could have dropped to the soil, been covered with sediments, impregnated with carbonate, and then reworked by fluvial action along with other carbonate nodules.
25085442|Bombus terricola was the only pollinator of certified seed potatoes at four locations in the northern Adirondack Mountains, although seven other bumble bee species were present. Varieties yielding stainable, fertile pollen were preferred. Foragers sonicated 12-21 flowers per minute. Potatoes are also pollinated exclusively by bumble bees in central Europe, the Andes, the Himalayas, and the North American Great Lakes region. The conservation and management of selected bumble bee species are recommended, to ensure cross-pollination in potato fields.
25084468|A photoelectronic monitoring and recording system designed to study foraging activities of nesting Hymenoptera is described. The system utilizes paired photocells at each nest entrance and electronic logic to record lengths of time the insect spends in and out of the nest. The system is adaptable to field or laboratory studies, with a variety of animals.
25481801|This study presents comprehensive data about the biology of the rare cleptoparasitic European bee species Epeoloides coecutiens (Fabricius, 1775). The phenology and behavioral patterns observed at several localities are described; new information about floral resources (22 species) of E. coecutiens is presented. A new host bee, Macropis fulvipes Fabricius, 1804, is confirmed for E. coecutiens. The differences in color vision of humans and bees affect the interpretation of E. coecutiens floral preferences.
25085434|Productivity (measured as number of adult progeny) was compared between singly and multiply mated females of the Mediterranean fruit fly, Ceratitis capitata, in the laboratory. After an initial mating, females were provided continuous access to males and peaches (for oviposition) for their entire lifetime. Nearly 50% (44/97) of the females remated, and most of these (33/44) remated once within 10 days of the initial copulation. Though there was large variation within each group, multiply mated females, on average, had greater longevity and higher productivity than one-time maters. However, the higher lifetime productivity of multiple maters arose primarily from an increased productivity at younger ages and only secondarily from the continued production of older individuals.
25084448|Two new species, walteri and gilberti, in the genus Peayanus are described and illustrated. A revised key to the four known species in the genus is included.
25084300|A study of Lepidoptera species comprising an outbreak of defoliators in Douglas-fir stands in southeastern Idaho was conducted in 1976. The outbreak was caused by larvae of six species; including the western spruce budworm, Choristoneura occidentalis (48%), the spruce coneworm, Dioryctria reniculelloides (18%), an olethreutid, Zeiraphera hesperiana (17%), the filament bearer, Nematocampa filamentaria (8%), the spruce tip moth, Griselda radicana (2%), and the western blackheaded budworm, Acleris gloverana (1%). A number of other unidentified larvae (7%) were also collected. Occurrence of the various life stages of each species during this outbreak was determined. A chemical control program against the western spruce budworm should be planned with consideration of possible effects on this complex, in view of the differences in life cycles.
25084738|Adult males and females of the sugarbeet root maggot, Tetanops myopaeformis (von Rder), were classified into typical and small size groups based upon wing length (WL). WL measurements separating the 2 size groups were 4.28 mm and 4.36 mm for males and females, respectively. Seasonal distributions of small males and females trapped in flight were random from 30 May to 10 July 1980. No differences in the flight distributions of small males and females relative to typical males and females, respectively, between habitats were found, except small males occurred significantly less often in sugarbeets than typical males.
25086021|Studies were conducted using a chlorophyll meter (SPAD-502, Minolta Corporation, Ramsey, NJ) to estimate chlorophyll loss in wheat leaves caused by feeding damage from Russian wheat aphids, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko) and greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). A SPAD Index was calculated as the chlorophyll loss in SPAD units (SPAD meter reading for uninfested tissue - SPAD meter reading for infested tissue), dividing by the SPAD meter reading for uninfested tissue. Thus, the larger the value for the SPAD Index, the greater the proportional loss of chlorophyll for that treatment. Russian wheat aphids and greenbugs were allowed to feed on wheat leaves for periods of 1 to 10 days. For Russian wheat aphids, chlorophyll loss increased gradually as the duration of the feeding period increased (i.e., up to 10 days). However, for greenbugs, chlorophyll loss increased more quickly up to the 4th day of feeding, and then remained relatively constant. Overall chlorophyll loss was greater from greenbugs than from Russian wheat aphids, suggesting greater feeding damage by greenbugs. This SPAD meter technique could be used to screen wheat germplasm for resistance to greenbugs.
25085951|Surveys were made in southwestern Kansas to identify and establish relative abundances of predaceous arthropod species associated with the Banks grass mite (BGM), Oligonychus pratensis (Banks), in field corn and in the surrounding vegetation. A two-year experiment also was done to determine whether the release in the spring of commercially produced predatory mites (Acari: Phytoseiidae) in grasses adjacent to corn field borders would enhance BGM suppression over that in corn fields where no predators were released. In 1996, the release of Neoseiulus fallacis (Garman), Neoseiulus californicus (McGregor), and Galandromus occidentalis Nesbitt in roughly equal proportions at a ratio of 1 predator per 24 BGM did not significantly reduce pest mites compared to control fields. Releases in 1997 of only N. californicus at a 1:1 predator to prey ratio also did not have a significant impact on BGM populations. Berlese samples in corn and in alternate hosts 2 weeks after release failed to recover N. californicus or G. occidentalis in experimental fields, and neither predator occurred naturally in control (nonrelease) fields. Neoseiulus fallacis was recovered in both release and control fields in 1996 and 1997, but could not be distinguished from native populations. In addition to N. fallacis, four other species of naturally occurring phytoseiids were collected: Neoseiulus comitatus (DeLeon), Neoseiulus setulus (Fox), Proprioseiopsis ovatus Garman, and Amblyseiella setosa Muma. All five phytoseiids were recovered in corn and in alternate host vegetation. However, N. fallacis was the most abundant phytoseiid in corn and its population densities were significantly correlated with BGM populations. The insidious flower bug, Orius insidiosus Say (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae), was also a relatively abundant predator in corn, but its populations were not significantly correlated with those of the BGM. Several other species of predators suspected to attack BGM are reported.
25085912|The USDA-ARS North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station (NCRPIS) in Ames, IA (USA), uses honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) for the pollination of germplasm accessions grown under cages for seed Increase. From 700 to 1000 cages are required each growing season. Each cage is provided a nucleus hive of honey bees containing about 6000 worker bees plus a queen. These hives are too small to overwinter outdoors in Iowa. To provide enough bees for April plantings, we purchase bees from shipping companies located in the southern USA. Package bee purchases are expensive and risk importing unwanted diseases or pests. To reduce costs and overwinter our nucleus colonies locally, we remodeled an existing building to provide an environmentally controlled chamber. Earlier studies demonstrated that four or more frames of physiologically young honey bees are optimal for indoor wintering. Our method has been successful and provides an economical way of wintering small honey bee nucleus colonies for use the following year.
25085865|Maoridiamesa stouti Brundin larvae are free living and occur on large stable boulders, but only within the wetted area exposed to the air above the water surface, and generally only on the upstream side of the boulder. The larval size distribution on the boulder surface was studied in a New Zealand stream. With the exception of the adults, all life stages were present on the boulder surface. Larvae and pupae were distributed randomly on the wetted surface, but with decreasing mean densities with distance from the stream surface. While 47 madicolous chironomids have been reported in the literature, only four other species are regarded as strictly madicolous. M. stouti has been recorded from stream sites throughout New Zealand.
25084030|Males of the Brazilian social wasp, Mischocyttarus drewseni, flew regular routes along a ditch rich in flowering herbs and shrubs. Routes of males overlapped widely and were not defended. While patrolling, males perched, fed on nectar, and interacted with other wasps. Patrolling males were attracted to perched male and female conspecifics as well as to the foragers of Polybia sericea and approached, circled, and attempted copulation with them. Copulatory attempts were more frequent with female conspecifics than with females of P. sericea. We hypothesize that male M. drewseni are maximizing their chances of reproductive encounters by patrolling in areas where females are likely to feed and forage.
25085232|Fewer aphids of the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), were found on tall fescue and perennial ryegrass plants harboring systemic fungal endophytes than on endophyte-free plants in laboratory tests. These results indicate that enhanced resistance in some perennial grasses to D. noxia is associated with the presence of endophytic fungi.
25084415|Adult periodical cicadas (Homoptera: Cicadidae: Magicicada spp.) aggregate and mate in chorusing centers. The extent of this aggregation is shown by data on the numbers of nymphal skins, living adults, and carcasses collected at a chorusing center after it has been formed. The collection was continued until virtually all adults had died. Carcasses belong predominantly to males, showing that many females disperse after mating to oviposit elsewhere.
25086101|The genus Caupolicana, subgenus Zikanapis is recorded from Guatemala, Costa Rica, and Panama; these are the first records for Central America. Caupolicana clypeata (Smith) previously recorded from Mexico is found in Guatemala. Caupolicana inbio, new species, is found in Costa Rica and Panama and C. rozenorum, new species, in Costa Rica. /// Se registr el gnero Caupolicana, subgnero Zikanapis en Guatemala, Costa Rica, y Panam; siendo estos los primeros registros para Amrica Central. Caupolicana clypeata (Smith) anteriormente registrada para Mxico se registr en Guatemala. Caupolicana inbio, especie nueva, se registr en Costa Rica y Panam, mientras que C. rozenorum, especie nueva, se registr para Costa Rica.
25085655|Numerous aquatic larval hydrophilid species consume their prey with their heads above the water surface. To determine whether Tropisternus sp. exhibit the same behavior, larvae were observed under three conditions: (1) individually with an emergent twig present, (2) in a group with an emergent twig present, and (3) in a group without a twig. All beetles that ate crawled onto the twig and emerged their heads from the water to feed. Several behaviors were observed that do not support some of the hypotheses concerning the adaptive significance of this feeding behavior.
25082513|A new Brazilian species of harpactorine reduviid, Atopozelus grandis, is described. The genitalia of this species are figured and the generic limits and relationships examined.
25082873|The flight of the western bean cutworm (Loxagrotis albicosta (Smith)) was monitored in Nebraska for 14 years. This monitoring was conducted in an area where the host plant is corn and an area in which dry beans are the main host plant. No correlation in flights was found between the two areas. Prediction of flights from one year to the next is not possible from the data obtained. There is slight indication of 6 to 8 year periods between high populations.
25085152|The subgenus Amphipyga Osborn, genus Athysanella Baker is reviewed, and possible phylogenies of the group are discussed. A total of 38 species are recognized including 36 from the New World and two from the Mongolian steppes. Descriptions, illustrations, and a key to males are included. Six new species are described: catarma, ectopa, expulsa, nielsoni, omani, and valla. The subspecies minor major Ball and Beamer is designated a species and the species redacta Blocker is designated a synonym of attenuata Baker.
25084457|Rates of oxygen consumption, dry weights, fat contents, and ages of workers from various levels in nests of three species of harvester ants (Pogonomyrmex montanus, P. subnitidus and P. rugosus) from southern California, USA, are compared. The results demonstrate that the workers are vertically stratified within the nests: The youngest individuals and those with highest dry weights, highest fat contents and lowest respiratory rates are found in the bottom of the nests. Foragers and ants in the upper nest levels have highest mortality rates and low levels of fat content. This is consistent with the hypothesis that the exterior workers are drained of most usable energy and consist of a population of low-cost workers which live only a short time. This is apparently an energy-saving adaptation for the ant nest.
25086231|Tarantula hawk wasps in the genera Pepsis and Hemipepsis are conspicuous elements of Southwestern U. S. and the Neotropics where they often appear oblivious to potential predators while they actively forage for nectar or search for prey. Tarantula hawks produce large quantities of venom and their stings produce immediate, intense, excruciating short term pain in envenomed humans. Although the instantaneous pain of a tarantula hawk sting is the greatest recorded for any stinging insect, the venom itself lacks meaningful vertebrate toxicity. The respective lethalities of 65 and 120 mg/kg in mice for the venoms of Pepsis formosa pattoni and P. thisbe reveal that the defensive value of stings and venom of these species is based entirely upon pain. This pain confers near absolute protection from vertebrate predators. The pain also forms an enabling basis for the evolution of aposematic coloration, aposematic odor, and a huge mimicry complex involving most species of tarantula hawks and numerous flies, beetles, moths, acridid grasshoppers, and other Hymenoptera. Tarantula hawks form mixed-species, both-sex aggregations that appear defensive in nature and likely aid in the location of resources and mating opportunities for some species. Because tarantula hawks have no meaningful predators, selection pressure appears to have favored long life spans. Long-lived individuals may then function as aposematic models; thereby decreasing predatory attacks by vertebrate predators directed toward wasp kin and future offspring. This suite of defensive adaptations has enabled tarantula hawks to forage and behave with near impunity and to maximize their food and reproduction while having long adult lives virtually free from predation.
25082773|A new genus, Freytagana, and species, F. gibsoni, of leafhopper belonging to the Gyponinae (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) is described.
25083594|Gigantolaelaps aitkeni n. sp. is described from San Juan Nepomuceno, Dept. Bolivar, Colombia, from Oryzomys laticeps. Gigantolaelaps striatus n. sp. is described from Cuzco, Hacienda Cadena, Marcapata, Peru, from Oryzomys lepidus. A key to the females of the genus is provided along with host and locality records for the two new species.
25082987|Perdita octomaculata nested in sand quarries in New York State. Females nested singly in bare, usually sloping sand bluffs. Horizontal subsurface burrows in loose sand led to sloping main burrows that reached cells at the ends of 1-9 cm long, horizontal, lateral burrows at depths of 21-88 cm. Marked females occupied nests from 1 to 9 days (median = 1) and made up to 5 different nests each. Foraging behavior on Solidago is briefly described. The mature larva and pupa are described and illustrated. The nesting biologies and immature stages of the other well-studied species in the octomaculata species group of the subgenus Perdita, P. nuda and P. maculigera maculipennis, are compared and strategies of the species group for nesting in loose sand are hypothesized. The solitary nests of P. halictoides in Florida are briefly described, as are the mature larva and pupa.
43288246|Three species in the genus Stactobia are previously known from China, Stactobia salmakis Malicky & Chantaramongkol, 2007, from Zhejiang, S. parva Wells & Dudgeon, 1990, from Hong Kong, and S. semele Malicky & Chantaramongkol, 2007, from Taiwan. Examination of materials collected from Jiangxi and Sichuan Provinces in the southern part of China has revealed 4 new species of Stactobia, bringing the number of Chinese Stactobia species to 7. Newly described species include S. forcipata, new species, S. rhombica, new species, S. leptoclada new species, and S. spicifera, new species. Previously described species S. salmakis and S. semele, along with all the new species belong to the Stactobia martynovi diagnostic species group; S. parva belongs to the Stactobia nielseni diagnostic species group. The diagnostic characters for the new species and for these two species groups are summarized.
25084066|Six species of Corynoneurinae are now known from the northeastern states. Of these, Corynoneura oxfordana is new, being most similar to taris, from which it may be separated by the much longer terminal antennal segment in the male and by costal bristles and wing length in the female. Thienemanniella similis and T. xena occur in small streams, as do also Corynoneura taris and C. oxfordana. C. scutellata and C. celeripes occur in quiet pond water on floating vegetation. Some species, and possibly all, have a long emergence season, adults occurring in Ohio in every month from March to November.
25083468|Oeme costata abietis, new subspecies is described from the Santa Lucia Mountains, Monterey County, California. Larval and pupal habits in Abies bracteata are reported as well as mating and oviposition behavior of adults.
25082731|Observations on ecdysis and head capsule measurements show that the larvae of Solenopsis invicta Buren undergo four instars. The mandible, labrum, labium, maxillary palp and galea are good characters for differentiating the instars but not the castes. Dyar's (1890) principle is valid for separating the instars of Solenopsis invicta.
25083662|Male Anthidium banningense maintained territories based on their food plant, Phacelia leucophylla Torrey. They patrolled and mated within the territory, and chases and fighting took place at boundaries of adjacent territories. Of six males moved to a plant group about 150 meters from their original site, one remained to establish a new territory. Some males changed territories at least once but one bee guarded the same area for 13 days. The behavior appeared to disperse sexually mature males and to reduce interference in mating and nesting.
25085736|This paper describes an active nest of Bombus pullatus Franklin from Costa Rica that had a colony of leafcutter ants Acromyrmex octospinosus (Reich) build a fungus garden in the old abandoned cells of the bumble bee nest. Such associations between bumble bee and ant nests have not been reported previously.
25085710|Life history parameters of the primitively eusocial bee Augochlorella striata (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) are summarized for a population in central New York, and analyzed with respect to the evolutionary maintenance of eusociality in this species. High mortality (39%) of solitary foundresses and low mortality (12%) of social colonies indicate severe ecological constraints limiting independent (solitary) reproduction. Extreme relatedness asymmetries (3:1, due to singly-mated queens) and female-biased reproductive broods create genetic incentives favoring worker behavior (helping). In addition, workers appear to capitalize on relatedness asymmetries by biasing the sex ratio towards their more closely related sisters and away from their more distantly related brothers, because eusocial colonies (headed by a mother queen; relatedness asymmetry present) consistently produce more female-biased sex ratios than parasocial colonies (headed by a sister queen after queen supersedure; relatedness asymmetry absent). Both intrinsic factors inherent in the haplo-diploid system of sex determination (relatedness asymmetries in conjunction with female-biased sex ratios) and extrinsic factors (ecological constraints) therefore appear to modulate eusocial evolution in A. striata.
25084291|The first recorded nest of Osmia sculleni Sandhouse is described from an elderberry trap nest stem attached to a branch of a conifer in Logan Canyon, Utah. From pollen analysis of the nest provision and from pollen-carrying females captured in southeastern Wyoming, it appears that O. sculleni, like some other taxa with hooked hairs on the mouthparts, is an oligolege of plants of the borage family. The association between boraginaceous plants and bees with hooked hairs on the mouthparts is briefly reviewed. The suggestion that hooked hairs aid in the collection of pollen from borage plants requires additional evidence.
25085123|Over 40 species of solitary bees occur in interior and arctic Alaska. They are most diverse and abundant in open treeless habitats, especially in steppe on south-facing bluffs and early successional sites along large rivers. Solitary bees visit a large variety of plants for nectar and pollen and are important pollinators of many of these plants. There is a strong positive relationship between the length of a bee species' proboscis and the length of the corolla tube of the flower species it visits for nectar.
25085157|Andrena (Melandrena) nivalis Smith constructed multicellular nests of moderate depth (up to 40 cm). Main burrows descended vertically, or nearly so, and meandered only slightly. Cells were located 8-10 cm horizontal distance from the vertical part of the main burrow and had their long axes subhorizontal to slightly inclined. Provision masses varied markedly in size but in all cases were flattened spheres of nectar-moistened pollen. The obliquely truncate posterior end of the egg was attached well to the rear of the provision mass and may have been glued in place. A. nivalis, a polylectic bee, visited pears (Pyrus communis L.) and appeared to be an effective pollinator, but adult flight activity was not in close synchrony with pear bloom during 1987 or 1988. Male bees spent the night in protected locations and sometimes excavated short sleeping burrows for this purpose. Three species of the bee genus Nomada (Anthophoridae) and an anthomyiid fly were found at the nesting site.
25084553|Males of the tropical saturniid Automeris phrynon Druce (=A. orneatus Druce) (Lepidoptera: Hemileucinae) captured in the Atlantic lowland rainforest at Finca La Selva, Costa Rica, fly during late morning hours to caged females that are presumably emitting pheromones. This report adds to the relatively few known examples of tropical saturniid species which exhibit diurnal activity, even though numerous extratropical saturniids are known to be day-flying. Larvae of this species are brightly colored, urticating, and gregarious during the early instar stages. In captivity, male larvae feed for approximately two months before pupating, and eclose in 20 to 30 days. The period from egg hatching to eclosion is 1-5 weeks longer for females. In captivity, female moths lay 200-400 eggs over a 4-5 day period during early evening hours.
25082310|Heated water entering Boomer Lake, Payne County, Oklahoma, resulted in stream conditions being simulated in the power plant discharge riffle. Trichoptera (Cheumatopsyche and Hydropsyche) and Diptera (Simulium vittatum Zetterstedt) were abundant in the riffle and may have supplemented the food supply of fishes in the lake. Populations of Ephemeroptera (Hexagenia), Diptera (Chironomidae), Megaloptera (Sialis), and Oligochaeta (Branchiura sowerbyi Beddard) from two areas on the lake were compared. Both areas were coves, but one had heated water entering it. Since monthly mean numbers of organisms and biomass per individual Hexagenia from the two areas were similar, the heated water apparently had little, if any, effect on the benthos.
25083997|A new species, Paracymus mirus, is described from Papua and the male genitalia are figured.
25084281|Males and females of 2 new species of Setodes (Trichoptera: Leptoceridae) from the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States are described and illustrated: Setodes dixiensis n. sp. from Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi and S. arenatus n. sp. from South Carolina. The taxonomy of the other 6 North American species in the genus is reviewed. S. autumnalis Banks is a synonym of S. incertus (Walker). S. floridanus Banks is a species of Oecetis Mac Lachlan. Illustrations and a key to the males and females of the Nearctic species are presented.
25083702|Seven new species are described as follows: Neurigona valgusa n. sp., Peloropeodes magnicornis n. sp., Peloropeodes pygidus n. sp., Thrypticus squamiciliatus n. sp., Psilopiella nebraskaense n. sp., Chrysotus agalmus n. sp., and Thinophilus vinculatus n. sp. A description is given of the only known male specimen of the rare genus Psilopiella.
25084290|Six new species of Bolivian Polana, P. portochuela n. sp., P. innata n. sp., P. pravada n. sp., P. bitubera n. sp., P. tuberana n.sp., and P. orcula n. sp. are described.
25083899|Ten new species of Curtara, placed in the new subgenus Sinchora, (regela n. sp., henesa n. sp., melabes n. sp., viscosa n. sp., perusella n. sp., nosera n. sp., sudara n. sp., picchua n. sp., tapirapa n. sp., and pilosa n. sp.) are described.
25084067|Colletes inaequalis Say, C. thoracicus Smith and C. validus Cresson usually occupy the same forest habitat in Maryland, both sexes are interspecifically attracted to the same linalolcitral mandibular gland pheromone, and two species share nest and mating aggregations. Nesting activity and food sources of all three overlap. The earliest, C. inaequalis, emerges as soon as the earth thaws in spring and uses primarily Acer pollen; C. validus pollinates mainly Vaccinium, and the latest, C. thoracicus, commonly visits Liriodendron. The subterranean nests of all three species are similar. Sexual behavior is described, including the in copulo nuptial flight of C. thoracicus. An expanding aggregation of C. thoracicus in a suburban lawn included over 104,500 nests; other such outbreaks are known. Nest and cell construction were observed. The brood cells are lined with a polyester membrane derived from macrocyclic lactones secreted by the Dufour's gland, imbibed and applied by the glossa. Hylaeus constructs a morphologically similar membrane from silk secreted apparently by the thoracic salivary glands. Associates include provision-destroying fungi of the genera Rhizopus, Fusarium, Cephalosporium and Cladosporium. Larval rhabditid nematodes commonly inhabit the Dufour's glands of Colletes and Halictus. The Diptera, Leucophora marylandica (Malloch), L. obtusa (Zetterstedt) and Hylemya platura (Meigen) were present at aggregations, and larvae of Anthomyiidae were common in cells. The Sarcophagidae, Senotainia trilineata (Wulp) and Metopia campestris (Fallen), were also present; Phorosinella fumosa Allen was reared. Bombyliidae, Asilidae and Tachinidae were also present. The Meloidae, Tricrania sanguinipennis Say and Lytta anena Say, and Stylopidae were in cells. The conservation and management of Colletes validus for blueberry pollination is recommended. An artificial aggregation of Colletes nests was established.
25083893|Ejection of living larvae from the nests of several Bombus species has been observed following
41262859|The braconid wasp subfamily Protorhyssalinae is recognized from Early Cretaceous (Albian) amber of Peacerrada, Spain. Protorhyssalopsis perrichoti Ortega-Blanco, Delcls, and Engel, new genus and species, is described and figured from a single female and differs from the other two genera ascribed to this doubtfully natural subfamily. The new genus differs in details of wing venation, and mesosomal and mouthpart morphology from Protorhyssalus Basibuyuk et al. (in Turonian New Jersey amber) and Protorhyssalodes Perrichot et al. (in Albian-Cenomanian French amber). The uncertain subfamilial placement for the recently described genus Aenigmabracon Perrichot et al. is also briefly discussed.
25481802|In the field, paired (in copula) female Japanese beetles (Popillia japonica Newman) tend to be larger than unpaired females. In this study, we investigated whether this size pattern could be explained by a male preference for large females, and whether larger females tended to have more and/or larger eggs than smaller females. In a laboratory study, both small and large males, when given a choice of a large and small female, tended to choose the large female. We dissected field-caught paired and unpaired females, measured their body size, and counted and measured their eggs. Larger females tended to have more and larger eggs than smaller females, indicating that males may benefit from choosing larger females due to the egg characteristics of these larger females. Paired females in the field were consistently larger than single females; paired females also had more and larger eggs, even when body width was statistically controlled. Thus, although body width of the female correlates with her fecundity, males may either use cues in addition to a female's body width to determine her immediate fecundity or fecund females may be more available for or less resistant to male mating attempts.
25085962|Triplocania maesi n. sp., and T. saslayensis n. sp. are here described and illustrated. Species of Triplocania had not been previously recorded in Nicaragua. They belong in different species groups. The types are deposited in the National Insect Collection, Instituto de Biologa, UNAM, Mxico City, Mxico.
41353875|A new species -Dictyon termitophilum from Korea -is described and illustrated. A key to the known species of Dictyon is provided.
25082797|The reutilization is reported of an old nest by three female wasps, and the condition of the nest and its constituent cells, is recorded at the end of the season. Larvae of the pyralid genus Chalcoela are believed to have been a major cause of the nest's apparent low productivity. It is postulated that strong parasitoid pressure by Chalcoela is a selective factor against nest-founding by associated multiple queens in some North American species of Polistes.
25083669|The ootheca of Lamproblatta albipalpus Hebard is described in detail. The seam is tall, thinly attached to the egg case, and forms a common aeration chamber. Aeration of the eggs occurs through spongy bodies which penetrate the arched midline of the seam floor. The outside walls are covered with small flanges which curve upward from the base. The chorion pattern is irregular and non-symmetrical; calcium oxalate crystals are not visible.
25082936|A list of all the described species of the genus Ochrotrichia and the general distribution of each is given. The female of Ochrotrichia logana (Ross) is described and compared to the female of Metrichia volada n. sp. Descriptions of males of the following new species are made: Ochr. honeyi, Ochr. salaris, Ochr. tenuata, Hydroptila lenora, Mayatrichia mosely, Metrichia volada, Stactobiella martynovi, and a new genus and species Rioptila arizonica.
25084520|A strain of Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois) with abnormal eye pigmentation is described. Individuals of this strain have bright red compound eyes in nymphal and adult stages. Inheritance of the red eye trait indicates that it is recessive and not sex-linked.
25082488|Nest supersedure by the eumenid wasp Monobia quadridens in tubes occupied by the megachilid bee Osmia lignaria followed destruction of cells, pupae and cocoons of the latter. Nest structure, prey and immature forms of Monobia are briefly described.
25082486|Preliminary examinations of melting points, solubilities, and infrared spectra of the nest-building secretions (cell or nest linings) of Hylaeus cressoni, Nomia melanderi and Anthophora occidentalis were made. The oral secretion of H. cressoni appears to be silk. The dissimilar cell linings of N. melanderi and A. occidentalis contain probably polymerized lipids and do not resemble beeswax. The origin, composition, and possible evolution of nest-building secretions in the Apoidea is reviewed and discussed.
25083775|Butterflies were collected and observed in Lynch Hollow, Camden County, Missouri for a period of 14 years, from 1955 through 1968. An annotated list of 78 species collected during this time is presented.
25078489|A new genus of the Gyponinae, Hecalapona, is described and the 38 newly described species are placed in 3 new subgenera; the subgenus Hecalapona, the subgenus Nulapona, and the subgenus Carapona.
25086369|Thirty-seven streams within 15 Missouri State Parks were sampled for immature and adult Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) during 2002 and early 2003. Seven mesohabitats were sampled: riffle, run, leafpack, pool, no flow organic, bank, and silt/mud. Mesohabitat associations are reported for each species collected. All totaled, 34,251 EPT larvae were collected, all specimens of which were identified to the lowest taxon possible. Of approximately 70,000 adult specimens collected by blacklight and vegetation sweeping, 10,342 were examined and identified to the lowest taxon possible. Fifteen species endemic to the Interior Highlands and two species on the Missouri Species of Conservation Concern Checklist were collected. This research revealed a total of 213 species in 99 genera and 37 families of EPT in the designated state parks, representing 65% of the EPT fauna known from Missouri. Mesohabitat associations are reported for all species of larvae collected. Richness of mayflies and stoneflies was significantly highest during the spring season whereas richness of caddisflies was significantly highest during the fall. Richness of all three orders was highest in the riffle mesohabitat, and lowest in the pool and no flow organic mesohabitats. Many distribution records are reported and Serratella sordida McDunnough (Ephemeroptera: Ephemerellidae) and Triaenodes perna Ross (Trichoptera: Leptoceridae) were collected in Missouri for the first time.
25084060|Certain aspects of the Andrena fauna of Tunisia were compared with the similar-sized fauna of Colorado on the basis of field and laboratory observations. It was believed that the general aspect of the Tunisian fauna was markedly influenced by mimicry for Apis mellifera. Also, there were many more species having plumose hairs in the pollen-transporting tibial scopa than occur in the early spring Andrena fauna of Colorado, the situation in Tunisia being much like that found in coastal California. Speculations were made on the origin of Andrena in the New World and its subsequent history in the Old World.
25085026|The New World genus Spangbergiella Signoret is reviewed, and five species in the genus are redescribed and illustrated. S. felix Berg, S. punctatoguttata Berg, S. uruguayensis Berg, S. vulnerata vulnerata, S. vulnerata convexa, and S. vulnerata lativittata are treated as synonyms of S. vulnerata (Uhler). A key to species is presented.
25085844|Apsectrotanypus algens was described in 1902 from an adult. The pupa was formally described in 1984. Larva-pupa-adult and larva-pupa associations were obtained from Washington and Montana, USA. Additional larvae from Colorado, USA represent a range extension. Associated pupae and adults were identified as A. algens. Diagnostic characters of the larva include a small labral sclerite in the membrane anterior to the labrum, and the M appendage with petiolate labial vesicles. The larva does not conform to the diagnosis for Apsectrotanypus. In addition, comparisons of the pupal and adult characters with the respective generic diagnoses for Apsectrotanypus also failed to support the inclusion of algens in Apsectrotanypus. Instead, this species appears more closely related to Macropelopia and Bethbilbeckia. While no formal changes are proposed in this paper, it is likely that further work will result in a different generic placement or erection of a new genus for this species.
25086239|Synagris wasps (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Eumeninae) include some of the most spectacular examples of exaggerated secondary sexual "weapons" known. I examined the scaling relationship between tusk length and head width in S. cornuta, a widely distributed, Afrotropical species. Data from museum collections and field observations demonstrate that, unlike most aculeate Hymenoptera, males of S. cornuta are larger, on average, than females and are dimorphic for mandibular tusk length with a discontinuous scaling relationship shape for head width. Other measures of body size are also examined. I also studied female nesting behavior and male behavior in the field in Cte d'Ivoire, West Africa. Nests and nest construction and other female behaviors are described. Most nests were constructed on the undersides of leaves of Aframomum latifolium Afz. (Zingiberaceae) using soil from termite tunnels or old S. cornuta nests moistened with water from leaves. As reported by previous authors, females progressively provision larvae and macerate pieces of caterpillar before feeding it to larvae. Larval silk attached to the leaf through an opening left by the mother may extend the lifetime of nests. Most nests included 1-3 cells and may be limited in size due to weight on leaves. Occupants of a high proportion of nest cells failed to emerge due to parasitism by rhipiphorid beetles and loss of nests. Males displayed trap-lining behavior, patrolling from nest to nest. Some tusked males guarded nests for periods of hours a day over several days. Males used their tusks in male-male competition over mud nest cells containing females about to emerge and also wielded them conspicuously in threat displays. Other males remained nearby and flew up to confront guard males. Unarmed (tuskless) males are less common and were not observed to guard. Some Synagris species show large weapons that are probably intrasexually dimorphic, while others simply show unusual mandibular development and still others lack weapons entirely. Depending on species, males are smaller than, equal to, or larger than females.
25084517|Density of Banks grass mites (BGM) in corn was found to decline linearly with increasing distance from an infested, adjacent winter wheat field in June 1980. In 4 wheat fields with high densities of BGM along borders with harvested corn, active adult BGM were found at all sampling dates in Jan.-June 1981. Immatures were found only in Feb.-June samples. Intensive sampling of adjacent wheat and corn in June 1981 showed that BGM densities in corn decreased linearly with increasing distance from the wheat/corn border, whereas in the wheat no change was detected with distance from the border. Our quantitative results support previous observations suggesting that BGM colonies are initiated by active mites that have moved into a field rather than by mites that have survived within the field in a dormant state.
25085507|Studies were conducted in maize fields in eastern South Dakota in 1990 and 1992 to compare the attractiveness of several volatile, non-pheromonal semiochemicals to adult northern corn rootworms (Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence). In 1990, during the late stages of maize development, eugenol and cinnamyl alcohol increased the capture of males relative to unbaited traps. Captures of females were greatest on traps baited with eugenol or cinnamyl alcohol; trans-cinnamaldehyde and 4-methoxyphenethanol also increased female capture relative to unbaited traps. In 1992, sticky traps baited with eugenol or cinnamyl alcohol captured more beetles than those baited with 4-methoxyphenethanol, except during silking, when no compound significantly attracted males and the capture of females averaged less than 1 beetle/trap. 4-Methoxyphenethanol did not significantly increase catch relative to unbaited traps until the late stages of maize development. These results contrast with previous evidence that 4-methoxyphenethanol is a superior attractant for D. barberi, and suggest that there may be regional differences in the relative attractiveness of volatile non-pheromonal compounds to D. barberi.
25082563|Trachypus petiolatus (Spinola) was found nesting in firm, bare clay soil near Cali, Colombia, and at Cafayate, Salta, Argentina. In both cases the burrows were at first oblique, then nearly horizontal, attaining a length of 1.0-1.7 m and containing up to 39 cells. In both localities it was found that nests contained both old cells with empty cocoons and new cells containing fresh provisions, indicating re-use of the same burrow by more than one generation (presumably but not certainly from the same nest). At Cali, two females and one male were found associated with one burrow. The prey consisted of small bees, chiefly Halictidae, but at Cafayate several small wasps were also employed as prey. Descriptions and figures of the nests and of larval structure are provided. Five other species of Trachypus are reported to prey upon bees. Three of these species are also known to show some evidence of communal use of burrows. These associations may be temporary, as in some species of Philanthus, but they are interesting as suggesting a stage of presociality which could lead to a division of labor.
25084854|One male and two females of the cleptoparasitic Stelis (Microstelis) lateralis Cresson were reared from a nest of Osmia (Nothosmia) pumila Cresson collected in Putnam Co., Indiana. This is the first record of S. lateralis from an Osmia nest. A comparison of emergence dates after diapause showed that the S. lateralis adults emerged 24 days after the O. pumila adults.
25085327|Ultrastructural effects of methyl bromide fumigation on the ventral nerve cord and ganglia of larvae of the codling moth Cydia pomonella (L.) were investigated. Changes were found in the cytoplasm of the perineural glial cells. Damage included membrane disruption, dilation of endoplasmic reticulum and vacuolation of the cytoplasm. Results suggest that the initial mode of action of methyl bromide as an insect toxin may lie in hindering normal neuronal function.
25083888|The generic name Dolichostelis is proposed for six species of stelidine bees formerly placed under Protostelis Friese. The new genus is described and the included species are redescribed and separated by a key. The genus (restricted to the southern United States, Mexico, and Central America) is considered to be Neotropical in origin and composed of two widely separated species groups, one represented solely by D. perpulchra (Crawford).
25082925|Females of Oncideres cingulata (Say) girdle small branches of mesquite, Prosopis glandulosa (Torr.) Cockerell, in September. Most progeny complete development within 1 year, though a small percentage of the mature larvae pass a second winter in the galleries of girdled branches. Generation mortality for O. cingulata is 99.2%. About 37% of the first-instar larvae are parasitized, and 53% of the mature larvae are preyed upon by birds. The cerambycids, Megacyllene antennata (White), Placosternus difficilis (Chevrolet), Taranomis bivittata (Dupont), and Oncideres rhodosticta Bates, and a bostrichid, Xylobiops texanus (Horn), are the chief competitors of O. cingulata for the small mesquite branches.
25086329|The resources utilized by Centris flavofasciata were studied near Mexico's Pacific coast. An analysis of pollen showed that these bees are polylectic. Sixteen pollen types were found, belonging to eight plant families; however only three plant species (Lonchocarpus guatemalensis, Tabebuia rosea, Prockia crucis) were found in abundance. The plant families that occurred most in pollen samples were Leguminosae, Bignoniaceae and Flacourtiaceae. The Leguminosae was rich in species and was an important pollen resource for the bees investigated. Centris flavofasciata forage less resources than other Centris species and no plant family was represented by >70% the counted grains.
25086341|Several males of Heliothis belladonna (Henry and Edwards) were initially captured in traps baited with commercial pheromone lures for the corn earworm moth, Helicoverpa zea (Boddie). Significant numbers of H. belladonna moths were subsequently captured in traps baited with a 4-component blend of corn earworm pheromone composed of Z-11-hexadecenal, Z-9-hexadecenal, Z-7-hexadecenal, and hexadecenal, and with a 2-component blend composed of Z-9-hexadecenal and Z-11-hexadecenal. Males of H. belladonna were not captured in traps baited with Z-11-hexadecenal alone. Heliothis belladonna were captured in traps during March, April, and early May in eastern Washington, which is before monitoring of corn earworm by growers normally begins, and before the corn earworm flight is anticipated. Therefore, the capture of this non-target species is unlikely to be a problem for the monitoring of corn earworm moths.
25083663|On the basis of examination of the respective type specimens, the status of Leptopanorpa sieboldi MacLachlan, L. ritsemae MacLachlan, and Panorpa ruizi Navs is clarified. Additional synonymy in Leptopanorpa is discussed, and lectotypes are designated for L. ritsemae and L. sieboldi.
25084184|Augmentative releases of Spalangia endius Walker, conducted for 5 weeks against a field population of house flies, Musca domestica L., produced 100% parasitism by the 5th week. Population studies of the host insect enabled determination of ratios of parasites to host and percentage parasitism.
25083714|An artificial key is presented which permits the identification of tiger beetles in the genus Cicindela from North American north of Mexico to the species level. The key is designed for nonspecialists in the group and uses easily seen external characters.
25082899|Collinsia sparsiflora Fisher and Meyer is an autogamous annual with nectariferous, zygomorphic flowers that exhibit a UV reflectance-absorbance pattern and are sternotribic. The extent and effectiveness of insects in cross pollinating the flowers was investigated for three populations, one early blooming and two mid- to late-season blooming. Apis mellifera L., Bombus species and Osmia species were the principal pollinators. Their density never exceeded one
25082427|New and previously known host species are reported for 5 species of Nyssoninae in the genera Alysson, Ochleroptera, Gorytes, and Bicyrtes. The number of species and prey per cell from Gorytes canaliculatus Packard nests at a single locality are given.
25086266|The bionomics of Ceramius caucasicus Andr was studied over a period of 14 days in the vicinity of Erzurum, East Anatolia. Following the concept of Gess and Gess (1988) the nesting and flower association of Ceramius caucasicus can be characterised by the following ethological elements: a. Nest excavated in clayey but quite crumbly soil; b. Burrow surmounted by a turret constructed using mud extracted from within the burrow; c. Re-use of nest unknown; d. Nest with a relatively short, vertical to sub-vertical main shaft; e. Main shaft continues into an oblique to subhorizontal secondary shaft terminated by a cell; f. Existence and form of further secondary shafts unknown; g. Cells sub-horizontal; h. No constructed mud-cell within an excavated-cell; i. Pollen of cell provision, Campanulaceae and Lamiaceae. Pollen of Campanulaceae and Lamiaceae is also present in the alimentary tract of males and females. Furthermore, the alimentary tract of males contains pollen of Resedaceae, Fabaceae and Dipsacaceae in lower proportions. Foraging males also visit Papaveraceae. Water is used to soften the soil. Females visit water collection sites. During water uptake they stand on wet ground, on or in dense vegetation or on soil covered by a thin film of water. Mating occurs at water collection sites and at flowers. Males and females mate repeatedly. Copulation lasts much longer than in the sister species. Females seem to avoid males. Activity at water collection sites indicates proterandry.
25082626|Wing coupling structures of males of a bark louse (Mesopsocus unipunctatus Mller) provide additional evidence that the Psocoptera are closely related to the Hemiptera and Homoptera, as indicated in the phylogenetic tree given by Ross (1956).
25083759|Fourteen new species are described and illustrated: Ligyra alacer Painter, MEXICO, Oaxaca, Chiapas, Colima, Guerrero, Jalisco, Morelos, Puebla, Tamaulipas, Vera Cruz, and GUATEMALA, July to September; Ligyra evansi Painter, MEXICO, Morelos, Oaxaca, Puebla, and COSTA RICA, February, March, April, September; Poecilanthrax mexicanus Painter, MEXICO, Morelos, Colima, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Nuevo Len, Puebla, San Luis Potos, and Tamaulipas, April, July to October; Exoprosopa aztec Painter, MEXICO, San Luis Potos, Coahuila, Morelos, July, August, September; E. fuligosa Painter, MEXICO, Jalisco, Colima, Durango, Guerrero, Michoacn, Morelos, Nayarit, Oaxaca, Puebla, mostly in July but a few in August and September; E. leon Painter, MEXICO, Oaxaca, Puebla, September to October; E. actites Painter, MEXICO, Vera Cruz, Morelos, August; E. bellula Painter, MEXICO, Chiapas, Guerrero, State of Mexico, Morelos, Nayarit, Oaxaca, July, August, September; E. callima Painter, MEXICO, San Luis Potos, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, July, August, September; E. cracens Painter, MEXICO, Guerrero, Morelos, September; E. fasciolata Painter, MEXICO, Morelos, Guerrero, Vera Cruz, July, August, September; E. lepida Painter, MEXICO, Morelos, April; E. minuscula Painter, MEXICO, Chiapas, Guerrero, Michoacn, Morelos, June, July, September; E. nigroventris Painter, NICARAGUA, COSTA RICA, MEXICO, Chiapas, Oaxaca, August, September. A key is given to the last 8 small distinctive species of Exoprosopa of the fasciata group.
25085765|From new and previous collections, eighty-five species of Ephemeroptera are reported from Missouri and fifty-one are new state records. With the addition of another seven previously published species, the known mayfly fauna of Missouri is ninety-two species. The previously unknown adults of Stenonema bednariki McCafferty are described for the first time.
25083019|Studies were conducted to ascertain the changes in high temperature tolerance during the larval stage of Tenebrio molitor (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), as a function of relative humidity. At all experimental humidities (12, 75 and 98%) there was a significant progressive increase in the mean survival time from the first to the last larval instar. Greatest resistance to high lethal temperature was manifested by older larvae under dry air conditions (12% r.h.). This represents the first experimental data available for each larval instar with respect to changes in high temperature tolerance as a function of development and relative humidity for this species.
25085177|The phylogenetic affinities of the cleptoparasitic bee genus Coelioxoides are discussed. It is suggested that Coelioxoides is the sister group of Tetrapedia Klug, and should be considered a member of the tribe Tetrapediini. A key for the three known species is provided.
40961678|The periodicity of molting and resumption of feeding after molting was investigated in the brown recluse spider, Loxosceles reclusa Gertsch and Mulaik (Sicariidae). Spiders molted almost every hour of the day but there was a tendency to molt more frequently between 8 A. M. and 1 A. M. Spiderlings resumed feeding after 20 hrs post-molt with feeding occuring more frequently around the 43rd hour and well-established after 48 hrs.
25085390|The ladybird beetle, Scymnus frontalis (Fabricius), was imported from Turkey as a potential predator of the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordviklo). Larval developmental time and adult fecundity were examined for S. frontalis fed four aphid species: the Russian wheat aphid; the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani); the English grain aphid, Macrosiphum avenae (L.); and the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). Larvae reared on Russian wheat aphids completed development 0.7 to 1.4 days sooner and weighed 0.5 to 0.3 mg less than those reared on English grain aphids or pea aphids, respectively. No differences were found in adult survival or fecundity for adults reared on Russian wheat aphids, greenbugs, or pea aphids. The intrinsic rate of increase (0.73) was significantly greater for S. frontalis fed Russian wheat aphids compared with those fed pea aphids or greenbugs (0.60 and 0.63, respectively). In a prey preference test, S. frontalis larvae ate 323/600 first- or second-instar Russian wheat aphids and 274/600 English grain aphids indicating a slight preference for Russian wheat aphids as prey.
25086251|The Afrotropical species of the genus Jugurtia de Saussure, 1854 (Hymenoptera: Vespidae, Masarinae) are revised. Ten new species from southern Africa are described: damara ( and ), einensis (), elegans (), gariepensis (), hessei (), mandibulata ( and ), namibicola ( and ), nigrifrons ( and ), tibialis ( and ), zebra (). The female of nigrifrons is that previously attributed by Gess (1997) to duplicata Richards from which species it is now removed. Also described are the previously unknown males of alfkeni (du Buysson) and simpsoni Meade-Waldo. Full distributional data and distribution maps are given for all species except spinolae (de Saussure)-24 species in all, and forage plant records are included for 17 of these species. A key to species is given.
25085242|Black walnut nut survivorship was monitored from flowering through nut maturation for two years in an intensively managed plantation. Overall nut mortality was 77.2% and 67.1% in 1985 and 1986, respectively. Black walnut curculio, Conotrachelus retentus (Say), was the only insect causing significant damage in two years. Nut losses associated with the curculio were heaviest during late May and early June. Black walnut curculio destroyed 26.1% and 3.7% of the nut crop in 1985 and 1986, respectively.
25082636|Insects in the families Aphididae, Cerambycidae, Chalcididae, Eurytomidae, Ichneumonidae, Ostomidae, Pyralidae, Pteromalidae, and Sarcophagidae were found in larval cases of the bagworm, Thyridopteryx ephemeraeformis, during winter on various plants growing in northeastern Kansas. From 1969 to 1971, 11.5% of the bagworms were parasitized (n = 3875 cases); 64.9% of the parasitized bagworms were attacked by ichneumonids; 0.5% by chalcids; 0.5% by eurytomids; 0.2% by sarcophagids (n = 447 instances of primary parasitism by all insects). A pteromalid hyperparasite occurred in 44.5% of the bagworms attacked by primary parasites. Pyralids were associated only with bagworms on Juniperus virginiana; other insects were not restricted to bagworms on a particular host plant.
25083565|The types of 19 Nearctic species are reviewed. Two new generic combinations are given: Tanypus arietinus Coquillett [= Lasiodiamesa arietinus (Coquillett)] and Chironomus graminicola Lundbeck [= Parametriocnemus graminicola (Lundbeck)]. One nomen dubium is given: Chironomus parvus Lundbeck [= Smittia parva (Lundbeck)]. Two new names are proposed: Chironomus conformis Malloch [= Chironomus sanctipauli] and Eutanypus borealis Coquillett [= Diamesa coquilletti]. A new species, Orthocladius domus, is described. Parametriocnemus Goetghebuer is emended.
25082669|Carbaryl and endosulfan provided good residual protection of oats from the cereal leaf beetle, Oulema melanopus (L.), and GS 15-171 [1-[b (carbethoxy)-ethyl]-3-methyl-5-(N-dimethyl carbamyl-oxy)-pyrazole], TD 8550 [S-(N-methoxy-carbaryl-N-methylcarbamoyl-methyl) dimethyl-phosphonothiolathionate] and Supracide
25083797|A new species, Bolbomyia andiscalcella, is described from New York with a key to the Nearctic species of this genus.
25082645|Five krad of gamma irradiation to eggs and larvae of the squarenecked grain beetle, Cathartus quadricollis (Gurin-Mneville), prevented the development of adults, but some adults emerged from pupae treated at doses of 5, 10, 20, 30, and 50 krad (none at 100 krad) though longevity was greatly reduced. The doses required to sterilize the adults were about the same as those required to sterilize adults of species of stored-product cucujids and tenebrionids: 30 krad was sterilizing to males and 20 krad to females, and fecundity was greatly reduced by lower doses. Also, the longevity of treated adults was significantly reduced: none survived for 3 wk after exposure to 20 krad. Adults and pupae of this species would require the same levels of irradiation for effective control as most other stored-product Coleoptera.
25086015|Three materials, wax, liquid latex and fiberglass resin, were used to cast tunnel structures of mole crickets. The fiberglass resin was the best material for the casting, resulting in quick-setting, durable casts. Melted wax casts were both fragile and sensitive to heat, whereas the liquid latex penetrated the soil surrounding the tunnel and was thus unsuitable for this purpose.
25086386|The flesh fly community was surveyed on the shoreline of Ro de la Plata at an ecological reserve whose western border directly abuts downtown eastern Buenos Aires. Samples were taken at monthly intervals from September 2004 to August 2005. To attract the flies, dog faeces and rotten cow liver were used as bait. Overall number, species composition and sex ratio were referred to each chosen bait. Of the thirteen species captured during the sampling period, Helicobia aurescens (Townsend), Oxysarcodexia culmiforceps Dodge, Oxysarcodexia marina (Hall), Oxysarcodexia thornax (Walker), Sarcophaga (Lipoptilocnema) koehleri (Blanchard), S. (L.) lanei (Townsend) and Tricharaea (Sarcophagula) occidua (Fabricius) were recorded for the first time in Buenos Aires city. Regardless of species composition, higher number of flies were obtained on faeces. Tricharaea (S.) occidua, was highly dominant (78,35%) followed in abundance by Oxysarcodexia varia (7,82%), both species showing a strong preference for dog faeces. Microcerella muehni and Oxysarcodexia paulistanensis did not show any preference on either bait. Sex ratio was male biased for O. varia, while females were dominant for O. paulistanensis and T. (S.) occidua, and no differences were found for M. muehni. Bait's preference and sex ratio could not be estimated for the remaining species due to their low abundance. /// Se realiz un estudio de una comunidad de "moscas de la carne" en la ribera del Ro de la Plata en una reserva ecolgica cuyo extremo oeste est en contacto directo con el sector este del centro de la ciudad de Buenos Aires. Se tomaron muestras a intervalos mensuales desde septiembre de 2004 hasta agosto de 2005, utilizndose como cebo heces caninas e hgado vacuno en estado de descomposicin, registrndose en ambas clases de cebo, nmero total de individuos, composicin especfica y proporcin de sexos. De las trece especies capturadas durante el perodo de muestreo, Helicobia aurescens (Townsend), Oxysarcodexia culmiforceps Dodge, Oxysarcodexia marina (Hall), Oxysarcodexia thornax (Walker), Sarcophaga (Lipoptilocnema) koehleri (Blanchard), S. (L.) lanei (Townsend) and Tricharaea (Sarcophagula) occidua (Fabricius) se citan por primera vez para la ciudad de Buenos Aires. Independientemente de la composicin especfica, las heces caninas atrajeron el mayor nmero de moscas. Tricharaea (S.) occidua, fue significativamente dominante (78,35%), seguida en orden de abundancia por Oxysarcodexia varia (7,82%), mostrando ambas especies una marcada preferencia por las heces de perros. Microcerella muehni y Oxysarcodexia paulistanensis no exhibieron ningn grado de preferencia por uno u otro tipo de cebo. Se observ mayor proporcin de machos en O. varia, de hembras en O. paulistanensis y T. (S.) occidua, mientras que M. muehni exhibi una representacin equitativa de machos y hembras. Tanto la preferencia por cada uno de los cebos utilizados, como la proporcin de sexos no pudo estimarse en el resto de las especies registradas debido a su escasa abundancia.
25084258|Abundant nocturnal assemblages of adult leafhoppers (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) at soil in central Pennsylvania are described. Collections of over one thousand individuals from soil included 16 species and 99.1% males. The potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris), represented over 60% of all individuals. Similarities with soil-visiting Lepidoptera are discussed.
25085219|Traps can be used in a number of ways which include early warning of pests, to determine courses of action based on catch thresholds or for qualitative surveys of infestations. The earliest use of food-baited traps was for surveys of Trogoderma and other beetle species in the USA and India. Development of food-filled plastic mesh traps in the UK led to the use of these traps for monitoring infestation levels in addition to surveys. The value of the traps was demonstrated by their detection of otherwise undiscovered infestations in high value commodities or in storages and goods which had been treated with insecticides or fumigants. Consistency of trapping of some species such as Tribolium has enabled trap catch to be used as a basis for decisions on storage strategy and pest management. Food lures can be used to enhance the catch of insects in physical traps such as sticky board traps, cup pitfall and pitfall probe traps. Some of the difficulties and limitations on trap use associated with the introduced food can be overcome by using food-derived extracts or volatiles. There are many factors which influence the performance of food-derived lures as trap components and in particular, the insect's perception of food volatiles when in competition with other odours in the environment. The future of food-enhanced traps depends upon the recognition of the requirements and priorities of the user industries and need for strategies for trap use to be developed jointly by researchers and users.
25084387|Small-scale linear displacement of 4 species of grasshoppers within an arid grassland was determined from marked individuals; movement was followed on a mapped grid of approximately one hectare. Species studied were: Cordillacris crenulata (Bruner), Dactylotum variegatum (Scudder), Trachyrhachys kiowa (Stl), and Trimerotropis pallidipennis (Burmeister). An estimated average range of displacement for individual species was between 60 and 80 meters. Average daily displacement of those individuals which did not leave the study site did not differ significantly among these species even though one species was flightless. Populations of 3 of the 4 species could be considered viscous. Although small-scale displacement was similar for individuals of these species, T. pallidipennis exhibited a greater propensity for dispersal than the other species.
25085669|In complex natural environments, flies must simultaneously perform many behaviors such as food search, mate location, or predator avoidance. The concurrent performance of multiple behaviors may affect the efficiency with which any one task is performed. House flies commonly land near and pounce on other flies or fly-sized dark objects. We measured the effect of fly-like visual models on food foraging bahavior. After consuming a 1 l drop of 0.25 M sucrose, the success of flies at locating a similar drop located adjacent to a fly-sized model at varying distances from the original drop was measured. The presence of the model greatly increased the proportion of flies able to locate a sucrose drop near the model, and reduced the time to find the additional resource. The effect diminished as distance between the first and second sucrose drops increased. The response to fly-like objects may, thus, facilitate interactions among flies (e.g., mate finding) and at the same time increase the probability of locating patchily distributed and cryptic resources.
25084255|Although physical factors are believed to play major roles in nest-site selection in many fossorial wasps, certain purely biological factors may also come into play. In this study on the ground nesting wasp, Bembix pruinosa, the role that conspecific, or "social" interactions play was investigated using statistical properties of nearest neighbor relationships within a nesting aggregation. Decreased tendencies of nests to occur in pairs, triplets, etc., in comparison to that expected in a random distribution of nests is interpreted to be a result of negative conspecific interactions by the wasps. Nest site suitability is thus decreased by the presence of other wasps of the same species.
25085292|Diel bimodal patterns of abundance of female Megachile fortis at flowers of the common sunflower, Helianthus annuus, are reflected in provisioning activity of individual bees. Provisioning trips are relatively brief (8-15 min) during morning and evening periods of sunflower pollen presentation but increase to 30 min or more during the midday when pollen presentation is minimal. Duration of time spent in the nest is positively correlated with the duration of the preceding pollen trip so the midday lull in foraging activity, evident in monitoring bee activity at flowers, is due to a combination of long provisioning trips and prolonged periods in the nest. Females provision from one to two cells per day, requiring 11 to 16 pollen trips per cell. Nests are excavated in soil and contain 1 to 9 cells constructed of leaf clippings. Nest architecture and cell and cocoon structure are described. Males do not defend territories but patrol patches of sunflowers where they repeatedly attempt to mate with foraging females and attack other insects on sunflower heads. Male activity against non-conspecifics may represent a form of diffuse resource defense.
25083912|It was determined that males of Eublaberus posticus establish a dominance heirarchy and space themselves by agonism, while the females show no agonism and may be clumped. Males became more site-specific with increasing density. The dominant male controlled refugia, when present, and mates, but at high densities a trade-off existed between control of refugia and mating privileges. These results are explained in the context of selective pressures on the organisms.
25086416|We identified adult insects aspirated from tamarisk, Tamarix ramosissima Ledebour (Tamaricaceae), flowers during May-August 2005 next to the Colorado River at Topock Marsh, Arizona. We compared tamarisk pollen loads and flower constancies, estimated as percentages of T. ramosissima pollen, of genera with >3 specimens. Insects from tamarisk flowers represented four orders, 16 families, and 37 genera. Detritus-feeding flies in Syrphidae were the predominant insects collected and comprised mostly of introduced Syritta pipiens (L.). Bees were second most-frequently aspirated and predominated by introduced Apis mellifera L. Wasps comprised the highest diversity of genera and included parasitic Tiphiidae and predaceous Vespidae and Sphecidae. Tamarisk pollen loads were greatest on A. mellifera and least on S. pipiens. All adult insects collected exhibited high flower constancies with tamarisk pollen averaging >91% of the pollen load in each genus. Introduced honey bees appear to be the most important pollinators of T. ramosissima at Topock Marsh based on their abundance, pollen loads, and flower constancies. Insects visiting T. ramosissima flowers require a variety of resources to reproduce such as cavities for nesting or soil for excavating burrows and insect prey or decomposed plants for feeding larvae.
25086342|Agricultural conversion is one of the most prevalent anthropogenic uses on the terrestrial earth. Persistence of organisms in such landscapes is thought to be related to species-specific characteristics such as life history traits and dispersal distance. In an agricultural landscape in California, we examined local (farm-level) and landscape variables associated with nesting preferences of native ground-nesting bees. Compared to the known ground-nesting visitors to crops, bee community nesting on farms was depauperate. Further, more abundant and diverse communities of bees were found nesting at farms with patches of natural habitat near by than farms that were far away from natural habitat. Species responded differently to soil conditions created by farming practices, but the variability in nesting bee abundance was lower in farms near natural habitat than farms far from natural habitat. These findings suggest that most bee species are affected adversely but to varying degrees by agricultural intensification, and that natural habitats may buffer against the bee population variability in agricultural landscape. We present source/sink dynamics and resource limitations as possible explanations for the observed patterns.
25085456|An emergence trap was designed to estimate absolute populations of adult corn rootworms (CRW), Diabrotica species. This trap incorporated elements from previous trap designs and also had several new and unique features. For example, a collecting device was developed to fit on the top of the pyramidal trap which facilitated the rapid monitoring of the beetles. A program providing the dimensions and angles for the screen pattern was written in Microsoft Basic on an IBM computer. A construction adhesive was used to join the screen edges which proved to be very cost-effective and efficient. This program substantially reduced the time required to fit a new screen pattern compared to a trial and error approach. This trap was set rapidly in the field and easily monitored. Higher initial investment in construction was rapidly offset by lower monitoring cost.
25082951|The 3rd instar larva and pupa of Osmoderma subplanata (Casey) (Trichiinae: Osmodermini) and Cremastocheilus wheeleri LeConte (Cetoniinae: Cremastocheilini) are described for the first time based on Nebraska specimens.
25086285|The leafhoppers of the subfamily Gyponinae are reviewed for the island of Hispaniola. Prior to this study the subfamily was known from five species of Curtara. The present study adds three genera (Prairiana, Rugosana, and Gypona) and 16 species, with 14 of these described as new. Therefore, there are four genera and twenty one species now known from Hispaniola. They are as follows: Prairiana dualis DeLong, Curtara (Curtara) cavera DeLong and Freytag, C. (C.) sata DeLong and Freytag, C. (C.) carloorum Freytag and Carlo, C. (C.) acroschismata Freytag and Carlo, C. (C.) blancoi Freytag and Carlo, C. (C.) albimaculata (Osborn), C. (C.) barrera Freytag, n. sp., C. (C.) youngi Freytag, n. sp., C. (C.) minima Freytag, n. sp., C. (C.) cornuta Freytag, n. sp. C. (C.) nunezi Freytag, n. sp., Rugosana carpa Freytag, n. sp., R. reta Freytag, n. sp., Gypona (Obtusana) curta Freytag, n. sp., G. (O.) ileota Freytag, n. sp., G. (O.) imita Freytag, n. sp., G. (O.) toxum Freytag, n. sp. G. (Marganalana) woodruffi Freytag, n. sp., G. (M.) rawlinsi Freytag, n. sp. and G. (M.) spina Freytag, n. sp.
25084319|A new species of Solenopsis (Diplorhoptrum) collected by subterranean trap in Florida is described. This new species closely resembles S. (D.) carolinensis Forel, but differs by its dark brown body, pale tan legs and ventral, postpetiolar projection.
25085505|In 1988 two grass-feeding mealybugs, Tridiscus sporoboli and Trionymus sp. were collected from heavily damaged buffalograss stands near Mead, NE. Mealybugs were most commonly found feeding within leaf sheaths just below the collar or behind leaf axils enclosing the pistillate spikelets. Injury appeared as foliar yellowing with the most severely injured plants turning straw-brown and dying. A statewide survey of mealybug distribution in Nebraska revealed these mealybugs to be associated with most buffalograss stands sampled. The majority of samples contained relatively few mealybugs (8-100), but a few had in excess of 10,000 mealybugs per 0.1
25086115|The cleptoparasitic bee genus Rhogepeolus (Nomadinae: Epeolini) is recorded from the central Andean region for the first time. Rhogepeolus rozenorum, new species, is described and figured from a female discovered in Peru. A new key to the species of Rhogepeolus is provided in both English and Spanish. /// El gnero de abejas cleptoparsitas Rhogepeolus (Nomadinae: Epeolini) se registra por primera vez para la regin central andina. Rhogepeolus rozenorum, especie nueva, se descrita e ilustrada a partir de una hembra descubierta en Per. Se proporciona una clave nueva de las especies de Rhogepeolus en ingls y espaol.
25085080|Three species of the Thomomydoecus wardi complex are described and illustrated from material off the Northern Pocket Gopher, Thomomys talpoides (Richardson): Thomomydoecus wardi (Price and Emerson) from three subspecies of hosts [type host: Thomomys talpoides macrotis F. W. Miller]; Thomomydoecus barbarae, n. sp. from 15 subspecies [type host: Thomomys talpoides attenuatus Hall and Montague]; and Thomomydoecus arleneae, n. sp. from two subspecies [type host: Thomomys talpoides fossor J. A. Allen].
25082910|The caddisfly species Rhyacophila acutiloba and R. carolina are associated with their larvae.
25085808|The feeding habits of the hemipteran predator Orius insidiosus were studied over a period of several weeks in Northwest Kansas field corn using gel electrophoresis. The banding patterns of the starved predator and 6 different potential food items of the predator were determined for the enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase. Field collected predators were then analyzed with electrophoresis to determine the food items present in their gut. Sampling was done in three different fields once per week for 10 weeks during 1992 and once a week for 8 weeks during 1993. Our results indicated that early in the season (early to mid-June) before tasseling of corn, the predominant food item of O. insidiosus was flower thrips. During late June and early August, O. insidiosus fed mostly on corn pollen. Corn leaf aphids, leafhoppers and eggs and first instar larvae of the European corn borer and the corn earworm were utilized as food at relatively low levels. Late in the season (mid-August to early September), a food item that we could not identify, but suspect to be corn kernels, was detected in the predator's gut. Our results suggested that (1) O. insidiosus did not frequently consume the eggs or the first instar larvae of the European corn borer or corn earworm in corn, and (2) electrophoresis is a suitable method for studying the feeding habits of field-caught predators.
25085595|Eight life tables were constructed for the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), from populations at four Iowa sites in 1991 and 1992. A fungal pathogen, Zoophthora phytonomi Arthur, was the key factor regulating within-generation population trends in 1991. The disease caused high mortality of alfalfa weevil during the third and fourth stadia. Other unknown mortality factors were important in regulating population densities in 1992. These undetermined mortality factors may have included failure of early instars to establish on alfalfa plants and predation of all instars. Two larval parasitoids, Bathyplectes curculionis (Thomson) and Bathyplectes anurus (Thomson) caused a relatively small percentage of mortality during both 1991 and 1992.
25085368|A new species of chewing louse, Eomenopon greeni, is described and illustrated from its type host, Lathamus discolor (White), from Tasmania.
25084904|A large series of field-collected Plega dactylota Rehn was studied and found to possess morphological variability in the number of digits on male parameres and in maculation patterns. The number of digits on male parameres ranged from eight to 15. Original descriptions for the two subspecies, P. d. dactylota and P. d. lipanica, noted that males had nine digits, but did not mention any intraspecific variability. An examination of the type specimens showed similar variation, with digits numbering from seven to 12. Maculation patterns within the series also differed from the subspecies descriptions. Comparison of the collected series with type specimens indicates that the subspecific designations are not justified and the two subspecies are herein combined.
25085451|An intensive study of the acridid fauna of Wyoming in 1990-1991 yielded five new state records and 132 new county records. New records were established in all but two counties, with the greatest number of new records from the western one-third of the state. Current records indicate that there are 113 species of grasshoppers in the state, and six species are known from all 23 counties. It appears that the faunas of Sweetwater County (which covers the majority of the Red Desert) and Crook County (which includes the Bear Lodge Mountains at the western edge of the Black Hills) are in greatest need of further investigation. The survey also added 21 new ecophysiographic records. Six of these records were from the Red Desert, five were from the Thunder Basin, four were from the Platte Valley, three were from the western mountains, and one each was from the central mountains, the Big Horn Basin, and the southeastern mountains. Twenty-eight species are known to occur in every ecophysiographic province in Wyoming, although many rangeland species probably occupy foothills of the mountain ranges, rather than typically montane habitats. There are 13 species that occupy only a single ecophysiographic province. These records are interpreted in context of previous work to suggest biogeographic features of Wyoming's grasshopper fauna.
25084450|Two compounds (caryophyllene epoxide and caryophyllene epoxide plus caryophyllene and 2-phenylethanol) were tested to determine if they influenced nesting preferences of the alfalfa leafcutting bee. When the extracts were daubed on paper and styrofoam units used for nest building, the paper ones had fewer nests than did similarly treated styrofoam units. Both new and extract-treated paper units had significantly fewer nests than did paper units that held cells of the bees. There were no significant differences among extract-treated, new, or styrofoam units with bee cells. All styrofoam units were heavily utilized. These results indicate that new styrofoam units are more attractive than paper ones to leafcutting bees, but the latter can be just as attractive when a few bee cells are placed in the units.
25084187|First grubs of Lytta sayi were recovered from nest cells and surrounding soil of the communal sweat bee Agapostemon virescens in New York. In the laboratory each first grub consumed a provision mass and several host larvae before moulting to the coarctate phase.
25086243|Males and females of Anthophora walteri Gonzalez, new species, from the Eastern Andes of Colombia are described and illustrated. The pupa is described, and information on the nesting behavior, natural enemies and host plants of this species are also given. Females of A. walteri can be distinguished from other Neotropical Anthophora by the predominantly white pubescence on the head and mesosoma, and orange setae on the metasoma which are denser and posteriorly-directed on apical margins of terga, thus forming apical bands. Males can be recognized by the sparse pubescence on the metasoma and the translucent apical margins of terga one to six. Bees nested in flat ground or small banks in very hard soils of semiarid and highly disturbed areas above 2500 m; nest entrances lacked turrets and cells were arranged in linear series as reported for other Mystacanthophora species. Pollen taken from nest cells was almost exclusively (>95%) from a single species of Lamiaceae (Salvia bogotensis). Adults of A. walteri fly from about October at least through July. Presumably immatures spend most of the year as postdefecating larvae and the period of adult emergence corresponds with blooming of S. bogotensis and the second peak of maximum rain in October.
25084039|The first instar larva of M. cubicus is figured and described. Significant characters discussed are those of the ocellus, antenna, prothoracic plate, legs and chaetotaxy. A short discussion on the biological significance of egg characteristics is followed by concluding remarks concerning probable phylogenetic relationships among the tribes Megacerini, Bruchini and Bruchidiini.
25085574|To better determine the geographic range, pattern of host plant usage and phenology of Rhagoletis mendax, the blueberry maggot fly, an extensive set of rearings from fruit of Vaccinium and Gaylussacia (Ericaceae) species was made, primarily from natural populations of these host plants. Collecting focused on the relatively unstudied southeastern United States, although fruit collections as far north as Michigan and as far west as Texas were made. The known range of the blueberry maggot fly has been extended west to the Ozark Plateau, and the fly is now known to be much more widely distributed in southeastern North America than previously thought. Although R. mendax infests many species of Vaccinium and Gaylussacia in the northernmost part of its range, in most of its range it infests almost exclusively V. stamineum (deerberry). The relatively inflexible diapause characteristics of R. mendax may contribute to this restriction in host plant usage.
25083344|Descriptions, keys, and illustrations are given of the twenty-three species of Systropus and single species of Dolichomyia (Bombyliidae: Diptera), known from North America. Descriptions are included of the subfamily and the two genera. Studies are based on examination of existing types, mostly in European museums, and all available specimens. The following species are described as new: acutus Painter, basilaris Painter, bicornis Painter, nigripes Painter, paloides Painter, semialbus Painter and vicinus Painter from Mexico, and xanthinus Painter from Guatemala. The South American species columbianus (Karsch) is reported from Panama. Available information on the biology of various species, including information on mimicry, is summarized.
25085801|Previous studies have suggested that
25084723|The Himalayan honey bee Apis laboriosa, largest of four proposed Megapis, has a distribution in Nepal Himalaya not overlapping with A. dorsata. The former establishes nests at 2500-3200 m and forages at up to 4100 m. The two species apparently nest in very distinct zones, although foraging and mating areas may overlap slightly in Assam Himalaya. A. laboriosa collected at flowers during July 11-September 13, 1983 and 1984 was most common at 3000-3500 meters (mean = 3143 m). This bee builds exposed nests under rock ledges in deep, vertical river valleys, thus probably avoiding predation by bears. Temperatures in this region, north of the 27th parallel, often reach freezing and this bee is the only non-tropical honey bee species.
20621957|Aquatic insects were collected on the Valles Caldera National Preserve (VCNP), in Sandoval County, New Mexico in 2003 and 2004. We surveyed running water and standing water habitats for Ephemeroptera, Odonata, Plecoptera, Hemiptera, Trichoptera, and Coleoptera. In general, species were typical southern Rocky Mountain and southwestern fauna. A total of 130 species was collected, representing 46 families and 90 genera; 14 of these species were new state records. Trichoptera was the most diverse order and seven species represented new state records, including Agraylea multipuctata Curtis, Hydroptila xera Ross, Ochrotrichia logana (Ross), Psychoglypha subborealis (Banks), Polycentropus gertschi Denning, and new species of Neotrichia Morton and Helicopsyche von Siebold. Collections of the mayfly species Cinygmula ramaleyi (Dodds) and Paraleptophlebia temporalis (McDunnough) represented new state records. The aquatic beetles Haliplus immaculicollis Harris, H. leechi Wallis, and Ametor scabrosus Horn and the hemipterans Callicorixa audeni Hungerford and Gerris gillettei Lethierry and Severin, also represented new state records. Small creeks fed by spring runs were the most diverse aquatic systems on the VCNP.
25085799|The sweat bee Halictus rubicundus is known for its within species variation in social organization. In cooler areas with a short flight season, females nest solitarily and produce one brood, whereas in warm areas where more than one brood can be produced, nesting becomes social. Two aggregations of H. rubicundus in The Netherlands are compared with respect to foraging activity, investment and sex ratio. Climatic conditions were not dramatically different in the two aggregations, but apparently enough to induce large differences in phenology. The females from the sheltered aggregation started producing brood at least one month earlier than females in the exposed aggregation. Evidence suggests that the sheltered population is bivoltine and possibly social, whereas the exposed population is univoltine. The limited data indicate a female bias in the first brood of the sheltered population, but no, or slight, male bias in the exposed population.
25083626|This note adds two states (Montana and Utah) and three localities to the known distribution of the rare harvesting ant, Veromessor lobognathus, bringing the total to six states and ten localities. The range is still linear, for the new localities fit the "sigmoid curve 1300 miles long, extending from southern Nevada to southwestern North Dakota," which was reported in our previous note (Jour. Kansas Ent. Soc. 38:55-61, 1965). We also report on the condition of previously described colonies in North and South Dakota.
25084423|Crepluvia serrata, new species, is described and illustrated. A revised key to three known species in the genus is also given.
41353890|Lepidoptera were surveyed using blacklight traps during the growing seasons of 2004 and 2005 in two counties that differed in land use patteras in the Ozark Mountains, Arkansas. Marion County is a fragmented landscape; habitats surveyed were upland forest, riparian forest, edge, and field. Crawford County lies in the Ozark National Forest; habitats surveyed were saw, pole, and sapling size classes of timber. Moths > 20 mm in wingspan were identified and enumerated. A total of 8326 moths of > 324 species and 22 families were identified and tabulated. The total number of species and family-level composition varied little between landscapes, but the relative occurrence of species varied between landscapes and across habitats. Dominance of common species varied between landscapes with fewer species forming the bulk of the assemblage in the fragmented landscape. Endemism of certain moths in riparian forest suggests this habitat supports many species. In contrast, few species were recorded in field habitats. These data demonstrate the importance of forest habitats for many moth species in the Ozark Mountains. Our study forms a foundation for understanding species richness patterns of Lepidoptera in the hardwood forests of central North America.
25082989|Andrena nigerrima Casad is redescribed and placed in the subgenus Scaphandrena along with A. nigricula, n. sp. Andrena nigra Provancher is redescribed and placed in the subgenus Scrapteropsis.
25084831|Small (4.0  2.5 cm) pieces of sticky flypaper were placed among freshly-opened flowers of Theobroma cacao L. (Sterculiaceae) in two Costa Rican cacao plantations during the 1982 rainy season to determine the kinds and relative abundances of Diptera visiting flowers. Censuses of small-bodied dipterans, involving five cacao trees at each locality, were taken to determine differences between day and night activity. A cacao tree was deliberately deflowered to determine if flowerless trees would attract fewer flies. A total of 17 dipteran families were collected. Phoridae accounted for 52% of the combined sample followed by Sciaridae (13%) and Drosophilidae (12%). Sixty percent of all dipterans were trapped at night at both localities combined. Patterns of abundance between night and day were consistent between localities. No difference in abundance of dipterans was found between flower-intact and deflowered trees, possibly a result of small, disproportionate sample sizes.
25082481|The histology of the abdominal scent gland-reservoirs in nymphs of 3 alydids: Alydus eurinus (Say), Alydus pilosulus (Herrick-Schaeffer), and Megalotomus quinquespinosus (Say) is described. The abdominal scent gland-reservoir, abdominal cuticle, odor of the scent fluid, scent emission, and associated behavior are similar for the 3 alydids studied. Protective adaptations of the 3 alydids against their own scent secretions are discussed including histology of the gland-reservoir, modifications of abdominal cuticle, and behavior.
25084396|Volatile acyclic terpenoid and fatty acid derivatives released from the mandibular glands of female solitary bees during digging are effective growth inhibitors of some fungi and bacteria associated with spoiled nest provisions and diseased larvae in laboratory tests. Larval hygiene as administered by solitary bees during cell construction may be an antecedent or supplement to active brood care in social insects.
25084722|A new species of bee, Osmia sanrafaelae Parker, is described and illustrated. Characters that differentiate it from closely allied species are listed. The new bee species is known only from southern Utah where it visited Astragalus and Cryptantha flowers.
25083532|The annual life cycle, nest structure, social pattern and flower preferences of the green metallic Japanese halictine bee, Lasioglossum pallidulum (Matsumura), are reported, based upon studies made in Hakodate and the vicinity. This species has one generation per year. The wintered females nest during May and June. New females and males appear from August on and are seen until October. The nest pattern is that with cells directly opening to the main burrow, which is slightly enlarged, suggesting incipient cavity formation. No complicated social or caste system exists but facultative pleometrosis appears to occur. The species is essentially polytrophic and polylectic, though a mild oligotrophy is indicated.
25086236|Differences between castes and related aspects in Parachartegus fraternus (Gribodo) have been studied in various stages of the colony cycle. Five colonies from three colony development stages (namely, pre-emergence, worker-producing and male-producing) were analyzed. The main results were: irrespective of colony age, castes were always morphologically indistinguishable; non-inseminated ovary-developed females were found in four colonies; because differences of castes were physiological rather than morphological, castes are evidently post-imaginally determined and this is probably taking place according to the colony conditions. These findings support the occurrence of caste totipotency in Parachartergus fraternus. /// As diferenas entre castas em Parachartegus fraternus (Gribodo), e seus aspectos relacionados, foram estudadas em vrias etapas do ciclo colonial. Cinco colnias, em trs estgios de desenvolvimento da colnia (a saber: pr-emergnica, produo de operrias e produo de machos), foram analisadas. Os principais resultados obtidos foram: independentemente da idade da colnia, as castas foram sempre morfologicamente indistinguveis; fmeas no inseminadas, com ovrios desenvolvidos, foram encontradas em quatro colnias; uma vez que as diferenas entre as castas foram muito mais fisiolgicas que morfolgicas, castas so visivelmente determinadas aps o perodo larval e isto, provavelmente, acontece de acordo com as condies da colnia. Estes resultados sustentam a ocorrncia de totipotncia das fmeas, na determinao de castas, em Parachartergus fraternus.
25085746|The effect of short-term exposure of European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner)) larvae to transgenic corn expressing cryIA(b) protein from Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kurstaki (Btk) on leaf consumption and larval survival were compared to negative controls in laboratory bioassays. Neonates and fourth instars were allowed to feed for one of three time periods (1994 bioassays: 1, 4, or 24 hours; 1995 bioassays: 24, 48, or 72 hours) on leaf sections of either cryIA(b)-expressing or control leaf sections before being transferred to artificial diet. Field-grown plants of the transgenic corn lines MON802 and MON810 were used as the source of leaf material in 1994 and 1995, respectively (YieldGard genes, Monsanto). Leaf source and exposure time significantly affected consumption ratings of neonates with little feeding detected on cryIA(b) leaf material during the first 24 hours during 1994 or during the first 72 hours in 1995. In 1994, cryIA(b) content in leaves did not affect neonate survival at transfer (97%) or after 2 weeks on diet (87%). In contrast, only 35-40% of neonates were alive after 24 and 48 hour feeding periods and no larvae survived 72 hours in 1995. Of the live neonates transferred to diet, 53% and 26% died within 2 weeks for cryIA(b) and control leaves, respectively. For periods of 24 hours or more, at least 90% of the fourth instars initiated feeding, regardless of cryIA(b) content. Cumulative consumption ratings were 46-67% lower for larvae exposed to cryIA(b) expressing leaves; however, survival rates at transfer or after two weeks on diet were not affected by leaf source. Implications for resistance management are discussed.
25085220|The stored-product environment is ideal for the propagation and development of many insect species. The present review evaluates combination-type trapping techniques which include: traps that contain multiple lures; multiple species traps; and environments which allow for the use of different trap combinations. Features of each of these situations are evaluated.
25086195|A new species of Lophioneuridae Tillyard, 1921 is described and figured from a specimen of a nearly complete fore wing taken from the Lower Permian of Noble County, Oklahoma. Cyphoneurodes patriciae, Beckemeyer n. sp., is closely related to the Elmo, Kansas Lower Permian species Cyphoneurodes reducta (Carpenter, 1932) and Cyphoneura permiana Carpenter, 1932. Originally placed in the order Psocoptera, the Lophioneuridae are now considered to be related to the Thysanoptera.
25084537|Adult emergence of Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte under natural and artificial infestation was studied in plots in which the corn plants had either been cut off at ground level at the beginning of emergence or left intact. No significant difference was found for total beetle emergence for the season between treatments with either kind of infestation. However, with both kinds of infestation, daily emergence over the season was accelerated by plant removal at ground level.
25082581|The new species are Eurytoma aequabilis, from larvae of Phloeoinus dentatus in logs of Juniperus virginiana, from Clark Co., Georgia, and E. amplicoxa from Hoplitis producta and Passaloecus sp. in stems of Paeonia suffruticosa from York, Livingston Co., New York.
25085817|Males of the bee Idiomelissodes duplocincta roost in the evening together on the stems of desert shrubs during summer months in central Arizona. The size of the aggregation can vary greatly during the few days to several months when a shrub is being used as a sleeping site. Some males return to the same plant for up to two weeks but show little site fidelity to a particular stem. When frequently-occupied stems are experimentally cut and moved to new sites in a shrub and replaced with other stems of similar dimensions, the bees rarely utilize the replacement stems but instead shift elsewhere or seek out the previously popular stems in their new locations. This result suggests that odor cues applied by sleeping bees (or some other special properties of the favored stems) attract male bees coming to specific roost sites. Sleeping aggregations are occasionally visited by a predator of the bees, the assassin bug Apiomerus flaviventris. However, the number of assassin bugs present at any one aggregation on a given evening is small (not exceeding four in the present study), and few bees are taken. Sleeping bees do not attack or harass the assassin bug. Moreover, they usually ignore approaching assassin bugs rather than flee, even when the predator vigorously attempts to subdue a neighboring bee on a sleeping stem. Thus, male bees in sleeping aggregations apparently gain anti-predator benefits largely through the dilution effect.
25084884|Grasshopper (Orthoptera: Acrididae) populations in Colorado were surveyed for parasitism by Mermis nigrescens Dujardin (Nematoda: Mermithidae). Nematodes were recovered from a wide geographic area but high levels of parasitism (50%) were noted only in grasshopper populations from irrigated cropland. Grasshopper species most commonly parasitized were Melanoplus bivittatus (Say), M. femurrubrum (DeGeer), and M. differentialis (Thomas), species normally associated with moist or disturbed areas such as cropland. Experimental parasitism was successfully induced in range caterpillar, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae).
25085222|Detecting insects in bulk grain is difficult and conventional methods are insensitive to low population densities. This limits pest management options and encourages the prophylactic use of pesticides. Trapping techniques appear to offer a more effective approach to pest detection in bulk grain, provided that the trap catch can be interpreted in terms of commercial significance. Research has confirmed the efficacy of trapping but much data are still required to allow proper interpretation of the results in the field. This lack of data must be addressed in future research programmes, as must the needs of the users in commercial and farm grain stores.
25084273|The pollinating efficiencies of bees on onion flowers were compared. A native bee, Halictus farinosus, was the most abundant pollinator and umbels it visited set more seed per visit than did those visited by honey bees. The percentage of aborted seed was significantly higher in onion flowers pollinated by honey bees compared to similar flowers pollinated by Halictus bees. A discussion of the factors affecting pollination efficiencies is presented.
25084984|A new species, Acroneuria hitchcocki is described from eastern Kentucky. Characters are provided to separate this species in all life stages from other Acroneuria. New state records and range extensions are reported for Alloperla hamata Surdick (Kentucky), Hansonoperla appalachia Nelson (Kentucky, New Hampshire and South Carolina), Rasvena terna (Frison) (Virginia), Oemopteryx glacialis (Newport) (West Virginia), and Megaleuctra flinti Baumann (West Virginia).
25086427|Nesting and associated behaviors of Andrena (Plastandrena) prunorum Cockerell were studied at two sites in western Washington: a suburban lawn and a vacant lot. A maximum of five nests, usually well separated from one another, was found at a given site and year. Nest and cell structure at both sites were similar, but cell depth differed markedly between sites, and between years at one site. All nests were multi-cellular. Provision masses were flattened spheres of pollen moistened to a doughy consistency. The curved egg was placed atop the provision mass with both ends contacting it. A brief description of larval feeding is provided. Andrena prunorum and its Nomada parasite overwinter as adults. Nests, cell, provision mass, egg placement, and a feeding larva are illustrated. Information on mating, female foraging behavior, and local pollen sources are given. Adult phenology and the possibility of two generations per year are discussed. Nomada sp. nr. calloxantha Ckll. parasitized A. prunorum at one site and larval feeding by the cleptoparasite is described.
25085492|In a raspberry plantation and adjacent sites in southern Qubec, we collected adult carabids using pitfall traps and flight interception traps, from early May through late October, in 1987, 1988 and 1989. We captured a total of 11,129 carabids representing 111 taxa, including 21 Holarctic or introduced species in North America. In the raspberry plantation, Pterostichus melanarius, P. lucublandus and Clivina fossor were the dominant epigean species; these three species and seven other taxa were captured every year and represented at least 95% of the annual catch in raspberry rows. The carabid fauna crawling at a woods-field boundary and in an adjacent pine woods was quite different from the fauna in the raspberry plantation, because of the predominance of forest species at the first two sites. Bradycellus nigrinus, C. fossor, Bradycellus semipubescens, Amara familiaris and Bembidion quadrimaculatum oppositum were the five most abundant species in flight traps near the raspberry plants, with small-sized individuals (length between 3.25 and 6.40 mm) and with an apparently high dispersal power. However, 77% of ground-surface active carabids belonged to large-sized species (length  10.00 mm), and the dispersal power by flight was apparently of little importance in many commonest carabid species captured by pitfall traps. Over the three-year period, we observed an important increase of P. melanarius activity in the two raspberry rows (old and young plants), associated with variations in the sex ratio and seasonal activity of adults from year to year and in each row. The results suggest that gravid females of P. melanarius may be very affected by the intraspecific competition for food. In addition, we studied the seasonal activity of Agonum muelleri, C. fossor, P. lucublandus, Trechus discus, and ten other taxa.
25085750|The conclusion by Anderson and Vander Meer (1993) that the red imported fire ant (Solenopsis invicta Buren) has magnetic orientation is unacceptable for two, jointly compelling reasons: (1) We could not replicate their experimental results, and (2) Anderson and Vander Meer's argument, that a magnetic field induced change in the latency to trail formation is evidence for magnetic orientation, is logically flawed.
25082931|A statistical analysis reveals the length of the furca of the male genitalia in Plagodis alcoolaria (Guene) to vary between broods, with P &lt; 0.001. The furca is over 0.37 mm longer in the smaller summer imago. Also, the furca is asymmetrical to the right in both broods by 0.03 mm. It is suggested that the furca serves a complementary function to the juxta from which it is modified and also acts as a physical barrier between species and overlapping broods. The genitalia are illustrated.
25084065|Concentration-mortality curves were determined for 8 Bacillus thuringiensis isolates against 3 Indian meal moth and 3 almond moth populations. Relative toxicities of the isolates were not consistent among species or populations of each species, which indicates that general broad conclusions about the nature and effectiveness of B. thuringiensis cannot be drawn without considering insect population variation, bacterial isolate differences, and their interactions.
25083072|Codrus carolinensis (Ashmead) is a gregarious internal parasite of larvae of Platydracus violaceus (Gravenhorst). Mature parasite larvae rupture and emerge through the integument of the mature host larva after consuming its internal contents. Development of mature, last instar larvae to pupae takes from 3-4 days, while that of pupae to adults from 6-8 days.
25082329|While few prey records are available, Heteropogon maculinervis appears to be stenophagic, preying on Homoptera and Hymenoptera. Males perform an aerial courtship display in front of females resting on branches of boxelder trees at heights of three to twenty feet.
25086252|The eumenine genus Ancistroceroides is reported from the southwestern United States; the genus is otherwise neotropical. Two new species are described: Ancistroceroides evansi Carpenter from Texas and Mexico, and A. levis Carpenter from Arizona. Ancistroceroides cordovae Carpenter is proposed as a replacement name for A. conspicuus (de Saussure) non Smith. New combinations are: A. acuminatus (Brthes), A. domingensis (Bequaert and Salt), A. erythraeus (Brthes), A. fabienii (Brthes), A. gribodoi (Zavattari), A. mearimensis (Zavattari), A. schulzi (Zavattari), A. sylveirae (de Saussure), and A. venustus (Brthes). A new key to the genera of Eumeninae occurring in America North of Mexico is presented.
25084274|We report observations on habitat and behavior for five species of apiocerid, Apiocera exta Cazier, A. hispida Cazier, A. haruspex atrifasciata Cazier, A. pearcei Cazier, and Rhaphiomidas aitkeni Cazier, in the Mojave and Great Basin deserts of California. For A. hispida, we describe a fifth instar larva, pupae, and emergence; these are the first such descriptions for any North American Apiocera. All species seem specific to habitats combining a sandy substrate with high subsurface moisture. At all sites, regardless of elevation, apiocerids are present phenologically late in the season, after the peak of flowering and general insect activity. Our observations suggest that apiocerids lek, but further study on this question is indicated.
25082821|Foraging and mating behavior of Perdita texana, an oligolege on Opuntia flowers, are described. Head widths of males are highly variable and skewed toward larger size. P. texana appears not to be a pollinator of Opuntia, since it rarely contacts the stigma. On a single flight, a female gathers her entire pollen load in one flower.
25085227|Mature larvae of Stelidota geminata (Say), S. ferruginea Reitter, and S. octomaculata (Say) are illustrated and described. Characters found to be constant and species specific include teeth of the mandible, color of the pronotum, length of first and second antennal segments, and setae on the mesothoracic and third abdominal segments. A key to mature larvae of these species is given.
25086005|Specimens of Vespula squamosa (Drury) collected in Honduras from 1992 through 2000 demonstrate an extension of the known range of Vespinae in Central America. /// Especmenes de Vespula squamosa (Drury) colectados en Honduras a partir la 1992 a 2000 demuestran una extensin de la distribucin conocida de Vespinae en Amrica Central.
25084379|Laboratory studies indicated that Zea diploperennis Iltis, Doebley, and Guzmn was not antibiotic to larvae of several Diabrotica spp.: D. virgifera LeConte, D. v. zeae Krysan and Smith, D. longicornis barberi Smith and Lawrence, and D. undecimpunctata howardi Barber. In a field of Z. diploperennis growing wild in Jalisco, Mexico, we found feeding scars on some plant roots and damage to the leaves caused by adult Diabrotica spp. Also, we collected 14 adults of D. v. zeae and 5 adults of D. porracea Harold. It appears that Z. diploperennis is an acceptable host for the larvae of several species of Diabrotica.
25083823|Carabid beetles, Hellumorphoides texanus (LeConte), were observed in raiding columns of army ants, Neivamyrmex pilosus (Smith) and N. nigrescens (Cresson), and in an emigration column and bivouac of N. harrisi (Haldeman). Laboratory experiments demonstrated that these beetles can follow chemical trails, will readily enter columns, and emit secretions which repel workers of N. nigrscens. H. texanus eat brood of both army ants and non-doryline ants.
23356036|Leptothrips fasciculatus (Crawford) is a tubuliferan thrips that has primarily been collected as adults from Eriogonum fasciculatum Bentham, a shrub that produces compound inflorescences with flowers in clusters. I observed, collected, and photographed adults and immature stages of the thrips on inflorescences of Eriogonum fasciculatum polifolium (Bentham) Torrey & A. Gray in the Mojave Desert during spring 2011 and 2012. Adults moved intermittently around the outside of inflorescences. Eggs were located, and first- and second-instar larvae were abundant, inside flowers and within the involucres that surround flower clusters. Mature second-instars and non-feeding fourth- and fifth-instars inhabited leaf litter and soil beneath plants. Eggs were subcylindical, translucent, without reticulation, and knobbed on one end by an aeropyle. Second-instar larvae were red with a median, yellow band. Adults and larvae were observed feeding on pollen and other flower parts but not prey. Leptothrips fasciculatus's anthophilous behavior contradicts the predation generalized for the genus.
25084369|Response of adult elaterid beetles, Melanotus depressus and M. verberans, to traps containing the pheromone of Platynota idaeusalis Walker (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), the tufted apple budmoth (TABM), were studied. The TABM pheromone components were (E)-11-tetradecenyl acetate + (E)-11-tetradecen-1-ol. Four flight trap variations (Pherocon 1C, Pherocon 1C + TABM, cylindrical carton, cylindrical carton + TABM) were placed in 2 Missouri cornfields infested by larvae of M. depressus and M. verberans. Males of M. depressus were attracted to TABM in both Pherocon 1C traps and cylindrical cartons and showed a slight attraction to the Pherocon 1C trap without TABM. Males of M. verberans were attracted to Pherocon 1C traps but not to TABM. It is suggested that the Pherocon 1C trap and one or more components of TABM are factors providing attraction.
25083689|Descriptions are given of Philornis molesta Meinert (Brazil), P. torquans (Nielsen) (Argentina), P. nielseni new name (= P. anomala Nielsen, 1913, nec Jaennicke) (Argentina), P. obscura (Wulp) (Mexico), P. mimicola n. sp. (Texas), P. carinatus n. sp. (Costa Rica), P. univittatus n. sp. (Brazil), P. fumicosta n. sp. (Brazil), and P. vespidicula n. sp. (Peru).
25084568|Isoelectric focusing on polyacrylamide gels was used to separate isoenzymes of malate dehydrogenase (MDH) and non-specific esterases (EST) of Apis florea F., A. dorsata F., and A. cerana F. This study indicates that, at least for certain populations, the EST locus can be used to differentiate between these three species of Apis. The isoenzymes of MDH, on the other hand, cannot be used to distinguish A. dorsata from A. cerana. None of the test populations of the three species examined exhibited intraspecific genetic variability.
25084609|The lacinia appears to be absent in bees of the family Halictidae. It is actually retained, however, as a slender thickening ascending the anterior surface of the labiomaxillary tube and ending in a small setose lobe widely separated from the rest of the maxilla. This is an apomorphy showing the relationship of the halictid subfamilies Dufoureinae, Nomiinae, and Halictinae. In the Oxaeidae, which have mouthparts in some ways similar to those of Halictidae, the lacinia is reduced but in the usual position.
25085286|Allele frequencies of two genes, Amy-1 and Amy-2, coding -amylase in the maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky, were determined by electrophoretic analysis of feral weevils collected in South Carolina and in progeny from these weevils subsequently reared for seven generations on corn, long-grain brown rice, or wheat. Two alleles of Amy-1 and six alleles of Amy-2 were demonstrated in the wild adults. Laboratory rearing on the whole grain diets resulted in significant differences (0.05 level) in frequencies of several major and minor amylase alleles relative to frequencies found in the original wild parental adults.
25085643|Behavioral observations indicate the giant hind legs of male Magalopus armatus beetles function as weapons in battles between males over sites where feeding and mating occur; they are not used to court females. Males court females actively during copulation.
25083960|Three counties in southeastern Kansas were surveyed to determine the Curculionidae present. A total of 62 genera and 93 species were identified. The genus Conotrachelus contained the most identified species while the members of the genus Apion were found to be the most abundant numerically. The subfamilies Baridinae and Ceutorhynchinae represented the greatest diversity in genera collected.
25086237|Previous studies of the obligately eusocial sweat bee Halictus ligatus Say, at a nesting aggregation in Victoria, southern Ontario, Canada, showed how changes in local environmental conditions led to marked variation in demography, body size, and social patterns. Under the harsher weather conditions of 1990, mortality was higher, colony sizes were lower, brood body sizes were smaller, and surviving colonies were more strongly eusocial than under the milder conditions of 1991. These patterns suggested that the link between environmental conditions and colony social organization might be mediated by foraging effort, especially by queens during late spring and early summer when colonies were most susceptible to environmental constraints. Social parameters such as differences in reproductive effort between queens and workers or between haplometrotic and pleometrotic colonies, might also have a basis in differences in foraging effort. In this paper, I examine annual, seasonal, and social sources of variation in foraging effort of female H. ligatus from Victoria. Foraging effort of queens and workers was described in terms of seven different measures: number of foraging trips per day, flight time per trip, handling time per trip, average round trip time, total flight time per day, total handling time per day, and total provisioning time per day. These parameters were measured by observing individually marked queens and workers during their respective foraging periods in 1990 and 1991. Previously, it had been shown that in 1990 there were fewer days with weather suitable for flying, but observations of foraging effort show that the relatively large queens of 1990 spent about as much time foraging as the relatively small queens of 1991, and still produced much smaller brood. This suggests that a previously unsuspected effect of the poor weather in 1990 colonies was a scarcity of pollen, at least during the queen foraging period. Both queens and workers appear able to adjust their foraging effort to current conditions. As a result, the expected correlation between increased degree of eusociality (reproductive skew more strongly favouring queens) and stronger division of labour (workers doing a greater share of colony parental investment) did not occur, as workers apparently worked harder when their own reproductive opportunities increased. This may be a general pattern in social halictids.
25085707|Behavior of the parasitic wasp Biosteres juglandis, which attacks tephritid fly larvae feeding in the husks of walnut fruits, was studied in the field and in a greenhouse cage. Assays were conducted to determine 1) whether parasitic wasps could locate host-infested fruits preferentially over uninfested fruits; and 2) whether wasps could assess the number of hosts available in a fruit before or after landing. Results indicate that wasps discriminate between infested and uninfested fruit before landing, and assess the number of hosts after landing.
25085362|In flight cages containing field-reared virgin gynes and males, bumble bees Bombus frigidus and possibly B. bifarius avoided mating with nestmates. In contrast, bumble bees B. californicus and B. rufocinctus mated indiscriminately with nestmates and non-nestmates. Nonrandom mating apart from the context of the natal nest indicates that nestmate recognition occured via individually-borne cues. Bees of both sexes, except female B. rufocinctus, commonly mated more than once. Mating duration differed significantly among species, and was strongly positively correlated with the average number of gyne matings in that species. The ability of bumble bees to discriminate among potential mates via individually borne recognition cues may depend on the likelihood that female and male nestmates encounter one another in a mating context. The mate searching strategy of B. frigidus and B. bifarius males, which differs from that of B. californicus and B. rufocinctus males, may favor nestmate recognition as inbreeding avoidance mechanism.
25085666|Hundreds of males of Dawson's burrowing bee, Amegilla dawsoni, often search together for emerging, receptive females in large, open areas. Males usually patrolled a small fraction of any one emergence site, limiting their search to areas roughly 25
25086287|In tropical primary forest and its buffer zones in North Vietnam, nests of three stingless bee species were studied: Lisotrigona carpenteri Engel, Trigona (Tetragonula) laeviceps Smith and Trigona (Lepidotrigona) ventralis Smith. We record nest architecture, adult population, the number of brood cells, the presence of adult reproductives, the proportion of males in the brood, the number of queen cells and storage pots, and other features, on the basis of 35 field collected nests. Lisotrigona carpenteri and T. laeviceps arrange brood cells in clusters, T. ventralis, in horizontal combs surrounded by an involucrum of multiple lamellae. Lisotrigona carpenteri constructs its small nests (up to 400 adult bees) mainly in crevices in man-made structures while colonies of T. laeviceps (up to 1200 adults) and T. ventralis (up to 10,000 adults) are generally in cavities in living trees. The flexibility for using nest substrates other than living trees appears in these species related to colony size.
25085522|Two new species of Eosentomon, E. caddoense and E. quapawense, are described from Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas, Eosentomon caddoense belongs to the 3:1:2 subgroup and most resembling E. pseudowheeleri and E. tennesseense. Eosentomon quapawense is also a member of the 3:1:2 subgroup and is distinct by having a 6/4 setal arrangement on sternites IX/X.
25084778|Bacillus thuringiensis was applied to the surface layer of stored corn as an airborne dust carried into the grain by the downward air flow of drying fans. At air flow rates of typical farm-bin grain drying systems approximately 25% of the dust penetrated 2.5 to 12.5 cm into the corn and prevented infestation by Indianmeal moths, Plodia interpunctella (Hbner). Data are presented on the distribution of spores and toxic activity among particle size fractions of the dust formulation, the effects of air flow rate on depth of dust penetration, and the depth of dust penetration in farm grain drying bins.
25084861|The life history of Diadasia rinconis Cockerell, a solitary bee that nests in large aggregations, differs from that of most other species of Diadasia so far recorded. The nesting period in May and June corresponds to the blooming period of Opuntia, the primary pollen source of this species. Although some female pupae and imagos remain in their cells until the following spring, males and most other females emerge from the ground about 20 days after the nest is closed. They mate at the aggregation site, then feed from a variety of flowers before both sexes diapause to the following spring. This life history pattern is compared to those of the bivoltine species D. afflicta Cresson and the closely related and sympatric D. opuntiae Cockerell. Temporal and spacial isolating mechanisms between D. opuntiae and D. rinconis are discussed and the floral relationships of D. rinconis are provided.
25084019|The nocturnal, diurnal and seasonal flight periodicities of army ant males (Ecitoninae and Dorylinae) are discussed. Original data on the effects of temperature, rainfall, wind speed, cloud cover and weather front activities on the flights of Nearctic army ant males are presented. Data on males of Labidus coecus and seven species of Neivamyrmex collected in light traps in central Texas and southwest Arizona are compared. Information on diurnal flights of several other species is presented. Seasonal flight data for all army ant males in the United States are summarized.
25084664|The activities of predators and scavengers found in accumulated poultry manure in Florida resulted in as much as a 97% reduction in the number of house flies recovered from artificially infested containers. The most abundant predators were Carcinops pumilio Erichson, Solenopsis invicta Buren, Euborellia annulipes (Lucas), and unidentified staphylinids, macrochelids and pseudoscorpions, while the most abundant scavenger was Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer). These results suggest that competitors, scavengers, and generalist predators may be as important as parasitoids in reducing house fly numbers.
25086080|The olfactory cues used by the pupal parasitoid Muscidifurax zaraptor Kogan and Legner in finding its hosts, muscoid pupae, were examined using a Y-tube olfactometer. Newly emerged females were strongly attracted to the odors of house fly pupae, but did not respond to the odors of fresh or week-old manure. Wasps preferred no stimulus over stimuli emanating from fresh cattle manure. Although wasps selected pupae over manure, when pupae were mixed with manure, wasps were not able to differentially detect the pupae. Females 4-7 days old were not responsive to the odors of house fly pupae and were less active than newly emerged females. Males were unresponsive to the odors of house fly pupae. Host odors were important cues in host finding, with habitat odors playing less of a role.
25082309|Seven new species of crane flies are described from Panama: Gonomyia (Gonomyia) idiostyla, G. (G.) sejuncta, Cheilotrichia (Empeda) appressa, C. (E.) brevifida, C. (E.) luteivena, Erioptera (Erioptera) interrita, and E. (Mesocyphona) latilimbata.
25084182|A new species of Bembix closely related to stenebdoma J. Parker is described.
25084013|Diurnal fluctuations in the intensities of various behaviors in artificial nests are reported. Overall inactivity is estimated to be greater than 35% and workers are less active at night. Nocturnal inactivity is due to a few completely inactive workers and to variably inactive individuals. Nudging, an activity which reflects the directive efforts of queens, is negatively correlated with worker inactivity, indicating the occurrence of direct behavioral effects of queen activity on workers.
25084399|Populations of adult stable flies, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), were found at dairies, feedlots, and in pastures from northern to southern Missouri. During a dry year, populations were largest near dairies and feedlots; however, populations in pastures became abundant when rainfall was great in early summer. Population peaks were roughly equivalent to those recorded in typical Nebraska feedlots. Surveys in central Missouri yielded significant positive correlations of captures of adult stable flies between individual traps on single farms, and between average trap captures on all farms tested. These data indicate that sticky-trap surveys may be used to monitor fluctuations in adult stable-fly populations within limited geographic areas and that fewer than 5 traps per farm may be required to generate reliable information.
25084643|The behavior of six species of stingless bees visiting a natural resin source (Castilla elastica) in Costa Rica was studied to determine if the incidence of aggressive behavior was the same as in pollen and nectar foraging. Three species visiting the resin source showed much higher frequencies of aggressive acts than previously reported for other foraging situations. Group foraging strategies were similar to those used during pollen and nectar foraging. The density of bees visiting the resin source was 10-20 times greater than densities observed in studies of foraging on natural floral resources, but high densities alone do not induce extremely aggressive behavior. The higher frequencies of aggressive behavior observed in this study appear instead to be due to the defendability of resin sources and the role of resin as a limiting resource in colony size and growth.
25086013|Female terrestrial isopods carry eggs and young throughout early development, a habit that places constraints on reproductive success. One such constraint is impaired locomotion during the brooding period. Brooding and non-brooding females were subjected to a negative-phototaxis experiment in which females moved away from a light source along a graduated surface. In both groups, velocity was positively and significantly correlated with distance traveled. Velocity and distance were also significantly associated with the physical dimensions of the exoskelton: larger females moved greater distances at faster speeds. Non-brooding females, however, moved significantly farther at significantly greater velocities than brooding females, suggesting that the additional mass of eggs and young restricts locomotion. The implications of body size and locomotion on reproductive success are discussed.
25085085|A new species Graminella barinasensis, collected from the central grassland area of Venezuela, is described and illustrated.
25084098|This paper reviews available data on pollination ecology of Haemodoraceae and presents evidence for buzz pollination in Xiphidium caeruleum Aubl., a Panamanian bloodwort. Field observations were made on floral morphology, ontogeny, and the intrafloral behavior of bee visitors. Observations on floral color, odor, distribution of osmophores, anther dehiscence, visible and ultraviolet floral patterns are presented. Hymenopteran visitors were females of Paratetrapedia calcarata (Cr.), an exomalopsine bee, and both sexes of Euglossa imperialis Ckll. (Apidae: Euglossini). Female E. imperialis upon landing on the flowers, shivered their indirect flight muscles producing an audible "buzz," thus vibrating the stamens and entire flower. This buzzing behavior resulted in rapid pollen release from the androecial apical slits and was an efficient means of pollen collection used by these "orchid bees." Males of this species also visited the nectarless flowers of Xiphidium apparently to collect the components making up the floral odor. The use of these collected floral volatiles in mate attraction is still highly controversial, but is briefly reviewed in relation to pollination of Xiphidium.
25082335|A parasite, Aphelinus semiflavus Howard, previously unknown in Nebraska was detected in greenhouse colonies of aphids (Therioaphis spp.) at Lincoln and subsequently collected from the same hosts in the field at several locations in eastern Nebraska. This strain of A. semiflavus (possibly of foreign origin) readily parasitized Therioaphis riehmi (Brner), trifolii (Monell), and maculata (Buckton) in the laboratory, but very low rates of parasitism were obtained when nymphs of Myzus persicae (Sulzer) were exposed. Aphelinus semiflavus developed from egg to mummy in 5 to 8 days (temperature mean of 26C) and required another 6 to 9 days in the cocoon before adult emergence. The mean developmental time was not significantly different in any aphid host (T. riehmi, T. trifolii, or T. maculata).
25086126|The involvement of host plant chemicals in host selection by female banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes, was reinvestigated. Pentane, dichloromethane, and methanol extracts of R3 (pre-bloom) Helianthus annuus (sunflower) heads, as well as a pentane extract of sunflower leaves, all elicited oviposition by females. Rotary evaporation of a pentane extract of R3 sunflower heads resulted in decreased, but still significant, activity in the extract, suggesting that both volatile and nonvolatile chemicals are involved in host selection. Behavioral observations supported this, with females landing more frequently, and staying longer, on models treated with extract. The basis of female preference for pre-bloom over post-bloom sunflower heads was investigated. In contrast to a previous report, sunflower pollen had little or no effect on the ovipositional responses of females on a substrate treated with a stimulatory pentane sunflower head extract. Females laid significantly more eggs on isolated involucral bracts from pre-bloom heads than from post-bloom heads. However, dichloromethane extracts of the bracts from the heads of the two growth stages were equally stimulatory to females when tested in a binary choice test. Together these results suggest that temporal changes in bract morphology, may be responsible for the preference of females for pre- over post-bloom heads. Silica fractionation of the pentane and dichloromethane extracts gave 3 and 5 active fractions, respectively. These studies provide the basis for future studies aimed at isolating the chemicals involved in host selection by female C. hospes.
25085322|A field of maize in Texas was used to evaluate responses of Mexican corn rootworm beetles, Diabrotica virgifera zeae Krysan and Smith, to ten volatiles or blends of volatiles that are known attractants of other Diabrotica beetles. Traps baited with 100 mg of any of the attractants captured significantly more male and female D. v. zeae than did unbaited traps, but the increase in capture was greater for female beetles than for males. Traps baited with a 1:1:1 mixture of trimethoxybenzene, indole and cinnamaldehyde ("TIC") captured the greatest number of females (a 50-fold increase over capture on unbaited traps) but did not capture significantly more beetles than traps baited with a 1:1:1 mixture of veratrole, indole and phenylacetaldehyde ("VIP") or with indole alone. When this test was duplicated in South Dakota where the subspecies present is D. v. virgifera responses of females to the attractants were generally similar to those of female D. v. zeae, although relatively more D. v. virgifera females were captured in traps baited with 4-methoxycinnamaldehyde. Male D. v. virgifera were less responsive to the volatiles than were females, but relative responses of male D. v. virgifera to the various volatiles differed from those of male D. v. zeae. In a third study, D. v. zeae showed little dose-response to four levels (0.1-100 mg) of 4-methoxycinnamaldehyde, although traps baited with 100 mg captured significantly more females than did traps baited with lesser amounts. The availability of non-pheromonal attractants for D. v. zeae may prove useful to programs for managing populations of this pest species.
25085490|Artificial infestations and paired-row, vertical root pulling strength evaluations were used to study the effect of western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera Leconte, on corn (Zea mays L.) and to determine if these procedures could be used in preliminary evaluations for resistance to the western corn rootworm. Two commercial corn hybrids, two corn inbreds, and a B84/Iowa Stiff Stalk Synthetic breeding population were artificially infested with 600 and 1200 western corn rootworm eggs per 30.5 cm row length at two Missouri locations. Infestations reduced the plant height of inbred lines SC41R and CI31A and the Pioneer Brand 3184 hybrid. Increases in percent root lodging were found in all cultivars under the high infestation rate. Vertical root pulling resistance was reduced at both infestation rates; however, cultivars did not vary in the reduction of root pulling strength caused by western corn rootworm damage. Cultivars with high vertical root pulling resistance in uninfested plots showed tolerance to the western corn rootworm by losing a lower percentage of their root pulling strength. Significant reductions in vertical root pulling strength in infested rows show the effectiveness of artificial infestations and paired-row vertical root pulling strength evaluations.
25084739|The foraging behaviors of Apis mellifera L. and Bombus spp. were examined on two varieties of oilseed sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.), Northrop King Sunbred 212 and Sunbred 254. Mean densities of foraging A. mellifera and Bombus spp. were higher on S-212 in both years of the study. Bombus foragers also exhibited a strong preference for this variety, displacing A. mellifera from this cultivar. The majority of foragers visiting sunflower heads collected nectar, however pollen collection reached levels as high as 58% during the periods of peak pollen availability. For most of the day foraging bees visited staminate florets, but in the early morning, foragers visited pistillate florets almost exclusively. At the onset of dehiscence, foraging bees shifted from foraging or female stage florets to male stage florets. This preference shift promoted the movement of bees over florets of both sexes and may have improved pollinator effectiveness significantly.
25084391|The indirect flight muscles of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, undergo cyclic degeneration and regeneration. Examination of field collected adults indicated that the progressive changes in these muscles could be characterized by the number of distinct muscle bundles, their width and firmness of attachment.
25083507|Data on Lasioglossum versatum and comparative information on L. obscurum were mostly obtained in Eastern Kansas. Nest architecture is type IIIb of Sakagami and Michener, with long branching burrows extending deep in the soil. New colonies are probably usually established by new burrows to the surface from nest branches isolated through shifting of soil (freezing and thawing, etc.) near the surface. Hence new nests are very close to old ones; the result is the small dense nest aggregations typical of L. versatum. Returning bees often enter the "wrong" nest and may leave pollen there; presumably they help to provision cells in such nests as well as in their own. Parts of nest burrows, but not cells, are seemingly reused year after year. Several queens overwinter in each nest and rear young which mature, mostly as workers, in June. Workers are short lived but maximum nest populations exceed 100 adults. Since workers with more or less enlarged ovaries as well as fertilized workers exist in moderate numbers, the line between the castes is vague; a fertilized individual with large ovaries would be considered a queen. Queens average larger than workers, with ovarially intermediate individuals averaging intermediate in size also. However, in a small sample, such as the population of a single nest, these size relationships often do not hold. In one population there was a 10% increase in size from one autumn to the next, presumably as a result of unknown environmental factors.
25085613|Two distinct cavity-nesting morphs of bees were collected in South Sulawesi, Indonesia. Morphometric analyses indicate that the smaller, darker morph corresponds to Apis cerana. The other morph is larger, with yellowish clypeus and legs. Discriminant analysis of the morphometric data yields an ellipse for this second morph that is distinct at the 95% confidence interval from those for the other recognized Asian cavity-nesting honey bees, A. cerana and A. koschevnikovi. Preliminary evidence indicates that the two morphs are largely allopatric in South Sulawesi, but they are sometimes found in close proximity (e.g., 12 km). If subsequent study demonstrates little or no hybridization between the two forms, the larger "yellow" morph should be referred to as Apis nigrocincta F. Smith, 1861, based on the similarity to the type specimen collected by A. R. Wallace in Sulawesi.
25083829|The life stages of L. cidarus are typical of oribatids; each immature stage may be identified by the number of genital disc-suckers present: larva 0, protonymph 1, deutonymph 2, tritonymph 3. The body segmentation of all immature stages is reflected in the notogastral setal arrangement. The larval notogaster consists of six segments; C, D, E, F, H, and PS. Additional segments, AD and AN, are added at the protonymphal and deutonymphal stages respectively. In metamorphosis, four pairs of setae are lost while four new pairs are added in the protonymph. All notogastral setae are much shorter in the adult than in immature stages. New genital setae appear in each nymphal and adult stage. Four pairs of adanal setae appear in the deutonymph; one is lost in the tritonymph. Two pairs of anal setae appear in the tritonymph. An increase in the number of apodematal setae occurs in each immature stage. Eighteen setae on tarsus I remain constant through all developmental stages. The sensillus is barbed-clavate in all immature stages, but is barbed and spindleform in the adult.
25082816|In 1970 and 1971, the granular systemic insecticides, phorate, carbofuran, aldicarb, disulfoton, fensulfothion, and fensulfothion + disulfoton were applied at planting at rates of 0.91 and 1.82 lb AI/acre to 'Lee 68' soybeans. The treatments were evaluated for early season control of threecornered alfalfa hopper, Spissistilus festinus (Say), and bean leaf beetle, Cerotoma trifurcata (Forster), on soybeans, Glycine max (L.) Merr. The high rate was the most effective of the 2 rates tested.
25083986|Chionea carolus, a subapterous snow crane fly from the Sierra Nevada of California, is described and illustrated. The species group to which it belongs is briefly characterized.
25086208|A pitfall trap survey was conducted in Wichita County of north-central Texas for one year. A total of 4072 spiders were collected, representing 22 families. Of the total spiders collected, 62% were mature with males outnumbering the females by a ratio of 4 tol. The members of the Gnaphosidae were the dominant cursorial spider, consisting of 16.2% of the spider total. This family included 267 males and 144 females that represented 26 species and 11 genera. Seven new species records were noted for Wichita County and included the following: Callilepis imbecilla (Keyserling), Cesonia bilineata (Hentz), Drassyllus aprilinus (Banks), D. gynosaphes Chamberlin, Synaphosus paludis Chamberlin and Gertsch, Tachyzelotes lyonneti (Audouin), and Zelotes lasulanus Chamberlin.
25084516|The seasonal incidence of the hickory shuckworm, Cydia caryana (Fitch) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), and the pecan nut casebearer, Acrobasis nuxvorella Neunzig (Lepidoptera; Pyralidae), in Southeastern Kansas was studied during 1980 and 1981. Through the use of blacklight traps, emergence cages and field observations, dates of over-wintering generation emergence, the number of generations per year and the calendar date of adult emergence of each generation was determined for both species.
25084252|The lace bug, Corythucha distincta Osborn and Drake, attacked scattered Platte thistles, Cirsium canescens Nutt., in the Nebraska Sandhills. Nymphal populations on infested plants were large and caused necrotic leaves and stems. However, seed production of infested plants was not significantly different from non-infested plants.
25084768|Bean foliage consumption by Epilachna varivestis Mulsant larvae was determined under greenhouse conditions at 22 to 26C to be 14.3
25084706|Developmental threshold temperatures
25082712|Geomydoecus expansus is redescribed, with its occurrence recorded from 22 subspecies of Pappogeomys castanops; a neotype designation establishes P. c. excelsus as the type-host. A closely related new species, G. martini, taken from 7 subspecies of P. castanops, is described; the type-host is P. c. subnubilus. Discriminant functions, given for 2 and 3 characters for each sex, are shown to offer enhanced differentiation over single characters.
25084228|A new species, Pseudomyopa punctipennis, is described and is represented by the first known female of the genus. Thecophora rufifrons, new species, and an undescribed species, are the first representatives of the genus from South America.
25078466|A new species, Bombylius mohavensis, is described and illustrated.
25082926|Procedures and materials are described for table-top production of Olingonychus pratensis (Banks), Tetranychus urticae Koch, and T. cinnabarinus (Boisduval) (Acari: Tetranychidae) and their phytoseiid natural enemies Phytoseiulus persimilis Athias-Henriot, P. longipes Evans, Metaseiulus occidentalis (Nesbitt), Amblyseius fallacis (Garmen), and Typhlodromus californicus McGregor (Acari: Phytoseiidae). Plant, spider mite, and predator culture require a total of only 4 hr per week and use inexpensive and readily available materials.
25084458|Third stage larvae of the rhinoceros beetle, Xyloryctes jamaicensis Drury (Coleoptera, Scarabaeidae), were abundant during autumn 1981 in litter and upper soil horizons of a bur oak-hackberry forest near Manhattan, Kansas. Densities of larvae ranged from 0 to 3.7
25085149|Physical components of host choice were examined in two Rhagoletis species that have recently become pests of sour cherry (Prunus cerasus L.) in Utah: R. indifferens Curran, which is widespread on cherry and apparently has no native host, and R. pomonella (Walsh), which is widespread on native hawthorn and infrequently attacks cherry. When presented with artificial hosts, the two species responded similarly to host size but not to host color. Color preferences of R. indifferens females were orange > black > red, while those of R. pomonella females were red > orange > black. Size preferences were measured either as the frequency of attempted oviposition into different-sized spheres or as the number of eggs laid in different-sized wax domes. Results from the two kinds of assays were similar if egg densities in domes were expressed in terms of available surface area. Each fly species generally failed to discriminate between small (hawthorn-sized) and medium (cherry-sized) artificial hosts, but strongly preferred medium hosts over large hosts. Size discrimination by R. indifferens females was independent of fly age.
25082837|Nomada (Nomada) illinoensis Robertson (Hymenoptera: Apoidea) is recorded as prey of Pselliopus barberi Davis (Hemiptera: Reduviidae).
25084089|The maze learning ability of Lepisma saccharina (Thysanura) was investigated. The effects of the removal of antennae, cerci and median caudal filament and varnishing of the compound eyes on maze learning was also analyzed. This species demonstrated the ability to learn a relatively complex maze within 14 days. Extinction was rapid. Insects without functional compound eyes or median caudal filament were able to learn the maze without a serious decrease in level of performance. Insects lacking antennae or cerci were unable to learn the correct route. This represents the first demonstration of complex maze learning for Thysanura.
25085062|Paraponera clavata, the giant tropical ant, has previously been reported to be an exclusively ground nesting species. In this note we report four cases of arboreal nesting in this species. We estimate that minimally 5 to 15% of the colonies are arboreal at our field site in Costa Rica.
25083782|Caraboacarus karenae n. sp. is described. Its distribution and incidence of infestation on eight carabid species of Kansas are given. Only non-gravid females are known, and they apparently feed on the host's hemolymph.
25086113|The first record of Stelis from southern Africa is described as Stelis rozeni. This distinctive species does not fit any recognized subgenus. Its systematic position is discussed and comparison made to the rare subgenus Malanthidium.
25085600|Twelve honey bee nest cavities (swarm traps) were placed at each of the four distances, 100, 250, 500, and 1000 m, from a single source European apiary. Of 63 swarms, 11 were caught at 100 m, 18 at 250 m, 18 at 500 m, and 16 at 1000 m, for an overall swarm capture rate of 90%. No preferential direction of travel by swarms was observed.
25085575|Grain amaranth (Amaranthus spp.) is a potential new crop for the Midwest and Great Plains. One of the most serious pests of this crop is the tarnished plant bug (Lygus lineolaris Palisot de Beauvois). A field study was conducted in 1991 and 1992 in Columbia, MO to determine if the presence of interplanted strips of alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) would have an effect on the tarnished plant bug (TPB) population in an amaranth field. An additional objective was to document the seasonal pattern of TPB distribution in amaranth. Early in the season in both years, TPB numbers were greatest in the alfalfa strips but after the first two mowings of alfalfa, the numbers decreased for the remainder of the season to below the level found in the amaranth plots. The yearly means of TPB were significantly greater in amaranth than in alfalfa and the number of nymphs was greater in amaranth plots. TPB numbers in amaranth increased as amaranth growth stage moved from vegetative to reproductive. Because alfalfa did not attract greater numbers of TPB than did amaranth, it was concluded that alfalfa was not as attractive to TPB as was amaranth and had little effect on TPB population in amaranth.
25085676|A systematic revision of the aleocharine genus Rothium is presented. Rothium is redescribed, and five species are recognized, three of which are described as new (R. pallidus Ahn and Ashe, Type locality-Acapulco, Mexico, R. ashlocki Ahn and Ashe, Type locality-Academy Bay, Santa Cruz Is., Galapagos, Ecuador and R. evansi Ahn and Ashe, Type locality-Punta Galera, Ecuador). Types and paratypes of the three new species are designated. The late-instar larva of R. sonorensis is redescribed and compared with that of R. giulianii. A key is provided for separation of known species of Rothium and illustrations of diagnostic features are provided. Rothium is hypothesized to be related to the tribes Myllaenini and Pronomaeini rather than the tribe Homalotini based on the very small gland opening on the anterior margin of tergite VII; antero-lateral angles of mentum prolonged into spinose processes; lacinia of maxilla elongate, slender, with distinctive distribution of spines interdigitating with spinose scales; galea shorter and much more slender than lacinia, with distinctive small patch of setae on apex, and without setae on mesal edge; base of galea flexible, allowing galeal base to bend at a right angle; cardo of maxilla very elongate; ligula short and entire; medial pseudopore field narrow, with few or no pseudopores; lateral pseudopore fields of prementum without pseudopores; and, labial palpi elongate. A cladistic analysis of the species of Rothium is presented.
25084085|Feeding periods of late-instar range caterpillar larvae, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell, occur when temperatures are moderate, generally during the morning and early evening. In response to high air temperatures, larvae cease feeding, ascend plant stems, and assume a vertical, head-down resting position. Larvae "track" the sun, maintaining the resting substrate between their ventral surface and incident sunlight. Larvae in this resting posture attain body temperatures significantly lower than larvae in a horizontal posture on soil or grass.
25082397|Two new species of Bruchidae, Acanthoscelides guazumae (Bruchinae) and Amblycerus guazumicola (Amblycerinae), were reared from seeds of a previously unrecorded host, Guazuma tomentosa (Sterculiaceae) from northern Mexico. The bruchids are described and figured, and their life histories, ecology, and systematic positions discussed.
25083740|Pachyanthidium micheneri new species is based upon material from Malawi and the province of Natal, South Africa.
41262786|Five species in the delphacid planthopper genus Pentagramama have been described from the United States: P. bivittata Crawford, P. douglasensis Penner, P. longistylata Penner, P. variegata Penner, and P. vittatif rons (Uhler). Based on detailed examination of the male genitlia we synonymize P. variegata with P. douglasensis. Three of the species appear to be monophagous on bulrushes (Schoenoplectus spp. = Scirpus spp.; Cyperaceae). Penner (1947) provided descriptions of the species, illustrations of the heads, and a key for identification based on non-genitalic characters. We provide detailed descriptions and illustrations of the male and female genitalia, which are critical for accurate species identification.
25082523|Five new species of Erythroneura of the Eratoneura subgenus are described from Illinois, Mississippi and Kansas: parisensis, shumiquera, amboyensis, johnsoni, rubulna.
25085576|Three measures of Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Kurdjumov), spring and summer population growth on dryland winter wheat, Triticum aestivum L., were related to heat units and rainfall in 1991 and 1992 using multiple linear regression. Specific measures of population growth used were the average number of Russian wheat aphids per tiller, percent Russian wheat aphid-infested tillers, and cumulated average Russian wheat aphid days. Of the developed regression models, those that related cumulated average Russian wheat aphid days to cumulated heat units and cumulated rainfall provided the best fit to the data, explaining 90% of the observed variance. Relations were also constructed between the proportion of Russian wheat aphid-infested tillers and cumulated average Russian wheat aphid days. The former is currently being used in Russian wheat aphid management programs for calculating economic injury levels, but aphid days are much easier to use for predicting Russian wheat aphid infestations. Validation studies conducted on data collected in 1989, 1991, and 1993 indicated that the model approximated the observed cumulated average Russian wheat aphid days and percent Russian wheat aphid-infested tillers during the increasing phase of Russian wheat aphid population growth.
25082844|Brachypanorpa jeffersoni, new species, is described and illustrated, and its ecological, geographical and seasonal distributions are briefly discussed. The female has greatly reduced wings resembling those of B. oregonensis of western U. S.
25083989|Two new species of Bovicola are described and illustrated: B. multispinosa collected off Pseudois nayaur in Nepal and B. fulva off Ammotragus lervia in Texas.
40783185|A new species of leaf-cutter bee, Megachile (Eutricharaea) arachosiana, new species, is described and illustrated based on males and females from west-central and northern Pakistan. The opportunity is taken to provide new taxonomic notes on the subgenus Eutricharaea Thomson. The subgenus Platysta Pasteis, comprising the large African species M. platystoma Pasteis and M. khamana Cockerell, is synonymized with Eutricharaea (new synonymy). It is noted that M. microxanthops Cockerell, considered widely a synonym of M.concinna Smith, is allied to M. apostlica Cockerell and is removed from synonymy accordingly. A new taxonomic summary is provided for M. concinna with M. microxantha Cockerell, M. atratula Rebmann, and M. privigna Rebmann considered new junior subjective synonyms (new synonymies).
25083007|A key is presented to separate the six known species of Paracymus found in the Palearctic region. Descriptions and distribution data are given for each and the genitalia are illustrated for five of the species.
25084947|Pheidole morrisi Forel is an omnivorous ant common throughout the eastern United States. Like all members in the genus Pheidole the worker force is composed of morphologically distinct soldiers and workers. The aggressive ants Lasius alienus (Foerster) and Solenopsis geminata (F.) are frequently abundant in the same habitats occupied by P. morrisi. Experimental introductions of these two enemy species indicate that Florida colonies of P. morrisi alarm-recruit soldiers and workers against L. alienus but not against S. geminata. These enemy-specific defense responses are compared with defense responses in other Pheidole species and a general model of defense behavior is presented.
25082570|Mosquito larvae (C. inornata) were found to be highly sensitive as a bioassay of Cytrolane and Cyolane. Pomace flies and house flies followed in order of sensitivity. The high sensitivity of mosquito larvae was attributed to the direct contact of the entire larvae with the toxicant. Cytrolane was slightly but not significantly more toxic than Cyolane. The direct maceration method for assaying the residues of these insecticides proved inefficient.
25085003|In the ponerine ant, P. clavata, allometric growth occurs for worker size and is correlated with task. The size distribution of workers is unimodal and skewed to the right. Guards and foragers were significantly larger than ants collected within the nest. Brood carrying ants were significantly smaller than guards and foragers. The ovaries of foragers and guards were significantly smaller than nest ants or brood carriers, indicating that behavioral caste and physical caste may affect ovarian development. These results indicate that size variability may be functionally significant even in ants with relatively uniform body size.
25082937|Several nests of Centris aethyctera Snelling are described from two habitats in disturbed dry forest in Costa Rica. The nests consisted of 3 to 6 serially arranged urn-shaped cells in unbranched tunnels. The cell cap is slightly recessed and has a central knob or process. The upper most cell was smaller and only partially provisioned in all completed nests. The possible significance of this partially provisioned cell is discussed.
25086121|In addition to the endemic species of Hylaeus, subgenus Nesoprosopis, there are fifteen species of bees present in the Hawaiian Islands, all presumed to be adventive here, even though the origins of three species (Megachile timberlakei Cockerell, Ceratina sp. nr. dentipes Friese and Xylocopa sonorina F. Smith) remain unknown. A species of sweat bee, Lasioglossum (Dialictus) impavidum (Sandhouse), is here recorded from the Islands for the first time; this species is native to the western United States (California). It is now established on the Island of Oahu. A key, with accompanying illustrations, is provided for the identification of these bees and each species is briefly discussed.
25084480|Males of two Centris species, C. nitida Smith and C. trigonoides subtarsata Cockerell, have enlarged hind femora and tibiae. We report on those of male C. nitida and the identification of volatiles within the gland of both species. Male C. nitida establish territories in the flowering crown of the tree, Cassia grandis L. These territories appear to be marked by chemicals released by the gland located in the male's hind leg.
25084282|Yellowjacket traps baited with fish flavored cat food were used to monitor Vespula germanica and V. maculifrons populations. The relative abundance of these two species indicates that the establishment of V. germanica is more successful in urban centers than rural areas of New Jersey. V. germanica comprised 22% of the total catch in urban areas while in suburban/rural areas it only made up 13%.
25086274|Distributions of 20 species of Pyramica (Formicidae: Myrmicinae: Dacetini) in Mississippi are reported. This list includes six new state records including Pyramica bimarginata (Wesson & Wesson), P. metazytes Bolton, P. ohioensis (Kennedy & Schramm), P. reflexa (Wesson & Wesson), P. talpa (Weber), and one introduced species, Pyramica hexamera (Brown), previously reported from Florida and Louisiana. In addition, records are provided for three rarely collected species, P. angulata (M. R. Smith), P. hyalina Bolton, and P. rohweri (M. R. Smith).
25083890|The Ozophora laticephala-complex, comprising eight new species of Ozophorine lygaeids, is defined and analyzed. The new species
25084701|The response of the fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren, to oil was studied using two different approaches. First, the internal distribution of radiolabeled oil in temporal subcastes and in the queen was examined. Secondly, the response of temporal subcaste members to the introduction of oil was determined by observing individually marked workers. Queens and reserves contained more oil than other subcaste members and differences in internal distribution of oil were related to the career of the worker. Oil was transferred by passive donation from foragers and reserves that actively foraged. These oil-laden workers did not initiate contact with other workers but moved around the nest waiting for other workers to approach and solicit the oil. The influx of oil was dependent upon the number of willing recipients and thus was largely controlled by nurses.
25085842|Micropsectra pharetrophora n. sp. (Diptera, Chironomidae, Chironominae, Tanytarsini) is described in all life stages, from mountainous regions in Central Europe. The larvae were found at a helocrene, in a hygropetric environment. Their freely portable cases are unique within the genus. Further diagnostic characters are described and discussed for the pupa and adult male.
25083837|A study of the characters found in Stenopogon Loew, Scleropogon Loew, and Ospriocerus Loew confirms the synonymy of Scleropogon, and the subgeneric status of Ospriocerus (new status). A key to the groups of Stenopogon is given. The male genitalia of all three taxa show specific but not generic characters. The gap between some present and absent characters is bridged by several species having specimens both with and without the characters. The number of metepimeral bristles gradate from zero to 29 from species to species. Some characters crisscross between the three Stenopogon taxa by being present in two taxa but not in a third. The two types of antennal styli of Ospriocerus separate it from Stenopogon and Scleropogon, but the latter two taxa cannot be separated by styli. Metepimeral bristles relate those 14 species of Stenopogon with the posterior cell 1 open to Ospriocerus and to Scleropogon, but their variable antennal excisions relate them to other Stenopogon and to Ospriocerus. Scleropogon is either without antennal excisions, or has excised slits. There are no large gaps in the number of metepimeral bristles per species between the 14 more hairy Stenopogons and the more bristly Scleropogons. Likely the gene for the metepimeral bristles is lost for world Stenopogon including, in the United States, mostly those on the Pacific slope. The group with bristles in the United States and Mexico likely retain the gene; none of these are on the Pacific coast.
25082514|Components of the nesting behavior of Oxybelus cressonii Robertson and O. exclamans Viereck are described. Comparisons are made with other species in the genus. The current placements of O. cressonii and O. exclamans are discussed in relation to behavioral and morphological criteria.
25085112|The conopid fly, Physocephala vittata (F.), is recorded as a pest of female alfalfa leafcutter bees, Megachile rotundata (F.), in Yugoslavia. A chalcidoid hyperparasite, Habrocytus conopidarum (Bouek), emerged from pupae of P. vittata in the laboratory, making biological control of the fly a possibility.
25083667|A description of the stages of Spanogonicus albofasciatus is given with the duration of the stages in the laboratory. In cotton plants, the preferred oviposition site is in leaves, followed by stems and terminal buds. More eggs were laid by females fed green beans with either pea aphid nymphs, bollworm eggs and young larvae, or beet armyworm eggs and young larvae, than by females fed with green beans alone.
25085723|Field observations of nesting behavior and foraging activity of the solitary bee Melissodes rustica (Say) were made at a nesting site in northwest Arkansas. The nesting phenology is unusually late in the year for bees, with females emerging in mid- to late September and provisioning burrows until the first hard frost in late October or early November. More than 200 females constructed and provisioned individual burrows at the aggregation. Daily activity patterns were closely correlated with surface soil temperature and wind speed. Females made six to seven foraging trips per day, all of which included pollen provisions except the last. Pollen was apparently gathered from the genera Aster and Erigeron in the family Asteraceae. Trip duration increased later in the day, as did the time spent in the burrow between trips. Hence, females spent more time collecting pollen and took longer to dispose of the pollen as the day wore on. On the last trip of the day, females returned without pollen. There was little variance among the continuously observed females for any of these patterns. Females continued to enter a single burrow for more than 10 days, and provisioned more than one cell per burrow. No communal nests were observed and no nest parasites (e.g., Triepeolus) were collected from the aggregation. We speculate on possible causes of the late nesting phenology of this bee.
25086397|Copidosoma sosares (Walker) (Hymenoptera: Encyrtidae) is a specialized polyembryonic parasitic wasp native to Europe. Here we report the distribution of C. sosares from western North America. We located C. sosares parasitizing Depressaria pastinacella (Duponchel) (Lepidoptera: Elachistidae) from several sites throughout Colorado, Idaho, Montana, New Mexico, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming. Specimens collected from the Netherlands and several populations in the western US were indistinguishable morphologically. Reciprocal crosses between individuals from the Netherlands and from the western US strongly suggest that US populations of this wasp are C. sosares. In view of the absence of any recorded effort to introduce this species for biological control or any other purpose, it is likely that this species was accidentally introduced along with its host sometime in the recent past.
25084153|Stylops crawfordi Pierce was found to stylopize Andrena crawfordi Viereck, Andrena sitilae Viereck, and Andrena senticulosa LaBerge, in east-central Texas. Stylopization at first collection of the first two hosts was 25%, dropped below 7% within several days and stayed low for the remainder of the season (3 weeks). Hosts containing empty male puparia were collected early in the season but no male parasites were found. By four weeks into the season female parasites contained no pigmented or hatched triungulin larvae.
25085618|A new parasitoid species, Binodoxys conei sp. n. (Hymenoptera, Braconidae, Aphidiinae) reared from the hop aphid Phorodon humuli (Schrank), sampled from hops, Humulus lupulus L., in Washington State is described. Additionally, a listing of the known hop aphid parasitoids worldwide and a key are provided.
25085495|Publications dealing with the chinch bug Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say) since 1888 are included in this bibliography. It should be useful to research and extension personnel in finding information concerning this pest.
25084979|In an attempt to learn more about the specific mechanism involved in cell wall-based plant resistance, experiments were performed in which final instar larvae of the southern armyworm, Spodoptera eridania (Cramer), were fed artificial diets with powdered silicic acid and powdered cellulose added at various concentrations. To test for interactions, several different mixtures of cellulose and silica with the same total dry weight were also incorporated into diets. Food utilization budgets based on dry weight measurements indicated that silica at levels of 10% dry weight and above caused reduced digestibility. The decrease in digestibility promoted increased consumption rates. Growth rates varied but were not different than the control at the highest level of silica (20% dry weight). Cellulose had similar effects on digestibility and consumption rate. Mixtures of silica and cellulose showed no interactive effects when added to artificial diet at 20% dry weight. Both silica and cellulose in their powdered forms appear to act as dilution agents.
25085754|The vulnerability of non-social bee populations to climatic perturbations is poorly known. A ground-nesting bee, Hesperapis oraria (Melittidae), is an autumnal univoltine species restricted to coastal dunes of the northern Gulf of Mexico. Adults are active from late September to early October, during the bloom of its sole pollen host, Balduina angustifolia (Asteraceae). On October 4 1995, a class 3 hurricane, "Opal", struck the entire coastal range of this bee. Ten populations first censused during 1993-1994 had all persisted into 1996, having withstood sustained winds of 185 km/hr, 13-25 cm of rain, and up to a 4.3 m tidal surge topped by 3 m waves that resulted in prolonged saltwater inundation of its dune habitats. Natural and anthropogenic factors that might endanger fragmented populations of this species are discussed from a conservation perspective.
20621949|The bee tribe Ceratinini is important for understanding early stages in social evolution. Their extant sister tribe Allodapini contains no strictly solitary species, and while some Ceratinini are commonly regarded as solitary, little behavioural data exist to substantiate this. Studies on Asian congeners have shown recurrent sociality in temperate and subtropical ranges while behavioural data are lacking in tropical regions. Field work along the west coast of Borneo in Sarawak, Malaysia, has provided some insight into these tropical taxa. Here we describe the nesting biology and social behaviour of four taxonomically described yet behaviourally unclassified Ceratina species. These four species are from three subgenera, namely Ceratina (Ceratinidia) accusator Cockerell, C. (Ceratinidia) nigrolateralis Cockerell, C. (Neoceratina) dentipes Friese, C. (Pithitis) smaragdula Fabricius. Nests of all species were typically attended by an adult female while all species except C. accusator had a low frequency of multi-female nesting assemblages. The four tropical ceratinines described here and all other behaviourally classified species exhibit recurrent patterns of maternal care, maternal longevity, and nest protection. Prolonged parental care found across the genus and occasional transitions into sociality make Ceratina of future interest for the study of life history and social evolution.
25082528|Neobezzia, new genus, with type-species N. clavipes, n. sp., is described and differentiated from other Sphaeromiini. The seven known species, all Neotropical, include N. amnicola (Macfie) and N. brasiliae (Lane) (new combinations), and the following five new species: albitarsis from Brazil, blantoni from Panama, clavipes from Brazil, costaricae from Costa Rica, and fittkaui from Brazil. The closest relative is Mallochohelea Wirth, which differs mainly in its shorter costa. lack of clublike distal swelling on the femora, and the parameres separate distally.
25084397|Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) xanthandrum Richards, a spider-hunting sphecid wasp, was studied at the Organization for Tropical Studies field station at La Selva in Costa Rica. The wasps constructed nests in trap-nests with tubes 9.5, 8.0, 6.4, and 4.8 mm  15.5 cm. Nests consisted of an inner linear series of 1-8 brood cells, usually followed by an empty vestibular cell and mud final-closure plug, placed 14 or more mm from the tube entrances. Brood cells were provisioned only with spiders in the genus Senoculus (family Senoculidae). Observations indicate that the spiders rest on the underside of branches during the day. Natural enemies of T. xanthandrum include Neochrysis (Pleurochrysis) postica (Brulle) (Hym.: Chrysididae) and Phalacrotophora punctiapex Borgmeier (Diptera: Phoridae).
25083990|The flight patterns of three species of sweat bees (Halictidae), Agapostemon texanus, Augochlorella striata, and Lasioglossum sp., foraging at three densities of bindweed flowers (Convolvulus arvensis), are described. The bees usually make very short flights between successively visited flowers. Flight distances increase with decreased flower density. The bees generally exhibited forward movement on successive flights. The halictid flight patterns are similar to those of bumblebees and honeybees.
25083428|The male, female, protonymph and deutonymph of Macrocheles boudreauxi n. sp. are described from bark beetles, and bark beetle galleries, in the southern United States. Special note is made of intraspecific variation in the sculpturing of the female sternal shield, and in the armature of leg IV of the male. The new species appears to be a member of the species-group subbadius.
25084806|Crickets were collected from colonies of 5 species of ants in southeastern Washington, but the western thatching ant, Formica obscuripes Forel, seems to be the primary host for these inquilines. These crickets are generally treated in a hostile manner by worker ants and avoid attack only through their constant alertness and rapid escape behavior. However, the crickets mimic the antennal signals of worker ants which permits them to engage in trophallaxis with the ants. They also frequently strigilate on the bodies of ants, presumably to acquire nourishment or colony odor. The mating behavior of these crickets is similar to that described for other, free-living crickets in that the female is on top of the male while in copula. However, in Myrmecophila manni, a male signals the female of his readiness to mate and runs under her when she is in the proper mating position. The eggs, 1.1 mm long, are laid into holes in the substrate. This probably shields them from attack by the ants. Hatching in the field occurs in mid-July, and is synchronized at all colonies. The crickets probably disperse from nest to nest using the foraging trails of the ants that frequently overlap.
25083675|More than 400 host records are presented for 45 Nearctic species of Pompilidae. Most of these records are based on material collected at Presque Isle State Park, Erie County, Pennsylvania. New hosts are listed for many species, including first host records for Auplopus adjunctus, Ageniella f. faceta, A. euphorbiae, and Anoplius rectangularis. New host families for the subgenera Priocnemis and Pompilinus are given. Prey selection of the Nearctic species of Pompilidae, size relationships of wasps and prey, abundance of potential prey species, and stages and sexes of the prey are discussed.
25086012|The orchid bees (Euglossini), found only in the New World tropics, are among the most spectacular of the bees, with their relatively large size, brilliant metallic coloration and exceptionally long tongues thought to have evolved as an adaptation for nectar collection from long-corolla flowers. In spite of their flamboyant appearance they are exceedingly difficult to study in nature, and therefore most aspects of their biology are little understood. Here we present new data on the nest structure and nesting ecology of Eulaema meriana (Olivier), one of the largest and most widely distributed of the orchid bees. We describe a method for observing field nests in situ, which enabled us to examine the process of construction of six nests found in the Amazonian region of Ecuador. We study the foraging activity patterns and array of resources brought to the nest by females engaged in brood-cell construction and provisioning, and we investigate the time expenditures and time course for cell construction, larval provisioning and oviposition. We also provide a list of the natural enemies reared or collected from the nests. Our observations suggest that there may be considerable plasticity in the social organization of E. meriana, ranging from small single-female nests to large nests with more than one female and a possible division of labor. These observations of E. meriana provide a framework for comparison with other species of Eulaema in an evolutionary context.
25082561|Vibration probably serves Hymenoptera as an aid in loosening and working dry, aggregated soil. This vibration is produced by stridulating and by manipulating the flight mechanisms.
25085875|A new species of chewing louse, Eutrichophilus koopmani (Phthiraptera: Trichodectidae), is described and illustrated based on an adult male specimen taken off the Brazilian black dwarf porcupine, Coendou nycthemera (Olfers) (Rodentia: Erethizontidae).
25086050|The genus Parabrachytes Distant and the three known species P. coloratus Distant, P. longicornis Garcia Varela and P. obscurus Distant are redescribed. Two new species, P. antsalovus, and P. morondavus, are described. Parabrachytes is compared with Odontorhopala Stl; both genera are endemic to Madagascar. Habitus illustration and drawings of the antennae, pronotum, and legs are provided; key to the malagasy species of Parabrachytes is included.
25082470|A chromosome survey was carried out for 20 species of bees with numerical results shown in Table 1. Some features of meiosis in bees are noted and tentative interpretations given. The data indicate that polyploidy has occurred at least 5 times in bees. Increase of one in chromosome number occurred once in the 20 species. Four different Robertsonian fusions occurred in 4 species and two other such fusions occurred simultaneously in one species.
25085333|New state and county records are reported for the introduced scarab beetle, Hybosorus illigeri Reiche, in Oklahoma. The beetle appears to be widespread in eastern and southern Oklahoma.
25085470|This paper represents a continued study of the emergence phenology of adult crane flies from a small stream in northeastern Puerto Rico. Twenty-two species were collected by an emergence trap from February 1991 through April 1992 at Quebrada Prieta, a second-order stream in the Luquillo Mountains. Four species of Limonia comprised 53% of the individuals and one species alone, Limonia (Geranomyia) virescens (Loew) comprised 22%. These additional fifteen months of emergence data confirm the pronounced seasonality in the crane fly emergence phenology reported by Gelhaus et al. (1993), with most emergence occurring during November through April, and little or no emergence from June through September. Decline in the individuals of the dominant species, L. virescens, and in numbers of total Tipulidae overall, may be related to the canopy re-growth following the destruction by Hurricane Hugo in 1989, and the resulting decline in light levels and benthic algal levels. Grazers on benthic algae included 48% of the crane fly individuals.Limonia (Discobola) gowdeyi Alexander and L. (Neolimonia) caribaea Alexander are recorded from Puerto Rico for the first time.
25085269|Efficacy of adult-directed insecticide applications were compared with standard larval control treatments in an effort to reduce second generation larval infestations of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner) in seed corn. The treatments included methomyl applied to grassy adult aggregation areas, or "action sites," for adult suppression, fenvalerate applied to the field for larval control, a combination of methomyl applied to the action site with fenvalerate applied to the field, and an untreated check. Two applications were made in and around fields of hybrid seed production during the second flight (mid-July to late-August) in Iowa. The male, or tasselled inbred, sustained higher levels of larval infestation, resulting in a greater response to treatment. Larval tunnelling damage and infestation level were reduced with applications of fenvalerate to the field. Although applications of methomyl resulted in fewer adults in the grass following action site treatment, the subsequent effect on infestation and damage was not significant. Adult sampling data during high population levels in 1986 documented a temporary reduction of adults in the action site after treatment, suggesting a lack of residual activity by methomyl. Blacklight trap data indicated that the timing of initial insecticide applications in the action site corresponded with a majority of newly mated and actively ovipositing females and second applications targeted ovipositing and post-oviposition females.
25084552|An endoparasitoid, Anaphes conotracheli Girault (Hymenoptera: Mymaridae), was reared from eggs of a sunflower stem weevil, Cylindrocopturus adspersus (LeConte) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) collected in North Dakota. This is a new host and state record for A. conotracheli and the first egg parasitoid reported for C. adspersus. Total parasitism during the 1982 growing season was 4.6%; peak parasitism occurred toward the end of the growing season. Data from egg rearings showed that ovipositioning A. conotracheli were active for about one month (mid-July to mid-August). Parasitism began about two weeks after the first appearance of stem weevil eggs in sunflower.
25085285|Twenty-six new prey records (Buprestidae, Chrysomelidae) are reported for Cerceris fumipennis. Macrosiagon limbatum (Rhipiphoridae), Dasymutilla scaevola (Mutillidae), and pyemotid mites are documented as parasites of this wasp. Epinysson mellipes (Sphecidae) and Metopia argyrocephala (Sarcophagidae) are recorded as possible parasites. Observations of prey paralysis and of parasite behavior are included, as well as a description of the last instar larva of Dasymutilla scaevola.
25085845|Chironomus forsythi n. sp. is described on the basis of adult, pupa, larva and cytology, although it is noted that the cytology suggests the presence of more than one species amongst the material examined. The types of C. zealandicus Hudson and C. novae-zealandiae Kieffer are reviewed and it is concluded that both names refer to the form with a thummi-type larva and not to the present species.
25082637|Multiplication by 9 species of stored-product Coleoptera on 2 hybrids of high-lysine corn, opaque-2 and floury-2, was studied in the laboratory. The granary weevil, Sitophilus granarius (L.), and the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), multiplied significantly more on both hybrids of high-lysine corn than on control corn. The confused flour beetle, Tribolium confusum Jacquelin duVal, had somewhat increased multiplication on high-lysine corn. The maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky, multiplied more on control corn than on high-lysine corn. The rice weevil, S. oryzae (L.); the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.); the merchant grain beetle, Orzaephilus mercator (Fauvel); the sawtoothed grain beetle, O. surinamensis (L.); and the cigarette beetle, Lasioderma serricorne (F.), multiplied as much on control corn as on high-lysine corn.
25085457|These are the first observations of the behavior of any allodapine social parasite. Both sexes of Braunsapis kaliago live in solitary and social nests of B. mixta in northwestern India. Direct intranest observations revealed that female B. kaliago may functionally replace host queens, much as do Psithyrus in Bombus nests. Parasites usually avoided encounters with hosts by freezing behavior and by quietly resting near the brood. Dominance was sometimes asserted by means of oophagy, and by several specialized agonistic behaviors which were enhanced by structural modifications. Established females became unable to fly effectively, and if pushed out of nests by hosts, they could not return. One parasite evidently was killed by hosts. Parasites relied on host food stores deposited on nest walls or on larvae, and they also aggressively solicited food by trophallaxis from hosts. Both hosts and parasites groomed their brood. They removed and ate chorions during hatching, a behavior unknown in other oviparous animals. Larvae were fed by the ventral deposition of provisions by both hosts and parasites. Adult-larval trophallaxis by both species was also seen. This is unknown among other bees. Braunsapis kaliago retains most brood-rearing behaviors but has lost the abilities to construct nests and to forage. 51 behaviors of male and female B. kaliago are described and compared with those of B. mixta. These nonforaging parasites may reduce populations of foraging and pollinating host bees.
25085503|Nests and individual behavior of Brachygastra mellifica (Say), a swarm-founding, honey storing, tropical/subtropical polybiine wasp were studied in the Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas. Sucrose syrup and water, provided in feeding dishes, were taken readily in a flight cage containing a live nest. Significant differences were observed in various foraging behavior parameters between syrup and water foragers and between food uptake and transport behaviors within these groups. Liquid food appears to be transferred routinely from foragers to nestmates on the nest surface. The latter then take provisions into the nest. Other behaviors regularly observed include guarding and water removal from the nest surface. Larval wax moths were successfully fed to wasps in the flight cage.Wasps from free-flying colonies foraged on a number of common native and exotic flower species for nectar and to collect honeydew from aphids and psyllids. Predation was observed on flower-mining larvae of the weevil Anthonomus aeneolus and on a moth, Alucitidae sp. Robber flies and spiders regularly preyed on adult B. mellifica. Nests were attacked by woodpeckers and probably small mammals that consume brood and honey-containing combs.Nest architecture is phragmocyttarous with combs of zero displacement, originating from a sessile attachment on a limb. Large nests assume a capsule form with downward extension; their lower combs appear as vertically stacked tiers supported at their edges by the envelope and centrally by inter-comb pedestals. Nest-founding swarms with several hundred individuals are capable of building 10-15 cm diameter nests in a few days. Nest placement is in the midcanopy of a tree or shrub from 1 to 9 m above ground level. Nests are sparse and difficult to find in native brush but relatively common in suburban settings where they are easily spotted in deciduous trees in winter.Gas chromatographic analysis of honey samples taken from natural nests confirm that common floral sources such as sunflower and mesquite as well as honeydew provide the material for stored honey. Most of the nectar and honeydew sources examined as B. mellifica-forage are also utilized by honey bees.
25085276|Poecilopompilus algidus fervidus (Smith) and Tachypompilus xanthopterus Rohwer nested in the same area of soil in Rio Claro, So Paulo, Brazil. The former nested in a sandy bank, and the latter in the loose soil of crevices and hollows in the bank. T. xanthopterus is a specialized predator of an unidentified species of Heteropodidae (Arachnida), while P. a. fervidus, considered a specialist on Argyopidae (Arachnida), switches from Nephila clavipes L. in July to Parawixia sp., Argiope argentata L., and Araneus sp. later in the year. I also report for the first time an unidentified Poecilopompilus preying upon Thomisidae (Arachnida).
25083977|Corn stored in circular metal bins equipped with vertically placed aeration systems was treated with malathion thermal aerosol applied in the grain overspace. The average number of live insects per 1000 g found in the malathion-aerosol treated corn was 0.24; in the untreated corn there was an average of 1.3 insects/1000 g. Corn taken after treatment was analyzed chemically for malathion indicated that most of the malathion was deposited in the top 1.52 m of corn. Largest amounts were found in the top .76 m of corn.
25085308|Multiple spermatophores occurred in 24% of the navel orangeworm females collected in almond orchards in light traps. Numbers of spermatophores per female varied with population density, with greater mating frequency occurring at high population levels. Oldest females collected, with depleted ovaries and fat body, averaged 1.39 spermatophores per female. After mating, females in the laboratory laid most of their eggs within 24 hr. Unmated females oviposited daily but at a much lower rate than mated females, and all eggs deposited were infertile. Both mated and unmated females lived an average of 7.5 days in the laboratory.
25082507|This usually rare mantispid was locally abundant during 1968 on thistles in Cache Valley, Utah, where it may mimic Polistes fuscatus utahensis. It ate various insects, thistle sap, and honey. Females lived as long as 43 days and laid up to 3,334 eggs. Courtship by the males includes an elaborate visual display and the production of a distinct odor. The agile larvae preferred Bombus morrisoni to other insects and spiders tested. Courtship, mating, oviposition and larval behavior are described.
25083748|The reproductive systems of female and male Haemogamasus ambulans (Thorell) are described. The female reproductive system apparently has osmoregulatory functions as well as the normal functions of sperm storage and egg production. The male has a cordate testis. Mating is unique; the male transfers the sperm through a duct ["sperm induction pore" (Michael, 1892)] on each side between the third and fourth coxae instead of through the genital opening.
25085397|Herbivory by the tarnished plant bug (TPB), Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois), reduces seed production on individual terminal heads of grain amaranth, Amaranthus cruentus L. The effect on the seed yield of TPB feeding on whole plants was determined by a 2-year study at the North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station, Ames, Iowa. Seed weight obtained from the uninfested plots was highly significantly different from that of plots infested by TPB. In 1989, seed weight from plants in the uninfested plots was 24 times greater than from those in the infested plots. In 1990, the seed weight in uninfested plots was 252 times greater than in infested plots. This study shows that TPB herbivory may severely reduce seed yield of amaranth in the midwestern United States.
25086026|The male of the genus Pariotrigona is described. This provides additional characters that help to understand the relationships among the minute Meliponini that occur in nearly all areas where Meliponini exist. So far as known minute species construct brood cells in clusters rather than in combs, and can therefore nest in small and irregular cavities not acceptable to other Meliponini.
25085782|A list of genus-group names of Osmiini of the eastern hemisphere, including the Heriades group, is provided, with references to original descriptions and to synonyms. Keys to the 18 genera found in the eastern hemisphere, and to subgenera where they are recognized, are presented. Much of the text consists of notes explaining various classificatory decisions, which were often arbitrary in view of the lack of (and difficulty of making) phylogenetic studies. The following are new subgenera and three new species: Chelostoma (Eochelostoma) Griswold, type Heriades aureocincta Bingham, 1897. Heriades (Amboheriades) Griswold, type Heriades canaliculata Benoist, 1931; H. (Pachyheriades) Griswold, type Eriades langenburgicus Strand, 1911; H. (Rhopaloheriades) Griswold and Michener, type Heriades clavicornis Morawitz, 1875; H. (Toxeriades) Griswold, type Heriades apriculus Griswold n. sp.; H. (Tyttheriades) Griswold, type Heriades schwarzi Griswold n. sp. Hoplitis (Chlidoplitis) Griswold, type Hoplitis heinrichi Zanden, 1980; H. (Coloplitis) Griswold, type Hoplitis premordica Griswold n. sp.; H. (Nasutosmia) Griswold and Michener, type Osmia nasuta Friese, 1899. Othinosmia (Afrosmia) Griswold, type Othinosmia stupenda Griswold, 1994. Protosmia (Dolichosmia) Griswold, type Thaumatosoma burmanicum Bingham, 1895; P. (Nanosmia) Griswold, type Protosmia asensioi Griswold and Parker, 1987. Wainia (Wainiella) Griswold, type Heriades sakaniensis Cockerell, 1936. New descriptive material and illustrations are provided for Jaxartinula malyshevi Popov, here placed within the genus Hoplitis. Anthocopa is restricted to the old world and is regarded as a subgenus of Hoplitis; American species formerly placed in Anthocopa are placed in the genus Atoposmia
25084101|The adult biology and behavior of the petalurid dragonfly Tanypteryx hageni Selys was studied in California during the 1976 flight season. Males established territories over spring-fed bogs and aggressively defended them against encroaching conspecific males and non-conspecific dragonflies of both sexes. Female T. hageni entered the bogs to oviposit. The relative age distribution of the male population was characterized by recording color changes in the integument and wings of males captured throughout the flight season. Results of this study revealed that a mixed age distribution existed during much of the flight season. The adaptive significance of male territoriality in T. hageni is discussed.
25085117|Males of the weevil Macromerus bicinctus use their elongate forelegs with club-like swellings as "weapons" in ritualized intra-specific contests between males to gain access to females about to oviposit. Fighting and mating behavior are described.
25085432|An emergence trap was operated on Quebrada Prieta in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico for fifty-one weeks in 1990-1991. Three families, Ceratopogonidae, Empididae, and Simuliidae comprised 43% of the dipteran fauna. Two undescribed species of the genus Hemerodromia (Empididae) were collected and there are numerous Ceratopogonidae that may be undescribed.
25084610|The mate-seeking behavior of D. novaeangliae involves scramble competition among males for receptive females. Males patrol Pontederia cordata (the species' pollen source), nectar flowers, or nest entrances depending on the abundance of floral resources in the vicinity of nest aggregations. Movement of males between and within patches of P. cordata as well as the relationship between male size and mate-seeking behavior are described.
25084742|The primitively eusocial bees, such as the bumblebees, have high withinnest variation in worker body size relative to the highly eusocial honey bees and stingless bees which generally have some sort of resource communication (recruitment) system. It was previously proposed that this pattern in size variation among taxa is due to the requirement of low size variation for a recruitment system to evolve. This is because misinformation concerning floral resources is transmitted between bees of different size. Since the transmission of misinformation may be costly and thereby reduce colony efficiency, colonies having low size variation would be best served by a recruitment system, while colonies having high size variation may be better off if each bee forages independently. We examined the relationship between the complexity of the recruitment system and within-nest size variation among 11 species of stingless bees (Meliponinae) that have a variety of communication systems from primitive to more derived. As predicted, for the stingless bees, there is an inverse relationship between complexity of the recruitment system and within-nest size variation. Also, more derived bees (according to taxonomic evaluation) have more complex recruitment systems, and the more complex recruitment systems are more effective in recruitment.
25084164|Baseline
25083053|Larvae of three species of leaf beetles (Lema trilineata Olivier, Disonycha pluriligata LeConte, and Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say)) were observed for effects caused by using boiling water, K.A.A.D., and 75% alcohol as killing solutions. Significant differences were found between treatments and species; boiling water was best for one species and K.A.A.D. was best for the other two.
25082991|Females of Xylocopa virginica texana were observed to make two basic types of visits to flowers of Passiflora incarnata; nectar and examination visits. A given nectar visit results in the deposition of a scent mark on the floral corona. Through laboratory and experimental field studies it is suggested that this scent originates from compounds present in the Dufour's gland. Deposition of scents during given nectar visits result in the repulsion of subsequent conspecific females for periods up to 10 minutes. Repulsions are referred to as examination visits. The lack of response by males of X. v. texana and other bees to the scent mark is discussed. Detailed descriptions of floral morphology/behavior, xylocopid foraging behavior and Dufour's gland morphology are provided. Possible functions of scent marking, as viewed from the plant and insect standpoints, are explored.
25083956|Neoheterocerus pallidus Say inhabits the immediate vicinity of water and forms a colony by constructing labyrinthine galleries and chambers in wet mud in which to develop, feed, mate, lay eggs and hibernate. Populations fluctuate about every 26 days and the colonies are constantly on the move as shore margins change. The beetle hibernates from October to April of the following year. The developmental periods for eggs, larvae and pupae in the laboratory at 23C were 3, 10 and 3 days, respectively. The 1st batch of eggs matured 12-14 days after emergence, and the 2nd batch, 10-14 days after the 1st. The 3rd batch was resorbed. Food consisted of algae, plankton and other organic materials mixed in mud. Adults lived 6-8 weeks in summer. The development of gonads and a parasitic nematode are described.
25082403|Paired metathoracic scent glands are present in the adults of all coreoid Heteroptera examined to date. The scent apparatus includes an external evaporative surface area that enhances scent dispersal, an ostiole surrounded by a peritreme unique to each species, a vestibular duct, a complex valve housing, an elastic reservoir, primary scent glands, and occasionally secondary glands. The scent complex is most highly developed in the Coreidae, less so in the Alydidae, and least so in the Rhopalidae. The evaporative surface area is a morphologically distinct kind of cuticle in each species and is composed of a field of "mushroom bodies," the patterns of which are also species-specific. The fine structure of the vestibular duct cuticle is unique and is composed of an alternating series of chainlike ridges and troughs. The vestibular duct is often supported by secondary cuticular struts. The valve includes the valve housing (the modified furca) and a lid formed by invagination of the reservoir arm. It is opened by a single valve-lifter muscle that forks at its insertion and terminates on the two thin valve lid sclerites. In the Coreidae and the Alydidae there is also a reservoir deflector muscle, which repositions the reservoir arm prior to scent discharge. The reservoir is a brightly pigmented sac that collects the scent prior to discharge. The secretion is synthesized by cells surrounding a ramifying cuticular collecting duct. The primary scent glands are extremely convoluted tubes, lined with a chitinous intima, that lead into a common collecting duct. Secondary glands of unknown function occur in some Coreidae but are absent from other Coreoidea. Supporting organs include a tracheal branch from the first abdominal trunk and one from the posterior thoracic trunk. The valve-lifter and reservoir deflector muscles are innervated by the ventral metathoracic nerve of the pterothoracic ventral ganglion.
25086155|A new species, Homidia ziguiensis, is described from Hubei Province, China. It is distinguishable from other species by a combination of three ciliate spines at the base of the dens, leaf like setae on the mentum, and a pair of macrochaetae (Ma) anterior to the median row on the fourth abdominal segment and having labial triangle setae
25085366|We observed males of Tachytes tricinctus (F.) in the vicinity of a nesting aggregation of females. Fourteen perched on prominent landmarks, from which they defended surrounding territories 1 m or less in diameter; others were not territorial, but circled low over the area. The territorial males were significantly larger than the non-territorial ones. The larger territorial males appeared to have a higher mating success. Territorial activity was confined to the hours of 0900-1200. Although frequency of territorial flights increased throughout this time period, competitive chases were significantly more frequent between 1000 and 1100 hr.
25084845|Conditions of social parasitism and nest site fragility have been suggested as selection agents promoting multiple-queening in social insects. However, data on L. longispinosus from three geographic sites coupled with results of direct experiments show no strong link between either factor and polygyny. Rather, competition for nest sites and overwintering survivorship appear to be more important. Thus secondary polygyny, as evidenced by this species, is quite distinct from the primary polygyny syndrome considered by most other studies.
25082380|Three species of the genus Prescottia, lobata (Van Duzee), brickiella Ball, and bicalcea DeLong, were treated by DeLong in 1941. A newly described species from Texas, selecta, is now placed in this genus and a new genus, Soleatus, is described for the Mexican species P. bicalcea DeLong.
41353881|To screen the composite components of the plant volatiles that effectively attract Batocera horsfieldi (Hope) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) adults, GC-MS (Gas Chromatography -Mass Spectrometry) was used to analyze and identify the type and relative content of the volatiles of the host plants of B. horsfieldi adults: Viburnum awabuki K., Betula luminfera H. Winkl, Juglans regia L. and Populus tomentosa Carr. We measured the EAG (Electroantennogram) responses of the different antennal segments of unmated female and male B. horsfieldi adults to seven host plant volatiles (-myrcene, (Z)-3-hexen-l-ol, nonanal, dichloromethyl ether, salicyaldehyde, 3-methyl-butanoic acid and trichloroethylene) and to their composite components. A Y-tube olfactometer was used to test the insects' behavioral responses. The results of GC-MS showed that the four host plants of B. horsfieldi had different chemical fingerprints. The EAG test results showed that the responses in the apical part of the unmated female and male B. horsfieldi antennae were stronger than those in the middle part and basal part (P < 0.01). For the seven volatiles, with five different concentrations (of 0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1 and 0.2 L/L), the unmated female B. horsfieldi had the strongest EAG responses to 3-methylbutyric acid of 0.0001 L/L and the unmated female and male B. horsfieldi had increasing EAG responses to salicyaldehyde after the concentration reached 0.1 L/L. Among the five composite components of plant volatiles, the one mixed according to a ratio of (Z)-3-hexen-l-ol: nonanal: trichloroethylene: -myrcene (Z:N:T:M) = 57:15:17:11 caused the strongest EAG response, and that response was distinctly higher than for the other four composite components (P < 0.01). The behavioral response results tested by Y-tube olfactometer were in accordance with the EAG response results. The composite component mixed according to the ratio of Z:N:T:M = 57:15:17:11 had a stronger attractive effect for the unmated female and male B. horsfieldi adults.
25086129|The morphology and behavior of many nocturnal arthropods render it difficult to create identifying marks on individuals that are visible and recognizable under natural conditions. Effective monitoring of organisms in their natural habitats is essential to understanding several aspects of population biology, ethology, and social interactions. Several marking techniques have been developed for both individual and mass mark-release-recapture studies. However, unique recognition of night-active individuals remains a problem. Here we present an apparatus and technique to accurately deposit fluorescent powders to create distinct marking patterns on small nocturnal arthropods. This system was evaluated using three genera of spiders (Achaearanea and Anelosimus: Theridiidae, and Pholcus: Pholcidae) and a pyralid moth (Achroia grisella: Pyralidae). Laboratory experiments were conducted to test the applicability of this marking device and method under controlled conditions, as well as test the effectiveness and efficiency of this device. The device was then used in the field on natural populations. This precision powder application device and marking technique allowed us to document behaviors and interactions that were not possible with other marking techniques. This technique provided a means of studying groups of organisms that have proven to be a challenge for researchers to effectively mark and monitor.
25083795|Adults and known larvae of the genus Adoxomyia are reviewed for America north of Mexico, and keys to species are presented. The subulata, lata, and argentata species groups are recognized. New species are: regularis James, Arizona and Durango, Mexico; tenuicornis James, Arizona; and marginata James, Arizona and Mexico. A. claripennis James is a junior synonym of argentata (Williston).
25084638|Females of several species of cockroaches exhibit specific "calling stances". Typically, the abdomen is lowered toward the substrate. In some species the genitalia are expanded and relaxed periodically. Both virgin and previously mated females (after parturition or egg deposition) assume "calling poses". In the field, females with protracted copulations (e.g., Xestoblatta) call during defined time intervals early in the night; females which copulate for shorter periods (e.g., Nyctibora) call later. Calling has been observed in three of the five cockroach families, and may be involved with the release of pheromones.
25086137|The nearctic species of the genera Cliorismia, Dichoglena, and Psilocephala are redescribed, including the description of one new species Cliorismia platyphallus. The inclusion of Cliorismia bussi (James) and C. platyphallus n. sp. expands the distribution of Cliorismia from the Palaearctic Region into the Nearctic Region. A key to the Nearctic species is provided along with maps of their distributions. Psilocephala latifrons Cole is synonomized under Dichoglena nigrina Krber, Psilocephala munda Loew is synonymized under Psilocephala vicina Walker.
25086410|Neopanorpa flavoferruginea Byers, new species, from western Java, is described and illustrated. A problem of homonymy is corrected by proposal of a replacement name, Neopanorpa simulans, nomen novum.
25084662|The genus Glyphuroplata Uhmann, 1940, is characterized for the four species recognized in North America. Hispa pluto Newman, 1841, is conclusively identified and transferred to the genus as a senior synomym of Glyphuroplata porcata (Melsheimer, 1847); Uroplata uniformis (Smith, 1885) is transferred to the genus; and one new species G. anisostenoides, is described. A key is provided to separate the North American species.
25086100|The number of ovarioles and the size and number of mature oocytes of apoid wasps are explored. New data are provided for 68 species in 39 genera, all species and 25 genera being studied for the first time. Eight species are cleptoparasites; three are considered to be pseudoparasitoids. Available literature data are considered. The number of ovarioles is 6 (3 per ovary) in most sphecids (including pseudoparasitoids), but 4 in most Oxybelus, and 8 in all cleptoparasites. It is hypothesized that the reduced number of ovarioles in Oxybelus is an adaptation to their prey-carrying mechanism (transporting the prey impaled on the sting). The increased number of ovarioles in cleptoparasites probably increases the number of eggs that a female can deposit, both during her lifetime and within a given short time period. This is probably an adaptation to the spatiotemporally limited resource of suitable host nests. The number of mature oocytes increases from nonparasitic to cleptoparasitic to pseudoparasitoid species. Also, parasitic sphecids tend to have smaller oocytes than nonparasitic species, which, however, is only ambiguously corroborated by the present study. Our observations agree well with the literature data, and remarkable similarities in the general pattern in ovariole and oocyte numbers could be detected, which were explained accordingly as adaptations to parental investment strategies.
25082408|A simplified method for construction of observation nests for burrowing bees, using glass and plastic tubing, is described.
25084331|Behavior of females and males in a small aggregation of Philanthus barbatus in Colorado is described. Nest entrances have conspicuous tumuli as well as 1 or 2 blind accessory burrows. Nests have up to 10 cells each and are provisioned primarily with Halictidae. Males establish territories adjacent to the nesting site and interact with intruding conspecifics as well as with other insects. Grass stems in the territory are scent-marked periodically.
25085151|Pollen harvesting rates were determined for honey bee foragers on flowers of Gossypium thurberi. Foragers visited 2.2-4.8 flowers/minute and collected 0.5-1.0 mg of pollen per minute. Pollen grains are 103-128 m in diam., moist and sticky, allowing the collection of 894-1778 grains/minute. Pollen collection time was not significantly different for bees that collected only pollen (0.9  0.1, SD, mg/minute) compared to nectar-foragers (0.8  0.2 mg/minute) that passively acquired, then packed pollen. These are apparently the first empirically derived pollen-collecting rates for A. mellifera on any angiosperm. Pollen collection in relation to floral morphological complexity and hidden pollen is also discussed.
25084943|Males of the bumblebee Bombus sonorus were found congregating at a nest site, presumably awaiting the emergence of virgin gynes. Males were uniquely marked and were observed over a 12 day period. Individual males differed consistently in either their temporal occurrence or their perching distances from the nest. Aggressive interactions were frequent and were an important determinant of male attendance and spacing at the nest.
25085441|Overwintering adult potato leafhoppers caged on branches of Rb-enhanced loblolly pine were found to contain high levels of Rb, suggesting the use of pines as host plants. Previously unreported, use of southern pines as both resting sites and hosts may represent a significant component of the overwintering ecology of this migrant crop pest.
25083781|Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois) has been recorded statewide in Missouri. Distribution of Adelphocoris lineolatus (Goeze), A. rapidus (Say), and Leptopterna dolobratus (L.) is shown by counties.
25084657|Between oviposition periods the queen of Melipona favosa rested at fixed places in the nest, away from areas of cell construction, and was active only shortly before the provisioning of a brood cell and ovipositing in it. She remained on the comb for only 18% of the total observation time. She performed typical wing beats and leg-passings over her body. This behavior may be of importance for the dispersal of pheromones. Trophallactic interactions with workers were always initiated by the begging of the queen, but only 1.8% of the solicitations were rewarded. Apparently, inefficient food soliciting behavior may have a communicative function. The queen always ingested food from a brood cell during the provisioning and oviposition process. This food consisted of larval food and/or worker-laid eggs.
25082635|The egg, 5 nymphal instars, and both brachypterous and macropterous adults of Martarega hondurensis Bare are described and illustrated. A key to the nymphs is given.
25082678|Rice weevils were treated by exposure to filter paper impregnated with pyrethrins in combination with piperonyl butoxide. Individual male and females from these exposures were mated to determine the effects of pyrethrin exposure on the number of progeny produced from such matings. The effect of the treatment, as measured by progeny production, was affected by the dosage of the insecticide received, the recovery and postexposure times of the treated weevils, the numbers of insects present, and the sexual condition of the insects both before and after treatment.
25085792|Gladiolus brevifolius, an autumn-flowering geophyte of the Cape Region of southern Africa, has pale pink flowers with a relatively short perianth tube containing sucrose-dominant nectar. Flowers are pollinated by a combination of long-tongued bees in the genera Amegilla and Allodape (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) and long-tongued flies in the genus Psilodera (Diptera: Acroceridae). Both male and female bees and flies carry dorsal deposits of the pollen of G. brevifolius on their heads and thoraxes. Female bees carried additional pollen of G. brevifolius in the scopae on the hind legs. Both bees and flies were observed to contact the stigmas of G. brevifolius while foraging for nectar. The two insects are similar in size, general appearance, and flying pattern, and in particular the abdomen of the fly appears to mimic the dark gray and white banding pattern of the bees. Mimesis of bees by flies appears most striking when insects forage for nectar on G. brevifolius, displaying their banded abdomens against the pale tepals. Field observations and pollen load analyses suggest that flies may also mimic the bees behaviorally because they forage on the same flowers including nectarless Bulbine favosa (Asphodelaceae).
25481817|Pitfall traps were used to determine diversity, seasonality, and numbers of burying beetles on the Konza Prairie Biological Station (KPBS) during the summers of 1997 and 1998. Traps were baited with either beef liver (1997) or whole mouse carcasses (1997 and 1998); significantly more carrion beetles were found in traps baited with carcasses. A total of 1003 carrion beetles, representing 8 species, were trapped over the course of 1556 trap nights. One of these species, Necrophila americana Linneaus, had not previously been recorded in Riley County. One additional species was found at sites where pitfall trap bait was discarded, bringing the total number of KPBS silphid species to 9. Bait age was an important determinant in attracting silphids to pitfall traps, as numbers of beetles in the trap continued to increase with bait age up to 6 days. Grassland topography (upland vs. lowland trap sites) significantly affected the numbers of carrion beetles trapped. Grassland burn history did not affect number of carrion beetles trapped, but did seem to influence species diversity.
25083839|Two new hosts, Scarites subterraneus and Harpalus caliginosus (Carabidae), are recorded for Echinomegistus wheeleri (Wasmann, 1903). Preening behavior, site preferences on the host, feeding, and reflex immobilization was observed.
25082327|Competitive foraging relationships between the species of caupolicanine bees are analysed and compared in different parts of their range in southeastern Arizona. The species involved, Ptiloglossa arizonensis, Pt. jonesi, and Caupolicana yarrowi, are primarily matinal in their nectar and pollen-collecting activities but also are active in the late afternoon. All three species are polylectic but apparently prefer the pollen of Solanum to that of other plants with fine pollen grains. Data presented suggest that Caupolicana yarrowi and Ptiloglossa jonesi can successfully compete with one another for Solanum pollen in the absence of Pt. arizonensis, but when the latter is present in numbers they are excluded from this pollen source and must turn to others. For purposes of discussion foraging periods of bees are defined as "matinal," "diurnal," "late afternoon," "crepuscular," and "nocturnal," based primarily upon the time of opening of the burrow and activity away from the nest site.
25082449|The North American biting midges comprising the Culicoides stonei Group are described and figured, and a key is presented for the separation of the females: C. stonei James from the southwestern states, C. mortivallis n. sp. from California, and C. werneri n. sp. from Arizona, California, Sonora, and Texas.
25084770|The effect of genetic differences between host trees on the morphology of the aphid Pemphigus populitransversus was studied by means of a natural experiment in the University of Michigan Botanical Gardens. Individual cottonwood trees (Populus deltoides), some native to Michigan, others close by originating from Mississippi and presumed to differe genetically, were parasitized by the same aphid population. By means of univariate and multivariate ANOVA, we detect host tree effects on morphology of galls, stem mothers, and alate progeny of stem mothers. Two patterns emerge. First, stem mothers and globular morph galls from Mississippi trees are larger than those from native Michigan trees. Second, the globular morph of P. populitransversus is more sensitive to host tree differences than is the elongate morph. These patterns, as well as the importance of host tree genetics with regard to existing patterns of geographic variation in these aphids, are discussed.
25568936|Anthidium manicatum (L.) is an adventive species of European origin first recorded in North America in the late 1960's; from that point until 2001 its range on the continent was restricted to the northeast-central USA and central Canada (Ontario, more recently Qubec). In 2005, this species was reported from Nova Scotia, a rapid and wide increase in its distribution. In this paper, we document a similar rapid spread of A. manicatum into western North America, including British Columbia and Idaho, and discuss the potential risks of this species in eastern Canada. In addition, the potential of DNA barcoding as a rapid and reliable means of recognizing adventive bee species is advocated.
25084672|Eucera palestinae is a ground-nesting solitary bee that lives in dense aggregations. Males emerge up to a week before females, and cruise in the nesting site. Upon emergence, a female is usually spotted by several males that compete aggressively to copulate with her. Soon after mating the females become unreceptive. Field experiments have demonstrated that although the initial attraction toward a female is by sight, a virgin female is also distinguished by her scent. Bioassays using tethered males that were scented with different female odors were conducted, recording the mounting attempts by cruising males upon the tethered male. Of all the extracts used, whole abdomens and especially the abdominal tergites most often induced mounting attempts by cruising males. The source of this sex attractant is thought to be small glands that are attached to the abdominal tergites.
25085057|Oscillations were observed in a biotype E greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), colony. An alternative method of culturing the greenbug which resulted in minimal physical disturbance of the greenbug was used. On Kentucky bluegrass, greenbugs grew slowly, the plants were injured less than on 'Piper' sudangrass, and the greenbug density fluctuations were less distinct.
25085174|The roles of temperature and photoperiod were investigated in infections of Entomophaga grylli pathotype 2 in Melanoplus differentialis. Separate and combined effects of temperature and photoperiod on percentage mortality, time to mortality, and proportion of resting spores of E. grylli pathotype 2 were studied. Percentage mortality was higher and time to mortality was shorter at 26.5C than at 14C, but temperature had no effect on the proportion of infective units in the form of resting spores. Neither photoperiod nor the temperature-photoperiod interaction had an effect on percentage mortality, time to mortality, or proportion of resting spores. Results supported the role of seasonal temperature variation on the timing of fungal epizootics in Kansas.
25082823|A new spider of the family Pholcidae is described and discussed.
25084351|Stator generalis occurs only in seeds of Enterolobium cyclocarpum (Mimosaceae) in a small area of central Panama. When presented with 43 collections of host seeds from Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Costa Rica and Panama, these bruchids were able to mature in seeds from all locations. Experimental life history data of S. generalis compared with life history data for three other species of Stator suggest that the specialized S. generalis is possibly less efficient in its host than generalized species of Stator are to theirs. This is contrary to current ecological theory which assumes that specialized herbivorous insects are more efficient in their hosts than are generalists.
25085412|The planthopper fauna of Paintbrush Prairie, Pettis County, Missouri, was surveyed twice monthly from spring through fall 1986, 1989, and 1990, and sporadically during the summers of 1987 and 1988. A total of 47 species representing 22 genera and 7 families was collected. These included 1 species of Achilidae, 5 species of Cixiidae, 27 species of Delphacidae, 2 species of Derbidae, 5 species of Dictyopharidae, 1 species of Fulgoridae, and 7 species of Issidae. Data were sufficient to examine the seasonal distribution of 15 species and determine host plant associations for 10 species.
25084734|Macropis immaculata Wu and M. omeiensis Wu are placed in the subgenus Sinomacropis along with M. hedini Alfken. A key to the species of Sinomacropis is given. The subgenus Paramacropis is recharacterized and the female of M. ussuriana (Popov), the only species of Paramacropis, is described for the first time. It is probably the sister group to all other Macropis.
20621962|A description of a new genus and species of braconid, Archephedrus stolamissus, from Early Cretaceous (Albian) amber from Moraza-Peacerrada I (Spain) is here provided. This is the first fossil Aphidiinae described in Cretaceous amber. The fossil has some typical characters of the subfamily but possesses a unique assemblage of characters among aphidiines, such as a fairly robust abdomen, with a more pronounced articulation between the first and second, instead of the second and third, metasomal segments, as well as several wing venational traits. The distribution of this and other aphidiine fossils, as well as their putative phylogenetic placement as basal among Aphidiinae, is discussed, supporting a Northern rather than Southern Hemisphere origin for the lineage.
25082509|A list of species and known castes, distribution map and keys to species of major workers, queens and males of Neivamyrmex from the United States are presented. Included are original descriptions of the worker and queen of Neivamyrmex texanus, n. sp., and the queen of N. californicus (Mayr); and a revised description of the male of N. nigrescens (Cresson). Distinctive characteristics, variations, and geographical records are given for the above three species.
20621963|Movement of soil by foraging subterranean termites is important from both an ecological (i.e., soil quality, nutrient cycling) and control standpoint. Previous studies indicated a positive relationship between proportions of sand in a substrate and termite tunneling rates. The purpose of this study was to evaluate tunneling and soil movement capabilities of Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar) in a no-choice test using field-collected soils comprised of different proportions of sand, silt, and clay. Results indicate that soil texture significantly influences both the rate of tunneling and amount of soil removed from foraging tubes. Termites tunneled at a significantly faster rate and excavated significantly more soil from foraging tubes packed with soil containing relatively higher proportions of sand. Soil texture had little effect on mortality or wood consumption. Soil movement capabilities of subterranean termites in a native tallgrass prairie habitat and the resulting impact on soil turnover in this unique ecosystem are discussed.
25083440|A procedure for collecting adults of H. pales and P. picivorus, using a radial disc cut from green pine material, is described.
25084386|The within-nest construction and provisioning behavior of Osmia (Chenosmia) bruneri is described. Incorporation of an abdominal secretion into the provision is hypothesized, and oviposition and the use of female body length to measure cell size are described. The subgenera Acanthosmioides, Nothosmia, Chenosmia and Monilosmia are compared, and discrepancies between nesting biologies and architectures, and phylogenetic relationships at the subgeneric level are pointed out.
25085848|The Nearctic species of subgenus Orthocladius (Eudactylocladius Thienemann) are revised, with reference to several Palaearctic named species. Orthocladius (Eudactylocladius) subletteorum n. sp. is described as new from adults previously misidentified as O. (E.) mixtus (Holmgren) from North America. The Holarctic O. (E.) gelidorum (Kieffer) and O. (E.) gelidus Kieffer and the exclusively Nearctic O. (E.) dubitatus Johannsen are described or redescribed in all stages. Holarctic O. (E.) olivaceus (Kieffer) is redescribed from the male, teneral female and pupa. Orthocladius nanseni Kieffer is proposed as a junior subjective synonym of O. (E.) gelidorum, and Dactylocladius longiseta as a junior subjective synonym of O. (E.) gelidus. Lectotypes are designated for Orthocladius gelidus Kieffer, 1992 and Dactylocladius gelidorum Kieffer, 1923. After examination of type material, Dactylocladius aurantiacus Kieffer, Dactylocladius griseipennis Kieffer, and Chironomus mixtus Holmgren are excluded from the subgenus Eudactylocladius. The ecology of species in the subgenus which ranges from the hygropetric to lentic and lotic habitats, is reviewed.
25481821|A systematic study of the chewing louse genus Ornithobius (Phthiraptera: Ischnocera: Philopteridae) was undertaken to identify several species found among the unidentified specimens in the K. C. Emerson Collection. The seven described species are reviewed, one species is placed in synonymy and two new species are described.
25082543|Resistance to penetration by larvae of the cadelle, Tenebroides mauritanicus (L.), was evaluated with blocks of 29 species of building woods. In the no-choice test, blocks of 10 of 18 hardwoods and 2 of 11 softwoods were free of injury or had only shallow chewings after 2 years' exposure to cadelle adults and larvae. The exposure jars with blocks of all 18 species of hardwoods contained 56 adult, and 49 larval cadelle, thirty of the adults and all of the larvae were in blocks of green ash and basswood. The exposure jars containing blocks of the 11 softwoods had 302 adult and 183 larval cadelle. Loblolly pine, bald cypress, western red cedar, and balsa blocks attracted 233 of the adults and all of the larvae. In the free-choice test, wood damage was restricted to the same woods damaged in the no-choice test.
25084781|The nesting biology of Osmia sanrafaelae Parker is described here for the first time. These solitary bees nested in cracks in soil banks and also used trap blocks. Bee nests were recovered from juniper-pinyon scrubland, washes, sand dunes, and desert flatlands. Data on nests, nest architecture, nest associates, mortality, sex ratio, and pollen provisions are presented and discussed. Information on the influence of numbers of cells/nest on sex ratio, mortality, and nest associates is given. The complex of nest associates differed spatially. High temperatures within nests made in 7.5  7.5  7.5 cm trap blocks may have been a factor in deaths of immature stages.
25085914|Partial DNA sequences of the mitochondrial 16S ribosomal RNA and NADH 1 dehydrogenase genes (831 bp) were determined for 7 species of the parasitic wasp genus Cotesia, including all three members of the Cotesia flavipes species complex. Cladistic analysis was used to infer a phylogenetic tree and examine the relationships among members of the C. flavipes complex. The DNA sequences were also used to determine the extent of sequence variation among members of the complex in order to evaluate the specific status of each of the three species. Unweighted parsimony analysis indicated that the C. flavipes complex is monophyletic and that C. chilonis and C. sesamiae are more closely related to each other with respect to C. flavipes. However, we were unable to confirm that C. chilonis and C. sesamiae are in fact separate species as only 1% sequence divergence was observed in a pairwise comparison of the DNA sequences for these two species. A list of potentially useful diagnostic characters is presented.
25085924|Although separated by only 8-12 km, Presque Isle State Park and Wintergreen Gorge Cemetery, both in Erie County, Pennsylvania, have dissimilar elevation, climate, soils, and vegetation. Nonetheless, 46 (72%) of the 64 species of Pompilidae observed and collected in this 35 year-long study probably inhabited both localities. Six species were confined to Wintergreen Gorge Cemetery and upland Erie County, and 12 mostly psammophilous species were restricted to Presque Isle State Park and the lake plain. Thirty (47%) of the 64 species, including the vast majority of large spider wasps, had a univoltine life cycle. The univoltine species had distinct vernal, mid-summer and late summer-early fall flight seasons. Fifteen species of Pompilidae emerged as early as May at Wintergreen Gorge Cemetery. Several ground-nesting, bi- and multivoltine species emerged two to three weeks later but flew for three to four weeks longer on the lake plain. Late October and early November adult pompilid activity at Presque Isle State Park was probably related to the high heat capacity of Lake Erie.
25084808|The larva of Ochrotrichia arizonica Denning and Blickle (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) is described, illustrated, and compared with those of other species. Rows of comb-like microspines on the head, thoracic nota, and legs are noted for the first time and may be diagnostic for O. arizonica. The male genitalia of an individual from an east-central Kansas population are illustrated and compared to the type of O. arizonica. The species is reported for the first time from eastern New Mexico and western and east-central Kansas; the Kansas record extends the known range eastward by about 1300 km.
25085467|The pine needle scales, Chionaspis pinifoliae (Fitch) and Chionaspis heterophyllae Cooley, are host to a number of primary and secondary hymenopterous parasitoids. Species components vary across North America, but trophic components are representative of a general model. This model includes three trophic levels: primary ectoparasitoids, primary endoparasitoids, and secondary ectoparasitoids of the primary endoparasitoids. Reported parasitoid complexes from five sites in North America are reviewed and trophic structure is discussed.
25084883|Adults of the wheat stem maggot, Meromyza americana Fitch, were reared from blasted seedheads of bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon var. dactylon (L.) Pers., in Garfield County, OK, in 1985. Damage has been noted since 1978. Bermudagrass is a new host record for this species.
25086327|Observations were made of Polistes dominulus Christ (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) on budding Paeonia lactiflora plants (Paeoniaceae). Y-tube and parallel tube olfactometer experiments were performed on field-collected queens and workers to determine if peony odor is attractive to P. dominulus. In Y-tube olfactometer experiments, the wasps showed a significant orientation response toward peony bud odor but they did not show a significant response toward peony foliage odor, when compared to the control. Peony bud volatiles were collected in an adsorbent trap and tested in a parallel tube olfactometer for attractiveness to P. dominulus females. The wasp took significantly less time to travel upwind in the peony bud volatile tube compared to the control tube. Chemicals that produce peony bud odor could serve as a feeding attractant lure for trapping P. dominulus.
41681219|In this paper I report first records for the invasive species, Polistes dominula (Christ), in Wyoming and western South Dakota, U.S.A. In addition, the early nesting success of this invasive species and the nest parameters in two native paper wasps, Polistes fuscatus (F.) and Mischocyttarus flavitarsis (de Saussure), are analyzed through a survey of nests, nesting locations, nest size and relative levels of parasitism in the northern Black Hills area and surrounding plains. Polistes dominula occurred predominantly in towns and at elevations below 4000 ft. Some collecting sites had high P. dominula population numbers, with heavy use of available nesting sites, water sources and other resources. This wasp attached its nests to horizontal, sloping and vertical surfaces and nested in unusual and exposed locations not observed in the native species. The distribution and successful nesting of M. flavitarsis was not impacted at this early stage of introduction, because it nests predominantly in forested areas at higher elevations. Polistes fuscatus nest numbers were lower than in previous years at collection sites. Their nests were more likely to be in an area with one or both of the other two species, and appeared at higher elevations in 2011 than previously found. While not found in M. flavitarsis nests, evidence of the ichneumon parasitoid, Pachysomoides fulvus, was found in 46% of P. fuscatus nests and 6% of P. dominula nests.
25083488|The life history of Peripsocus quadrifasciatus (Harris) was investigated. Included were observations on the egg stage, hatching, the number and morphological differences of nymphal instars, molting, parthenogenesis, mating, oviposition, and distribution.
25084538|Corn rootworm (Diabrotica spp.) beetles were collected in the late summer and fall from the blossoms of nine cultivars of four species of Cucurbita. Significantly more beetles of D. virgifera virgifera and D. barberi were found in the blossoms of C. maxima, particularly cv. Blue Hubbard. More females than males of D. v. virgifera and D. barberi were collected from all cultivars examined. It appeared that planting several cultivars of C. maxima would be ideal for collection of large numbers of corn rootworm beetles.
25082463|A major character of the new genus Lobus Martin (Diptera: Leptogastridae) is the lobos, a disclike to podlike structure formed by the coalescence of the hypandrium and basistyli. In Lobus either part or almost all of the aedeagal sheath coalesces dorsally with the elongate, podlike lobos. The hypandrial apodeme of the nominate subgenus, Lobus Lobus, is flat and more or less discoid, but it consists of a pair of spinelike apodemes in Lobus Nanilobus, new subgenus. The type-species of Lobus is Leptogaster pallipes Janssens. Eight species of Lobus Lobus range from west Africa to south India. The type-species of the new subgenus: Lobus (Nanilobus) himalayae Martin, north India; the subgenus contains a second species from New Guinea. New combinations are Lobus bicingulatus (= Leptogaster bicingulata Bezzi); Lobus pallipes (= Leptogaster pallipes E. Janssens); Lobus vindex (= Leptogaster vindex E. Janssens). New species described here are: Lobus (L.) janssensi; L. (L.) kenyae; L. (L.) liberiae; L. (L.) unilineatus; Lobus (Nanilobus) himalayae; L. (N.) guineae.
25086370|Differences between the two species of Lisotrigona [L. cacciae (Nurse) and L. furva Engel] known from Thailand are enumerated. The only consistent difference is size. The male of L. furva, hitherto unknown for the genus, is described and parts illustrated; the male genitalia are very unusual, clearly supporting generic rank for Lisotrigona.
43288782|E. dolichocerus Figueroa and Sanchez, new species of Eurytenes from Mexico is described and illustrated. A key to identify the described species o Eurytenes s. str. of the New World is included.
25084617|Nirmus eos Giebel is established as a valid species within the genus Neopsittaconirmus, with Cacatua roseicapilla, the Rose-breasted Cockatoo, the type-host. Both sexes of this louse species are described and illustrated.
25085342|The riparian desert tenebrionid beetle, Physadesmia globosa, was observed for 211 focal animal observation hr in the Namib Desert. No evidence could be found that the absolute availability of or ease with which females can be located is a limiting factor in the reproductive behavior of males of this species. However, fertilization appears to be a scarce event, and data are presented indicating that female beetles are seldom receptive. Courtship took place mostly in the afternoon. Prolonged mate-following and increased male movements in the late afternoon are attributed to the need to find a female that will be inactive, thus facilitating mating. This may result from the need for a prolonged period of time required for courtship before fertilization.
25084673|Citrus thrips (Scirtothrips citri (Moulton)) were found in large numbers during sampling of cotton (Gossypium hirsuttum L. 'Deltapine 61') in the Imperial Valley, California. Because citrus thrips had not been previously reported in cotton, and because another thrips species had recently been found to be an important spider mite predator in cotton, a study was conducted to determine if S. citri could develop on cotton and/or mite eggs. Results showed that development could occur on cotton leaves alone or on mite eggs alone. This is the first time predatory behavior has been reported for this species. However, in a choice test including both mite eggs and cotton leaves, few mite eggs were consumed, suggesting that S. citri is probably a minor predator with little impact on spider mite field populations.
25083006|A key for the identification of the immature stages of 24 of the 26 genera of Membracidae found in Missouri is presented. The genera Xantholobus Van Duzee and Helonica Ball were not available for study and are excluded. Illustrations of 5th instar immature membracids, and host plant records for 13 Missouri immature species, are listed.
25082348|The flightless alleculid genus Phedius Champion as it is known from the United States is redescribed and reviewed. A key for the separation of Phedius from Anamphidora Casey is provided. A key to species reported from the United States is given. Two species are reviewed and one, P. opaculus Horn, is recommended for removal from our check lists.
25082983|The following new Deltocephalinae taxa are described from Central America: Tenucephalus longicauda sp. n. (Panama), Dariena amabilis gen. et sp. n. (Panama), Caphodus panamensis sp. n. (Panama), Ollarianus comayagus sp. n. (Honduras) and O. uniformis sp. n. (Panama). Scaphytopius bolivianus Om., Thamnotettix lineiceps Osb., T. fuscipennis Osb., Tropicanus punctatus (Osb.) and Atanus lobatus (Osb.) from South America are redescribed.
25085226|An aggregation of adults of the ashgray blister beetle, Epicauta fabricii (LeConte), was censused repeatedly for activity on the legume Baptisia australis (L.) in the tallgrass prairie of eastern Kansas. The aggregation persisted for three weeks. Males were more abundant than females throughout the period of aggregation, although females gradually increased in relative abundance over the three-week period. Overall, only 5% of observations were of mating; mating activity was greatest in the early stages of aggregation. The two sexes were similar in the frequency of feeding and in the kinds of plant tissue on which they fed. During the first two weeks of aggregation, the beetles fed primarily on reproductive tissues; in the last week of aggregation, they fed primarily on leaves and stems. The timing of beetle tenure on the host plant was well-suited for consuming the large crop of developing young fruits. Voracious feeding by blister beetles greatly reduced host plant reproductive success; only 20% of the buds, flowers, and fruits present when the aggregation was initiated escaped consumption by the beetles. The seasonal timing of aggregations results in early-opening flowers (and associated fruits and seeds) of the host plant having the greatest chance of escaping destruction by the blister beetles.
25085977|The bean leaf beetle, Cerotoma trifurcata (Forster) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), is the major insect pest of soybean in Nebraska and throughout much of the midwestern United States. Natural enemies of the bean leaf beetle have been reported in other states, but none have been reported in Nebraska. In this study, bean leaf beetle adults were obtained by aspirating those found on soybean plants early in the season and by sweep net once plants were in the V4 stage (approximately 0.33 meter tall). Sampling was done in 1997 and 1998 in soybean fields at the University of Nebraska Agricultural Research and Development Center in Saunders County in east-central Nebraska. Beetles were taken to the laboratory and reared to monitor for parasitoid emergence or preserved in ethyl alcohol for later examination for external parasitic mites. Nine tachinid parasitoids emerged from nine of the beetles that were collected in 1997 and identified as Celatoria sp. (species undescribed) (Diptera: Tachinidae). Percentage of beetles infested with the parasitoid ranged from zero to 1.1. Ectoparasitic mites, identified as Trombidium hyperi Vercammen-Grandjean, Van Driesche, and Gyrisco (Acari: Trombidiidae), were found under the elytra on six of the preserved beetles from 1997 and 16 of the beetles from 1998. A total of 8 mites were found in 1997 and 55 were found in 1998. Percentage of beetles infested with the mites ranged from 0-4 in 1997 and from 0-40 in 1998. This is the first report of natural enemies of the bean leaf beetle from Nebraska. This information may be useful to those developing integrated pest management strategies for the bean leaf beetle in the future.
25085160|This study examined the possible interactions of pot size or fertility level with greenbug GB, Schizaphis graminum Rond., or Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia Mordvilko, feeding on 'Protor' spring wheat, Triticum aestivum L., seedlings for 7 days. Nearly identical three-factorial (pot size, fertility level, and aphid treatment) design experiments were conducted at two planting dates. No interactions were observed between pot size or fertility level and aphid treatment when experiments were analyzed separately. When experiments were combined over the two planting dates, the interaction of pot size  aphid treatment was significant at P = 0.05. This interaction, however, was not due to a change in rank among the aphid treatments. When combined over planting dates, plants infested with GB and RWA yielded 89 and 72% of the check, respectively. Average seed weights were 93 and 83% of the check, respectively. Pot size or fertility regime used in this study did not affect relative yield loss caused by aphids in the greenhouse. RWA can cause significantly more yield loss than GB to spring wheat infested at the seedling stage.
25084853|Samples of non-cultivated plants (composite family) were collected in southwestern Kansas during 1984 and examined for larvae of the sunflower moth, Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst). Of 14 different plant species collected, 7 species were infested with H. electellum larvae.
25085793|A rapid and nondestructive technique was developed to estimate the loss of chlorophyll in sorghum leaves caused by the feeding of greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). A SPAD-502 chlorophyll meter (Minolta Corporation, Ramsey, NJ) was used to measure chlorophyll content of uninfested and infested leaf areas. A SPAD Index was calculated by dividing chlorophyll loss (SPAD reading for uninfected tissue-SPAD reading for greenbug-infested tissue) by the SPAD reading for uninfested tissue. SPAD Index values theoretically could range from 0.0 (no loss of chlorophyll) to 1.0 (total loss of chlorophyll); the higher the index, the greater the proportional loss of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll loss increased as the feeding duration of the greenbugs increased, but did not increase further after seven days of feeding. Interestingly, tissue fed upon by greenbugs for only one day (greenbugs removed after one day of feeding), continued to lose chlorophyll each day for up to 22 days after removal of the feeding aphids. The likelihood of toxins, injected by feeding greenbugs, eliciting a continuing cascade of responses in the plant after removal of the aphids, is discussed.
25085593|The 288 described species of North American Microgastrinae are organized into a checklist based on the generic classification of Mason (1981) and on subsequent revisionary and nomenclatural studies. Some additional information is provided concerning undescribed species present in North America, as well as on significant changes in the classification.
25085768|An easily obtained and prepared artificial diet for rearing Monochamus carolinensis (Olivier) larvae in the laboratory is described. The diet uses the commercially available "painted lady culture medium" to which pine bark is added as a phagostimulant. The artificial diet method of rearing insects is useful when observation of life stage development is crucial for experimental protocols or for taxonomic studies. This artificial diet was also used to successfully rear three species of cerambycid larvae obtained from a dead oak stump.
25084179|Eggs and 1st, 2nd, and 3rd instar larvae of Nannobittacus elegans are described, and comparisons are made with known eggs and larvae of North American bittacids.
25085271|Several characteristics of tart cherry fruits (Prunus cerasus L.) were measured over two seasons in order to determine if such traits can be used to predict the onset of oviposition by the western cherry fruit fly, Rhagoletis indifferens Curran. In both years, infestation of fruit commenced when mean penetration resistance of the fruit skin declined below 14.5
25085649|Paracercopoides assamensis n. sp. is described and illustrated from Assam, India. A revised key to the three known species in Paracercopoides is provided.
25084769|Studies over a three year period reveal that female Bembecinus quinquespinosus form dense nesting aggregations in different sites each year; these sites are as much as 100 to 150 m apart. These movements may be a result of harassment by mate-seeking males, which compete vigorously for emerging females and occasionally injure them fatally. Within the general nesting area, females show a gradual shift in the space occupied, evidently because of the saturation of the soil with burrows. At night, early in the season, both males and females form dense clusters under rocks near the emergence site; later clusters of females only form near the new nesting site.
25085530|Neoperla hubbsi Ricker, a stonefly originally described in error from Kansas, USA, is redescribed from the holotype male and assigned to the montivaga-group on the basis of internal genitalic characters. The species is most similar to N. signatalis Banks and N. costalis Klapalek from Taiwan.
25084519|The external morphology and male genitalia of Acanthoscelides belize are described and the relationships of the species with other closely related Neotropical Acanthoscelides are discussed.
25085654|Although known for their long distance dispersal, euglossine bees are generally thought to be restricted to tropical habitats. We report the capture of a male Eulaema polychroma in the Sonoran desert near Tucson, Arizona, a distance over 550 km north of where this species had been previously collected. Biogeographic patterns based on this record and those for other tropically-distributed bees found in southern Arizona are discussed.
25084583|Permethrin, tetrachlorvinphos, and dichlorvos ear tags and permethrin ear tapes were applied to cattle suspected of having horn flies resistant to fenvalerate. Horn flies were controlled by permethrin tapes and dichlorvos tags, but not by permethrin or tetrachlorvinphos ear tags. Fenvalerate and tetrachlorvinphos ear tags gave ca. 70% control of horn flies 14 days after treatment on cattle that had not been treated with insecticides during 1983. It appears that horn flies in Kansas have become resistant to ear tags containing fenvalerate, permethrin and tetrachlorvinphos.
25084747|The United States and Mexican species of the genus Matigramma Grote and the new genus Acritogramma are characterized; six new species, aderces, adoceta, emmilta, inopinata, necopina, and repentina, are described in the genus Matigramma.
25082472|Empoasca dimorpha n. sp., in which the male is red and the female green, is described from Passiflora molisima from Pasto, Nario, in the highlands of southern Colombia.
25082355|The response of four army ant genera to interspecific trail pheromones suggests there are two components to which the ants respond: a general component acting as a stimulus to all army ants and an additional component that is genus or in some case species-specific. Army ant alarm pheromones were found to be somewhat more specific than alarm pheromones reported for other formicids. Eciton hamatum (Fabricius) queens did not deposit trail material that elicited trail-following behavior by conspecific workers.
25085918|Anthophora pilipes villosula, a Japanese solitary bee, was compared as a pollinator of lowbush blueberry, Vaccinium angustifolium, to a commercially reared colony of Bombus impatiens, in greenhouse flight cage studies. There were no significant differences between individuals of the two species for flower handling time, pollen deposition on stigmas, percentage fruit set, berry weight, berry diameter, and seeds per berry. Anthophora pilipes villosula unlike B. impatiens, has not been developed as a commercial pollinator of greenhouse crops, which suggests that its performance in the cooler, more humid lowbush blueberry fields might be superior.
25084737|In a large nesting aggregation of the digger wasp Clypeadon laticinctus, all (n = 18) marked females under observation provisioned their nests with ants captured outside the nesting area. However, at least three other nests were provisioned by unmarked wasps who repeatedly took ants from neighboring nests. Individuals varied in their ability to maintain possession of a nest and in the rate of bringing prey to the nest. Provisioning rate was proportional to body size. Although nests were not occupied by more than one wasp at a time, 25% of a sample of 29 nests changed ownership.
25085747|Phyllophaga (Listrochelus) cuicateca n. sp. is described from xeric scrubs of southern Puebla and northern Oaxaca, Mexico; it is included in the species group "mucorea". Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) izucarana n. sp. is described from the tropical deciduous forest of southern Puebla, Mexico; it is included in the species group "anodentata". Drawings of sclerotized genital structures of both species are included. /// Se describe Phyllophaga (Listrochelus) cuicateca n.sp. con base en diez ejemplares recolectados en matorrales xerfilos del sur de Puebla y norte de Oaxaca, Mxico; y se incluye en el grupo de especies "mucorea". Tambin se describe Phyllophaga (Phyllophaga) izucarana n. sp. con base en ocho ejemplares procedentes del bosque tropical caducifolio del sur de Puebla, Mxico y se incluye en el grupo de especies "anodentata". Se ilustran las partes esclerosadas de los rganos genitales de ambas especies.
25082492|Flights and swarms of the ant Formica obscuripes Forel are described. In Michigan flights take place during June, in the morning as the temperature rises to 69F. or above. A colony may have flights on 5 to 16 days. Swarms are of the ground type, in which females gather at a swarming area and stand on grasses, forbs, or bushes while males fly among the plants until they find the females and mating takes place. Swarming areas are maintained throughout the flying season and may be used from year to year.
25083608|Six new species are described, five from Panama and one from Costa Rica. These species belong to various species units, all of which are apparently restricted to a region extending from the southwestern United States to South America.
25085604|We used pitfall traps and flight intercept traps in a raspberry plantation and adjacent sites in eastern Canada, from early May through late October, in 1987, 1988 and 1989. We collected 11,140 Aleocharinae and 16,074 rove beetles of 181 other taxa including 49 Holarctic or immigrant species in North America. Gyrohypnus angustatus Stephens and Tachinus corticinus Grav. were the dominant epigean species in rows of old and young raspberry plantations. These two European species and 15 other taxa were captured each year and represented about 98% of the annual catch (excluding Aleocharinae) in raspberry rows. In spite of this apparent stability, epigean staphylinid assemblages in the raspberry plantation were variable because of the local population instability of several species. Many of the more common staphylinid species active at the soil surface in the raspberry plantation flew readily. Only a few Nearctic eurytopic species were abundant in this ecosystem disturbed by agricultural practices. We suggest that Nearctic specialist species of open sites are collected in smaller numbers in strongly disturbed Canadian agroecosystems, because of their weak migration flights. Otherwise, many common epigean or flying staphylinid species at a woods-field boundary and in an adjacent pine woods were generally Nearctic. We also observed sexual variation of dispersal power in seven abundant species collected by both methods.
25084249|We show that the social bees, Melipona quadrifasciata, produce a 1:1 ratio of diploid males and females by inbreeding, as is the case for Apis mellifera. However, the Apis diploid males are totally nonviable because the so-called cannibalism substance produced by their larvae leads the workers to destroy them. In contrast, Melipona quadrifasciata diploid males have normal viability during the developmental stage. The present study demonstrates that diploid males of Melipona quadrifasciata have maximum longevity of 17 days, as opposed to 30 days for the haploid males and 190 days for workers. We believe this occurence to be related to homozygosis of the
25082998|Protepeolus integer Linsley is synonymized with Protepeolus singularis Linsley and Michener. Structural and color variation is described in P. singularis, the only North American species of the genus. The range of P. singularis extends from Guatemala through Mexico to California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas. Isepeolus abnormis Jrgensen from Argentina is placed in Protepeolus. Diadasia is a host of P. singularis, and both host and parasite genera have similar distributions.
25084372|Late-instar larvae of the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner), were collected from two commercial cabbage fields 40.2 km (about 25 miles) apart in southeastern Missouri. Their progeny were tested for resistance to methomyl in the laboratory, using discs of treated collard leaf. The 2 strains from commercial fields were 8- and 10-fold more tolerant of methomyl than the susceptible laboratory strain. The nature of the resistance of these 2 strains is unknown.
25083576|The two novelties described bring to seven the number of species in the genus Blaena. All of them are restricted to Australia. Part of the key in the author's original (1960) paper on the genus is revised to encompass the two new species. Notes on certain previously described species are given.
25083495|The fleas Callistopsyllus terinus, Corrodopsylla curvata obtusata, Malaraeus euphorbi, Thrassis alpinus, T. pristinus, and T. stanfordi are reported from Montana for the first time. Collection data on Amphalius necopinus, Anomiopsyllus montanus, Chaetopsylla setosa, Corrodopsylla c. curvata, Ctenophthalmus pseudagyrtes, Ctenophyllus terribilis, Hystrichopsylla dippiei, Monopsyllus e. exilis, Nearctopsylla hyrtaci, Orchopeas leucopus, Phalacropsylla allos, Rhadinopsylla fraterna, R. s. sectilis, and Stenoponia americana from Montana are also presented.
25084142|This study presents the general internal morphology of the American aspen beetle, Gonioctena americana (Schaeffer). Results support the theory that G. americana is viviparous and does not feed during a major portion of its life cycle, spending this time in the forest litter.
25085326|An aggregation of the philanthine wasp Cerceris fumipennis Say was observed during nest-founding from March 25-31, 1989, at the Archbold Biological Station, Florida. Newly emerged wasps were individually marked and measured for head width. Observations of 35 nests over six daily activity periods revealed frequent nest switching and nest usurpation. Larger females displaced smaller females from their nests, and larger females maintained residence longer than smaller females. As a consequence, the average size of females holding a nest increased significantly during the nest-founding phase, but the average size of all females observed at the nest aggregation did not change during the same period. Size therefore predicts a female wasp's likelihood of acquiring and retaining a nest, suggesting that large females are competitively superior to small females during nest-founding. In some cases, two females appeared to share a nest, but did not provision simultaneously.
25085827|A revision of the genus Niptinus Fall is presented. Niptinus grandimaculatus is described as new and Trigonogenius niveus trinotatus Pic is elevated to specific status. Trigonogenius niveus Gorham and T. arcuatus Gorham are transferred to Niptinus raising the total number of species in this genus to six. The genus and all previously described species are redescribed and illustrations and a key are provided. The relationship of Niptinus to other closely related genera and the biology are discussed.
25084848|Information on the life cycle of Monochamus carolinensis (Olivier) on Scotch pine logs, Pinus sylvestris L., under field conditions in Missouri is presented. Immature stages develop entirely within the pine log. Eggs are deposited just beneath the bark. Early instar larval foraging occurs in the phloem-cambial region. After 3-4 weeks larvae bore into the xylem. The gallery consists of an S-shaped horizontal portion perpendicular to the axis of the tree, and a vertical portion parallel to the axis. Within the xylem, the gallery is kept free of frass and excelsior; larvae often return to the phloem-cambial region to feed and to express excelsior from the tunnel. Pupation occurs in the upper portion of the vertical gallery. Excelsior produced from excavation of the pupal chamber is used to plug the tunnel. Upon eclosion, the adult emerges by excavating a round hole through the bark. Those eggs oviposited before mid July develop to the adult stage in 8-12 weeks, whereas those eggs oviposited later overwinter in the larval stage.
25082707|A method employing metal labels and magnets was used to determine the foraging distances of Vespula pensylvanica workers. It was found about 80% of the workers foraged within 1100 feet of the nest. Foraging constancy and directions are discussed.
25084928|Two colonies of Polyergus lucidus were discovered in Athens, Georgia and observations were made of their activity for one season, providing the first information on the biology of this species in Georgia. The raiding parties of these two colonies were considerably larger and traveled greater distances than colonies observed in other parts of its range.
25083746|The three currently recognized species of the genus are redescribed and illustrated. Five new species are described from Brazilian parrots; these species and their type-hosts are aratingae from Aratinga aurea, auricapilli from Aratinga auricapillus, guimaraesi from Brotogeris tirica, maracanae from Ara maracana, and severae from Ara severa. A key is given to the species.
25085389|The cerambycid beetle Euderces picipes appears to mimic ants, and is also polymorphic. Black morphs predominate in the northern United States, and smaller red morphs predominate in the southern United States. In the transition zone both morphs can be found in copula on inflorescences. To determine whether the black and red populations differed genetically, red, black, and mixed populations were sampled in Illinois and analyzed electrophoretically for six enzyme encoding genes. To estimate typical interspecific levels of differentiation for comparison, populations of E. reichei, E. pini, and Cyrtophorus verrucosus were also analyzed. Populations of E. picipes show significant population structure, but no fixed difference or consistent pattern of association between morph and electrophoretic genotype was found. The red and black morphs may represent a simple genetic polymorphism.
25084905|The male of Anacroneuria comanche, n. sp., is described from Kendall Co., Texas and is compared with the closely related A. crenulata Jewett from Mexico. This report represents the first confirmed record of the genus Anacroneuria from Texas.
25082665|An investigation into the drift-ecology of the mayfly populations of the Brazos River, a Southwestern United States river, was conducted from April, 1972 to February, 1973. Bi-monthly drift samples were used to delineate the nocturnal periodicities and seasonal fluctuations of six species, three of which are new and as yet undescribed. Highest levels of behavioral drift, expressed in drift density units, occurred during the night of the summer sample dates. The drift of exuviae seems to be an accurate indicator of mayfly emergence in the Brazos River.
25082455|Data on the nesting behavior of the following species are presented: Cerceris fumipennis Say, C. echo Mickel, C. crotonella Viereck and Cockerell, C. r. robertsonii Fox, C. halone Banks, C. n. nigrescens Smith, C. atramontensis Banks, C. b. bicornuta Gurin, C. (Didesmus) binodis Spinola, and Eucerceris zonata (Say). The larva of E. zonata is described. It is concluded that all Cercerini are very similar in their nesting behavior but that host-specificity is marked, in many cases permitting several species to nest side-by-side without competing for limited food resources.
25086234|Previous authors have called attention to nest form variation between and within species of the Neotropical swarm-founding polistine wasp genus Parachartergus. One author characterized nests oriented horizontally and having the nest comb petiole central and in-line with nest cells as anomalous, and he suggested that anomalous nests constrain colonies from successful reproduction. We report two distinct nest forms of Parachartergus amazonensis (Ducke), one of which was oriented primarily horizontally and one only vertically, from a single locality in Peru. Horizontal and vertical nests, with corresponding difference in orientation of nest comb petioles, have additionally been observed in P. fulgidipennis (de Saussure) in Peru and Brazil and P. griseus (Fox) in Brazil and French Guiana. Nest orientation and comb petiole placement in these Parachartergus species may reflect a labile trait that is variably expressed as a function of availability of suitable nest sites. "Anomalous" nests may not constrain colonies from successful reproduction.
41681232|Neochlamisus gibbosus (Fabricius) is a common leaf beetle in eastern and central North America (Karren, 1972). We provide detailed illustrated descriptions of each life stage based on field studies of a population on its host plant, Rubus laudatus Berger (Rosaceae), in Kansas, U.S.A. We found some previous diagnostic characters and some new ones can diagnose the species. We report two hymenopteran parasitoids, Cottura sp. (Chalcididae) and Testrastichus sp. (Eulophidae), and one unidentified mite species on the juvenile defensive fecal case. Chemical analysis of the fecal case and host plant found little overlap in chemicals, suggesting that the beetles are manufacturing their own chemicals.
41353876|This paper documents the predation of Centris muralis by Zaedyus pichiy. It presents the first detailed observations of the predation of solitary bee nests by a mammal in soils and reports the alternative use of soil mounds as a nesting site by Centris muralis.
25083854|There are 5 genera and 144 species of New World army ants (Ecitoninae). Colonies typically have a single queen, a fact most easily documented by observing emigrations or by removing the queen and finding the resulting backtracking columns the following day. All available information indicates all species have monogynous colonies except for those of Neivamyrmex carolinensis which regularly have 3-13 queens. The multiple queens within each colony have their reproductive cycles largely synchronized, but oviposition and the consequent brood have a greater range in age than in colonies of army ants having a single queen. Polygyny may be primarily an adaptation for colony survival, since a colony without a brood of reproductives cannot replace a queen that dies. Polygyny may be more important for N. carolinensis than for other army ant species because this species is subterranean in all its activities and lives in a marginal and poor habitat for the survival of an army-ant species. Monogyny is advantageous for most army ants because it permits a greater degree of control or synchrony of reproduction and worker activity than does polygyny.
25083046|Soybean plots were established on the Iowa State University Ross Farm 2 mi NW of Ames, IA. Painted lady larvae were artificially infested into the soybean plots and treated with selected rates of Seven 80S. The insecticide was evaluated for its effectiveness in controlling the larvae. Data collected at 48 h post-treatment showed that Sevin effectively reduced larval numbers and subsequent feeding at application rates of 1.0 and 2.0 lb AI/a.
25085125|The hypothesis of fecundity advantages for large females was tested in one of the northernmost populations of the digger wasp Bembix rostrata during a 4 year study in Sweden. In this K-selected species, females normally produce a maximum of four to five unicellular nests during their lifetime. In 2 out of 4 years, larger females needed longer time to complete a nest than smaller females. In addition, larger females were not found to live longer than smaller females, indicating that female body size in some years is negatively correlated with fecundity.
25084512|Hylaeus bisinuatus Forster was induced to nest in glass tubes inserted into observation boxes where its nesting biology was studied under greenhouse conditions. Results of these observations yielded detailed descriptions of nest architecture, cell construction, cell provisioning, egg deposition, embryogenesis, hatching, and immature development. Daily and seasonal activities are also discussed. An embryological feature of Hylaeus (90 rotation of the late embryo) was discovered and associated with hatching strategies and the side position taken by developing immatures on their provisions. Comparisons with other colletid bees, etc., demonstrated that representative genera of the five subfamilies of the Colletidae also exhibit this characteristic. This derived embryological phenomenon has not been reported elsewhere in the Apoidea or Hymenoptera and may indicate a monophyletic origin of the family Colletidae as presently understood.
41353877|Traps baited with sex pheromone lures for the noctuid moths Chrysodeixis chalcites (Esper) and Feltia jaculifera (Guene) captured males of the confamilial moth Fishia yosemitae (Grote). These lures were a mixture of (Z)-7-dodecenyl acetate (Z7-12Ac) and (Z)-9-tetradecenyl acetate (Z9-14Ac). When these chemicals were tested as lures in traps, separately and together, F. yosemitae males were not captured in traps baited with Z7-12Ac alone, or Z-14Ac alone, but were consistently captured in traps baited with a one to one mixture of the two chemicals. In three field tests, male F. yosemitae were trapped in late September and early October. This moth is not an agricultural pest, but may be captured in traps used to detect or monitor several important armyworm, cutworm, and looper pests of agricultural crops, interfering with the monitoring of those pests.
25085348|Life histories for the trichopteran species Agapetus illini, Chimarra aterrima, C. obscura, Helicopsyche limnella, Polycentropus centralis, and Wormaldia moesta were estimated by determining the seasonal occurrence and relative abundance of larval instars and pupae, and from adult collections. Head capsule width measurements revealed that all of the species had five larval instars. Agapetus illini and W. moesta were univoltine, but bivoltine life histories with overlapping generations were observed for C. aterrima, C. obscura, H. limnella, and P. centralis. Adults of bivoltine species were prevalent from early spring through late autumn, and larval recruitment from reproduction occurred throughout adult flight periods. Adults of univoltine species (A. illini and W. moesta) were collected only during May. Bivoltinism appears to be a common life-history pattern in warmwater streams of southern latitudes in North America.
25084870|The chrysidid subfamily Parnopinae is examined. Reevaluation of Isadelphia indicates that this group should be retained as a separate genus. Parnopes is divided into two subgenera: Parnopes and Cephaloparnops, and species groups are erected for Parnopes in the strict sense. A key to species of Isadelphia and Parnopes is given, along with new synonymies for Parnopes festivus Fabricius (=smaragdula F. Smith), popovi Eversmann (=sinensis F. Smith), vareillesi Buysson (=abruptus Semenov, medus Semenov, incuratus Panfilov), denticulatus Spinola (=pallidispinosus Walker, nitolica Morice) and schmiedecknechti Mocsary (=zarudniana Semenov), replacement name for festivus Cockerell, 1894 (=desertorum) nec festivus Fabricius, 1793, and description of the new species bajaensis.
25085721|A new species of bee, Hesperapis oraria Snelling and Stage (Hymenoptera: Melittidae), is described here. It is the only species of Hesperapis known to occur in eastern North America; known populations of H. oraria are restricted to the dune fields of barrier islands and coastal margins of the northern Gulf of Mexico. Throughout its range, females of this oligolectic species visit only flowers of Balduina angustifolia (Asteraceae) for pollen and nectar. Males visit these flowers for nectar and possibly to search for potential mates. No candidate cleptoparasites have been found. Additional bee genera of desert or neotropical origin are also represented by one or several species whose ranges are confined to the coastal plain of the southeastern U.S.
25085247|Parasitoids reared from Ecdytolopha insiticiana Zell., collected from a black locust plantation (Robinia pseudoacacia L.) established on a coal surface-mine reclamation site in southeastern Kentucky, included Hypomicrogaster ecdytolophae (Muesebeck) (Braconidae), Agrypon sp., Campoplex sp. (Ichneumonidae), and Leskiella brevirostris James (Tachinidae). H. ecdytolophae was found to be a gregarious endoparasitoid that emerged from the final instar host after cocoon formation and pupated within individual silken cocoons attached to the host cuticle. Agrypon sp. was found as a solitary endoparasitoid that pupated within the pupal cuticle of the host. Campoplex sp. was found as a solitary endoparasitoid that constructed a cocoon within the host cocoon after devouring the remains of the final larval instar. L. brevirostris was found as a solitary parasitoid that formed a puparium within the final larval host cuticle.
25083824|The new genus Coilopus is delimited, and two new species, C. vellus (type) and C. crabrus, are described. Keys for separating Coilopus from Notocyrtus Burmeister and for separating the two new species are supplied.
25082711|Because of an unfortunate type selection, the type species of the genera Ochrostomus and Craspeduchus are congeneric. Craspeduchus is selected as the senior synonym. Most of the species formerly placed in Ochrostomus are transferred to Ochrimnus, while O. pyrrhopterus and O. p. melanopleurus are transferred to Melanopleurus. Several species of Ochrostomus remain unplaced. A key to the genera of Lygaeinae north of Mexico is provided.
25085386|Two susceptible winter wheat cultivars ('Arapahoe' and 'TAM 107'), a susceptible triticale ('Newcale') and a resistant winter wheat ('PI372129') were planted on sequential dates, vernalized and grown to various growth stages. In addition, equivalent growth stages of the spring grains, 'Ogle' oats and 'Hazen' barley, were established along with a pre-vernalized stage of the winter cultivars. Four growth stages, 2-3 leaf (non-vernalized), early tillering (ca. 4 days post-vernalization), late tillering (4-6 weeks post-vernalization), and early heading (7-9 weeks post-vernalization) were infested simultaneously with Russian wheat aphids and reproduction rates on the various cultivars determined.Significant differences occurred for aphid production and damage between the two spring grains. However, plant growth stage differences within each spring grain were found only for damage ratings. Reduced damage ratings for the 'Hazen' barley during the reproductive stage resulted in a significant cultivar by stage interaction. For the four winter small grains tested, the main effects of cultivars and plant growth stage were significant for aphid reproduction and plant damage. Russian wheat aphid reproduction and plant damage were greater on the susceptible cultivars. However, a sharp decrease in aphid reproduction on 'PI372129' and increase in reproduction on the susceptible cultivars for the early postvernalization stage resulted in a significant comparison within the cultivar by growth stage interaction. A significant cultivar by growth stage interaction also occurred for damage, due to a decrease in damage rating for the susceptible cultivars for plants in the reproductive stages as compared to the vegetative stages. The results of this study indicate a significant potential for reproductive rate differences between cultivars and plant growth stages within cultivars.
25084020|The life history and larval feeding habits of Eurosta elsa Daecke and E. reticulata Snow, 2 species of goldenrod-infesting Tephritidae, were studied in northeastern Ohio. Solidago juncea Aiton served as the larval host of E. elsa, and S. juncea and S. sempervirens L. were host plants of E. reticulata. Females of E. elsa oviposit into young goldenrod shoots during September. Overwintering occurs primarily as second-stage larvae within rhizome galls. Larval development continues in the spring. Pupation occurs in the galls during August, and adults emerge approximately 20 days later. In contrast, females of E. reticulata typically emerge in late May and early June and place eggs in immature stem buds occurring at or near the soil surface. Larvae subsequently form crown galls. Overwintering occurs either as third-stage larvae or as pupae. Descriptions and illustrations are presented for the egg, 3 larval instars, and puparium of E. elsa; and for the second and third instars and puparium of E. reticulata. A key is given to the mature larvae of 4 species of Eurosta, E. comma (Wiedemann), E. elsa, E. reticulata and E. solidaginis (Fitch), that are known to form galls on goldenrod.
25086041|Many non-target lepidopteran species are potentially at risk from transgenic corn tissues (i.e., pollen and anthers) expressing a Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner derived toxin, however, risk assessment data is currently lacking for most species. A laboratory experiment examining the effect of transgenic Bt corn tissue on Euchatias egle Drury (Lepidoptera: Arctiidae) showed no larval mortality following a 48-hour exposure to Bt corn tissues on its food source, Asclepias syriaca (Asclepiadacea). Two Bt corn events were used; 176, which expressed 1.60 g Bt/g of pollen and anther tissue; and Bt11, which expressed 0.39 g Bt/g pollen and anther tissue. One of 15 larvae exposed to non-Bt corn tissue died compared to no mortality of the larvae exposed to either Bt11 or 176 Bt corn tissues. Based on these results it appears that E. egle will not be adversely affected by the wide-scale planting of Bt corn.
25085878|The patterns of various physiochemical factors (pH, osmolality,
25085254|Twenty-five sunflower fields were sampled in eastern South Dakota to determine the composition of arthropod predators during bloom. In addition, the seasonal occurrences of Orius insidiosus (Say), Nabis spp., Chrysopa spp. and a coccinellid complex were monitored in 1982. Forty foliage and ground-dwelling predator taxa were recorded with O. insidiosus, Nabis spp., Chrysopa spp. and a complex of four species of coccinellid beetles comprising 78% of the foliage-dwelling predators. All but one of the captured ground-dwelling predators were carabid beetles, with Harpalus erraticus Say comprising 60% of the beetles. O. insidiosus and Nabis spp. numbers increased up to sunflower bloom, Chrysopa spp. exhibited two population peaks, and coccinellid populations declined before sunflower bloom occurred.
25084395|Sympatric populations of two types of Hyphantria cunea (Drury) were monitored with blacklight traps coupled with field observations of larval colonies in central Kentucky during 1980 and 1981. Starch gel electrophoresis of larvae confirmed that -esterase was diagnostic in distinguishing red-headed and black-headed larvae from known inbred populations. Furthermore, -esterase was also diagnostic for adults. Best results with adults were obtained, however, by using a LiOH-boric acid and tris-citrate buffer system instead of the tris-citrate buffer used for larvae. When this system was used to diagnose 79 moths of unknown type of H. cunea captured in blacklight traps, only black-headed type adults were positively identified, while no adults were diagnosed as red-headed type.
25084199|Field-collected fourth instar larvae and laboratory-reared pupae of Haplorhynchites aeneus (Boheman) are described and illustrated.
25084805|Induction of early Erynia epizootics using a harvest date selected to coincide with first incidence of the pathogen was evaluated. Standard IPM scouting procedures were used to sample the fields and standard agronomic practices and equipment were used to manage them. The results showed that the first incidence of Erynia was within one day of that predicted and that a harvest on the predicted date resulted in an earlier and more intense epizootic than that seen in a field distant from the study site. Adjacent control plots were contaminated by this epizootic resulting in an intermediate response. Data taken from the Kentucky IPM program indicated that this technique could have been potentially useful to Kentucky farmers during 1983 even though climatically-repressed weevil populations could not support natural epizootics. The original expectation that windrow microclimate would enhance epizootic development was not demonstrated but stress on the insect host was suspected as being an important contributing factor. These speculations suggest that this technique may be more flexible than originally thought.
25084074|Changes in volume and weight of insect eggs during development are generally associated with the absorption of water. The role of varying temperature and relative humidity on the development of 48-hour and 72-hour-old eggs of Diplonychus sp. has been studied. Results reveal that the percentage of water loss is higher at 38C than at 28C and it has been observed to be more significant in 48 hour old eggs than in 72 hour old eggs in which the loss is gradual. Further, when exposed to the varying humidity conditions, the 48 hour old eggs show a greater decline in water content. The variation in the percentage of water loss in the different stages of development in relation to temperature and humidity is correlated with the physiology of the developing process of the eggs.
25085521|Eight greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), (Homoptera: Aphididae) biotypes B, C, E, F, G, H and I, plus proposed biotype J (collected in Idaho) were tested for two damage characteristics on seedlings of seven wheat and two barley entries. The two forms of damage recorded were: feeding lesions (necrotic lesions, chlorotic spots or no spots at all) on leaves, which appeared during the first week after infestation, and the killing of plants by the 18th day after infestation. Combinations of both types of characters for the wheat and barley entries provided a unique damage pattern for each biotype. Wheat plants were killed only in those cases where greenbugs made necrotic lesions on leaves. The Idaho collected greenbugs (J) appeared to be a new unique biotype because they did not produce necrotic lesions in any wheat and barley entries tested, however they were the only greenbugs in these tests which killed resistant POST barley in the time specified.
25082317|Populations of adult and larval Chironomidae (Insecta: Diptera) were determined periodically in Beaver Reservoir, an artificial impoundment, over a period of one year. Population levels were associated with water depth, temperature, oxygen content, substrate type, and submerged terrestrial vegetation. About 65 species of chironomids in three subfamilies were involved. Larval populations of the various species varied from trace levels to well over 1,000 per square meter. In general, highest populations were found near shore, from 0 to 6 m in depth. Two species were taken at 30 m, the maximum depth sampled. Submerged terrestrial vegetation and decaying plant debris favored populations of certain species. The eventual disappearance of such material is expected to exclude some of these from the reservoir. Low-level, transient populations of species evidently not well adapted to conditions in the reservoir were apparently due to influx from spring-fed streams.
25481822|The new genus Oculomenopon is described to include the single new species, O. melampittae, with the type host being the Lesser Melampitta, Melampitta lugubris (Passeriformes: Genera Incertae Sedis), from New Guinea.
25083515|Neocorynura fumipennis is active throughout the year, there being no important seasonal differences in activity except that nests are deeper in the dry season. The species is nonsocial; although nests may be in aggregations, there is normally only one adult female in each. Hence there are no female castes and the mother probably usually dies before her progeny emerge as adults. Females defend their nests with their jaws but do not turn and block the entrances with their abdomens as do most halictines. Over 1.5 times as many females as males are produced and mating probably occurs near the nests. Nests are constructed in moist earthen banks and consist of a short burrow leading to a chamber in which a cell cluster is supported by rootlets or pillars. The number of cells in a finished cluster averages five. The cells are commonly vertical but vary to horizontal even in a single cluster. The cell cluster is built from particles of earth probably removed from the walls of the chamber. Each cell is completed and sealed before the next is begun. Nests and cells are re-used, probably repeatedly. A blind burrow extending beyond the chamber is usually absent. Nests of two other Costa Rican Neocorynura were examined. They do not differ in major features from those of N. fumipennis or the Brazilian N. polybioides.
25086396|Five new species of the leptonyx gorup of genus Exallonyx from China are described: Exallonyx concavus Xu, He et Liu, n. sp., from Shaanxi, Huoditang; E. planus Xu, He et Liu, n. sp., from Guizhou, Fanjingshan; E. areolatus Xu, He et Liu, n. sp., from Zhejiang, Tianmushan; E. longimalus Xu, He et Liu, n. sp., from Guizhou, Fanjinshan; E. wuae Xu, He et Liu, n. sp., from Zhejiang, Qingyuan.
25082640|The status of the nominal western species closely related to Odontomyia arcuata and O. inaequalis is discussed and a key is presented for their separation. O. communis James is reduced to subspecific rank (new status) under inaequalis, and O. alticola James and O. occidentalis James are reduced to subspecific rank (new status) under arcuata. O. inaequalis continua is described as new.
25084015|Worker honey bees (Apis mellifera) were observed stealing pollen from the scopae of Diadasia enavata and Halictus ligatus on sunflowers. Halictus also rarely stripped pollen from Diadasia scopae. Conditions of occurrence and ramifications of this phenomenon, called cleptolecty, are discussed.
25082967|A new species of anoetid, Histiostoma formosana sp.n., associated with the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki is described. All stages except the male were found. The mite was successfully reared on decaying, moist Beck's wax moth medium.
25083590|Eight species are discussed, of which three are new: Stylogaster nigricoxa (Panama and Costa Rica), S. murielae (Ecuador), S. rettenmeyeri (Costa Rica). The females of S. decorata and S. bequaerti were previously unknown. Specimens of S. biannulata from Mexico were found with Stylogaster eggs of the same species deposited on them.
25083979|Adult black vine weevils, Otiorhynchus sulcatus (F.) were fed 3 concentrations of diflubenzuron (0.05, 0.025, and 0.013 g AI/liter) sprayed on the foliage of yews, Taxus media Rehder. Fecundity of those insects exposed to diflubenzuron was reduced 15-81% compared to that of insects fed nontreated foliage. Reduction of fecundity was caused by decreased oviposition and egg viability. Diflubenzuron did not affect adult longevity.
25084746|The black flies (Diptera: Simuliidae) and associated water quality indicators were sampled over a 2-year period from the Big Piney River and other areas of southern Missouri. A total of 14 black fly species was identified; of these, 9 are new records for the state. Five species comprised 99% of the total black flies collected: Prosimulium magnum Dyar and Shannon, Simulium vittatum Zetterstedt, S. tuberosum (Lundstrom), S. jenningsi Malloch and S. luggeri Nicholson and Mickel. Of the water quality measurements, temperature appeared to be a factor influencing the distribution and abundance of black fly species in this study. In addition, substrate and water depth were important in constituting adequate black fly larval habitat.
25082764|Sex ratios of whole broods of Copidosoma truncatellum (Dalman), a polyembryonic hymenopteran parasite of the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner), were each different from the others (P &lt; 0.05) at 5 constant temperatures. However, these differences were subtle (mean ca. 13.3% males and 86.7% females). Males show a weakness in that they not only occur in significantly fewer numbers than females, but that mortality of males is greater than that of the females at all temperatures except 20.2C. Females predominated in all but 9 of 212 mixed broods (containing both sexes). Brood maximum was (2423.8  475.3) at 23.5  0.7C.
25086194|A new species of the fossil genus Martynovia is described and figured from a specimen retrieved from the Lower Permian Midco Insect Beds of Noble County, Oklahoma. Martynovia halli, new species, most closely resembles the Elmo (Dickinson County), Kansas species, M. protohymenoides Tillyard, 1932, from which it is differentiated by wing shape and venational characters. Representatives of the fossil family Martynoviidae (Insecta: Diaphanotperodea) are quite rare in the fossil record, and are known only from the Wellington Formation of Kansas and Oklahoma in the U.S.A. and from the Permian deposits of the Lodve Basin in southern France.
25085713|To facilitate future comparative studies among halictid bees, we review social behavior and nest architecture for 21 species of Nomiinae (Halictidae). Nothing is known of the biology of the vast majority of named species. Approximately half of the species consist of solitary bees, and half consist of females which live within social groups. Social organization varies among species, but there is insufficient information to assess whether it also varies within species. All nomiines nest in the ground, and nest architecture is variable within the subfamily. Architectural characters may provide some useful information for taxonomic and systematic purposes.
25086296|Male courtship during copulation is common in insects and spiders, and presumably serves to induce the female to fertilize her eggs with the male's sperm. Fragmentary observations indicate that in Ditemnus acantholobus, typical male and female roles are reversed. The female courts vigorously and persistently during copulation while keeping one portion of the male's highly modified pronotum inside her buccal cavity. I propose that female copulatory courtship in this species functions to induce the male to provide material from his pronotum for the female to ingest, and that the species-specific modifications of the male pronotum are courtship devices.
25085548|Parental male burying beetles, Nicrophorus spp. (Coleoptera: Silphidae), are presented with a dilemma when conspecific females intrude on their nests. Although these females provide males with additional mating opportunities, they also pose a threat to the survival of the male's brood. In order to examine the sexual response of parental males to females that intrude on their nests, I added virgin female beetles to the nests of conspecific pairs that had already started caring for eggs. Half of the females were inseminated by parental males in trials using N. orbicollis, but none were inseminated in similar trials with a congener, N. pustulatus. Some possible reasons to account for this difference are discussed.
43288785|Rove beetles (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) have been reported as predators of animal and human disease vectors and of insect pests associated with field and greenhouse crops including species in the genera Aleochara, Holobus, Paederus, Dalotia, Staphylinus and Philonthus; however, there is limited information on their life history parameters. The rove beetle Dalotia coriaria (Kraatz) is a predator of greenhouse pests including fungus gnats. In this study, stage-specific and total development, fecundity, longevity, and sex ratio were investigated under laboratory conditions using growing medium as a substrate, which was designed to simulate what rove beetles would experience under greenhouse conditions. Duration of life stages was 2.2, 7.1, and 7.8 days for egg, larva and pupa respectively, whereas total development time from egg to adult was 17.0 days. Average fecundity was 90.2 eggs per female and the number of adults produced per female was 69.1. In addition, D. coriaria male and female adult longevity was 60.3 and 47.8 days. The sex ratio was 1: 1 (females: males). These results will be helpful in improving augmentative biological control and mass-rearing.
25084168|Observations were made and experiments conducted to ascertain if the specialized squash bee, P. pruinosa, is superior to the honey bee as a pollinator of summer squash. Three parameters contributing to pollination efficiency are: the number of visits necessary to achieve pollination, the preference of the bees for staminate or pistillate flowers, and the average time spent foraging on a flower. Results of bagging and controlled-visit experiments showed that individual visits to pistillate flowers by each species were equivalent. Honey bees displayed a significant preference for pistillate flowers; squash bees preferred male flowers. Squash bees worked the flowers more rapidly than did honey bees. When all parameters are considered, there appears to be little difference between the species as pollinators of squash. Where squash bee populations are strong, the use of honey bee colonies is superfluous. In this study most pollination was accomplished by squash bees before honey bees appeared in numbers on the planting.
25085416|This study determined the rate of mortality in western corn rootworm eggs exposed to different low temperatures for up to 14 weeks. Eggs from a laboratory colony of the western corn rootworm were placed in the field in August to experience the same soil temperatures as feral eggs. In November they were brought into the laboratory and subjected to temperatures of 0, -5, or -7.5C for specific durations. Percent egg hatch declined as temperature decreased and duration at reduced temperature increased. This relationship was described by the equation HATCH = 81.017 + 2.744*TP + 1.078*TP*TM (
25085585|The male genital stylus of a southern Ohio population of Merope tuber is dimorphic in the length in both of its segments. This dimorphism is not paralleled in their overall size as indicated by fore wing length nor is it apparent in the females. The styli are positively allometric, resulting in conspicuous differences between the smallest and largest males. The precise function of the styli and the proximate and ultimate causes of the dimorphism are unknown.
25086048|A new species Pseudosinella caoi from Guilin, China, is described here. It shares many characteristics with P. biunguiculata Ellis including the head chaetotaxy, chaetotaxy of the second abdominal segments, club-like setae of the tibiotarsus and smooth setae on the dorsum of the manubrium; however, this species differs in its unguis structure, the number of outstanding inner macrochaetae of tibiotarsus, number of median fourth abdominal macrochaetae and other features.
25085615|Thirty-one species of grasshoppers were collected in either winter wheat or adjacent rangeland/CRP, at ten study sites for three years. Eighteen species were collected in winter wheat fields while 29 species were collected in adjacent reseeded native rangeland or newly seeded Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) land, seeded to crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn. and alfalfa Medicago sativa L.). In native rangeland these two species were reseeded into Stipa comata Trin. and Rupr., Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K). habitat. Melanoplus sanguinipes, M. bivittatus, and M. packardii, pest species of crops and rangeland in the Northern Great Plains, were the predominant species in winter wheat and together with Aulocara elliotti were the predominant species in adjacent rangeland or CRP.The number of M. sanguinipes collected per unit of effort in CRP was the same as the number collected in "established" reseeded rangeland. Fewer A. elliotti were collected per unit effort in CRP when compared to "established" reseeded rangeland. The results suggest that CRP supports a lower population of A. elliotti than "established" reseeded rangeland or there has been an insufficient span of time for A. elliotti to disperse into these areas.
25086381|Two new species of perlid stoneflies, Acroneuria bachma n. sp. and A. magnifica n. sp., are described from tropical Vietnam. Descriptions of these species are given based on male and female adults, nymphs, and eggs. The adult of A. bachma is distinguished by the presence of a large dark brown marking in the interocellar area and by the absence of patches of sensilla basiconica on the 9th abdominal tergum; the nymph is distinguished by the presence of a narrow and complete M-line marking on head and by the absence of gills on paraprocts. The adult of A. magnifica is distinguished by presence of a distinct light-yellow M-line marking on head and patches of sensilla basiconica which are sparsely distributed on the 9th abdominal tergum; the nymph is distinguished by the presence of an incomplete M-line marking on head and gills on paraprocts. Line-drawings and macro-photographs of the diagnostic characters are provided. Adult and nymphal keys to Southeast Asian species of Acroneuria are also provided.
25082502|Evolutionary trends of dissimilarity between wing pairs in shape and venation, of fusion of vein systems, of number of anal veins, and of crossvein types are traced. It is concluded that the following are primitive characters: similar wings, the hind wing with a larger anal lobe; all vein systems separate to the base; 7 anal veins, unbranched; crossveins forming an archedictyon. Three other types of primary crossveins, representing successive grades of evolutionary advancement, are discussed: polyneurous, costaneurous, and oligoneurous. These are contrasted with secondary venational types. A phylogeny of recent orders is constructed and compared to other data recorded previously in parts I, II, and III of this series. Fossil orders are fitted to this phylogenetic scheme. This necessitates redefinition of the orders Hadentomoida, Protomecoptera, Protembiaria, and fossil Psocoptera.
25085749|Dragonflies (Odonata: Anisoptera) were collected for five quarters, from October 1994 through December 1995, from 12 ponds located in Erath County, Texas. Nymphs were collected from each of the ponds quarterly, while adults were taken whenever possible. Other collection records from Erath County are also noted. A total of 38 dragonfly species were identified. Nymphs of 28 species were collected from the ponds, while the remaining 10 species were determined from adult collections. Thirty-six species of adults were collected. Two species were found as nymphs, but not collected as adults. Peak dragonfly abundance in ponds occurred during the third quarter-July through September.
25085745|We determined which genera of treehoppers were present on pin oaks, Quercus palustris L., and followed adult seasonal occurrence and activity patterns in relation to height in tree canopy. Ten pin oaks in Lexington, Kentucky were monitored weekly for adult treehoppers at two or three height levels during the 1993 and 1994 growing seasons. Twelve genera were identified during this study including Archasia Stl spp., Cyrtolobus Goding spp., Enchenopa binotata (Say), Entylia Germar spp., Glossonotus Butler spp., Microcentrus caryae (Fitch), Micrutalis calva (Say), Ophiderma Fairmaire spp, Platycotis vittata (Fab.), Smilia Germar spp., Stictocephala Stl spp., and Telamona Fitch spp. Numbers of individuals from some genera captured were large enough to allow examination of seasonal occurrence and canopy height preferences. Adults of most genera were found predominantly in mature trees, and all preferred top and/or middle levels of the canopy.
25084630|The white grubs, Phyllophaga congrua (LeConte) and P. implicita (Horn), were found feeding on the roots of
25083802|New species described include Hippomelas fulgida from southern Idaho, H. lariversi from northwestern Nevada, H. imperialis from southeastern California, Acmaeodera knowltoni from the Great Basin area, and A. idahoensis, which occurs predominately in the Pacific Northwest.
25084373|A field treatment of trichlorfon (Dylox) had no effect on the survivorship of a nesting population of Megachile rotundata (Fabricius). However, the number of cells completed/day was significnatly reduced in the treated field beginning 24 hr after exposure. Numbers of dead eggs and young larvae also increased in those cells completed after treatment. Both numbers of nesting bees and cells completed/day were significantly reduced in a field treated with naled (Dibrom). Reduction of adults and cell numbers began 48 hr after treatment, but the rate of cell production of surviving females in the treated field was not reduced. Immature mortality also increased in cells completed after treatment.
25082787|The oothecae of Cariblatta herbardi Rehn are 2.6-3.0 mm long, 1.6 mm deep, and normally contain 12 eggs. The dorsal margin is slightly curved; the ventral is shorter and often emarginate. Faint surface ridges are composed of minute blocks of egg case material arranged in orderly array; partial rows of minute projections may also occur. The inner seam face is typical but has features which distinguish this ootheca from those of C. plagia R. & H. and C. lutea lutea S. & Z.
43288214|Sweep net sampling of spring and winter wheat (Triticum spp.) was conducted in 2007 and 2008 at the Fort Ellis Research and Extension Center, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT to determine hymenoptera parasitoid family composition, abundance, and diversity in two wheat-fallow cropping systems managed by either tillage, herbicides, or domestic sheep (Ovis aries) grazing. Eleven hymenopteran families classified as parasitoids were captured in 2007 and 16 families in 2008. The mean abundance of parasitoids was greatest (P  0.05) in crops where the fallow component of the rotation was managed with sheep grazing, as opposed to tillage and herbicide systems. Family diversity, as indexed by Simpson's D, did not differ between fallow management treatments (P = 0.88) or cropping system (P = 0.74) but did differ between study year (P  0.01).
25085776|A two-step method, consisting of a single broadcast application of fenoxycarb [Logic/Award] bait, followed one week later by acephate [Orthene 75S] colony treatments, was applied to small (<3 ha) incipient infestations of Solenopsis invicta Buren or S. richteri Forel at four sites (Arkansas, Oklahoma and Tennessee) in advance of the federal quarantine line. By visually locating fire ant colonies and by collecting ants with sugar-baits, eradication was documented at three of four sites. Implications for using this eradication strategy are discussed.
25084091|Pupae and prepupae of developing leafcutting bees, Megachile rotundata (F.) were exposed to 45 and 50C for periods of 15 minutes to 3 hours. The 50C treatments caused total mortality regardless of the stage of bee development or length of exposure; 45C caused no mortality under test conditions. Differences in survival were noted between rapid and slow developing prepupae. Exposing pupae to 45 resulted in a delay in the onset of emergence, whereas prepupae exhibited an accelerated emergence as a result of the same treatment.
25082911|Individual hollyhock plants (Althaea rosea) suffered less seed predation from a Curculionid seed predator (Apion longirostre) when growing in relative isolation from conspecifics within the same garden plot than when growing in a clumped distribution. However, plot size (number of plants within the plot) and plot density (number of plants per square meter) did not significantly affect seed mortality. Although these results show that it is advantageous for individual hollyhock plants to grow in relative isolation from conspecifics, theoretical considerations suggest that plants growing in clumps are more likely to be visited by pollinators. The optimal spacing pattern for small herbaceous plants with seed predators may represent the interacting effects of these two and possibly other opposing selection pressures.
25084676|Monochamus carolinensis (Olivier) and Monochamus titillator (F.) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae) are similar morphologically and behaviorally and can be difficult to separate based on characters currently used in keys. Examination of the genitalia of adult males revealed a structural difference in the median lobes of the two species. The apex of the median lobe is bluntly rounded in M. titillator, whereas it is pointed in M. carolinensis. A brief review of the literature and history of classification is given.
25085343|Enzyme electrophoretic data indicate that the bumble bee taxa nevadensis and auricomus, which are presently ranked as subspecies, are genetically highly differentiated. Allozyme variation does not provide any evidence of intergradation in areas of sympatry, as was suggested by previous investigators, working on coat-color variation. Based on the genetic data we conclude that the taxa under consideration are specifically distinct. Coat-color variation may result from convergence towards local Mllerian-mimicry groups.
25085148|The South American genus Pseudopyrota contains four species: P. riojanensis (Pic), n. stat., from Argentina; P. sanguinithorax (Haag-Rutenberg) from coastal Peru and Colombia; and P. ephemeris, n. sp., and P. lyttomeloides, n. sp. (flightless), from southern coastal Peru. Distributional and feeding records for these species are presented; food plants include species of Boraginaceae, Compositae, Malvaceae, Nolanaceae, Solanaceae, and Zygophyllaceae. Observations of adult behavior (primarily sexual) are summarized. On the basis of characters of adult and larval anatomy (triungulin larvae of P. riojanensis and P. lyttomeloides are described) and sexual behavior the genus is phenetically, and perhaps cladistically, closest to Wagneronota Denier. In the treatment of larval chaetotaxy some new characters and interpretations are discussed. It is argued that recognition of subtribe Pyrotina in the Lyttini (Pyrotini in the Lyttinae of some authors), first suggested by MacSwain, has little theoretical justification or practical value.
40961674|The within-plant distribution of soybean aphid, Aphis glycines Matsumura has been attributed to various causes, yet it is unclear which factor or combination of factors most influence aphid within-plant distribution. Understanding soybean aphid distribution within the soybean canopy is important both in developing sampling programs and in evaluating injury. Because natural enemies have the potential to alter aphid dispersion, we examined how within-plant distribution of soybean aphid was influenced by different natural enemies. Field cages of different mesh diameters were used to exclude different sizes of natural enemies from aphid infested plots. Plots were surveyed and both natural enemy density and soybean aphid density, by strata, were recorded twice weekly. Cages were found to have minimal effect on temperature and soybean plant development. Aphid densities were significantly different each year among dates, treatments, and strata. In 2004 aphid densities were concentrated on the top part of the plant and in 2005 aphid densities were concentrated in the middle of the canopy. Treatments had significant impacts on aphid density in both years of the study. The total exclusion treatment had the highest aphid densities in both years. Treatment also had a significant effect on which stratum aphids were most commonly found. The factor that was found to best explain the differences in aphid distribution was the abundance of natural enemies, primarily Onus insidosus (Say). In treatments left exposed to natural enemies the percentage of the total aphid population was found lower in the canopy. It is clear that aphid densities and distributions are being affected by the presence of natural enemies. Understanding how natural enemies affect the distribution of this economically damaging aphid species is an important component of its management, specifically the development of accurate scouting protocols and pesticide efficiency.
25086024|We studied the phenology of monarch (Danaus plexippus L.) reproduction, as well as the early season phenology of its host plant species, in Kentucky. We also examined the ovipositional preference of D. plexippus for common milkweed (Asclepias syriaca L.) relative to honeyvine milkweed (Cynanchum laeve [Michaux]); the latter is much more abundant than the former in and around cultivated fields in Kentucky. We recorded the growth of A. syriaca and C. laeve weekly in two natural stands of each species, beginning when the plants first emerged (early May) and ending when the plants began flowering (late June). The earliest arriving adult monarchs were observed in Kentucky during April and May 2000. Milkweed plants were large enough to support monarch reproduction by mid May, but no eggs and only a single larva were seen on the milkweed plants at any of our research sites during May or June. Danaus plexippus eggs were first observed at those sites in mid July and were found until late August; larvae were present from late July until mid September. At our research site where A. syriaca and C. laeve plants were interspersed with one another, D. plexippus females laid virtually all eggs on A. syriaca plants. However, in single-species stands of A. syriaca or C. laeve plants at six other research sites, numbers of monarch eggs and larvae per plant did not differ between the two plant species. Finally, because of concerns that transgenic Bt corn pollen may harm monarch larvae, we compared our results on the monarch's reproductive phenology with the seasonal timing of corn anthesis (pollen shed) in Kentucky. Statewide weekly data on corn silking reported by the USDA Statistical Reporting Service (5-year average) suggest that more than 80% of Kentucky's corn crop typically completes anthesis by the end of July. Thus, while the monarch does use C. laeve, a host plant common in Kentucky corn fields, a large portion of the D. plexippus larval population is present in the state after most corn plants have shed pollen. This asynchrony should reduce potentially harmful effects of transgenic Bt corn pollen on monarchs in Kentucky.
25082768|The size of cells constructed by a colony is positively related to the mean size of the bees and is not more variable in colonies of diverse sized bees than in colonies of uniform sized bees. Among ten colonies of bees of diverse sizes, the queen was largest in seven and oldest in four cases, but among ten colonies of bees of uniform size, there were six in which the queen was neither largest nor oldest.
25084574|A survey was made in 1980 and 1981 to identify the leafhoppers associated with a mixed tall fescue pasture on the Cumberland Plateau in Tennessee. Using a D-Vac suction sampler, 32 species representing 27 genera in 6 subfamilies of the Cicadellidae were collected. Agallia constricta Van Duzee, Anoscopes serratulae (Fabricius), Forcipata loca DeLong and Caldwell, Latalus sayi (Fitch), Polyamia weedi (Van Duzee), Endria inimica (Say) and Amblysellus curtisii (Fitch) were the most abundant species. Three insecticides (terbufos, Counter 15G; dimethoate, Cygon 400; and malathion 57EL) were evaluated for their effects on leafhopper numbers and forage yield. Both terbufos and dimethoate significantly reduced total leafhopper numbers on some sample dates. In 1980, dry weight yield of tall fescue was significantly greater in the plots treated with terbufos than in the untreated check plots. No significant dry weight yield differences were found in 1981.
25084365|Laboratory and field studies of tent-building and tent-associated behavior of the eastern tent caterpillar, Malacosoma americanum, led to the following conclusions. 1) Major additions to the tent are made during group spinning bouts at the onset of each of three to four daily activity periods. 2) The layered structure of the tent is due to shrinkage of the silk shortly after its deposition. 3) The orientation of the tent and the location of tent entrances and tent-trails are strongly influenced by the location of the dominant light source. 4) First instar larvae typically select a permanent site for tent construction, usually some distance from the egg mass. 5) Tent sharing, following fusion of the trail systems of different colonies, is common under field conditions. The significance of these observations is discussed.
25085984|Sex-biased emergence patterns are common in insects, resulting in either protandry (males emerging before females) or more rarely protogyny (females emerging before males). Previous studies have suggested that the Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman, was protandrous; interestingly, however, they exhibit some characteristics of a protogynous species. For example, Japanese beetles exhibit a last male sperm advantage and females mate and oviposit multiple times. This study investigated the emergence and egg laying patterns of Japanese beetles in east-central Illinois. For both sexes, the size of emerging individuals tended to decline as the season progressed. Overall, female emergence was skewed significantly earlier than that of males. Females did not initiate oviposition until several days after emergence, and the number of eggs laid remained relatively constant over time. Thus, in this population, emergence patterns and reproductive biology suggest that Japanese beetles are not protandrous and may be protogynous.
25085469|Parasitism of the cattail caterpillar, Simyra henrici (Grote) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), was assessed over a two-year period in Indiana. Larvae collected from smooth bromegrass, Bromus inermis Leyss. (Gramineae), yielded eight species of parasitoids in two orders. Primary parasitoids included Lespesia aletiae (Riley) (Diptera: Tachinidae), Microplitis quadridentatus (Provancher) (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), and Aleiodes stigmator (Say) (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). Secondary parasitoids included Gelis tenellus (Say), Gelis sp. (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), Conura meteori (Burks) (Hymenoptera: Chalcididae), Catolaccus cyanoideus Burks (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae), and Trichomalopsis dubius (Ashmead) (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae). For the numerically dominant parasitoid, A. stigmator, more individuals emerged from larger hosts. Emergence success for this species depended on the number of parasitoids per larva and the configuration and location of parasitoid pupation cells. Sex ratios of A. stigmator were female-biased and not related to host size. Approximately 46% of hosts contained hyperparasitoids. The presence of hyperparasitoids apparently had little impact on primary parasitoid production. The pest potential and natural control of S. henrici are discussed.
25086295|We documented effects of spring burns on grasshopper assemblages of the shortgrass prairie at the Comanche National Grassland, Baca County, Colorado, in 1999 and 2000. We measured grasshopper density and diversity at each of four transects on both burned and unburned sites at three locations. We did not find consistent responses of these assemblages to fire in 1999 or 2000 due to site-specific assemblage dynamics. Specifically, grasshopper density exhibited three different trends between treatments at the three locations sampled: responses were similar between burned and unburned plots at Location 1, there were significantly more grasshoppers in the unburned pasture at Location 2, and there were significantly more grasshoppers in the burned pasture at Location 3. These site-specific trends were supported by species richness measurements. Furthermore, there were no significant differences in any of the subfamilies or guilds in the number of grasshoppers collected in the burned versus the unburned treatment pooled over location. The different trends between treatments at each location for the grasshopper assemblage as a whole were most likely the result of pre-existing differences among locations and sites. That the same three trends were seen in 2000, despite time for recovery, supports this explanation. The results suggest that spring burns in the shortgrass prairie do not affect the grasshopper assemblage beyond the natural variability occurring within the grasshopper assemblage.
25085928|Macroinvertebrate communities of three Great Plains streams were characterized. Detailed species lists were obtained through a variety of sampling techniques; 105 taxa were identified from the Niobrara River at Agate Fossil Beds National Monument in northwest Nebraska, 77 from Cub Creek at Homestead National Monument in southeast Nebraska, and 59 from Pipestone Creek at Pipestone National Monument in southwest Minnesota. Macroinvertebrate density, taxa, diversity, and functional group composition were analyzed from quarterly quantitative samples. All three streams were dominated by collector functional feeding groups.
25082447|Mordellistena pallidoptera is described as a new species. The incidence of 15 species of Mordellidae along the Gulf of Mexico is given.
25085680|In 1977, Osmia cornifrons (Radoszkowski) was introduced from Japan into the United States as an orchard pollinator. The bee is of interest to the North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station because it is a highly efficient, cool season pollinator. We have need for early spring pollinators to possibly replace honey bees (Apis mellifera Linnaeus) for pollination of Brassica spp. in field cages. We tested four overwintering storage treatments (outdoors, in an unheated machine shed, in a 4-5C seed storage room, and in a 1-2C growth chamber) to determine the optimal winter storage conditions for diapausing adults. Storage in the 1-2C growth chamber resulted in the highest emergence of bees for three test dates (April, June, and August).
25085265|The ground nests of Centris aethyctera Friese are influenced by the soil environment, as well as the condition of nesting resources. The straight unbranched tunnels constructed by females in clay-loam soil are generally 12 cm deep and contain 3 to 8 cells. Tunnels are shorter in sand and contained an average of 3.5 cells. When nests occurred in rocky ground, the tunnels were frequently branched or opened into a chamber but still contained 3-6 cells (ave. 2.9) per tunnel, although the depth varied. Nest tunnels constructed within clay-loam soil areas that suffered fire damage were similar in average depth (11.2 cm) to tunnels in the same area where fire had not occurred. However, the number of cells per tunnel were significantly depressed in fire damaged areas. The effects of fire on tropical dry forest resources and the resulting effects on the bees are discussed. /// Los nidos del suelo de Centris aethyctera Friese estn influenciados por las condiciones ambientales del suelo asi como los recursos del nido. En suelos arcillo-limo arenosos, las hembras construyen los nidos con tneles de forma recta, sin ramificaciones, con una profundidad de mas o menos 12 cm, y con 3 a 8 cmaras. En suelos arenosos, los tneles son mas cortos y con un promedio de 3.5 cmaras por tnel. Si los nidos se encuentran en reas rocosas, stos frecuentemente stan ramificados o abren a una cmara comn y encontrndose de 3 a 6 cmaras (en promedio 2.9) por tnel pero su profundidad es variable. Los tneles de los nidos en suelos arcillo-limo arenoso en areas expuestas al fuego eran similares a los tneles de esa misma area antes de estar expuesta al fuego. La profundidad de los tneles que se encuantran en areas expuestas al fuego era de un promedio de 11.2 cm pero el nmero de cmaras por tnel fue significativamente menor. Aqui se discute la influencia del fuego en los recursos naturales del bosque tropical seco y su influencia en abejas.
25083026|A Penicillium mold was tested in colonies of honey bees in Wyoming and Arizona as an aid in the control of American foulbrood (AFB). The presence of the mold on the surface and in the cells of a honey comb contaminated with AFB scales appeared, at times, to encourage adult honey bees to remove scales. Unfortunately, the mold treatment, by itself, did not control AFB, though the severity of the disease was less in some cases. When scale-containing combs covered with mold were introduced into colonies in the Wyoming study, the scales were quickly removed. This treatment, in conjunction with dustings of Terramycin (oxytetracycline), was effective in AFB control the first summer. However, no further treatments were given during the second summer and the disease spread within mold-treated colonies. AFB appeared in six of 13 (46%) colonies treated with both mold and Terramycin. It recurred in only two of 11 (18%) colonies given only Terramycin. When the mold was tested in Arizona in conjuction with ethylene oxide (ETO) fumigation of the scale-contaminated combs, the mold alone did not control AFB, but mold plus fumigation with ETO proved effective. ETO fumigation without the mold controlled AFB.
25086099|Quartinia amiae, a new species of pollen wasp from Egypt, is described.
25085732|Queens and workers of the swarm-founding social wasp Pseudopolybia difficilis, while differing little from one another in overall size, diverge significantly in shape. Queens are significantly smaller than workers in the 3 measures on the head and thorax but larger in the 2 measures on the gaster. This pattern makes it clear that the two castes could not have diverged evolutionarily along a line of simple linear allometric growth based on body size, as occurred in worker ants. Instead, it is likely that the castes differ in exponential growth rate settings for the various imaginal discs. That the same pattern has been shown for other species in the same tribe supports the hypothesis that this developmental switch was the first step in caste divergence in all members of the tribe Epiponini and that the evolution of size differences, where these occur, evolved secondarily.
25086356|A taxonomic study of the genus Leiodes Latreille in Korea is presented. Six species are recognized, five of which are described as new species (Leiodes cooteri new species, type locality - Mt. Odaesan, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon Prov., Korea; L. indigesta new species, type locality - Mt. Odaesan, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon Prov., Korea; L. koreana new species, type locality - Mt. Gaeryongsan, Gongju, Chungnam Prov., Korea; L. odaesanensis new species, type locality - Mt. Odaesan, Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon Prov., Korea; L. subfracta new species, type locality - Mt. Seoraksan, Sokcho, Gangwon Prov., Korea). Types and paratypes of the new species are designated. A key and illustration of the habitus and line drawings of diagnostic characters are presented.
25085982|The male gonostyli of Hybosciara gigantea Rbsaamen grasp intersegmental membranes of the female abdomen, and perform stylized rhythmic squeezing movements during copulation. These observations fit predictions of the sexual selection by cryptic female choice hypothesis to explain why male genitalia evolve rapidly and divergently; they do not fit predictions of the lock and key, male-female conflict of interest, or pleiotropy hypotheses.
25085158|Microdon are myrmecophilous Syrphidae (Diptera). Although numerous ant/Microdon host associations are reported in the literature, it is probable that many of these records are in error due to the tendency of the ants to move from one nesting site to another while leaving behind the relatively immobile Microdon. Our studies, of four species of Pacific Northwest Microdon, indicate that ant/fly relationships are fairly specific. Ant hosts are presented for M. albicomatus, M. cothurnatus, M. piperi, and M. xanthopilis.
43288783|The ultrastructure of the tarsus of adult Oides decempunctatus (Billberg) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) was examined using scanning electron microscopy. Structurally the tarsus consists of 5 tarsomeres and a pair of bidentate ungues on the pretarsus. The ventral surfaces of the 1st, 2nd and 3rd tarsomere are covered with dense adhesive setae. Each seta consists of two parts: a setal shaft and a modified apex. Three types of setae, viz. tapered setae, spatulate setae and discoidal setae, are identified based on the shape of the setal tip. The tapered setae are located at the edge of the 1st tarsomeres and on the whole 2nd tarsomeres of the male forelegs and mesolegs and on the whole 1st and 2nd tarsomere of the female legs and male metalegs. They are about 40-60 m long and 4 m broad at base, taper from base to apex with a curved, acute and hook-like apex and have a density of approximately 1 seta/100 m. The spatulate setae are located at the edge of the 3rd tarsomeres of the male forelegs and mesolegs and on the whole 3rd tarsomeres of the female legs and male metalegs. They are 55-85 m long and 2.5-4.5 m broad at base, have a spatulate terminal plate with 7-15 digits on margins, and have a density of approximately 1.5 setae/100 m. The discoidal setae are located in the centre of the 1 st and 3rd tarsomeres of the male forelegs and mesolegs and are not present on female legs. They are about 45-80 m long and 2.5-4.5 m broad at base, have a discoidal terminal plate (7-9 m in diameter) and have a density of one seta/100 m. These setae are presumed to function as adherence during climbing or mating activities of the beetles. The gland apertures and secretion solidification are also present on the ventral surfaces of the tarsus.
25082471|Information is given on the distribution of 15 species of North American Cleridae. Bionomical data is presented for 9 of these species.
25084919|Larvae of the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (Fab.), parasitized by the braconid Cardiochiles nigriceps Viereck, and comparable control larvae were assayed for the activity of several enzyme systems important in insecticide metabolism. High activity levels were present in gut preparations; lower activity levels were present in the gut-free (fat body) preparations. The differences in enzyme activity in gut preparations were the reduction of aliesterase activity in parasitized as compared with control larvae. The reverse was true in the gut-free preparations where there was an increase in parasitized larval microsomal monooxygenases relative to the controls. There was also a trend towards an overall decrease in enzymatic activity in parasitized budworm. The decline in metabolic activity by gut preparations of parasitized larvae may account for the previously observed greater susceptibility of the parasitized tobacco budworm to insecticides, such as methyl parathion and permethrin.
25085987|A 2 yr study was done to determine if delaying harvest of soybeans having bean leaf beetle-injured pods would result in further reductions of seed quality. Beginning at harvest maturity, collection of soybean pods was done every 2 wk, after which seeds from bulk harvest, from injured and uninjured pods, and from underneath feeding lesions or locations without lesions, were tested for seed germination and disease presence. Seed from uninjured pods showed no significant loss in germination percentage nor increase in disease incidence, even when seeds were harvested 6 wk following harvest maturity. When pod injury is low, a delay in harvest would not be of great concern. However, germination decreased and the percentage of infection by seed pathogens increased on seeds from injured pods and from underneath feeding lesions when harvest was delayed. When bean leaf beetle pod injury is high, immediate harvest at maturity is necessary to prevent further germination loss and incidence of fungal pathogens.
25086310|In 1999, three experimental 20% diazinon + 20% coumaphos impregnated ear tags and a 40% diazinon ear tag reduced horn fly numbers by 70% at the University of Nebraska Research Ranch near Whitman, Nebraska for 16 weeks. Two other insecticide ear tags, 8% beta cyfluthrin + 20% piperonyl butoxide (PBO) and 10% lambdacyfluthrin + 13% PBO reduced horn fly numbers by 95% and 86% respectively at a University of Nebraska pasture site near Ithaca, Nebraska for eight weeks. In 2003 some of the same insecticidal ear tags were reevaluated. Ear tags containing 10% zeta-cypermethrin + 20% PBO, 20% diazinon + 20% coumaphos, 10% lambdacyfluthrin + 13% PBO, 8% beta-cyfluthrin + 20% PBO and 40% diazinon provided a reduction in horn fly numbers ranging from 81.89% to 88.3% at the University Research Ranch for 12 weeks.
25086259|A new acantha species-group is erected in the genus Euhesma Michener. Three new species are described: E. acantha, E. loorea, and E. collaris. Scanning electron micrographs and line drawings illustrate the species-group and a key to females enables the separation of species. Known distributions are mapped.
25082624|This paper is the last of a series of 4 that will treat the 85 confirmed and 16 probable occurring species of Membracidae in Missouri. Tribe Telamonini of the subfamily Smiliinae is presented. The 35 species treated in part 4 are Archasia auriculata (Fitch), A. belfragei Stl, A. pallida (Fairmaire), Carynota marmorata (Say), C. mera (Say), Glossonotus acuminatus (Fab.), G. crataegi (Fitch), G. nimbatulus Ball, G. turriculatus (Emmons), G. univittatus (Harris), Heliria cristata (Fairmaire), H. gemma Ball, H. gibberata Ball, H. molaris (Butler), H. scalaris (Fairmaire), H. strombergi Goding, Helonica excelsa (Fairmaire), Palonica pyramidata (Uhler), P. viridia (Ball), Telamona ampelopsidis (Harris), T. collina (Walker), T. compacta Ball, T. decorata Ball, T. dubiosa Van Duzee, T. extrema Ball, T. maculata Van Duzee, T. monticola (Fab.), T. reclivata Fitch, T. spreta Goding, T. tiliae Ball, T. tristis Fitch, T. unicolor Fitch, T. westcotti Goding, Thelia bimaculata (Fab.), and T. uhleri Stl. Generic and specific keys are provided. Illustrations, a description, distribution, host plant records, and biological notes are given for each species treated. An index of taxa for the 4 parts is included in this section.
25085624|Specimens of Ambrysus h. hungerfordi Usinger (Hemiptera: Naucoridae) were collected in Presidio Co., Texas, and represent the first record of the species in the United States. Adult males and females as well as 2nd through 5th instars were taken in the plunge pool at the base of a waterfall. This record brings the known number of species of Ambrysus in the United States to 17.
25083648|Geographic distribution is given for all species of the family Capniidae (winter stoneflies) in western North America, with seasonal distribution presented for all Rocky Mountain species. A total of 81 species in 3 genera are recognized and discussed, with significant extensions for many species. The distribution patterns of the Capniidae are shown to fit a pattern of 6 different geographical zones; each zone with its complement of endemic species. Altitude and latitude are shown to have an influence on emergence patterns.
25084311|A new genus is created for the "Odynerus" congressus group which has been shifted from one genus to another for nearly 75 years. One new species, samiatus, is described. Relationships seem to be with Euodynerus and Pseudepipona but the absence of indentations on the vertical surface of the pronotum, peculiar male midfemur, simple propodeal valve structure, absence of an omaulus, and four vertex swellings are differentiating. As far as known, the species are ground nesting.
25083023|Tropical application of 18.3 g of juvenile hormone analogue Altozar, to larvae of Melipona quadrifasciata at the time they are spinning coccoons promotes the transformation of the female worker larvae into pupae of queens and causes a feminization of male pupae. This effect is consistent with the hypothesis that the juvenile hormone activates the feminizing genes in prepupal bees.
25084728|Time and activity budgets (locomotion, courtship, feeding, and quiescence) were constructed for three grasshopper species (Amphitornus coloradus, Melanoplus confusus, and Mermiria bivittata) from a sandhills, mixed-grass prairie in Nebraska. Distributions of time spent in these activities differed among the species although the majority of the time (ca. >80%) was spent in quiescent activity. Feeding was infrequent and the actual bouts typically short; feeding by these species occurred in different microhabitats. Daily shifts in activities and microhabitat use were observed. Face cleaning was frequently associated with movement.
25083538|Eighteen new synonymies are presented as follows: 9 in Colpocephalum, 1 in Kurodaia, 4 in Ciconiphilus, 2 in Actornithophilus, 1 in Austromenopon, and 1 in Falcolipeurus.
25085350|Nesting habits of the small carpenter bee, Ceratina (Neoceratina) dentipes, were observed in Hengchun Peninsula, southern Taiwan. The nest structure of the present species is close to that of C. (Neoceratina) australensis described by Michener (1962). The surface texture of pollen loaves varied from smooth to irregularly indented, and the shapes of cells and cell partitions varied facultatively in accordance with pith abundance in the nest stems. This indicates that C. (N.) dentipes possesses some plasticity in nest construction.
25085118|Twelve -amylase phenotypes (combinations of isozymes) were detected by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in individuals of a strain of maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky, from Peru. Three phenotypes were similarly detected in a strain from Arkansas (ASMW). There was no correlation between total -amylase activity and -amylase phenotype in individuals of either strain. Variation in activity levels between individual weevils of a given phenotype may be due to controlling elements or regulatory genes.
25086154|A new species Pseudosinella mutabilis from Xinjiang, China, is described here. The presence of ciliate tenent hairs and eyes separates this from all other species of the genus. The species (or species cluster) shows unusually wide variation among several features.
25082346|A solitary sphecid wasp (Pison sp.) regularly builds cells inside nests of Reddish Hermits (Phaethornis ruber) but apparently not in nests of related hummingbirds. P. ruber occasionally captures the wasp or its presumptive parasite, but Pison sp. regularly visits the nest while P. ruber is incubating or brooding. The young wasps emerge after the young hummingbirds leave the nest.
25086385|Chironomidae is a cosmopolitan family of dipteran insects occurring in all zoogeographical regions of the world. The family is quite diverse and the objective of this study was to examine diversity of chironomid larvae in 115 wetlands in an extensive area of Neotropical region (
25085826|The nesting biology of Habropoda depressa Fowler is described for urban (University of California at Berkeley) and island (Santa Cruz Island) populations in the state of California (USA). This protandrous species is common in the California foothills where adults are active from late February through early June. Larvae do not spin cocoons and pupate to overwinter as adults by November. A portion of the population appears to delay development since prepupae were found in nest excavations early in the nesting season. Brood cells were parasitized mostly by two dipterans: bombyliid flies and an anthomyiid species, Leucophora fusca Huckett (found only on SCI). Unlike its congeners which nest in sandy soils, H. depressa nests in hard-packed soils, including clay. During the nesting season, females spend evenings outside burrows, roosting on nearby vegetation before returning to their nest the following morning. At the urban locale, female bees subsist almost entirely upon exotic and horticultural plant varieties while the majority of host plant collection records at Santa Cruz Island were from native species. On average, nests made by bees at UCB were significantly shorter than those constructed at SCI, although the average number of cells per nest was greater. These foraging and nest architectural differences may reflect either variation among populations or adaptations to urbanization effects of the last century.
25085217|The development and use of pitfall and probe traps for capture of insects in bulk-stored grain are outlined. Unbaited traps are effective in detecting infestations and they detect a large number of species compared with grain-sampling devices. The effectiveness of the traps is related to temperature, trapping period, and grain moisture content; and traps are less reliable for detecting insect species that are less mobile, have a nonuniform distribution in grain, feed within kernels, or can escape from the traps. Comparisons are given between effectiveness of probe traps and grain sampling for detecting insects, and experience using probe traps in stored grain is reported.
25082428|Backomyia seminoensis is described from the Seminoe Mountains of Wyoming. Both it and B. limpidipennis have been taken only in the fall. These records extend the distributional limits of the genus to the eastern border of Wyoming. Predation records, though few, seem to indicate that both species are stenophagic. Behavioral data is insufficient to show definite separation between the two species.
25082885|Nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea, was effectively transmitted to progeny by adults contaminated with viral dust through the process of transovum transmission. The mean percentage mortality among progeny from male-contaminated and female-contaminated mating pairs was 93.4 and 93.9%, respectively. Counts of polyhedra per egg from 2 egg masses averaged 96.6 and 52.6 as determined by scanning electron microscopy. The desirability, feasibility and applicability of the autocidal control approach are discussed.
25082957|Nine new species of the genus Amahuaka Mel. from Mexico are described: A. variabilis n.sp., A. bicornis n.sp., A. atrifrons n.sp., A. monoceros n.sp., A. pungens n.sp., A. jocosa n.sp., A. spinigera n.sp., A. scutellaris n.sp. and A. vermiculata n.sp. The male genitalia of the generotype, A. angustula (Fowl.) are illustrated for the first time.
41353889|Insect pollinators provide a critical ecosystem service by pollinating many wild flowers and crops. It is therefore essential to be able to effectively survey and monitor pollinator communities across a range of habitats, and in particular, sample the often stratified parts of the habitats where insects are found. To date, a wide array of sampling methods have been used to collect insect pollinators, but no single method has been used effectively to sample across habitat types and throughout the spatial structure of habitats. Here we present a method of 'aerial pan-trapping' that allows insect pollinators to be sampled across the vertical strata from the canopy of forests to agro-ecosystems. We surveyed and compared the species richness and abundance of a wide range of insect pollinators in agricultural, secondary regenerating forest and primary forest habitats in Ghana to evaluate the usefulness of this approach. In addition to confirming the efficacy of the method at heights of up to 30 metres and the effects of trap color on catch, we found greatest insect abundance in agricultural land and higher bee abundance and species richness in undisturbed forest compared to secondary forest.
25084090|Infestation levels (mean 4.6 pitch blisters per tree) in crowns of eight-year-old trees at Watertown, South Dakota, varied significantly among geographical clusters, with tree height, and with crown bushiness. Needle angle did not influence infestation. Average number of attacks per leader did not vary significantly among provenances.
25082596|This paper describes the larval, protonymphal, deutonymphal (hypopial), tritonymphal and adult stages of Mauduytia mallotae, a new species of the mite family Anoetidae from water-filled treeholes. It also discusses the systematic position of M. mallotae and compares its immature stages with those of Histiostoma julorum (Koch), the only other species of anoetid for which the immatures are adequately known.
23355950|Hydrogen peroxide is a toxic metabolite of oxidative metabolism, but may also serve as a broad spectrum signaling molecule controlling a variety of essential physiological processes. Photoperiod influences diapause beyond the maternal generation in Cotesia vestalis and we speculated that intracellular hydrogen peroxide was a possible signal mediating this generational effect. To investigate the signaling functions of hydrogen peroxide in diapause induction in C. vestalis, hydrogen peroxide and activities of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase were measured at diapause, and in maternal non-diapausing prepupa, adult, and offspring egg stages form the cultures reared at 25C under the photoperiods of 8:16, 12:12, and 16:8 (L:D) h. The hydrogen peroxide contents and activities of superoxide dismutase and peroxidase in maternal non-diapausing prepupae and adults declined as the light period was reduced, whereas catalase activity increased significantly. Compared to diapausing prepupae, maternal non-diapausing prepupae under 8 h short light had significantly higher superoxide dismutase, lower catalase, and similar peroxidase activities. Under the three photoperiods, the variation trends of protective enzyme activities in offspring eggs were similar to the trends in maternal prepupae and adults. The variation trends of hydrogen peroxide in eggs were opposite to the trends in maternal prepupae and adults. Peroxidase and catalase activities in eggs were significantly higher after oviposition than before oviposition. These findings indicate that hydrogen peroxide plays an important role in signal transduction between two generations.
41262796|Traps in eastern Washington and northeast Oregon wheat fields, baited with a sex attractant for the moth of the wheat head armyworm Dargida diffusa (Walker), captured the congener moth Dargida terrapictalis (Buckett). When the two components of a sex attractant for the wheat head armyworm were tested singly versus together in a trap, nearly all D. terrapictalis captured were in traps baited with the combination of (Z)-11-hexadecenyl acetate and (Z)-11-hexadecenal, indicating synergy of the two compounds as attractants. Traps baited with this sex attractant and maintained through the growing season captured D. terrapictalis primarily in May in Umatilla County, Oregon, and in June and early July in eastern Washington. Small numbers of D. diffusa were present also in these traps, largely coincident in time with D. terrapictalis captured. This is the first demonstration of a sex attractant for D. terrapictalis and confirms the presence of D. diffusa in the states of Oregon and Washington through the identification of trapped moths.
25084160|Wood cockroaches were studied in the field to determine the habitats, vertical stratification, and population sizes of each of 5 species. Data on numbers of acts per behavioral repertoire per species, mean numbers of acts per encounter, information transferred in encounters, and mean agonistic levels were gathered in the laboratory. These lab and field data were then analyzed using multivariate techniques (principal-components analysis and discriminant functions analysis) to reveal behavior-environment correlations.
25085100|A new species of termite, Nasutitermes dasyopsis, is described from the coast of southwestern Panama. Notes on habitat and nest architecture are included. Dissections of nests in the field revealed that N. dasyopsis colonies sometimes contain multiple alate-derived queens and kings.
25084005|Foraging activities of the giant tropical ant, Paraponera clavata (F.) (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ponerinae) were studied at nests in Costa Rica and Ecuador. From almost 4500 observations on ants returning to nests, 45% had booty. Of all ants returning to nests with booty, 37% of these carried visible liquid, 25% arthropod prey, and 21% plant parts. Marking studies indicated that the same ants foraged on different days. Ants usually leave the nest in groups. Considerable diurnal foraging was observed at the Costa Rican nests. The temporal pattern of foraging varied considerably over the day and with weather conditions. Heavy rainfall interrupted foraging while on sunny days there was considerable foraging in the late afternoon and early evening. The Ecuadorian nests exhibited considerable nocturnal foraging. Alates appeared at nest openings at dusk. Workers from the Costa Rican nests used the same foraging routes daily into the forest canopy. It is inferred from the data that P. clavata forages in the canopy near the nest and in the understory further away.
25085990|Sexual dimorphism of green lacewings is discussed, citing previously known examples of this structural phenomenon on the frons, antennal scape, and forewings. Newly recognized dimorphism is cited in Ceraeochrysa cubana for the vertex and abdominal spiracles.
25085429|This paper represents the first study of the phenology of adult crane fly emergence from any tropical site. Twenty species of crane flies were collected by an emergence trap from February 1990 through January 1991 at Quebrada Prieta, a second-order stream in the Luquillo Mountains in northeastern Puerto Rico. Four species of Limonia comprised 75% of the individuals, and one species alone, L. (Geranomyia) virescens (Loew), comprised 47%. Crane fly emergence was continuous throughout the year but showed distinct flucuations which might be seasonal, including greatest number of emerging adults in January through March, and few individuals from June through August. Fluctuations in emergence may be related to disturbance in the stream due to intense summer storms and resultant scouring of rock surfaces. Grazers on benthic algae included 68% of the crane fly individuals.
25085711|I present findings on operational sex ratios and lipid reserves in new reproductives of the single-site wood-nesting termite, Zootermopsis nevadensis. Parity in the operational sex ratio, determined by the number of receptive males to the number of receptive females, is expected in a species where parental investment in brood is shared equally. Indeed, the mean operational sex ratio measured at 12 nest-founding sites does not significantly differ from 1.0. These sex ratio findings indicate that males do not differ from females in their access to mates. Analysis of lipid reserves reveals that dispersed females have significantly lower percentages of lipids than do female alates collected at natal nests prior to dispersal; dispersed males do not differ from male alates collected at natal nests. Females may disperse farther or search longer for a nest site than do males; differential dispersal of the sexes is often indicative of a mechanism for inbreeding avoidance. The relatively small quantities of lipids expended during dispersal (approximately 5.7% of an average female's dry body weight and negligible amounts of an average male's) indicate that dispersal in this species is not very energetically costly. Males and females have similarly large amounts of lipid reserves at the onset of nest founding (approximate 36% and 33% of their dry body weights, respectively). These findings suggest that males and females have similar initial amounts of lipids for the energetically demanding activities associated with incipient colonization, such as brood production, nest defense, nest construction, and initial offspring care.
25082871|Antiteuchus rolstoni, a new species of Hemiptera (Pentatomidae, Discocephalinae) is described from the Amazon Basin in Colombia. Genitalia figured.
41262788|The three purposes of this study were to conduct a statewide surveillance program for Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki (Formosan subterranean termite), conduct a concurrent survey of termite species found across Oklahoma, and identify and validate Oklahoma termite species using PCR technology. Monitoring devices consisting of cylindrical in-ground monitors, soil-surface groundboards, and elevated light traps were installed across southern Oklahoma to collect termites.County extension agents and pest management professionals cooperated by submitting termite samples. Additionally, inspections of landscaping timbers and railroad crossties were conducted at commercial outlets because these imported products may contain Formosan subterranean termites. Reticulitermes flavipes (Kollar), R. hageni Banks, R. tibialis Banks, R.virginicus (Banks) and Gnathamitermes tubiformans (Buckley) were collected, expanding the known distribution of these species in Oklahoma. However, C. formosanus Shiraki was not found although its eventual spread into Oklahoma appears certain. Termites were morphologically identified using alates and soldiers. Termites were also identified and validated by DNA sequencing and using BLAST on GENBANK.
25085060|Dziedzickia pentastylobia, n. sp. is described and illustrated. The genus Dziedzickia Johannsen is discussed and diagnoses are provided for separating D. pentastylobia from other species of Dziedzickia and from the genus Hadroneura Lundstrm. Two new combinations are introduced: Dziedzickia immaculata Cole is referred to the genus Syntemna Winnertz and D. oregona Cole is referred to the genus Hadroneura Lundstrm.
25085619|Study of the male type of Ageniella partita Banks demonstrates that it falls within the range of variation of the male A. arcuata (Banks). The species that has usually been called A. partita must now be called A. mintaka Brimley, with Alasagenia rubineus Dreisbach as a synonym. Salient features of these species are described and figured. A new species, A. arapaho, is described from males from Larimer Co., Colorado. The previously unknown female of A. neglecta Banks is described, as is the previously unknown male of A. striga Townes.
23355951|Surveys of baseball and softball diamonds for nests of the ground-nesting wasp Cerceris fumipennis were conducted between 2008 and 2011 in three states: Connecticut, Maine and North Carolina. A total of 1398 ball fields were surveyed, with roughly 22% of these positive for nests of the wasp. Nine percent of the fields had 15 nests and were therefore of practical use in a biosurveillance program for buprestid pests. Connecticut had the highest proportion of both positive fields and of fields useful for biosurveillance. Among fields with any number of nests, the two northern states had a significantly higher proportion with 15 nests. Characteristics of ball diamonds associated with the presence of C. fumipennis are discussed, and the advantages and disadvantages of using ball diamonds in a biosurveillance program addressed.
25085471|The worker of Neivamyrmex curvinotus, n. sp. (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ecitoninae) is described from ants collected from Parque Nacional Manu, Madre de Dios, Peru. This species appears to be most closely related to N. pilosus (Fr. Smith). The holotype worker is deposited in the National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., U.S.A. The queen and male are unknown.
25084007|The following new taxa are described: Agudus blockeri, n. sp.; A. forficatus, n. sp.; A. lepidus, n. sp.; A. cyrtobrachium, n. sp.; Amplicephalus chacus, n. sp.; A. tubupennis, n. sp.; A. eusebius, n. sp.; A. parquis, n. sp.; A. pedriatus, n. sp.; Fusanus acristylus, n. sp.; Haldorus parallelocornis maculatus, n. subsp.; H. scissis, n. sp.; H. schizus, n. sp.; H. drepanus, n. sp.; H. cratus, n. sp.; Limpica forcata, n. gen. and n. sp.; Mendozellus asunctia, n. sp.; Planicephalus serratus, n. sp.; Aplanatus pallibandus, n. gen. and n. sp.; Atanus gracilus, n. sp.; A. luqueatus, n. sp.; A. luqueatus equalis, n. subsp.; A. loriatus, n. sp.; Bahita cirrofasciata, n. sp.; Chlorotettix polymaculatus, n. sp.; C. fuscifascicatus, n. sp.; C. longibrachium, n. sp.; C. latocinctus paraguayensis, n. subsp.; C. fulvicus, n. sp.; Faltala furcipennis, n. sp.; Menosoma longita, n. sp.; M. inprica, n. sp.; Neophlepsius phlorus, n. sp.; Paratanus brevicapitus, n. sp.; P. innermis paraguayensis, n. subsp.; Tubulanus rhopalus, n. sp.; T. trifurcatus, n. sp.; Scaphytopius (Cloanthanus) paraguayensis, n. sp.
25085926|Natural forests managed for timber production conserve tropical biodiversity, but how much? In a lowland wet forest of northeastern Costa Rica, we studied bees and understory flowers in regenerating forest plots logged 6-8 years previously, including silviculturally refined plots where non-timber species were removed. The experiment had a complete randomized block design with 3.24 ha plots (n = 3 per treatment) surrounded by 40 m buffer strips. Our four-month comparative study covered the major flowering period. Overall, 69 species monitored for visitors at 629 individuals demonstrated bees visited and likely pollinated 55 to 80% of understory plants-a mixture of primary forest species in shaded microsites (e.g., palms) and pioneers associated with relatively high insolation (e.g., certain Melastomataceae, Rubiaceae and Solanaceae). Small Halictinae predominated among the bees at flowers; 62% of the 21 species were undescribed.Few notable differences were found among plots of forest drastically altered by culling of non-timber species, and naturally regenerating forest. Such control and refined plots were similar in numbers of species flowering, richness of bees, visitor species per plant, and insolation. Both plot groups had similar complements of halictine species, as well as relatively low levels of foraging specialization by bees evidently nesting, as well as foraging, within plots. Bees were mainly active in shaded microhabitats of closed forest, but the small proportion of relatively insolated plants was heavily visited. Rarity of both native bees frequent in sunny, exposed sites (e.g., Megachile, Centris, Xylocopa) and of African honey bees, is evidence for existence of both a distinctive guild of understory bees and their perception of conditions in logged forests as similar to those of mature forest.
25085529|Neosigmasoma manglunensis Lu is synonymized with Sigmasoma chakratongi Maa, making the monotypic genus Neosigmasoma Lu a junior synonym of Sigmasoma Schmidt. A diagnosis is given for the genus, and a revised key to its three known species is provided. Sigmasoma chakratongi Maa is reported from Laos.
25085873|A new aphid parasitoid species, Ephedrus clavicornis (Hymenoptera, Braconidae, Aphidiinae) is described. Known from Washington and British Columbia, it was found most frequently in association with aphids [Aphis (Bursaphis) nr. oenotherae, and A. varians Patch] on fireweed and willow-herb [Epilobium spp.] in open forest and mountain habitats. It was found infrequently on other hosts, viz. Aphthargelia symphoricarpi (Thomas) on Symphoricarpos sp.; Dysaphis plantaginea (Passerini) on Pyrus malus; Illinoia maxima (Mason) on Rubus parviforus; Prociphilus sp. on Amelanchier alnifolia; and Sitobion avenae (Fabricius) on Agropyron caninum. A key to the Nearctic Ephedrus spp. is provided.
25084544|Efficacy of greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), natural enemies was measured in grain sorghum using mechanical exclusion techniques and the paired comparison experimental approach. Environmental parameters were not significantly different between cages excluding natural enemies and those allowing access. Greenbug densities on caged plants excluding natural enemies rapidly exceeded established economic threshold levels and killed the plants. Greenbug densities on caged plants that allowed natural enemy access remained far below threshold levels. Significant greenbug density increases on these latter plants occurred only after the grain crop reached the soft dough stage of development and was likely beyond economic damage due to greenbug. Predators were the only natural enemies present during most of the study and increased to high densities in the absence of greenbug by feeding on corn leaf aphids, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch). Parasitoid activity was not significant during mid-season (1 July-5 Aug.) when greenbug is capable of rapidly exceeding the economic threshold level. Importation and establishment of additional natural enemies could provide the added greenbug mortality needed at the critical times of crop development.
25082579|Two new species of Histiostoma and 2 new species of Anoetus all based on females and deutonymphs are described from adult halictid bees and their nests from Costa Rica and New York State. These are the first adult anoetids described associated with bees. Anoetus vexarus n. sp. may be conspecific with the type species of the genus Anoetus, A. alicola.
25082888|A new species of Ametropus is described and compared with existing North American species.
25085563|During the 1993 growing season, extensive rainfall fell upon field plots that had been manually infested with western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte) eggs. The topography of the plot area and extensive precipitation combined to saturate the topsoil in a portion of the field during egg hatch. In this area, larval feeding (root-damage ratings) and survival to adulthood (beetle emergence) were significantly reduced when compared with the portion of the field that had unsaturated soil. Root pull resistance was also lower in the saturated portion of the field, suggesting that the soil moisture conditions that reduced western corn rootworm populations also inhibited root growth. These findings suggest that, while water saturated soil at specific times of the life cycle may reduce corn rootworm populations, the magnitude and duration of this treatment needed to achieve this reduction may adversely affect plant growth and development.
25085040|Lasalocid added to a cattle diet at recommended concentrations (200 mg/head/day) did not cause substantial decreases in face fly survival or changes in the size or weight of pupal exuviae. However, additions of lasalocid directly to the dung in concentrations of 41 g/g or greater caused significant reductions in puparial physical characteristics as well as survival. Reductions in survival ranged from 20% at 41 g/g to 98% at 208 g/g. Similarly, length and weight of pupal exuviae were reduced 1.5 and 3.9 times, respectively, for larvae reared at the 167 g/g level. The toxicity observed at this level was related to changes in physical and chemical properties of the cattle feces, including a twofold increase in all organic acids measured: acetic (2.2 times), butyric (3.0 times), propionic (2.4 times), and lactic (1.6 times). Increases in organic acid levels were associated with a decrease in pH and increases in osmolality.
25084158|A mixed colony of Melipona flavipennis and M. fasciata was found in a single tree cavity in premontane wet forest in Panama. Laying queens of both species had coexisted within the nest and shared a single brood chamber. The nest contained 300 to 400 workers and 4 virgin queens of M. fasciata and a gravid, laying queen of flavipennis with 20 workers. M. flavipennis constructed the nest at least one year prior to this study; the two species appeared to have jointly occupied the nest in excess of a few months. Returning foragers of both species carried pollen to the nest. Trophallaxis occurred when flavipennis solicited nectar from fasciata outside the nest entrance by antennation on the head and thorax. This mutualistic association between colonies might have been allowed by such trophallaxis when fasciata seeking a nest site were accepted by workers of flavipennis. This documents the first case of a naturally occurring mixed colony in the Apidae that does not involve facultative parasitism.
25084599|A nest aggregation of the bamboo carpenter bee Xylocopa (Biluna) tranquebarorum tranquebarorum (Swedrius) is described. The aggregation consisted of five nests prepared in successive internodes of a dead bamboo culm. Nesting habits do not differ essentially from those described by Iwata (1938); noteworthy features are the very small nest entrance, usually with thin cell partitions and the collection of raspings for partitions from a definite spot on the inner wall near the entrance. The aggregation is interpreted as formed by females all of which arrived from elsewhere rather than by daughters from a maternal nest.
25085373|A potential source of medium chain-length fatty acids (MCFA's) has been found in the genus Cuphea (Lythraceae). Presently, the U.S. source of MCFA's is imported coconut (Cocos nuciferal L.) and palm kernel oils (Elaeis guineensis Jacq.), or from petroleum based products. A United States Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service (USDA-ARS) sponsored project is underway to domesticate Cuphea Jacq. so that the soap and detergent industry will have a domestic source of these strategic materials. Leaf feeding tests were run to determine if European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis [Hbner]), fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda [J. E. Smith]), or corn earworm (Helicoverpa zea [Boddie]) would be potential leaf feeding pests of Cuphea. Growth of all insect larvae tested was extremely poor, and none survived to pupate. We also compared honey bees (Apis mellifera L.), bumble bees (Bombus spp.), and alfalfa leaf cutting bees (Megachile rotundata [Fab.]) to determine the best pollinator for Cuphea seed increases in cages. Honey bees and bumble bees were both superior to alfalfa leaf cutting bees as pollinators of two species of Cuphea.
25082600|Descriptions and illustrations of external anatomical features are provided for all life stages of Altica bimarginata Say, a flea beetle commonly found feeding on Salix exigua Nutt., a willow growing along water courses in areas of the western United States.
25085331|Three imported parasitoids emerged from larvae of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hubner), from overwintering sites in corn in Pennsylvania in 1990. Macrocentrus grandii was the principal parasitoid, emerging from 17.4% of the overwintering larvae collected. The other specimens, Lydella thompsoni and Eriborus terebrans, were recovered from less than three percent of the overwintering larvae. The entomopathogenic fungus, Beauvaria bassiana appeared in 8.8% of the larvae. In total 34% of the larvae produced an identifiable parasitoid or pathogen, and another 10.2% were killed by unknown causes.
25084651|We evaluated five annual Medicago species (M. disciformis DC., M. rigidula (L.) All., M. ciliaris (L.) Krocker, M. rugosa Des., and M. rotata Boiss.) as potential hosts of the alfalfa seed chalcid, Bruchophagus roddi (Gussakovsky), in growth chambers. A perennial, M. sativa L., was used as a susceptible control. The five annual species represented the four sections (Leptospirae, Pachyspirae, Intertextae, Rotatae) of the subgenus Spirocarpus. In no-choice tests, all annual species were highly resistant to the chalcid. Ovipositor marks and larvae were found in some M. rigidula. The other annuals were uninfested. In a second test, we were unsuccessful in rearing adults from infested M. rigidula.
25085279|A word-processing or desktop publishing program, a laser printer, and the appropriate paper can be used to generate labels. This has the advantage of being much faster than sending off an order to a printer, and produces higher-quality labels than those produced by multiple reductions of typewritten labels on a photocopier.
25084644|The spatial distribution of clover root curculio, Sitona hispidulus (Fabricius), eggs in relation to centers of alfalfa crowns was investigated throughout the spring oviposition period of the adults. Eggs appeared to be clustered about the crowns with approximately 65% of the total eggs sampled being found within 10 cm of the crown center. The possible influences of the egg spatial distribution on density estimates and mortality are also discussed.
25085712|Life history data are used to infer the role of nutrition in male polymorphism in Lasioglossum (Chilalictus) hemichalceum, a communal sweat bee. Two morphs occur in this species; one small with typical halictine male morphology, and one large with a disproportionately large head and mandibles. Macrocephalic males are significantly larger than both small males and females in head width and pupal dry weight. Because L. hemichalceum is a mass provisioner, differences in pupal dry weight suggest that macrocephalic males are supplied with significantly greater amounts of pollen than are small males or females. The proportion of males that are macrocephalic varies dramatically from generation to generation, suggesting that differences in male morphology are triggered by environmental conditions. In light of what is known concerning the caste determination for hymenopteran females, these facts strongly suggest that larval nutrition plays a causal role in male morphology as well. Production of alternative morphs is adaptively synchronized to the colony cycle, suggesting that parental investment choices of L. hemichalceum females evolved, in part, as a response to the relative fitness of alternative male morphs.
25084541|The nesting biology of the monotypic bee Osmia (Trichinosmia) latisulcata Michener is described for the first time. Details of its biology include nesting site, nest architecture, nest associates, mortality, sex ratio and identity of pollen used for nest provisions. The distribution of Osmia latisulcata is extended east to southern Utah. A discussion is presented of the biology as it relates to systematic placement. Observations on the megachilid bee parasite, Stelis depressa Timberlake, are also reported. A discussion of the survival strategies of Stelis is presented.
25085325|The red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta, in addition to several other ant genera (Lasius, Wasmannia, Technomyrmex), invades and destroys electrical equipment. We have shown that ants of several genera (Myrmicinae: Solenopsis, Crematogaster, Pogonomyrmex, Tetramorium, Pheidole, Monomorium; Dolichoderinae: Forelius; and Formicidae: Formica) were attracted to electric fields. Red imported fire ants were not attracted to electromagnetic fields, magnetic fields, ozone or wire insulation. Electrical equipment is damaged by ants which are attracted to the electric fields produced by the equipment.
25085969|Thaumatomyia glabra (Meigen) flies were observed at a blueberry-scented candle at an open window. Significant numbers of males of this fly subsequently were captured in traps baited with a piece of the same type of candle, compared to numbers captured in unbaited traps. GC-MS analysis of a volatile collection made from air passed over a blueberry scented candle revealed the presence of a number of chemicals, including methyl anthranilate. In field tests, significant numbers of male T. glabra were captured in traps baited with methyl anthranilate applied to a filter paper. Numbers of males captured in traps increased significantly with the dose of methyl anthranilate applied to a filter paper in the trap, through the highest dose tested (140 g per paper). In a direct comparison of methyl anthranilate (140 g) and scented candle, greater numbers of flies were captured in traps baited with methyl anthranilate.
25082601|Apparent recent expansion of the range of Merope tuber is judged to be the result of improved collecting techniques. Widely separated ranges of Merope and Austromerope probably were once connected through South America and Antarctica.
25568942|An inventory of the dragonflies and damselflies (Insecta: Odonata) at the Lostwood National Wildlife Refuge (LNWR) was conducted during the summer of 2003. Adult censuses and larval sampling at 32 wetland sites produced 10 dragonfly and 14 damselfly species that were resident in the refuge. In 2006, two additional species were added. The odonate fauna of LWNR consisted primarily of widespread, common species that are adapted to fishless lentic communities and tolerant of alkaline and impermanent water regimes. Enallagma annexum (Hagen), Enallagma boreale Selys, Lestes disjunctus Selys, Lestes congener Hagen, Sympetrum costiferum (Hagen), and Sympetrum internum Montgomery were the most abundant odonates at the refuge. The odonate communities of semipermanent, oligosaline ponds were the most diverse and included species of Aeshna, Anax, Libellula, Leucorrhinia, Sympetrum, Lestes, Coenagrion, Enallagma, Ischnura, and Nehalennia. Large polysaline lakes were inhabited only by Ischnura damula Calvert and four species of Enallagma. Seasonal ponds that remained flooded until mid-July produced large numbers of Sympetrum internum, Lestes disjunctus, and Lestes unguiculatus. Spring-fed bogs and fens supported several species that were rare at the refuge including Sympetrum danae (Sulzer), Sympetrum semicinctum Say, and Amphiagrion abbreviatum (Selys). Long-term monitoring of odonate diversity and abundance may be useful in tracking the effects of climate change in the prairie pothole region but must take into account yearly fluctuations due to variation in winter and summer precipitation.
25084296|Xeromelecta (Melectomorpha) interrupta (Cresson) is reported from Illinois on the basis of 2 collections made in Henderson County in 1962 and 1981 on Rudbeckia hirta and Helianthus rigidus.
25084598|Information is presented on the life cycle and larval feeding habits of Rivellia pallida Loew, a common and widely distributed species of the dipteran family Platystomatidae. Larvae attack the nitrogen-fixing root nodules of Amphicarpa bracteata (L.) Fernald (hog peanut), a woodland legume. The nodular contents are completely destroyed, thus eliminating the nodule's ability to fix nitrogen. Up to 25% of the nodules occurring on individual plants in northeastern Ohio are damaged. There is one and perhaps a partial second generation a year in northern Ohio, with overwintering occurring as mature larvae in diapause. Host plants are given for 8 species of nearctic Rivellia. A discussion of the potential economic significance of the larval feeding habits is presented. Speculations are offered concerning resource partitioning among sympatric species of Rivellia that utilize the same species of Leguminosae, and a suggestion is made that this genus may illustrate the phenomenon of sympatric speciation.
25085863|Seasonal abundances of two halophilous species, Chironomus salinarius Kieffer and Dicrotendipes inouei Hashimoto were studied in a brackish pond of Nagoya City from April 1995 to February 1997. C. salinarius adults showed two distinct emergence peaks in both years, the first in May to June and the second in October to November. The annual growth pattern of C. salinarius revealed that the brackish pond population in Nagoya City was bivoltine. D. inouei adults showed a single emergence peak in May to June of both years.
25085769|Dry season nesting activity of the eusocial sphecid wasp Microstigmus comes (Hymenoptera, Sphecidae) was compared between two sites in Costa Rica with marked differences in wet/dry seasonality. No significant differences were found in the number of cells/nest or distribution of cell content categories between Corcovado National Park, a site with a pronounced dry season, and La Selva Biological Station, a site that is less seasonal. Thus, data indicate that relative dry season intensity may not affect the nesting activity of this species.
25085088|Laboratory colonies of the fire ant, Solenopsis invicta, were fed one of six diets: 1) sugar-water only, 2) insects only, 3) both insects and sugar-water, 4) an artificial diet, 5) an artificial diet plus insects, and 6) no food. Colonies with access to both insects and sugar-water grew almost 10-fold by the end of the experiment. Insects were essential; colonies lacking insects ceased brood production entirely. A sugar source, though not essential, was very important. Growth was reduced by 60% in colonies raised without sugar-water. A commonly used artificial diet was not a suitable substitute for insect prey. Even when this diet was supplemented with insects, it was no better than insects and sugar-water alone.
25084970|Fifty-six inbred lines of dent corn, Zea mays L., that are primarily adapted to the U.S. corn belt, were bioassayed for their resistance to kernel oviposition by the maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky. A wide range of resistance to oviposition was noted in free- and no-choice tests conducted with corn grown in 1983 and 1984. Drought conditions in 1983 that resulted in undersized and incompletely filled kernels apparently increased their susceptibility to maize weevil attack. Susceptible inbreds included A619, B73, C103, H95, Pa91, and W117, while B37, B68, H84, R805, T220, and Va26 showed considerable resistance.
41262861|Megalopta (Noctoraptor) notiocleptis Engel, new species (Halictinae: Augochlorini), is described and figured from a female captured in central Bolivia, representing the first record of this parasitic lineage for the country. The species is distinguished from other cleptoparasitic Megalopta and its putative host documented from the same locality as M. (Megalopta) nitidicollis Friese.
25084894|Courtship and other behavior in adults of the Ethiopian meloids Cyaneolytta fryi (Wollaston) and C. maculifrons (Mklin) are described. The male of C. fryi courts from behind the female and does not touch her with the legs, the male of C. maculifrons from a mounted position. In both species the pattern of behavior is relatively simple. The triungulin larva of C. fryi exhibits the meloine behavioral traits of walking on the dorsal edge of the tarsungulus and using the end of the abdomen both as a pygopod and as a grooming organ. Attempts to rear larvae on pollen provisioned by the bee Apis mellifera Linnaeus, eggs of the acridid Melanoplus femurrubrum (DeGeer), and eggs of the meloid Epicauta pennsylvanica (DeGeer) were uniformly unsuccessful. When offered bee and wasp immatures, triungulins attached to the cuticle by biting it with the mandibles, a behavior suggesting phoresy of the type found in species of Meloe (Lampromeloe). Primarily on the basis of behavioral and anatomical characters of the triungulin larva, Cyaneolytta is transferred from the tribe Lyttini to the tribe Meloini.
25082828|Additional observations on Tachytes obductus extend the range of variation in its nesting behavior. Initial notes on the nesting of Liris muesebecki are presented and discussed. The behavioral activities of one male and one female of Liris aequalis are described. An atypical host record for Larropsis distincta is presented.
25082421|We describe a small oval region of thin cuticle on the female ninth paratergite and the male genital capsule of some Cyminae and Blissinae. The function of the structure is unknown, but we discuss some possibilities.
25082426|Records of species of Mallophaga and Anoplura from 21 species and subspecies of mammals representing more than 100 collections in Nicaragua are reported.
25082429|Nests in an aggregation of primitively social Dialictus umbripennis in eastern Costa Rica contained an average of 17 and a maximum of over 40 adult females in the wet season. Queens were statistically larger than workers, with much overlap in size. Up to 4 queens inhabited each nest; the largest bee in each nest was usually a queen. About 25% of the workers had partially developed ovaries. Workers and males were reared throughout July and August. Caste structure and seasonal activity differed significantly from a population studied by Wille and Orozco in western Costa Rica. The larger queens, monogynous colonies and short dry-season flight period in the latter population are hypothesized to be adaptations in response to a more seasonal climate. Long, convoluted, branching burrows extended into a nearly vertical alluvial bank. Nests typically had multiple entrances and frequently had extensive networks of branching burrows near the entrances; nest structure is otherwise similar to that of Dialictus versatus. Guard bees blocked the narrowed entrances with their heads and were usually effective in repelling inquilines and "lost" bees from other nests. The mature larva and pupa are similar to those of other Dialictus and are described. The phorid Phalacrotophora halictorum, the conopid Zodion americanum, the stylopid Halictoxenos sp., a hymenopteran parasite of adult bees, and especially the cleptoparasitic halictine bee Sphecodes sp. attacked D. umbripennis. The mites Imparipes eickworti (Scutacaridae), Anoetus sp. (Anoetidae), and Parapygmephorus sp. (Pyemotidae) live in the nest cells and were phoretic on adult bees.
25085200|Results of a field-trapping program for a native bee species, Osmia ribifloris biedermannii Michener, and the subsequent release of that population into a commercial plantation of highbush blueberry are presented. The 400 females reared from field traps produced 1461 cells after their release in a blueberry plantation. Nest holes of 6 mm in diameter were more attractive than 7 mm holes, cell provisions were composed exclusively of blueberry pollen-nectar resources, and immatures developed normally on those provisions. A unique non-sonicating method for collecting pollen from blueberry flowers is described; head and thoracic features adapted as "safe sites" for the transfer of pollen from flower to flower are also described; the average time spent at flowers and in flight between flowers is recorded; and, numbers of flowers visited/cell constructed is established. Data on nesting are used to calculate the potential nesting success of a population not exposed to pesticide treatments.
40961682|The labiomaxillary anatomies of mature larvae of exemplars of the four tribes (Xylocopini, Ceratinini, Manueliini, and Allodapini) of the Xylocopinae were examined and compared with the anatomy of the same region on the larva of a generalized, cocoon-spinning Apinae. The exemplars of the first three tribes listed all have the opening of the labial gland on the hypopharynx close to the opening to the pharynx rather than at the apex of the prementum as in the Apinae. Furthermore one of the exemplars of the Allodapini (Allodape ceratinoides Gribodo) agrees in this respect with the three other tribes. However, the other allodapine exemplar (Macrogalea candida (Smith)) has the opening at the apex of the greatly modified labium. Numerous preserved specimens of this species exhibited a conspicuous amorphous, presumably postmortem discharge from the labial gland, suggesting that in this species the labial gland had taken on a new, unknown function compared with other xylocopines (none of which spin cocoons). The study concludes that the hypopharyngeal position of the opening of the duct from the labial gland, far from the premental apex, is a strong larval synapomorphy of the Xylocopinae because it is found in exemplars of all four tribes of the subfamily and has not been reported elsewhere among bees. Although the mature larva of Macrogalea candida has the labial gland opening close to the labial palpi in front of the hypopharynx and therefore presumably on the prementum, the greatly modified labiomaxillary region and the evidence that the gland discharges large quantities of a secretion suggest that the position of the opening is autapomorphic.
25086187|Lygus lineolaris (Heteroptera: Miridae) adults and nymphs were collected weekly from April to September in 2000 and 2001 from three alfalfa fields in central Iowa. From mid-May to June each year, L. lineolaris were also collected in three strawberry fields. In 2000 and 2001, patterns of seasonal abundance of L. lineolaris were similar at two of the three alfalfa sites. When the alfalfa was cut the number of L. lineolaris declined. In strawberries, the number of L. lineolaris decreased after the fruits had formed. Peak populations in 2001 (20 L. lineolaris per 20 sweeps) were approximately 2.5 times the population in 2000 (8 L. lineolaris per 20 sweeps). No parasitoids were reared from L. lineolaris collected from strawberries in either year. In 2000, four unidentified parasitoid cocoons and one parasitoid larva were reared from 1326 L. lineolaris collected in alfalfa (seasonal parasitism = 0.3%). The entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana (Hyphomycetes: Moniliales) infected one adult L. lineolaris collected in September 2000. In 2001, 42 unidentified parasitoid larvae and six cocoons were observed from 1267 dissected or reared L. lineolaris individuals (seasonal parasitism = 4%).
25086118|On Fuerteventura, Canary Islands, micritic and silty to sandy insect cells are abundant, in well-exposed Quaternary terrestrial sediments and calcretes. Previous authors regarded these cells as hymenopteran in origin, referring them to the ichnogenus Celliforma. However, a new study of cell shape, cell wall thicknesses, cell lining, apertural closure, construction materials and cell aggregation and clustering, indicates that some of these fossils may be referable to the ichnogenus Palmiraichnus or an unnamed ichnogenus of the Celliformidae, attributed to bees. Other cells are referable to the ichnogenus Rebuffoichnus, considered to be coleopteran pupal cells. Similarities between this Quaternary assemblage and better-known Late Cretaceous to Early Tertiary insect cell assemblages from South America, support an earlier suggestion that the Fuerteventuran cell assemblages developed during periods of relatively increased rainfall in an overall semiarid paleoclimate.
25082315|Fiebrigella Duda (1921), described in "Borboridae spuriae," is found to be the chloropid genus known as Goniopsita Duda (1930). This new synonymy also required F. boliviensis nom. nov. (= G. verrucosa Duda, preoccupied).
25084532|Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) superbum fulvipes (Cameron), a sphecid spider-hunting wasp, was studied at the Organization for Tropical Studies' field station at La Selva, Costa Rica. The wasps nested in trap-nests with 9.5 (N = 4) and 6.4 (N = 22) mm  15.5 cm tubes. Nests consisted of a linear series of brood cells (x = 9.5 in 9.5 mm diameter nests, and x = 8.3 in 6.4 mm diameter nests) separated by thin mud partitions. Unlike nests of other Trypargilum, there were no thick final closure plugs and no vestibular cells. Male and female cells were generally segregated with male cells placed at the inner end of nesting tubes and female cells close to the entrance. The sex ratio based upon reared specimens was male-biased, especially in 6.4 mm diameter nests (9:2). Upon completing the last brood cell, females departed, but the males continued guarding nests until all larvae had made cocoons. Nest structure, cocoon morphology, and male behavior are discussed regarding their possible role as an adaptation against ant predation. Brood cells were provisioned primarily with spiders of the family Salticidae, but also small numbers of Ctenidae, Oxyopidae, and Araneidae. Natural enemies of T. superbum include Brachymeria sp. (Hymenoptera; Chalcididae) and Phalacrotophora punctiapex Borgmeier (Diptera; Phoridae).
25084011|Four new monobasic genera are described, the first three with new species from North America: Microchridium minutum, Xerochrum rubeum, Hedychreides mirum, and Chrysurissa for Chrysis densa Cresson.
25083596|Spiders are placed in soft expanded plastic cells for restraint. A small folded piece of cigarette paper is held between the fangs of the spider and its leg is touched with a pair of electrodes from a sine wave generator. The greatest venom yield with the least mortality is achieved with approximately 6-7 volts at 15-20 cps. The venom is washed from the paper pad with distilled water. An aliquot of the diluted venom is injected sc or im into the hind leg of a white mouse.
25085639|Habitat separation among Chironomidae was determined for five habitats in Big Springs, which is located in the high plains of western Kansas. Larvae, pupae, pupal exuviae and adults were qualitatively collected from each habitat on seven dates over a two-year period. The five habitats investigated were: spring source, spring run, a large pool, splash zones, and saturated soils/small seeps. Sixty-six species occurred in the five habitats, with Chironomini being most species rich (31 species), followed by Orthocladiinae (22), Tanypodinae (9) and Tanytarsini (4). The highest species richness was in the pool habitat (45 species), which was dominated by Chironomini. Orthocladiinae dominated all other habitats, with the spring run having second highest species richness (20 species), followed by the spring source and splash zones (each with 13 species) and the saturated soils and seeps (11 species). Forty-eight of the species occurred in only one habitat and only three taxa, Tanytarsus spp., Corynoneura spp. and Thienemanniella spp., were found in all five habitats. Jaccard's Coefficient showed that the composition of the splash zone and spring source, and the splash zone and spring run were most similar. However, an analysis of species composition using the Simple Matching Coefficient indicated that the splash zone and spring source were most similar, and the splash zone and saturated soils and seeps as second most similar. Both indices, however, indicated that the spring source and the large pool had the least similar composition. These results suggest that patterns of longitudinal zonation in the composition of chironomids, and perhaps other macroinvertebrates, along spring and spring run gradients are strongly influenced by physical variations in the micro-habitats that occur as the groundwater discharge merges into a well defined stream with alternating pool-rifle habitats.
25083914|The nesting and foraging behavior of Colletes validus Cresson was studied in Connecticut. The head of the bee is elongated and therefore adapted to reach nectaries at the base of the urn-shaped blueberry (Vaccinium spp.) flowers on which it is oligolectic. A female attractant pheromone exuded by males and females is discussed. Nest construction, architecture and general life cycle are described.
25084916|To study interactions between females of Cerceris cribrosa Spinola, we observed 76 marked females at Gamboa, Republic of Panama. Large numbers of females searched for nesting sites, but few nests were successfully completed. Attempts at nest usurpation by conspecific females occurred frequently. For several days after a usurpation, the former provisioner returned and attempted to reusurp the nest. During this period of interaction both the usurper and previous provisioner occasionally brought prey to the nest. This tenacity in attempts at reusurpation has not been reported in other species of sphecid wasps, and may be related to difficulty of nesting in this environment.
25086196|Two new species of Bittacus are described from the collection of Utah State University: B. hansoni from Mexico and B. parkeri from Costa Rica. Locality-date information is given for 11 additional species.
25084556|Subcontiguous lobes and tubercles present on the sternum of the ninth abdominal segment of Smicronyx fulvus can be used to distinguish female pupae from male pupae, which lack these structures.
25083792|Echthrodape africana Burks, at least as a middle-sized and large larva, is an external parasite of pupae of bees of the genus Braunsapis. The large larvae, prepupae, and pupae of Echthrodape are presumably moved about the nest and placed with young bees of comparable stages by the adult bees, like their own young. Feces of larvae of both host and parasite are removed by the bees. Larvae and pupae of both host and parasite have some strong hairs which probably serve for protection as well as support within the nest burrow.
25082524|Microwave or infrared radiation was used to produce a temperature of 54  1C in paired samples of rice weevil infested soft winter wheat. Infrared gave greater insect control than did microwave by the following average differences in percentage: 13 for immature stages, 76 for adults, and 56 for
25083616|At Ludhiana (Punjab) India, 97 species of bees were collected from crops, garden flowers and wild flowers. The relationship between the climate, flowering seasons of plants and periods of activity of associated bees is described. Bees belonging to primarily holarctic genera appeared on the winter annuals and cold-weather crops; during the warm season a greater variety of bees was on the tropical crops. Various wild bees were more numerous than Apis spp. on sunn hemp, gram, sarson, taramira, pomegranate and eggplant.
25082647|Eight species of Chlorotettix are described: C. liquarus n.sp. and C. duospinus n.sp. from Argentina, C. boliviella n.sp. and C. malevius n.sp. from Bolivia, C. cuneus n.sp. and C. lingulus n.sp. from Brazil, and C. guerrerus n.sp and C. spinellus n.sp. from Mexico.
25082648|A new species of bruchid that feeds in the seeds of Indigofera sphaerocarpa from southeastern Arizona, Acanthoscelides baboquivari, is described. The male genitalia, dorsal aspect and the hind leg are figured and the relationships between baboquivari and other similar species are discussed. Ovipositional and larval entry behavior of A. kingsolveri Johnson and A. baboquivari in the seeds of I. sphaerocarpa are described and discussed. A. baboquivari is parasitized by the braconid Urosigalphus bruchivorus Crawford. Differences in phenology and parasitism between the 2 species of bruchids and a new species of Anthonomus (Curculionidae) at 2 different sites are also discussed.
25085543|Aphaneura (or Alphaneura) rufescens Gray, 1832, is a junior synonym of Apis pallens Fabricius, 1798, through a neotype designation. This is a species of Trigona (Apidae). Aphaneura Gray, 1832, is a junior synonym of Trigona Jurine, 1807. Megachileoides Radoszkowski, 1874, is a junior synonym of Trachusa Panzer, 1804, since Trachusa serratulae Panzer, 1804, is here designated as type species of Megachileoides. Pseudaugochloropsis Schrottky, 1906, is a synonym of Paraugochloropsis Schrottky, 1906; Pseudaugochlora Michener, 1954, replaces Pseudaugochloropsis of authors.
25481803|Sexual dimorphisms in four related species of tephritid flies were shown to be associated with differences in sexual behavior. In two species, Ceratitis capitata and C. catoirii, males and females approach closely head to head and apparently touch aristae, and the male buzzes his wings, probably fanning pheromone toward the female; the males were found to have longer aristae with fewer microsetae, and larger posterior areas of their wings than do females. These dimorphisms were absent in the other two species, C. rosa and Neoceratitis cyanescens, which court at a longer distance and in which the male does not fan pheromone toward the female prior to mounting. All three pairs of legs were proportionally longer in the males of all four species. None of the other sexually dimorphic male signalling traits showed the positive allometric slopes predicted by some theories.
25084571|The hemolymph of bees from Denmark, Finland, France, Guatemala, Kangaroo Island, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Sweden and Tasmania was analyzed for allozymes of malate dehydrogenase (MDH). Three subspecies, Apis mellifera mellifera, A. m. ligustica, and A. m. scutellata can be identified biochemically based on the banding patterns of the MDH alloyzmes. Although the majority of the honey bee samples from Guatemala and Mexico were of European origin, a small percentage exhibited the African phenotype for MDH. Detection of
25085150|Grain amaranth, Amaranthus cruentus L., is a potential alternative crop for midwestern agriculture. One of the insect pests most commonly found in large numbers on amaranth plantings is the tarnished plant bug (TPB), Lygus lineolaris (Palisot de Beauvois). A greenhouse study was conducted to determine the distribution of the eggs of TPB laid on the amaranth plant. Three growth stages (4 wk, 6 wk, and 8 wk) of a grain amaranth cultivar, Amaranthus cruentus L., 'RRC-1011', were tested. Results show that the TPB preferred to oviposit on heads (inflorescence), but leaves were preferred over stems when heads were not available. When using leaves as an oviposition site, the TPB prefers the petiole, and the midrib is second in preference. Two-thirds to three-fourths of the eggs laid on leaves were laid on those two parts.
25086253|A cladistic analysis based on mitochondrial DNA and morphology of 40 species of Polistes is presented. Thirty-six New World species are treated with attention to classical taxonomic views, including subgeneric, species-group, and species membership. No previously proposed species groups are supported. Variants that have been sometimes thought conspecifics, including P. erythrocepahlus and P. infuscatus, are found to be more distinct than earlier taxonomy would suggest. Combination of morphology and molecules often provides stronger support for certain groupings, including a North American clade of the former Fuscopolistes. These results indicate that some morphological signal emerges only when the DNA and morphological data are analyzed together. Our results support the dissolution of all New World subgenera into a single subgenus, Aphanilopterus.
41353891|Visitors to flowers of Cornus florida and C. kousa were assessed in East Tennessee during spring in 2008 and 2009. Visitation rate data were compiled throughout the flowering period of both tree species acros0s a range of environmental conditions. Diurnal and seasonal variations in visitation are reported. Pollen coverage on collected insects was assessed to estimate pollination efficiency. In total, 11 families from 4 insect orders were collected from C. florida and 26 families from 5 insect orders were collected from C. kousa. Visitors to C. florida varied considerably across sites and between years, however bees in the families Andrenidae and Halictidae were consistently present and are expected to be key pollinators of flowering dogwood. Although halictid bees were also common visitors to C. kousa the most common visitors to Chinese dogwood were scarab, cerambycid, and cantharid beetles.
25082843|Five new species of Osbornellus, O. antlerus n. sp., O. spinellus n. sp., O. asperus n. sp., O. circulus n. sp. and O. hamatus n. sp. are described.
25084446|The sex ratios of 74 eggpods of Melanoplus sanguinipes ranged from all male to all female with the overall ratio 0.50/0.50. Usually all of the eggs in a pod hatched within a few hours but in 20% of the pods the grasshoppers hatched in small groups separated by several hours to 3 days. In weekly field collections of M. sanguinipes the ratio changed from 0.50/0.50 in the early instars and early season to female-dominated ratios as the number of males collected decreased. For field collections over 11 years, 26 of 88 species-year combinations and 8 of 11 species calculated over all years had significant deviations from the 0.50/.50 ratio. In general, males developed faster and died sooner than females. Sweepnet samples more often were sex biased than cage-vacuum samples, likely because the differences in behavior and morphology between sexes influenced the probability of being captured. It is suggested that sex ratios be considered in making population estimates from sex-biased samples.
20621943|Gryllotalpa major Saussure is a rare burrowing insect native to the tallgrass prairie in the south-central United States. Males construct aggregated burrows in lek arenas from which they produce sexual advertisement calls in a landscape that superficially appears to be rather homogeneous. To test the hypothesis that male calling burrows are aggregated due to habitat limitations linked to fine scale differences in soil characteristics, we analyzed ten soil samples per site taken along a transect from each of three lek sites in Osage and Craig Counties in northeastern Oklahoma for mineral content, moisture content, pH, texture and color. Transects ran across a lek, and thus samples were taken from empty areas on either side of the aggregation, as well as from near burrows. Although there were differences in these soil attributes within and among lek sites, this analysis showed no correlation between number of G. major burrows within 10 m of a soil sample site and any of these attributes for the three lek sites sampled.
25085147|The subgenus Gladionura Osborn, genus Athysanella Baker, is reviewed, and possible phylogenies of the group are discussed. A total of 44 species are recognized. Descriptions, illustrations, and a key to males are included. Seven new species are described: andyi, crispa, falla, gilli, nata, senta, and tessa. The subspecies emarginata sobrina Blocker is designated a species, the subspecies sinuata lobata Ball and Beamer is designated a synonym of sinuata Osborn, the subspecies blanda vana Ball and Beamer is designated a synonym of blanda Ball and Beamer, and the species evita Wesley and Blocker is designated a synonym of arcana Ball and Beamer.
25085547|Descriptions and comparative comments are given for the nests of three megachilid bees encountered in Coahuila, Mxico: Ashmeadiella (Isosmia) rubrella (Michener), Hoplitis (Eremosmia) beameri (Michener), and Megachile (Xeromegachile) instita Mitchell. Records of floral hosts suggest that A. rubrella may be an oligolege of Dalea spp. (Leguminosae), H. beameri may be an oligolege of Hydrophyllaceae, while M. instita may be largely oligolectic on Leguminosae. The cleptoparasitic megachilid Coelioxys (C.) hirsutissima Cockerell was collected in association with the nest of M. instita.
25083438|Clerid beetles, Thanisimus dubius (Fab.), were observed attacking southern pine beetles which were invading shortleaf pine. Clerid predation, however, is apparently modified by the condition of the tree bark. The clerids reduced the number of attacks by southern pine beetle more on trees with rough, scaly bark than trees with smooth bark.
25083020|Functional and non-functional ovaries of the parasite Bathyplectes curculionis are illustrated and comparatively described. The occurrence of non-functional ovaries in field populations of B. curculionis is demonstrated, and the incidence of this phenomenon at several locations is given. This ovarial abnormality invariably resulted in a failure to oviposit, but some females with morphologically normal ovaries also failed to oviposit. Twenty-seven specimens of B. anurus which were collected as adults in alfalfa fields all had normal ovaries.
25082350|This study was conducted to determine the drift periodicity of riffle beetles from lotic waters in Idaho. Two square-foot drift nets were used for sampling drift. In both 1966 and 1967, samples were taken at two-hour intervals over two 24-hour sampling periods. Drift periodicity was determined for five species of riffle beetles. Behaviorial drift was reflected with drift rates reaching highest levels at night. Differences in drift potential were noted among the species as well as between the larval and adult stages of at least two species, Narpus concolor (LeConte) and Optioservus seriatus (LeConte).
25085734|The generic classification of the Australian Masarinae is revised, based upon cladistic analysis. The prior system is shown to rest crucially upon a morphological misinterpretation. The Australian Masarinae are a monophyletic group, sister-group to the remainder of the tribe Masarini, and are treated as the subtribe Paragiina Bradley, 1922. Two genera are recognized, Paragia Shuckard, 1837, and Metaparagia Meade-Waldo, 1911. The genera Rolandia Richards, 1962, Riekia Richards, 1962, and Ammoparagia Snelling, 1986 are all synonymized with Metaparagia. The subtribe Masarina comprises the remainder of the Masarini.
25085635|Chironomidae and Ceratopogonidae populations were studied in a thermal gradient at Poncha Hot Spring (T48N, R8E, S15) in South Central Colorado, U.S.A. Chemical analyses revealed moderate spring ion concentrations that ranged from trace amounts of nitrates to 210 mg/liter sulfate. Four new chironomid species in the genera Cricotopus, Polypedilum, Tanytarsus, and Rheocricotopus were found. Paratendipes thermophilus Townes, Cricotopus sp., Micropsectra sp., and Larsia sp. were collected from the thermal spring effluent with P. thermophilus being the most abundant chironomid. The presence of P. thermophilus represents a new state record for Colorado. Dasyhelea cincta Coquillett and Palpomyia sp. were also found in the hot spring effluent with D. cincta being the most abundant ceratopogonid. The relationships between chironomid and ceratopogonid abundances and biomasses to temperature are described. Chironomid abundance and biomass decreased in a curvilinear manner as temperature increased along the spring effluent's thermal gradient, whereas, there was no significant relationship between ceratopogonid abundance and biomass and temperature. The ceratopogonid distribution patterns suggest they were thermophilic.
25082725|A new genus, Regalana, and new species, R. corona n. sp. from Panama and Francaise Guyane are described.
25085284|Laboratory studies were conducted to determine if Diabrotica longicornis (Say) has the potential to enter prolonged egg diapause and to quantify D. longicornis fecundity and longevity. The immature developmental periods of the sibling species, Diabrotica longicornis and D. barberi Smith and Lawrence were also compared. When fed a diet of zucchini squash, the mean fecundity of D. longicornis was 185.6 eggs per female and the mean longevity was 54.2 days. The immature developmental period of D. longicornis (mean 43 days) was significantly shorter than that of D. barberi (mean 47 days) when both species were reared on corn. A small percentage of D. longicornis eggs hatched 15 days after oviposition, 44.2% hatched after one chill period, and additional eggs hatched after a second chill period. This suggests that nondiapause and prolonged diapause traits occur within the D. longicornis population studied.
25085645|In 1988-1991, wing-style traps baited with black cutworm (Agrotis ipsilon [Hufnagel]) pheromone were placed on Shell Offshore Inc. oil platforms off the coasts of Texas and Louisiana as part of a migration study of the black cutworm. Although no black cutworm moths were found in the traps, numerous other insect species were captured, including some Noctuidae. Most of the approximately 1700 insects captured were determined to family or genus level, and some were determined to species.
25085328|Larval stages of Tetanops myopaeformis (Rder) were examined by light and scanning electron microscopy. Characteristics used in instar determination were: body length, maximum body width, color, thoracic and abdominal denticles, anterior spiracles, spiracular horns, cephalopharyngeal skeletons, and cephalic segment structure. The instars are described and compared with descriptions of other otitid larvae.
25083726|Illustrations of and notes upon the type female specimen of Desmatomyia anomala Williston (the generotype) and a description of the male are given, with records extending the range to Arizona and Kansas. A new species, D. binotata Painter, is illustrated and described from Sonora, Mexico.
25084486|The propagative stages of the nematodes, Aduncospiculum halicti Giblin and Kaya and Bursaphelenchus kevini Giblin et al., were found in brood cells containing immature stages of Halictus. The dauer juvenile, which is a resistant and/or dispersal stage of these nematodes, was observed only in cells containing pupae, pharate adults, or adults before emergence from cells. Dauers of A. halicti and B. kevini overwinter in the Dufour's gland, and in the bursa copulatrix and common oviduct, respectively, of diapausing females of Halictus. Females of H. farinosus Smith and H. ligatus Say were rarely infested with both species of nematodes. Males of H. rubicundus (Christ) and H. ligatus were infested with A. halicti. A. halicti was recovered from H. ligatus at 75% of the sites examined in California, Idaho, New Jersey, New York, Oregon and Washington. B. kevini was recovered from H. farinosus at 88% of the sites examined in California and Oregon.
20621945|Japanese beetles are important pests of many agricultural and horticultural plants, yet few studies have attempted to follow the mating behavior of individuals in the field. In this study, we recorded mating behavior and patch residence of Japanese beetles on food plants under field conditions. Pairs of beetles were marked and their fates were followed for 2 days. Both male and female Japanese beetles frequently mated with more than one individual, with males being more likely to pair multiply than females but females more quickly re-pairing than males. Patch departure differed between males and females, with females tending to leave the food patch in midday and males tending to leave in the evening. Male mate-guarding of females was highly variable, with some males remaining with females less than 30 minutes and others guarding females for over 24 hours. The duration of mate guarding was unrelated to whether the female departed immediately after the pair broke up. The results of this study suggest that individual turnover in food patches is high and that there is substantial opportunity for sperm competition.
25084705|A new genus, Exallopyga, containing three previously described species, E. difficilis (Spinola), E. guatemalensis (Cameron) and E. jenseni (Buysson) from the Neotropical Region, is presented. A key to the species is introduced along with a discussion of their distribution and distinguishing characters.
25083717|In greenhouse cages, Empoasca fabae (Harris) was cultured satisfactorily on plants of broad bean, less well on navy bean. The leafhoppers died on plants of red kidney bean. In glass culture bottles, callus tissue of the three bean varieties each supported leafhoppers for 7-10 days. Red kidney bean was most productive, navy bean intermediate, and broad bean least productive when callus tissue was grown on Hildebrandt's "D" medium for a 4-week period.
25086345|From 1999-2002, the University of Nebraska Department of Entomology, Folsom's Children Zoo, and Lincoln Public Schools Science Focus High School initiated a program called Bumble Boosters. Forty schools participated to conduct a general survey of Nebraska bumble bees to: 1) determine whether the 20 species of bumble bees previously identified can still be found in Nebraska, 2) collect in areas that were not included in previous surveys, and 3) discover any additional species in the state. This study provides an update to previous surveys including; new distribution maps for species, and a discussion of findings.
25084648|Extraordinarily long forelegs of the female bees, Rediviva emdeorum new species and R. longimanus Michener, are associated with equally long oil-producing floral spurs of Diascia longicornis. The bees visit the flowers, whose oil cannot be reached by ordinary floral visitors. This is as noteworthy as any known case of morphological coevolution of flower and pollinator.
25082430|New records for 18 species and subspecies of Anoplura collected in Mexico are reported.
25083047|A study of the mayfly fauna of the Ozark-Ouachita area of northwestern Arkansas was based on extensive field sampling and the examination of all available collections for the area. A total of 70 nominal species were found in the area, 35 of which are reported as new state records from Arkansas. Many of the newly reported species represent considerable range extensions from their previously known distributions. The mountainous Arkansas fauna is primarily related to that of the Appalachians, however, other faunal elements are also present. Complete distributional data for within the region of study are given for each species along with brief biogeographic annotations.
25083998|Presence or absence of testes can be seen easily and used as a rapid method for sexing dead adults of the Angoumois grain moth, Sitotroga cerealella (Olivier), if the adults are wetted to reduce refractiveness of scales. The character is best seen when it is viewed through the abdomen with a strong light directed upward through the specimen.
25083025|A procedure is described for extracting arthropods from plant debris and dirt in vacuum-net or sweep-net samples by removing them in a layer of xylene while leaving the debris in a layer of ice. Efficiency of extraction of 8 groups of arthropods was greater than 90%, but large lepidopteran larvae were less efficiently extracted.
25085767|We report haploid karyotypes of two species of the orchid bee genus Euglossa. Males of Panamanian Euglossa hyacinthina Dressler and E. cyanaspis Moure had haploid chromosome numbers of n = 20 and 21, respectively. All chromosomes were submetacentric. No diploid males were observed.
25086238|Many insect species show intraspecific variation in their life-history patterns. Such variability may affect a wide range of traits including size, social behavior, sex ratios, mating tactics, and competition for resources; it may also affect population dynamics and interactions with parasites and prey. Trypoxylon politum has a seasonally variable, partially bivoltine life history (i.e., some wasps produce offspring that emerge before the end of June whereas others produce overwintering offspring) in the southern part of its range and a univoltine life history (one generation per year) north of central Virginia. Wasps from three partially bivoltine populations differ in the pattern of adult emergence, suggesting a latitudinal gradient in their responsiveness to photoperiod and other environmental cues affecting diapause. Wasp size, sex, the date on which the egg was laid, and rearing conditions also affect diapause and the timing of adult emergence. Few behavioral differences were found between wasps from Florida partially bivoltine populations and wasps from New Jersey univoltine populations, but their life histories and patterns of adult emergence differ markedly. When wasps from partially bivoltine populations are reared in the north (NJ), they emerge at the same time as local wasps. When wasps from univoltine populations are subjected to warm winter conditions (FL) they show a bimodal pattern of adult emergence: some emerge slightly later than wasps from partially bivoltine populations reared under the same conditions whereas others emerge at the same time as those developing in the north. This suggests variability in the effect of environmental cues on diapause and adaptation to local environmental conditions. The advantages of different emergence patterns are discussed in terms of their effect in avoiding unfavorable conditions such as freezing, and in taking advantage of favorable conditions such as synchronizing emergence with the occurrence of appropriate prey resources.
25084432|Physetopoda insularis Schuster is a synonym of Smicromyrme montana rubrocincta (Lucas) which occurs in the Mediterranean region, not the West Indies. Paramyrme Lelej is a synonym of Physetopoda. Chaetotilla argentina Schuster is a member of the Sphaeropthalmini and not the Mutillini.
25085528|Orthogonal comparisons of age-specific and inter-sexual differences in susceptibility of twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae, to the pathogenic fungus, Neozygites floridana, were investigated. Immatures were shown to be more susceptible than adults, and female adults were more susceptible than adult males. Cuticular, immunological, and behavioral mechanisms are discussed to explain this variability.
25082522|The last larval instar of Lithacodia albidula (Guene) is redescribed with special attention given to the mandible and hypopharyngeal complex. The similarities and differences between L. albidula and L. muscosula (Guene) are discussed.
25568926|A new genus and species of the peculiar braconid wasp subfamily Masoninae is described and figured from a female preserved in Early Miocene (Burdigalian) amber from the Dominican Republic. Anoblepsis konokeraia Engel and Bennett, new genus and species, belongs to the tribe Masonini but differs from the hitherto only known genus, Masona van Achterberg. The genus is diagnosed and compared with its modern counterparts. Anoblepsis konokeraia is the third braconid species documented from Dominican amber and the second of the subfamily Masoninae.
25085146|Fat-soluble dyes (Calco oil red N-1700 or Calco oil blue V) were added to dry artificial diets for adults of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte. Survival of beetles was similar on diet containing 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0% blue dye. Red dye significantly increased mortality in two of three trials; specific batches of the dye appeared more toxic than others, killing ca. 50% vs. 8% of recently eclosed beetles during 8 days as 2% of diet. In a blind evaluation of marks, a panel of observers was 75, 88 and 94% accurate in determining the color (or absence) of dye that had been fed to beetles for 2, 4, or 8 days, respectively. After 8 days, the red dye was easily visible through lightly pigmented portions of the cuticle of almost all beetles. The blue dye produced tints ranging from a distinct blue to a slight graying that was difficult to distinguish from natural variation in coloration. In lightly marked WCR, however, small flecks of dye often occurred at the tips of the elytra. Results of a second blind evaluation indicated that 8 days on 1% red dye or (unless beetles are over 3 wk old) 2% blue dye produces markings that are suitable for mark-recapture studies. The authors propose a procedure for minimizing bias in mark-recapture data by using results from blind evaluations to estimate and compensate for misidentification of marks.
25083002|Six new tropical species of Xestocephalus, X. bifidus n. sp. (Mexico), X. spicatus n. sp. (Mexico), X. curtus n. sp. (Panama), X. mexicanus n. sp. (Mexico), X. hambletoni n. sp. (Brazil), and X. ramulus n. sp. (Puerto Rico) are described and four species previously described X. balli V.D. (Jamaica), X. bipunctatus V.D. (Jamacia), X. ornatus V.D. (Jamacia) and X. maculatus Osb. (Cuba) are illustrated from the type specimens.
25082494|Braunsapis foveata from Kenya was maintained for four months in an insectary room. Honey water is sometimes transferred from mouthparts of mature adults to young adults of either sex. Passing of bees in the nest burrow is usually venter to venter and the bees may be going in the same or opposite directions. Exsertion of the proboscis of one or both bees is often elicited by passing. Pollen is carried on the scopa into nests with or without young, and brushed off onto the nest wall. Transport of pollen within the nest is also largely on the scopa. Pollen from the deposits on the nest wall is eaten by adult bees or mixed with honey water and fed to larvae. Unless the nest is artificially closed, defecation by adults occurs outside the nest. There is no evidence that this species starts its own burrows in pithy stems although it may extend existing burrows.
25084802|Large numbers of Oncideres pustulatus larvae were killed by record-breaking freezing temperatures in Texas during December 1983 and January 1984. Larvae were collected from three widely separated areas in southern Texas (Upper Gulf Coast, Coastal Bend, and Lower Rio Grande Valley) and examined for mortality. Mean percent mortality was 96.53, 94.97, and 33.45, respectively. Mortality in the Lower Rio Grande Valley was significantly different from the two more northerly areas. Weather records obtained from each area were used to relate the effects of freezing temperatures to larval mortality. O. pustulatus is principally tropical and subtropical in distribution and severe freezing temperatures appear to act as a density-independent mortality factor, thereby limiting the northern distribution of the species in Texas.
25086233|In most species of social insects, the nest is enlarged gradually as the colony grows. Here we call attention to some striking exceptions to this general rule of continuous nest construction. A common pattern among the swarm-founding, eusocial wasp species is explosive nest construction, in which the nest is built rapidly to a large size in the first one to three weeks after colony initiation. Nest size then remains static for weeks or months. We document this pattern of nest growth for the swarm-founding wasp, Polybia occidentalis. Data showing a high percentage of empty cells in pre-emergence-stage nests suggest that a similar pattern holds for some other swarm-founding polistine genera. In contrast, certain other genera seem to follow the continuous construction pattern of the independent founders. We propose five potential factors that could favor a strategy of explosive nest construction: maximization of colony productivity, work-group efficiency, protection of the brood, protection of the swarm adults, and enhancement of reproductive competition. We discuss evidence from both groups of swarm founders that provides circumstantial support for some of these, but not for others.
25085087|Seventy-two additional species of spiders are reported from Arkansas, bringing the total to 507 species representing 35 families.
20621954|In Nebraska, the ranges of Trimerotropis maritima (eastern species) and T. agrestis (western species) overlap but populations usually remain separated by habitat preferences. The morphological and color differences between the species are described. However, around Lake McConaughy, a reservoir on the North Platte River which has declined markedly in depth as a result of recent drought, a habitat was created in which the two species coincide and hybridize frequently. The water level in this reservoir had dropped in excess of 20 meters as of 2007, resulting in large expanses of dunes grading into beach habitats. Grasshoppers were collected in the area from 2005 to 2007 and based on morphological characteristics appear to represent hybrids. Surveys of many other habitats in Nebraska produced no hybrids. This study indicates that the alteration of habitat by impoundment of a river followed by climatic change may have the potential to disrupt environmental boundaries that maintain the integrity of parapatric sibling species. As this habitat is the result of human landscape alterations, it suggests that our alterations have the potential to disrupt environmental characteristics that maintain the integrity of parapatric sibling species.
25082785|In the period of transition from laying nondiapause to laying diapause eggs, females lay nondiapause eggs early in their reproductive lives and diapause eggs later. Under the influence of high temperatures and long daylengths most eggs are nondiapause with some diapause eggs being laid as the females become senile. Under the influence of lower temperatures and shorter daylengths laying diapause eggs occurs significantly earlier in the reproductive period.
25084807|Parasitism of the adult bean leaf beetle, Cerotoma trifurcata (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) by Medina n. sp. (Diptera: Tachinidae) is reported for the first time. During the 1984 season, four peaks of bean leaf beetle parasitism and four periods of parasitoid oviposition were observed indicating four parasitoid generations. Parasitism of the bean leaf beetle was significantly higher (4 fold) in a soybean field bordered with alfalfa when compared to a soybean field without adjacent alfalfa. The parasitoid overwinters as a larva in the diapausing adult bean leaf beetle.
25078465|Leaf, spur, bark, surface litter, and water sprout samples were collected at different intervals throughout the growing season from 5 commercial and 2 abandoned apple orchards during 1972-73. At least 45 species of predaceous mites and 32 species of predaceous insects were found in association with tetranychid mites during this investigation. Of these 77 species, only Balaustium dowelli and Leptus spp.; Neoseiulus fallacis; Agistemus fleschneri; Chrysopa spp. (primarily C. rufilabris and C. carnea); Stethorus punctum; Haplothrips mali; Deraeocoris nebulosus; Hyaloides sp. (probably harti); and Orius insidiosus were found in varying degrees of abundance in apple trees sufficient to be considered as potentially important predators of tetranychid mites in Missouri. Of these, N. fallacis and A. fleschneri appear to be the two most important predators based on current chemical control programs by the growers.
25084604|Communities of plants and foliage invertebrates representing three different management regimes (planted, fallow, and weedy grazed pasture) were investigated in conjunction with an environmental impact assessment of a coal-fired electric generating plant in eastern Kansas. Plant species composition, percent basal coverage, aboveground (shoot) biomass, diversity, and number of species reflected management differences. Characteristics of the associated invertebrate communities, dominated by Orthoptera and Homoptera, were less clearly related to management practices. Shoot biomass, basal coverage, and number of species were the most important predictors of invertebrate diversity and abundance. No variable was a good predictor of spider abundance at fallow sites; spider numbers elsewhere were best predicted by plant biomass and numbers of invertebrates and invertebrate families.
25082356|Lectotypes are designated for the majority of the Biologia Centrali-Americana Cerambycidae not previously done. Most species are in the subfamily Lamiinae.
25086401|Male behavior and the significance of odor signals in mate-seeking were investigated in the spiral-horned bees Systropha planidens and S. curvicornis. In both species the females are oligolectic on the bindweed Convolvulus. Males held territories containing Convolvulus flowers, suggestive of resource defense polygyny. They patrolled fixed routes over flower patches and defended them against other males. In physical combat, grappling males struck each other repeatedly with the sharp-edged apex of their metasoma employing the conspicuously enlarged eighth sternum as a ram. Head width measurements showed that males in both species are larger than conspecific females. Most copulations occurred in Convolvulus flowers. Behavioral experiments with scented bee dummies revealed evidence for odor-cues in mate recognition. It is probable that long-range visual signals are used to locate competitors and mates on flowers, whereas at close range, chemicals presumably on the cuticle surface are responsible for sex and species recognition.
25082855|This paper describes the nesting behavior of three sympatric species of Centris bees, including information on the dimensions and design of nest burrows, brood provisions, the position of the egg in the brood cell, and the duration of the female flight season. Although all three species behave similarly, they may be ecologically segregated in part by differences in flight season and food plant preferences.
25082739|Six new species of South American Gypona are described. Gypona denera n. sp., from Colombia; G. diverta n.sp., from Peru; G. summita n.sp., from Bolivia; G. antlerita n.sp., from Peru; G. sagitta n.sp., from Peru; and G. tela n.sp., from Brazil. All are placed in the subgenus Marganalana.
25084416|Laboratory and field studies determined the taxonomic identity and basic biology of a previously unidentified Caliroa species responsible for extensive red oak defoliation in central and southeastern Kentucky. Female genitalia and other morphological characters showed the species to be Caliroa quercuscoccineae (Dyar). Supplemental information on taxonomic characters related to the principal life stages is provided, and inadequacies apparent in the literature are noted.
25083722|Approximately 150 host records are presented for 21 Nearctic species of Pompilidae. These records are based mostly on specimens collected at Presque Isle State Park, Erie County, Pennsylvania. New host species are listed for 15 species of Pompilidae. New host families are given for Dipogon papago anomalus, Anoplius "marginatus", and An. splendens. Prey selection in the species, size relationships of wasps and prey, and the stages and sexes of the prey spiders are discussed.
25084578|A population of Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson bees was mass-released into an isolated apple (Malus sylvestris Mill.) orchard supplied with numerous nest shelters to determine if release techniques affect dispersal patterns of bee populations. Results obtained demonstrate that mass-released bees disperse much more readily than populations emerged from natal nests. These data also suggest that increased dispersal patterns expressed by mass-released O. l. propinqua populations can at least be partially neutralized by increasing the numbers of nest shelters distributed over a larger geographic area within orchard environments. This accommodation increased the proportion of released bees that established nests in shelters supplied, thus resulting in a net increase of population size.
25085070|A comparative study of the functional response of Podisus maculiventris (Say) (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) was conducted under laboratory and field conditions. When predators were provided 2 to 16 fourth-instar Mexican bean beetle, Epilachna varivestis (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), larvae in the field, they maintained a low, consistent rate of predation, averaging 0.42 prey attacked per predator per day. In the laboratory, over a similar range in prey number, predators exhibited a Type II functional response, attacking a maximum of 4.4 prey per day. In both laboratory and field studies, estimates of the predator's search efficiency were shown to be an inverse function of prey density. In the laboratory, the rate of predation and predator search were associated with predator consumptive behaviors, such as handling time. The low number of attacks in the field suggested that the influence of handling time was trivial, and predation was associated primarily with the predator's ability to find prey in the soybean canopy. The difference in prey density in the laboratory and field environments was identified to be a major contributing factor in determining the rate of predation. The importance of measuring predation under conditions experienced by predators in the field is discussed.
25078487|Males of seven species of philanthine wasps studied in Arizona form aggregations with each member of the group defending a small territory centered about a perch. In almost all cases, the perch is permanently abandoned after no more than a few hours occupation. The evidence suggests that territory owners apply a pheromone to stems and twigs around the perch that attracts both conspecific male and female visitors. Females may mate at or near the aggregation site. Male visitors may be seeking to evict a territory owner, or to secure a perch near other males, or to copulate with females attracted to the territory of a resident male.
25084640|Surface cuticular structures of all five instars of Tingis geniculata (Fieber) and T. cardui (L.), and of the fifth instar of Dictyla echii (Schrank), are described, and structural changes occurring from one instar to the next are discussed.
25086272|A new species of ericrocidine bee (Apidae: Apinae), Ctenioschelus chalcodes is described from northwestern Costa Rica. The male is easily recognized by its unclubbed flagellar segments and bronze-like color of the metasoma lacking the blue to violet reflections typical for C. goryi (Romand, 1840). Although there has been intensive collecting in at least some parts of the Costa Rican dry forest during the past three decades, only one male individual is known so far. This suggests that, at least in Costa Rica, the species is rare or very restricted in its range.
25082706|Two undescribed species of deltocephaline leafhoppers recently collected by Dr. Henk Wolda in Panama resemble species of Arundanus but cannot be placed in that genus. They are being described and placed in a new genus. In form and coloration the two species are similar but the genital structures are different.
25082966|The genera Atherix and Suragina (Athericidae: Diptera) are revised for the Nearctic Region. A new species, A. lantha is described. Keys to and descriptions and distributions for each species are provided.
25086400|The effects of shape, size, and capture resolution on digital area measurement were investigated to accurately and precisely estimate leaf surface area. A digital scanner was used to measure two simple shapes (circle and square) at three resolutions (118.159, 236.270 and 472.441 pixels/cm) and five sizes (3.14, 12.58, 28.29, 50.29, and 78.60
25084461|Characters, distributions, and hosts are given for the two species of Inquilina, one of which (I. schwarzi) is described as new. I. dawsoni Rayment, concava Rayment and angulata Rayment are synonymized under I. excavata Cockerell.
25086141|Spinosad, a commercial bacterial pesticide, was evaluated against adults of the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), on 12.5 or 14.5% moisture wheat stored at 22, 28, and 34C. Adults of R. dominica were exposed for 14 days to untreated wheat and wheat treated with spinosad at 0.1 and 1 mg (AI)/kg every month for four months. Mortality of adults exposed to untreated wheat ranged from 0 to 39%. All R. dominica adults exposed to spinosad-treated wheat were killed. The activity of spinosad during the four-month test period was not affected by the three temperatures and two moisture levels tested.
25083903|Geomydoecus dalgleishi n. sp. is described and illustrated for material off Geomys personatus fuscus from southern Texas.
25084715|Carbofuran 4F insecticide was soil-applied and incorporated at a rate of 1.12 kg/ha to aid in the establishment of spring-seeded alfalfa in Missouri. Potato leafhopper (Empoasca fabae) populations were significantly limited in treated areas as alfalfa seedlings developed. No effect on pea aphids was observed. Treated plots contained taller plants and more plants per unit area, with no significant difference in yield. Hay quality as measured by percent protein was significantly higher in 1984 but not in 1983.
25084200|The genus Paragnetina is reviewed and all known Nearctic and several Oriental species are redescribed from available material. P. ichusa, n. sp. (USA) and P. ledoensis, n. sp. (Burma) are described, P. fattigi Ricker is placed in synonymy with P. kansensis (Banks) and a female lectotype is designated for P. fumosa (Banks). Keys for identification of Nearctic imagoes and nymphs are presented.
25084749|One thatch nest was observed in the Great Basin Desert of Nevada during 1972. Insects and honeydew were the main forage items. Foraging was diurnal and began at about 10C. Alate activity was first observed on 8 June and was last seen on 12 June. Flights were observed only on 12 June from 1130 to 1245 (PST), with nest surface temperatures of 31-37.5C; air temperatures of 23.5-28C; a relative humidity of 34%; and clear skies with no wind. This flight was about a month earlier than reported for the species in the mountains of southern California.
25084279|This paper includes a list of the 45 known species and subspecies of Mexican army ants (Ecitoninae) along with their authors, description dates, and described castes; keys, along with over 250 original figures, specifically designed for identification of the Mexican forms; 21 distribution maps for 44 species and subspecies; alphabetical distribution lists arranged by genera-species-states, and by states-genera-species; a table of male flight periods; and cited references.
25084586|Eggs of the western corn rootworm (WCR) from a Kansas population (woody plant hardiness zone 6) and a South Dakota population (hardiness zone 4) were exposed to subzero temperatures for 1-3 weeks and then incubated for hatch. Results indicated that eggs from both hardiness zones 4 and 6 have similar cold hardiness characteristics.
25085681|The uncertain taxonomic status of five species of caddisflies previously recorded from Texas is resolved. Neotypes are designated for Cheumatopsyche comis Edwards and Arnold, Polyplectropus proditus (Edwards), and Protoptila arca Edwards and Arnold. Polyplectropus proditus and C. flinti Gordon are reduced to junior synonym status with P. santiago Ross and C. comis, respectively.
25084969|A new species of Tingidae, Acalypta susanae, is described from Magazine Mountain, Logan County, Arkansas. Observations of feeding behavior indicate musciphagy in this species. Collection records for A. lillianus from Washington and Franklin Counties, Arkansas, extend the southwestern limit of the known range of this species.
25082742|Various combinations of species of stored-product insects influenced their population growth and the weight loss of whole kernels of rice, wheat, or corn. The flat grain beetle, Cryptolestes pusillus (Schnherr), the sawtoothed grain beetle, Oryzaephilus surinamensis (L.), and the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), produced more offspring and caused more weight loss of the grain when each was combined with the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), or the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.).
25481785|Several taxonomic changes are proposed for Aegean species of the Mediterranean darkling beetle genus Dendarus (Tenebrioninae: Dendarini) so as to make the names available for a forthcoming account of the phylogeny and biogeography of the genus. Nineteen subspecies are newly elevated to specific status (Dendarus anaphianus Koch, D. angulitibia Koch, D. dentitibia Koch, D. dragonadanus Koch, D. foraminosus Kster, D. grampusanus Koch, D. maximus Koch, D. opacus Koch, D. politus Reitter, D. puncticollis Koch, D. rhodius Baudi, D. schatzmayri Koch, D. sinuatus Mulsant, D. sporadicus Koch, D. stampalicus Koch, D. wernerianus Koch, D. wettsteini Koch; sensu nova), one subspecies (D. graecus montanus Koch) is synoymized with its nominate species (new synonymy), and four species are described as new: D. ananensis, D. antikythirensis, D. falassarnensis, and D. mylonasi.
41353893|The genus Tzustigmus Finnamore (Crabronidae: Pemphredoninae: Pemphredonini) from China is reviewed and a key to the world species is provided. Three new species, T. denserectus Ma and Chen from Shaanxi Province, China; T. caputipunctatus Ma and Li from Shaanxi and Henan Provinces, China; and T. pesangulatus Ma and Li from Yunnan Province are described and illustrated. Two species are reported from China for the first time: T. khmer Finnamore and T. syam Finnamore.
25086250|The New World species of Irenangelus Schulz are revised, with a key to species, re-descriptions, distributional information and illustrations for each species. In addition, two new species, I. evansi and crossopus, are described from Costa Rica and Panama.
25085078|Culicoides elemae, n. sp., a member of the Culicoides (Diptera: Ceratopogonidae) guttipennis species group, is described from Kansas and Nebraska. The pupal and adult stages are figured. This species breeds in tree holes and is most common in early to mid-summer.
25083738|Euphytomima nomiivora James, a miltogrammine sarcophagid found in the western United States, is a parasite in the cells of several halictid and andrenid bees. Although the alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Cockerell, is its principal host in Cache Valley, it also invades cells of Nomadopsis scutellaris (Fowler), Nomadopsis anthidius (Fowler), and Nomia triangulifera Vachal. The adult E. nomiivora deposits eggs that hatch during oviposition. The young maggots that fall in or adjacent to the entrance to the nest of the alkali bee enter the nest, invade the host cell, usually destroy the host egg or young larva, and then feed on its provisions for 7 to 12 days. From one to five maggots may develop in a single cell when the temperature is 27.7C. Then the maggot leaves the host cell and forms a puparium a few inches deeper in the soil. Only one generation per year develops in Cache Valley. Rain during the active season was the principal cause of mortality of the adult parasite. In 1964 and 1965 from 13 to 20 percent of the alkali bee cells in the nesting areas were parasitized, a rate that makes this parasite second in importance to the bombyliid fly, Heterostylum robustum (Osten Sacken).
25084655|Survival of 1st-brood European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hubner), larvae on three single cross corn hybrids at two different growth stages were studied in northeast Nebraska in 1979 and 1980. The hybrids represented opposing extremes of 1st brood leaf-feeding resistance/susceptibility. Mean survival of corn borer larvae was significantly lower (P = 0.01) on the resistant hybrids than on the susceptible hybrid. ECB larval mortality by variety and growth stage was greatest within the first 24 hr after artificial infestation of newly hatched larvae. Thereafter, no significant (P = 0.01) differences in mortality were detected.
25083429|Instructions are given for the construction and operation of a modified version of the Malaise insect trap to be suspended from a tubular aluminum, overhead frame. The families of 2,927 insects representing approximately 480 species collected in the trap during one week are tabulated.
25085938|Variability in insecticide susceptibilities during nylon-disk bioassays of adult cat fleas (Ctenocephalides felis) due to the time of day the bioassay was conducted, illumination, density of insects, sex ratio, and
25084679|Transstadial transmission of Escherichia coli, Serratia marcescens, Proteus vulgaris, and Staphylococcus epidermidis was demonstrated in the large milkweed bug from the fifth instar to the adult. Transovarial transmission of these bacteria could not be demonstrated.
25083484|The types of 11 nearctic, 4 neotropical and 4 antillean species are reviewed. This includes Psilochironomus, new genus, and Chironomus (Townsia) new subgenus. Parametriocnemus Goetghebuer is emended. Six new generic combinations are given: Parametriocnemus innocuus (Metriocnemus innocuus Curran), Bryophaenocladius fumosinus (Camptocladius fumosinus Curran), Bryophaenocladius nerius (Camptacladius nerius Curran), Pseudochironomus julia (Orthocladius julia Curran), Psilochironomus fumeus (Chironomus fumeus Walley) and Tanytarsus mitis (Metriocnemus mitis Curran). Four new subgeneric combinations are given: Pentaneura (Guttipelopia) multipunctata (Tanypus multipunctatus Curran). Chironomous (Townsia) subaberrans (Chironomus subaberrans Walley), Chironomus (Cryptochironomus) daktylos (Chironomus daktylos Walley), and Chironomus (Xenochironomus) ochros (Chironomus ochros Walley). Pseudochironomus aix Townes is listed as a new synonym of Pseudochironomus julia (Curran).
25084488|Each of fifteen triplets of three male Polistes fuscatus (each triplet consisting of two brothers and an unrelated male) was placed into a cardboard box and each observed over a period of two days for a total of 3 hr 45 min. Spatial associations and interactions among males were recorded by an observer who was unaware of the colony affiliation of the males. There is no evidence that males with previous exposure to both their natal nest and nestmates can discriminate brothers from unrelated males.
25085761|The foraging and nesting biology of Andrena rudbeckiae was studied over a four year period in central Texas. The few-celled, single-occupant nests are gregarious and structurally simple with the fully lined cells occurring at soil depths of 94 to 118 cm. Females commonly make 6-8 pollen trips per day with pollen trips averaging 33.5 min. Male cells are estimated to require one day to provision while females require two. Pollen collection is restricted to the coneflower genera Rudbeckia and Ratibida (Asteraceae) with time spent per head increasing with the number of staminate phase florets per head. Males patrol the emergence site, nonflowering shrubs near the nest site, as well as pollen hosts. Bees overwinter both as adults and defecated larvae in their natal cells, an unusual pattern in Andrena. Nomada (Phelonomada) belfragei was regularly present at the nest site and was recovered from nest cells of A. rudbeckiae. This is the first host report for any Phelonomada.
25082533|Biological information is presented on Osmia glauca and Osmia nemoris and the information suggests a biological separation of the two species. Evidence for an oligolectic association between O. glauca and Collinsia (Scrophulariaceae) is discussed. Two female parasitic bees, Stelis sexmaculata, were reared from a stick-trap containing 6 cells of O. glauca. The cocoon of Stelis sexmaculata is described.
25082373|In this anatomical and histological study of the sting apparatus glands of seven species of Halictidae, all species were found to have the acid gland well developed and closely related to the sting. The basic gland is also well developed; its secretion most probably serves the purpose of water-proofing the inner walls of the cells at the time of nest building.
25084190|Rats maintained on a riboflavin-deficient ration (treatment cage) and fed a normal diet (control cage) were artificially infested with 15 lice/rat. Fifty-eight days later, rats in both cages were weighed and the lice infestation tabulated. The mean weight gain and mean number of P. spinulosa in the control cage were +10.13 g and 162.0, respectively; while the mean weight gain and mean number of P. spinulosa in the treatment cage were -34.8 g and 4825.58, respectively. A t-test revealed that these differences were significant at the 0.05 level.
25085012|A procedure for small scale rearing (200-400 adults per day) of the banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes Walsingham, a pest of cultivated sunflower, is described. A colony of C. hospes was established in 1986 and continuously reared in the laboratory to the present time. Generation time was 6-8 weeks. Larval diapause, characteristic of wild populations, was circumvented by selecting insects which pupated when held under a light: dark cycle of 15:9 hours, and a temperature of 28  1C. Availability of a rearing method for this species on a year-round basis should encourage research on the biology and control of this pest species.
25084062|Scanning electron microscopic studies of Colias eurytheme and C. philodice antennae revealed three basic types of sensilla, two of which are probably important in the detection of olfactory (including pheromonal) stimuli. No species differences or sexual dimorphism in antennal micromorphology were discovered. However, removal of 2/3 of the antennae greatly reduced mating by female C. philodice while having only a slight negative effect on female C. eurytheme. This result plus behavioral and chemical evidence obtained in other studies indicate that olfactory stimuli are more important during courtship in C. philodice than C. eurytheme.
25083796|The Neotropical genus Dasystole (Geometridae: Ennominae: Lepidoptera) is revised and a key to species is given. Five species are recognized, all of them from high elevations in the Andes. Dasystole crenulata Warren is transferred to Colopodonta, Colopodonta crenulata (Warren) new combination, and Dasystole pinnata Bastelberger is shown not to belong to this genus. The true placement of D. pinnata could not be determined.
25085391|The big-headed grasshopper, Aulocara elliotti (Thomas), selected specific oviposition sites in a field of crested wheatgrass in southwest Montana. Results indicate that selection could be influenced by soil temperature. Six locations were sampled for egg pods after oviposition terminated in the fall: the north, south, east and west sides of grass clumps, the center of grass clumps and the bare area to the south of each grass clump. Surface and soil temperature were taken. Significantly more egg pods were found on the south side of clumps than on the east side or in the bare areas. However, these three locations contained nearly three times more egg pods than the west or north side. No egg pods were found in the center of the grass clumps. The south sides of clumps were found to have the warmest soil temperature, with the east sides not significantly different in temperature from the bare area. The distribution of the number of egg pods found at any location was random for the north and west sides of grass clumps but not random for the south, east or bare locations.
25085108|Various short-tongued bees have evolved devices that make their mouthparts at least as long as those of most long-tongued bees of comparable size. Such adaptations include elongation of the cardines and prementum, of the glossa, of either the maxillary or the labial palpi. In Niltonia virgilii, a paracolletine colletid only known to visit flowers of Jacaranda puberula (Bignoniaceae), the enormous labial palpi fit together to form a tube through which nectar could rise to the location of the short glossa which resembles that of ordinary colletids. Details of the structure of the glossa and labial palpi are presented.
25083602|The testes of L. indicum are paired structures, consisting of five seminal tubules. No accessory glands are present in the male. The aedeagus is a non-appendicular structure. Each ovary consists of five ovarian tubules. A single spermatheca and accessory gland are present in the female. Three valvulae and two valvifers form the external female genitalia, the first and the second valvulae forming the shaft of the ovipositor.
25084295|Oviposition and larval success of wild monarch butterflies on the milkweed, Asclepias humistrata, were studied in north-central Florida. More eggs were laid on larger plants, where larval success was greatest, than on smaller plants. The numbers of eggs per plant, egg densities, and larval success rates were not correlated with the gross cardenolide (cardiac glycoside) concentrations of the individual plants. These results are interpreted in light of this insect's demonstrated ability to regulate its own cardenolide concentration, somewhat independently of food plant concentrations.
25085891|Eleven accessions of maize from Peru were previously identified as resistant to leaf feeding by European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner) (Lepidoptera: Crambidae). A study was conducted to determine the mechanism of resistance. The weight of larvae fed Peruvian maize leaf material was not significantly different from larvae fed a resistant check, CI31A, indicating antibiosis in the Peruvian maize was at a level equivalent to CI31A. The inbred, CI31A, contained high levels of DIMBOA, thus having strong nonpreference and antibiosis properties toward leaf feeding by European corn borer. The rate of larvae leaving artificially infested Peruvian maize plants over a 5-day period was significantly less than CI31A but significantly more than a susceptible check, WF9, indicating nonpreference was a possible mechanism of resistance in the Peruvian maize but at a level lower than CI31A. When Peruvian maize leaf whorl material was added to a standard European corn borer rearing diet, the effects of the resistance factor were lost. The standard diet ingredients may have masked the effect of the resistance factor. Another possibility may be that the resistance factor was a deficiency of a vital nutrient needed for normal European corn borer development. This nutrient may have been supplied to the insect when the standard diet ingredients were added to the Peruvian maize leaf material. Further study in this area is needed to identify the basis of resistance.
25084618|Extensive use of D-Vac suction machines in insect sampling programs warrants an efficient method of storage and transportation of the device. The design and construction of an inexpensive, portable support structure for the D-Vac is outlined. A detailed parts list and scale drawing are presented.
25084925|Sixty-four species of previously unrecorded spider prey are presented for 22 nearctic species of Pompilidae. The records are based upon the collection of more than 400 provisioning wasps mostly in Pennsylvania and New York. New families of prey are identified for Procnemis cornica (Micryphantidae, Thomisidae), Anoplius insolens (Lycosidae), A. marginatus complex (Dysderidae), A. ithaca (Gnaphosidae), and Pompilus angularis (Lycosidae). The first prey record for Anoplius nigerrimus in North America is given. Observations on the hunting, provisioning, or nesting behavior of Priocnemis minorata, Anoplius aethiops, A. semirufus, A. marginatus complex, and Arachnospila scelestus are included.
25085126|Lasioglossum (Ctenonomia) carinatum (Cameron), the type species of the subgenus known only by the type specimen from Sarawak, is redescribed. A closely allied species, L. pavo, n. sp., the male of which possesses decorative sternal hair fringes, is described from Mentawai Is. near Sumatra. A third allied species, L. xystonotum (Vachal), is compared with the above two species. These species form the L. carinatum group, which is distinguished from the other groups of Ctenonomia (e.g., the vagans, albescens, and cire groups) by glabrous and laterally pointed postlateral corners of the propodeal dorsum.
25086188|The seasonal occurrence and distribution of the eggplant flea beetle (EFB), Epitrix fuscula Crotch, were monitored on eggplant in south central Arkansas during 1997, 1998, and 1999 and northwestern Arkansas during 1998 and 1999. In south central Arkansas, average numbers of EFB/plant were 11.9, 5.2 and 1.9 in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively. EFB numbers per plant decreased during the study in northwestern Arkansas from 13.3 in 1998 to 7.2 in 1999. This decline in numbers of EFB may be related to hot and dry weather during the spring and early summer months of the previous year and differences in transplant dates. Mapping the distribution of the foliar feeding by EFB indicated that the highest damage ratings (4 and 5) were recorded for eggplants on the north side of the south central field. Also, damage decreased rapidly on interior plants away from the north edge. First or edge plants in rows had damage ratings of 3.9; second and third plants averaged 2.6 and 2.1, respectively; and fourth to tenth plants had values less than 2. Additional insects encountered during eggplant sampling included the Colorado potato beetle, Leptinotarsa decemlineata (Say); the green tortoise beetle, Nuzonia pallidula (Boh.); the pepper weevil, Anthonomus eugenii Cano; Euphoria sepulcralis (Fabricius); the eggplant lace bug, Gargaphia solani Heidemann; and the corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea (Boddie). With the exception of sporadic damage by the Colorado potato beetle at the southern Arkansas location, damage from these insects was low.
25085976|Periodical cicadas, Magicicada spp., were collected and/or reported from 47 counties in Kansas during the 1998 emergence. They were distributed north to south from the Nebraska to Oklahoma borders and from all counties bordering Missouri to as far west as central Stafford County. Two species, M. cassini and M. septendecim, were collected and identified or heard. Suspected M. septendecula specimens were deemed likely to be M. cassini.
25085006|The new genus Melacoryphus is described for Neacoryphus lateralis (Dallas) and related species. In addition to lateralis the following species are transferred from Neacoryphus to Melacoryphus: admirabilis (Uhler), circumlitus (Stl), facetus (Say), nigrinervis (Stl), pedregalensis (Brailovsky), rubicollis (Uhler) and rubriger (Stl). Two new species, Melacoryphus micropterus and M. rubrolimbatus, are described. The former is the first truly micropterous member of the Lygaeinae known from the New World. A key to species of Melacoryphus is provided. Figures of the inflated aedeagus, clasper, spermatheca and pronotum of Neacoryphus and Melacoryphus and a dorsal view of M. micropterus are included.
25085653|A nesting aggregation of the bee Trachusa (Heteranthidium) larreae (Ckll.) is described from the Sonoran desert near Tucson, Arizona. The bees' shallow subterranean nest cells were lined and capped with a thick layer of hardened resin. Females were observed collecting the resin from new shoots of creosote bush, Larrea tridentata (Zygophyllaceae), which is this bee's sole pollen and nectar host. This extreme obligatory host association of T. larreae is rare among bees, and yet has apparently arisen in relatively recent evolutionary time.
25082804|External taxonomic characters are given to facilitate separation and identification of three species of Cryptolestes: ferrugineus, pusillus, and turcicus, commonly found in North America. C. turcicus and C. pusillus have a transverse ridge (sulcus) on the dorsal posterior region of the head which is missing in C. ferrugineus. C. pusillus differs from C. turcicus by having 4 rows of spines in the first 2 elytral interspaces, whereas C. turcicus has 3 rows in the interspaces.
25084566|The reproductive behavior of a small population of Leucorrhinia hudsonica was studied at a black spruce-sphagnum bog near Sherbrooke, Qubec, Canada. Males established territories on the oviposition sites and spent most of their time perching except for short attack flights against intruding males. Females only visited the breeding sites to oviposit and were intercepted by territorial males, whereupon tandem formation and copulation ensued. Copulation occurred while pairs perched near the oviposition sites and lasted significantly longer if they changed perches during mating. Females oviposited by rapidly and repeatedly dipping their abdominal tip into small pools of water amid the saturated sphagnum moss. During this process they were guarded by their mates who hovered nearby and attempted to chase away other males. Neither sex fed at the breeding sites.
25086308|Nordus praedator sp. nov. (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) is described based on three specimens collected in Jalisco, Mxico. Specimens were collected on leaves that they use for perching behavior and in the mushroom Hydnopolyporus fimbriatus. Specimens of Nordus championi were recently collected with carrion traps baited with fish. /// Se describe a Nordus praedator sp. nov. (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) con base en tres especmenes colectados en Jalisco, Mxico. Los adultos fueron capturados mientras se posaban sobre hojas y adems en esporforos de Hydnopolyporus fimbriatus. Se examinaron tambin especmenes de Nordus championi colectados recientemente con necrotrampas cebadas con pescado.
25085784|Five of seven broad-leaved weeds representing four taxonomic families were infested with the endophagous weevil, Cosmobaris americana (Casey), in the fall of 1995. The weevils were reared to adults from their respective hosts in the spring of 1996. Four of the five weeds (common sunflower, Helianthus annuus L.; kochia, Kochia scoparia (L.) Schrad; lanceleaf sage, Saliva reflexa Hornem and redroot pigweed, Amaranthus retroflexa L.) are new hosts for C. americana. A pteromalid wasp, Neocatalaccus tylodermae Ashmead, parasitized C. americana infesting common sunflower, kochia, Russian thistle Salsola iberica Sennen, lanceleaf sage, and redroot pigweed. The sunflower stem weevil, Cylindrocopturus adspersus (LeConte), emerged from common sunflower, a known host, and was also parasitized by N. tylodermae. The interaction of C. americana with broad-leaved weeds growing in cultivated sunflowers, and the parasitoid, N. tylodermae, are reported here for the first time.
25084462|Six new genera, each represented by a single new species, are described in the tribe Teruliini. These are: Derriblocera, new genus (type-species: Derriblocera ornata, new species); Amylidia, new genus (type-species: Amylidia lynnea, new species); Genatra, new genus (type-species: Genatra spinosa, new species); Mexolidia, new genus (type-species: Mexolidia terminata, new species); Scapidonus, new genus (type-species: Scapidonus horridus, new species); and Racinolidia, new genus (type-species: Racinolidia amazonensis, new species).
25084294|Replicated field tests were conducted in 1979 to determine the effectiveness of 8 insecticides for controlling Agrotis orthogonia Morrison infesting winter wheat in western Kansas. All insecticides significantly reduced pale western cutworm numbers below those of the untreated check. However, only permethrin, acephate, and methamidophos, at the rates tested were as effective as or more effective than the endrin standard. Grain yields were numerically increased in all insecticide treated plots, but only permethrin, acephate, methamidophos, and endrin increased yields significantly.
25085925|Three new species of the wood roach, Cryptocercus (Blattodea: Cryptocercidae), are described from the Appalachian mountains in the eastern United States. We base the species designation on consistent differences in the DNA sequence of the two mitochondrial rRNA genes and chromosome number. Until recently, it was assumed that all Cryptocercus in the eastern United States are conspecific. However, data on variation in DNA sequence and chromosome number from samples collected over much of the distribution of Cryptocercus in the eastern United States suggested the existence of at least four evolutionary lineages and forms the basis for the new species described here. In addition to describing the new species, we provide diagnostic characters, notes on the geographical distribution, and DNA sequence for the 12S rRNA and 16S rRNA gene fragments of holotype specimens.
25085041|The behaviors of female nestmates of Allodape exoloma and Braunsapis foveata are described during the eusocial phase of their nesting cycles. Naturally associated nestmates were transferred to glass tubes and observed for periods of 2-5 weeks. Task specialization in foraging divided nestmates into foragers and non-foragers, but division of labor in other tasks was minimal. Trophallaxis occurred as a network, with all individuals donating and receiving. Pollen stored on nest walls and pollen and nector stored on larvae were food sources used by all adult nestmates. Oophagy by a worker as well as by queens, and ovipositions by workers are described. Agonistic interactions were infrequent, and unilateral dominance not apparent. The behavioral repertoires of the two species are similar, but greater consistency in division of labor, reduced activity of queens, and less frequent agonism in Braunsapis foveata colonies suggest that this species has a more stable social organization than does Allodape exoloma.
25084181|Grain temperatures of 67 and 60C in a heated fluidized bed completely controlled all stages of the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), and rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), respectively, in wheat. No holding time at treatment temperatures was necessary when the grain was brought up to these temperatures.
25085404|Cellariella Strand, 1926, proposed as a subgenus of Nomioides, is considered as a separate genus. A description of C. brooksi sp. n. collected at two localities in southern Madagascar is given. It is the second known species of the genus Cellariella. The other species, C. somalica (Magretti, 1899), is widely distributed in Subsaharan Africa. Nomioides atomella Cockerell, 1936, is a junior synonym of C. somalica.
25083645|Three hundred ninety-one spiders, representing 41 species and 11 families, were collected from 400 fall webworm nests taken at five localities in Northwest Arkansas between September 1965 and September 1966. An additional 11 species and two families were identified from randomly collected nests. Aysha gracilis (Hentz) accounted for 41.4% of the total number of spiders. Neoscona sacra (Walckenaer), Clubionoides excepta (C. L. Koch), Xysticus funestus Keyserling, Phidippus audax (Hentz), and Phidippus incertus Peckham were the five next most commonly represented species. Phidippus putmanii (Peckham), Chiracanthium inclusum (Hentz), Aysha gracilis (Hentz), and an immature Anyphaena sp. were observed feeding on the webworm larvae. A list of species showing the numbers, locations, and dates they were collected is provided. Spiders are compared with other predators and parasites of Hyphantria cunea in the numbers of each that was collected by season.
25086096|Reports of Drosophilidae visiting palm and other spiked inflorescences are scattered in the literature, but this is the first systematic treatment of such flower visitors from the neotropics. Drosophilids in two new genera and four new species were found aggregating at inflorescences of palms in Ecuador and Colombia: Palmophila ecuadoriensis Grimaldi, n. gen., n. sp. on Wettinia maynensis; and Palmomyia incerta Grimaldi, n. gen., n. sp. on Geonoma undata, Chamaedorea linearis, and Phytelephas seemannii. Palmophila rozeni Grimaldi, n. sp., and Palmophila dentata Grimaldi, n. sp., were insecticide-fogged from the canopies of forests in eastern Ecuador. Both new genera are closely related to the IndoPacific genera Baeodrosophila and Colocasiomyia; species of the latter also visit columnar or spiked inflorescences, but mostly of aroids.
25084474|Larvae of Photuris fireflies having a reddish-brown or rufous ground color (red larvae) were collected in hardwood leaf litter in drier woodland situations. They were commonly collected in August and September but were seldom found at other times. Only 2 red larvae pupated and produced adults which were identified as Photuris congener LeConte. Most Photuris larvae (non-red larvae) had a gray or tan ground color and were collected throughout the year. Non-red larvae produced adults of several morphologically cryptic undescribed firefly species which are currently known by code names. Photuris "A" and "V" fireflies were reared from larvae collected throughout the year from wet areas. Photuris "B and D" fireflies were reared from larvae collected primarily in spring and fall from a wet wooded area. Photuris "W" fireflies were reared from larvae collected in rotten logs. Cold treatments and light-dark cycle changes failed to induce red larvae to pupate. Cold treatments and short-day light cycles delayed pupation of non-red larvae. Non-red larvae collected in October, November, and December required 60-140 days to reach pupation while larvae collected at other times pupated within 25-70 days. Photuris larvae rested, molted and pupated in several types of earthen chambers and excavations. These larvae were predator-scavengers which fed on a variety of small soft-bodied organisms and fruits. Of 17 prey records for red larvae, 5 were snails or slugs, 11 were insects, and 1 was a ripe berry. Of the 4 prey records for non-red larvae, 1 was an earthworm, and 3 were berries.
25085794|Variation in wing length, particularly brachyptery in females of the five species, is discussed. Immature instars (eggs, eyeless and somewhat scarabaeiform larvae of first and fourth instars, and pupae) are described and illustrated; differences between species are apparently slight. Habitat of adults and of immatures is described. Seasonal occurrence, geographic distribution, mating behavior and predators are briefly discussed.
25082894|Some effects of sunlight and artificial ultraviolet light irradiation on the infectivity of a nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea, were determined. Exposure to direct sunlight for approximately 195 min was sufficient to reduce infectivity 50% at 4.0 
25083705|Hypera punctata (Fab.) and H. nigrirostris (Fab.) occur statewide in Missouri. Distribution of H. postica (Gyll.), H. meles (Fab.), and H. exemius (LeC.) is shown by counties. An additional species, H. compta (Say), is known only from the literature prior to 1911.
25085996|Sexual interactions preceding copulation in Microsepsis armillata superficially resembled violent male-female struggles, as described for other sepsid flies. Observations of behavior and morphology showed, however, that males performed apparent courtship behavior before and during copulation. The male transferred liquid from his abdomen to brushes on his hind tibiae, from there to his middle tarsi, and finally to the bases of the female's wings during copulation. Males of many other sepsids also have brushes on their hind tibiae, indicating that male inducement of female reproductive responses may play a larger role in this family than has been previously realized.
25085262|A study of the arthropod fauna in cattle dung pats at an old forest site and an old prairie site in Minnesota during 1984 revealed 108 arthropod species in 19 families, including 66 Coleoptera, 29 Diptera, 8 Hymenoptera, and 5 Acarina. Except for Scathophaga stercoraria (L.) which dominated during spring and fall at the forest site, the faunas at the 2 sites were generally similar. Twenty-one species not previously recorded from dung plus 12 new to the north central states were encountered. The latter included the parasitoid, Aleochara tristis Gravenhorst. Of the dung-feeding flies, S. stercoraria, Haematobia irritans (L.), and Neomyia cornicina (F.) were most numerous. Aphodius haemorrhoidalis (L.) and Sphaeridium lunatum F. were the most abundant large burrowing beetles. Philonthus cruentatus Gmelin was the most abundant predator, and Aphaereta pallipes (Say) was the most abundant parasitoid. Parasitoids and predators coincided temporally with horn fly and face fly. Three Hymenoptera and 3 Staphylinidae were reared from 11 muscoid species. Principal hosts were the native sarcophagids Ravinia querula (Walker), R. derelicta (Walker), R. lherminieri (R.-D.), and the cosmopolitan S. stercoraria and N. cornicina.
25083984|Low-level insect defoliation was simulated by excising leaves from sugarbeet plants. Both date of defoliation and level of defoliation had significant effects on sucrose yield. The general trend was for a 0.5% decrease in sucrose yield/hectare with each successive 1.0% increase in defoliation level. However, mid-season defoliations were more deleterious than early-season defoliation. Establishment of economic injury levels for sugarbeet insect herbivores is discussed in relation to date and level of herbivory, and cost of insect control.
25084146|Agonistic interactions of Supella longipalpa are relatively short and include agonistic acts that are likely to result in injury. In Gromphadorhina portentosa these interactions are more ritualized, and injury is less likely. Analysis of transition matrices of agonistic encounters suggests that acts of the initiator of a bout restrict the behavioral response of the opponent to a greater extent than the reverse and that the initiator has a decided advantage in winning the bout.
41262857|The chrysidoid wasp family Embolemidae (Chrysidoidea: Dryiniformes) is recorded in Early Cretaceous (Albian) amber from Peacerrada (Spain). Embolemus periallus Ortega-Bianco, Delcls, and Engel, new species, is the first definitive embolemid in Cretaceous amber and the first definitive record of the family from the Mesozoic. The new taxon is described, illustrated, and compared with its modern counterparts. The geological history of the family is reviewed and the putative placement of the Early Cretaceous genus Baissobius briefly discussed.
25084037|Three new genera and species of cheyletid mites (Acarina: Cheyletidae) are described and illustrated. Atarsacheylus vichii gen. et sp. nov. was taken in Missouri, U.S.A; Anthribicheyla bocki gen. et sp. nov. was taken in Vera Cruz, Mexico and Panama; and Indonesicheyla buruensis gen. et sp. nov. came from Buru Island, Indonesia. Characteristics of each genus and related genera are discussed.
25084777|The influence of common chickweed, Stellaria media (L.) (Cyrillo), on parasitism of the black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), by Meteorus rubens (Nees von Esenbeck), was investigated in the greenhouse. Average M. rubens density significantly increased in cages with flowering chickweed due to greater parasitoid survival. Percent parasitism also increased significantly with chickweed only where host availability exceeded eight per parasitoid. The number of hosts attacked per 24 hr by each parasitoid was not affected by the presence of chickweed. The estimated decrease in black cutworm damage to seedling corn due to increased parasitism was only about 5%. This would not offset preferential black cutworm oviposition in reduced tillage cornfields.
25084137|Specialized organs implicated in the collection of floral oils and found on the tarsi or abdominal venters of members of eight genera of New World anthophorid bees are described and illustrated. These organs are formed by various arrays of single rows of highly specialized setae, compound rows of little modified setae, and pads of fine, branched setae. Structure and position of the oil-collecting organs is correlated with the types of floral elaiophores (oil glands) utilized by different bees. Basitarsal combs of specialized setae predominant in the Centridini, a group which appears to be primitively associated with flowers having epithelial elaiophores. Compound combs of simple setae and setal pads predominate in the Exomalopsini and are apparently primitively associated with plant taxa having trichome elaiophores. Loss of oil collection, as well as radiation onto alternate types of oil hosts, has occurred in both tribes. The role of Monoeca as a possible connecting link between the Exomalopsini and the Centridini is discussed. Oil-collecting behavior of Tetrapedia is described for the first time as are unusual tarsal and abdominal setal arrays in two subgenera of Tapinotaspis. Possible roles of the floral oils in the biology of oil-collecting bees and implications for both the evolution and loss of oil-collecting structures are discussed.
25085960|The presocial cobweb spider, Anelosimus studiosus (Hentz) (Theridiidae), its obligate commensal mirid bug (Ranzovius clavicornis (Knight)) (Hemiptera:Miridae), and three genera of other cobweb spiders, Tidarren sisyphoides (Walckenaer), Thymoites pallidus (Emerton), and Argyrodes fictilium (Hentz), were recently discovered in southeastern Kansas. Information concerning the phenology, fecundity, winter survivorship, colony dispersal, and spiders seasonally associated with Anelosimus colonies is also presented. Predation by the pirate spider, Mimetus puritanus Chamberlin (Mimetidae), and a new host association between Mantispa viridis Walker (Neuroptera:Mantispidae) and Tidarren is also discussed.
25086402|Although hilltopping behavior has rarely been reported for crabronid wasps, three species of Tachytes wasps defend hilltop perch sites in central Arizona during the late summer. All three species (T. ermineus, T. spatulatus, and T. sculleni) can be found at the same hilltop during August and September and they perch in many of the same plants at this location. The three species are, however, spatially segregated to some extent in that T. ermineus perches very near the top of large shrubs and small palo verde trees on the hilltop, T. spatulatus perches somewhat lower within many of these same plants, while T. sculleni perches very close to or on the ground about the outer edges of shrubs growing on the hilltop. Males of all three species tend to be site faithful with marked males returning to their perch sites over several days. In experiments in which resident males of T. spatulatus were removed, the replacements that arrived to occupy the trees tended to be smaller, suggesting that large body size confers an advantage in the defense of perching sites in this species. The mating system of these species can be labeled landmark territoriality, with males defending visually conspicuous sites on hilltops that presumably attract receptive females to the territory holders.
25085883|Phylogenetic analyses and the classification of the family Halictidae by Alexander and Michener (1995) are revised, mostly by replacement of Nomioides, used by these authors as an exemplar of the nomioidines, with Ceylalictus subg. Atronomioides. The main results of this reanalysis are as follows: all the three subfamilies of the family Halictidae, Rophitinae, Nomiinae and Halictinae (including Nomioidini), are strictly monophyletic (holophyletic); the Rophitinae is a sister-group in relation to the Nomiinae and Halictinae combined; all the three tribes of the subfamily Halictinae, Nomioidini, Augochlorini and Halictini, are strictly monophyletic; Nomioidini is a sister-group in relation to the Augochlorini and Halictini combined; two of three subtribes of the tribe Halictini, Sphecodina and Gastrohalictina, are strictly monophyletic; the Halictina is paraphyletic in relation to two other subtribes. A revised classification of the subfamily Halictinae is proposed. It contains the following novelties and changes: The Nomioidini is restored as a tribe within the Halictinae; it is established as including three separate genera, Nomioides, Ceylalictus and Cellariella; the tribe Halictini is subdivided into three subtribes-Halictina (corresponding to the group of non-parasitic genera with "strong venation"), Gastrohalictina (corresponding to the group of genera with "weak venation") and Sphecodina (including the parasitic genus Sphecodes and close genera). The taxonomic rank of Halictus s. str., Seladonia and Vestitohalictus (these taxa were considered as subgenera of Halictus s. l.), Lasioglossum s. str., Lucasiellus, Ctenonomia, Evylaeus and some others (usually considered as subgenera of Lasioglossum s. l.), is raised to the generic level.
25083559|Studies of the local biology of eleven species of mosquitoes in a prairie marsh in central Kansas revealed that "floodwater" species (Aedes dorsalis, A. nigromaculis, A. sollicitans, A. vexans, Psorophora ciliata, P. cyanescens) formed a major portion of the total mosquito population and were the principal pests after early June. Culex tarsalis was the most numerous single species and was captured in large numbers even during the hot, dry period from mid-July to late August. Culiseta inornata was plentiful in early spring and fall, but virtually absent from late May to mid-September. Culex pipiens, Orthopodomyia signifera, and Anopheles punctipennis were captured only a few times or in very small numbers. Fields bordering the marsh and flooded following heavy late spring rains were the principal production sites for "floodwater" species. Aedes dorsalis, A. nigromaculis, A. sollicitans, A. vexans, P. ciliata, and C. tarsalis were all observed to bite man under various field conditions. C. tarsalis, A. nigromaculis, and A. sollicitans were the only species captured in traps baited with small birds and placed in areas where all "floodwater" species were most abundant. Although all species captured have been collected in the state before, this study was the first of its type in central Kansas.
25082464|Nests in a loose aggregation of primitively social Augochlora nominata in eastern Costa Rica produced at least 2 separate broods in August (in the wet season), with the foundress queen remaining with the nest while the first brood matured. An average of 2 and up to 5 first brood workers typically remained with the nest, neither mated nor developed ovaries, and assisted the foundress queen in the production of the second brood. Workers were much smaller than the foundress queens, with essentially no overlap in size. If the foundress died or became physiologically sterile (due to parasitism), one or several first brood females mated, developed ovaries, and became replacement queens. Males were produced in the first brood and mating occurred at the nest site. Short nest burrows were dug in the hard clay soil of a bare, level, unused road. Cells extended subhorizontally in all directions directly off the burrow; although usually concentrated at or near the bottom of the nest, they were not encircled by burrows or a cavity as in most augochlorine bees. Cells were not reused, and those of successive broods were usually separated. The mature larva, similar to that of Augochlora pura, is described, as is the pupa, which shares with other Augochlora distinctive metasomal tergal spines, a caudal knob from which the larval exuvium is suspended, and metasomal sternal projections in the male. Species of Zodion (Diptera: Conopidae) and Rhipiphorus (Coleoptera: Rhipiphoridae) parasitized A. nominata. At least 50% of the nests were infested with the mite Anoetus (Astigmata: Anoetidae), which did not harm the bees and whose hypopi were phoretic on metasomal tergum I of emerging female bees. The mite Parapygmephorus (Heterostigmata: Pyemotidae) was phoretic on foundress queens. Collembola were found in the nest burrows. Comparative notes on a first brood nest of A. nominata from western Costa Rica in the dry season and a large nest of A. cordiaefloris are given.
25083904|Pluto littoralis, a gregarious ground nester of the eastern United States seashore, was observed during its nesting season from August to October. The nest site was coarse-grained sand just above high tide level. Nests were composed of multiple cells to 12 cm deep. Prey were mostly adult female Prokelisia marginata (Delphacidae: Homoptera), but a few Amplicephalus littoralis (Cicadellidae: Homoptera) were also taken. Comparisons were made between field- and nest-sampled prey densities as an indication of prey selectivity.
25083496|Cactobia, type opuntiae, is described from specimens reared from Opuntia spp. in Guanajuato and Aguascalientes, Mexico.
25084850|Goniozus pakmanus Gordh is a bethylid parasite imported into California from Pakistan for biological control of pink bollworm, Pectinophora gossypiella (Saunders). This primary external parasite temporarily paralyzes its host. Adult female parasites live 37.19  7.50 days at 25.6  1.0C, 50-55% RH and LD 14:10. Females attack 12.40  3.74 hosts and deposit 73.58  27.30 eggs (n = 15). Females under similar conditions but deprived of hosts and honey live 7.95  1.00 days. Males deprived of food and mates live 3.00  0.86 days (n = 20); males provided food and mates live 2.60  0.68 days (n = 20). At the specified conditions, larval development time is 3.43  0.23 days (n = 193) and pupal development time is 8.17  0.48 days (n = 191). Male development time from egg to adult is 13.02  0.64 days (n = 183); female development time from egg to adult is 14.00  0.66 days (n = 189). Female parasites lay eggs along the intersegmental membranes of the host's body, and demonstrate a strong preference for the dorsal aspect of the host's body and segments 5-10. Female parasites adjust the complement of eggs to host size, and data suggest that 24.1-30.0 mg is optimal host weight. Details of the external morphology of immatures are illustrated, and aspects of the biology of G. pakmanus are compared to other species of Goniozus.
25086210|We used trap-nests to survey cavity-nesting Hymenoptera in eight clear-cuts in northeastern Georgia and northwestern South Carolina during April-September, 2001. Occupants of trap-nests included: three Vespidae (Eumeninae) (Euodynerus megaera (Lepeletier), Ancistrocerus campestris (Saussure), and Monobia quadridens (L.)); five Sphecidae (Isodontia mexicana (Saussure), Solierella plenoculoides (Fox), Trypoxylon collinum (Smith), T. clavatum (Say), and T. striatum Provancher); one Apidae (Xylocopa virginica (L.)); and two Megachilidae (Megachile frigida Smith and Osmia albiventris Cresson). Parasites reared from nests include Coelioxys sp. from nests of M. frigida, Melittobia digitata Dahms from nests of T. collinum, miltogrammine flies from a nest of I. mexicana, and a chrysidid from a nest of A. campestris. We present the first biological data for S. plenoculoides and M. frigida along with information on nest architecture (closure plug thickness, presence of vestibules, number and length of cells). Bees (O. albiventris and M. frigida) nested early in the season (April-May), whereas the vespids and sphecids nested predominantly in the summer (May-August). Only E. megaera nested at all sites; it accounted for 35% of all completed nests. Comparisons made with trap-nest data collected 40 years earlier by Krombein (1967) in various southeastern U.S. localities revealed differences that are interpreted in light of nest placement and the arrival of the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren.
25084971|Two species of shore flies (Diptera: Ephydridae), Paralimna punctipennis (Wiedemann) and Parydra quadrituberculata Loew, were found to co-occur on the shoreline areas of a small eutrophic pond. Observations indicate that adults overlap in their trophic, spatial, and temporal resource utilization. Data suggest that the adult populations of one of the species (P. punctipennis) would eliminate the other under stable undisturbed conditions. It is suggested that periodic (but unpredictable) torrential rains interrupt the competitive interactions that are occurring thus allowing the coexistence of two ecologically similar species.
25084892|The life cycle of Micrutalis calva (Homoptera: Membracidae) on honey locust is presented, including observations on feeding and ovipositional activities. Distribution of this insect in the tree canopy, and the effect of cold temperatures on hatching and nymphal development are described. The five nymphal stages are illustrated; these and the egg are also described.
25082734|The oothecae of Cariblatta plagia R. & H. are 3.00-3.75 mm long, 1.2-1.5 mm deep, and usually contain 18 eggs. The surface has minute ridges (40  apart) parallel to the seam, and many minute upright projections. Seam construction is similar to that of C. lutea lutea S. & Z.
25083583|Behavioral observations on Staphylinidae belonging to the subfamilies Aleocharinae, Paederinae, and Staphylininae are reported along with new locality records. All these Staphylinids are thought to live only or primarily within colonies of army ants (Formicidae: Dorylinae) of the genera Eciton, Labidus, Nomamyrmex, and Neivamyrmex. Some genera of beetles such as Probeyeria, Ecitomorpha, and Ecitophya groom or strigulate the surfaces of the worker ants. This may provide them with some food and also may serve to acquire and maintain the colony odor. All staphylinids observed for any length of time fed on booty and larval brood of the host ants. Several species such as Tetradonia spp. and ?Philonthus sp. are predators on adult worker ants. Staphylinidae which are morphologically most similar to their ant hosts are usually rare within colonies and are most likely to stay in the center of the nests and emigrate with the brood; their other behavior indicates close integration with the ants. Beetles which have the generalized appearance of typical nonmyrmecophilous Staphylinidae are usually more common and are more likely to be attacked by the ants. The number of individuals of a species of staphylinid within any colony of army ants varies considerably, but the most numerous populations are less than one beetle per thousand ants. Average populations must be much lower.
25082906|Distributions, descriptions, drawings of the male genitalia, and a key for the separation of the eight known speces of Paracymus found in the Oriental Faunal Region are given. Five new species, Paracymus generosus, P. pusillus, P. diligens, P. vulgatus, and P. mimicus, are described. In addition, Paracymus phalacroides atomus is resurrected and raised to species rank.
25085803|Information about the current status of parasitoids attacking European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), larvae is lacking in Nebraska. This study was conducted at multiple sites in 5 counties during 1995 and 1996 to determine the presence and prevalence of European corn borer parasitoids in Eastern Nebraska. The braconid, Macrocentrus grandii Goidanich, was recovered from 8.9 and 10.2% of collected 5th instar European corn borer larvae during 1995 and 1996, respectively. Recovery of this parasitoid had not been previously reported in Nebraska. Meanwhile, the ichneumonid, Eriborus terebrans (Graven-horst), was recovered from 7.6 and 7.5% of collected larvae during the same period. A small number of the native tachinid parasitoid, Lixophaga spp., were recovered in three collections. Combined parasitoid recovery rates for all species was 16.6 and 17.7% during 1995 and 1996.
25082410|Scanning electron micrographs of the stridulatory file of two Hemiptera, Galgupha ovalis (Corimaelenidae) and Microporus obliquus (Cydnidae), are given. The scraper and adjacent surface of G. ovalis are also pictured.
25085233|In late April and early May of 1979-1981 larvae of Malachius ulkei Horn were found under loose bark on Siberian elm, Ulmus pumila L., feeding on eggs of spring cankerworm, Paleacrita vernata Peck. Late instars of M. ulkei migrate from surrounding fields to elms ca. 7 to 10 days before elm buds expand; ca. 21 to 24 days later the M. ulkei larvae pupate under loose bark. In laboratory investigations, it was found that larvae ate 62.8  31.0 eggs in 19.5  4.6 days before pupating in 1979 and 222.1  135.0 eggs in 23.3  3.8 days in 1980. The duration of pupation was from 7 to 14 days. After mating, females laid tan eggs singly in and under the bark and in loose debris on the tree. Young larvae were not found in the tree; they apparently leave the tree shortly after hatching.
25085077|The seasonal occurrence of adults and larvae of the sainfoin seed chalcid, Eurytoma onobrychidis Nikolskaya, infesting pods of sainfoin, Onobrychidis viciaefolia Scop., was determined. Sainfoin pods were infested and female chalcids were present throughout the flowering period. The proportion of pods infested varied by year. The sex ratio was close to 1:1 in both years. A parasitic chalcid, Habrocytus medicaginis Gah., attacked a low percentage of pods infested with E. onobrychidis. The time necessary for postdiapause overwintered larvae to defecate, pupate, deposit pigment, and emerge as adults was influenced by temperature and differed by sex. Sainfoin adults emerged at least three weeks before flowering began, thus providing time to implement control. Larvae in infested pods subjected to cold treatment (-40C for 5 days) immediately after harvest were killed and seed germination was not hindered by the cold treatment.
25083578|Allodape breviceps Cockerell is placed in the Indoaustralian group of the genus Allodapula, but it differs strikingly from other species in the short mouthparts and face and the reduced scopa. Presumably it is a social parasite in nests of another species of Allodapula.
25083623|The type series of Culicoides riggsi Khalaf was examined and found to include two species, C. riggsi and C. bickleyi Wirth and Hubert. The former species is redescribed, and characters sufficient to distinguish it from other species of the piliferus group are given. The Oklahoma records for C. bickleyi constitute its westernmost known occurrence.
25086444|The alfalfa leafcutter bee, Megachile rotundata (Fab.) (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), was introduced into the lowbush blueberry, Vaccinium angustifolium and V. myrtilloides (Ericaceae), agro-ecosystems of Atlantic Canada and the state of Maine in the early 1990's. As a managed pollinator of this crop, this typical "summer-active" bee is released approximately one month earlier than for alfalfa pollination and therefore is exposed to a different set of climatological conditions, primarily night time temperatures which can reach as low as -8C during flowering. The objectives of this study were to investigate aspects of cold-hardiness in post-diapausing M. rotundata, and to determine the potential effects of subzero temperatures on adult females through studies of supercooling capacity and survival at low temperatures. Post-diapausing M. rotundata maintain a supercooling capacity below -23C until pupation, after which all developmental stages freeze between -15C and -17C. Fed and unfed adult females show significant differences in their supercooling capacity; -8C and -16C, respectively. Bees which have fed showed very little susceptibility to temperatures above -5C, but mortality significantly increased at -10C, and was 100% at -15C. As such, M. rotundata populations are likely susceptible to unusually cool night time temperatures when used for lowbush blueberry pollination. The implications of earlier release times on bee biology and population recovery for pollination are discussed.
25084051|Colonies of a recently described yellowjacket species, Vespula flavopilosa Jacobson, typically possess a shorter seasonal cycle and are significantly smaller than concurrently collected colonies of the broadly sympatric eastern yellowjacket, V. maculifrons (Buysson). Typical V. flavopilosa colonies were subterranean, completed their seasonal cycle by early October, possessed peak worker populations of 800 to 1400, and constructed nests of 2000 to 5000 cells, of which 15 to 20% reared queens. Spring V. flavopilosa queens occasionally usurped incipient V. maculifrons and V. vulgaris (L.) colonies, and V. flavopilosa can be a host for V. squamosa (Drury).
25084257|Eggs of Orius insidiosus (Say) and 2 Nabis species were sampled in soybean from June through August 1979. Densities of O. insidiosus eggs and those of Nabis roseipennis Reuter followed similar seasonal trends with peak densities occurring in late July; eggs of Nabis americoferus Carayon were relatively rare throughout the season. Apparent preferences for oviposition sites were noted for O. insidiosus and N. roseipennis; the former oviposited most frequently in leaf petioles while the latter oviposited most often in median leaflet petiolules. Stratification of oviposition sites along the vertical aspect of the soybean plant also was detected.
25084467|Length of nymphal development was compared between diapausing and nondiapausing strains of Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) under different environmental conditions: a constant 25C and a fluctuating temperature regime (x = 26C). Seventy percent of the nondiapausing strain completed development within five nymphal instars; significantly fewer (<30%) of the diapausing strain completed development with five instars. Total development time was significantly shorter in the nondiapausing strain. Sexes were not significantly different with respect to rate of development.
25481819|In Kansas, the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), is one of the most economically important pests of corn. Crop losses and control costs attributed to Diabrotica spp. reach $1 billion annually in the U.S. Recently, Bt corn hybrids resistant to western corn rootworm larval damage have been field-tested for rootworm control. This study evaluated the effect of a specific Bt corn (YieldGard Rootworm) for corn rootworm control on larval survival. Elytra length, fecundity, percent egg hatch, and longevity of adult D. v. virgifera that survived exposure to Bt corn in the larval stage were also evaluated. Two groups of D. v. virgifera adults were assessed. One group had emerged from Bt and non-Bt corn roots; the other group was obtained from a colony with no larval exposure to Bt corn and fed Bt or non-Bt corn silk and ears. Bt corn significantly reduced the number of D. v. virgifera beetles emerging from corn roots. In general, Bt corn had no significant effect on longevity, elytra length, and female fecundity of D. v. virgifera beetles emerging from Bt corn plants. Bt corn had no significant effect on longevity and female fecundity of D. v. virgifera beetles feeding only as adults on Bt corn silk and ears. In general, Bt corn had no effect on number of D. v. virgifera beetles feeding in the field on corn silk and on silk damage caused by adults. Generally, the results of this study demonstrated that Bt corn (MON 863) expressing the Cry3Bb1 toxin was extremely effective in reducing damage caused by D. v. virgifera larvae and had no significant effects on the longevity of beetles emerging from YieldGard Rootworm corn.
25085693|The life history of the grape leafhoppers, Erythroneura ziczac and E. vulnerata (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) was investigated in 2 western Colorado vineyards. Vineyards were sampled every 2 weeks from May 19 to September 8 and on October 7, 1994. Erythroneura ziczac had 3-4 generations, whereas E. vulnerata had 2 generations. The first generation of nymphs and overwintering adults of E. ziczac were found on Rosa spp. growing near the vineyards, prior to the leafing out of the grapevines. No grape leafhoppers were found overwintering in the vineyards. Eighty-five percent of all grape leafhoppers counted in the vineyards were E. ziczac. Preferences were noted for Vitus vinifera cultivars; 'Lemberger', 'Gewurztraminer', and 'Orange Muscat Blanc' hosted higher leafhopper populations than the cultivars 'Merlot', 'White Riesling' and 'Seyval Blanc'. The egg parasitoid, Anagrus epos (Hymenoptera: Mymaridae), parasitized only 1.8% of all grape leafhopper eggs (30,344 eggs). Peak parasitization was observed in mid-July.
25085828|The introduction of the multicolored Asian lady beetle, Harmonia axyridis Pallas (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), to the United States has led to its interaction with native coccinellid species. Harmonia axyridis adults and larvae co-occur temporally and spatially with adults and larvae of the native species, Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer), which is the most abundant coccinellid species on sweet corn in Kentucky. We tested the capability of H. axyridis to develop on a diet of only C. maculata eggs and the propensity for either species to prey upon the other. We found that H. axyridis larvae can complete development on a diet of only C. maculata eggs and that predation between H. axyridis and C. maculata larvae usually results in H. axyridis eating C. maculata.
25084843|Lasioglossum kinabaluense, n. sp. is described from Borneo. It is not closely related to Asiatic species but is similar to certain Australian forms. It is not now placed in a subgenus.
25084580|Mexican bean beetle, Epilachna varivestis Mulsant, development and survival were studied on two host plants, soybeans, Glycine max (L.) Merrill, and green beans, Phaseolus vulgaris L., at temperatures ranging from 12.8C to 32.2C at 2.8C intervals. No egg development occurred at either temperature extreme. Egg-to-adult development ranged from 58.8 to 24.4 days at 15.6C and 29.4C, respectively, on green beans and 69.4 to 28.0 days on soybeans at the same respective temperatures. Development on green beans was, on the average, 16% faster than the development on soybeans. Mortality of Mexican bean beetles was much greater on soybeans than on green beans, with more deaths occurring at the higher temperatures than at the median temperatures. The importance of these developmental and survival differences on the two host plants is discussed in regard to midwest soybean-growing conditions where green beans play no role in Mexican bean beetle population dynamics during the summer.
25085527|The oak rough bulletgall wasp, Disholcaspis quercusmamma (Walsh) (Hymenoptera: Cynipidae), has become an increasingly important shade tree pest in Colorado with the expanded planting of its hosts, bur oak and swamp white oak. The insect produces woody galls on the twigs of the plant that are disfiguring and also produce honeydew that is attractive to nuisance bees and wasps. Emergence of the wasp from the galls began 20 October in 1992, but not until 29 November in 1993. Although oviposition occurs shortly after emergence, visible galling does not appear until the following July. The eurytomid Sycophila dubia (Walsh) was the only parasitoid observed to be associated with the insect, with parasitism rates between 14.5 and 68.1 percent recorded at three Fort Collins study sites. Diameter of normal, nonparasitized galls averaged 11.1 mm, significantly larger than for parasitized galls (9.1 mm). Great differences in amount of annual gall production occur among trees, suggesting that resistance to galling may be widespread.
25085139|Green peach aphid, Myzus persicae (Sulzer), abundance on overwintering spinach, Spinacia oleracea L., was determined at weekly intervals in 1985, 1986, and 1987. Minimum temperatures during the 3-year study were -21.67, -12.78, and -8.33C, respectively. The low minimum temperatures in 1985 and 1986 retarded spinach plant development and subsequent aphid population development was dealyed until late April-early May in 1985 and early April in 1986. The highest aphid densities and the earliest detection of aphids occurred in March 1987 -the year with the highest minimum temperatures. The high aphid density in 1987 also may have been related to low beneficial insect activity. In 1987 spinach was harvested in late March. Beneficial insects observed in overwintering spinach, i.e., Aphidius sp., Hippodamia convergens Guerin-Meneville, and Coleomegilla maculata DeGeer, were never detected before mid-April. When aphid populations increased in April or May, i.e., 1986 and 1985, beneficial insects were active. Although within-plant aphid distribution was highly variable between inner and outer spinach leaves, significantly more aphids were observed on the bottom leaf surfaces.
25085030|Field efficacy of two steinernematid species, Steinernema feltiae (Filipjev) (=Neoaplectana carpocapsae Weiser) and S. bibionis (Bovien) was investigated for suppression of carpenterworm, Prionoxystus robiniae (Peck). Two application techniques, gallery injection and bark surface treatment, were used on previously established infestations in oak. Gallery injection of entomophagous nematodes induced high mortality (70-100%) to fifth- and sixth-instar carpenterworm. However, bark surface treatments provided variable results. In 1986, nearly 50% mortality was recorded at each of three concentrations, 0.5, 1.5, and 4 
25085562|A seven-year (1988-1994) study of parasitism in grasshopper egg-pods collected in northeastern Montana and northwestern North Dakota yielded 5822 viable egg-pods of 16 acridid species. The two most numerous species were Melanoplus bivittatus Say (3260 pods) and M. sanguinipes (F.) (1197 pods). A total of 577 egg-pods of six grasshopper species was parasitized by four species of scelionid wasps: Scelio opacus (Provancher), S. rufulus Muesebeck, S. semirufus Muesebeck, and S. striativentris Kieffer. Scelio opacus was the dominant parasite species, accounting for 91.7% of the total of parasitized pods. Overall, parasitism of egg-pods by Scelio spp. averaged only 10.7% (577/5382), suggesting that these native parasites have little impact on grasshopper populations. The sex ratios of all four species of Scelio were highly female-biased.Nine new host records and several new geographical distributions for the four species of Scelio were documented. The new hosts recorded for each of the four scelionid species are: (1) Scelio opacus: M. packardii Scudder and Spharagemon equale (Say); (2) Scelio rufulus: Camnula pellucida (Scudder), M. bivittatus, and S. equale; (3) Scelio semirufus: M. bivittatus and M. packardii; and (4) Scelio striativentris: M. packardii and M. sanguinipes. As more rearing data is accumulated, it is likely that more species of Scelio will be found parasitizing more than one acridid host. While not host specific, certain parasite species may be habitat specific. Their apparent preferences for particular species of egg-pods may result from searching in restricted habitats.
25084413|Although larvae of the cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner), injected with blastospores of Nomuraea rileyi (Farlow) Samson died of a mycosis, similarly injected larvae of the velvetbean caterpillar, Anticarsia gemmatalis Hbner, did not. Blastospore counts in the hemolymph of T. ni increased from 230/l of hemolymph on the first day after injection to 216,950/l of hemolymph by the fourth day. No increase in number of blastospores was detected in A. gemmatalis. Although the mode of treatment had no apparent effect on the total circulating hemocyte count (TCHC) of A. gemmatalis, the TCHC of larvae of T. ni injected with live blastospores decreased about 6.7 times, from an average of 8990/l (day 2 post-injection) to a low of 1350/l (day 6 post-injection).
25085779|Night-flying bees of the genus Megalopta were censused at black lights on Barro Colorado Island, Panama, from January to March, 1996. One hundred two female bees (43 M. ecuadoria and 59 M. genalis) were captured during 120 hours of surveys. No males of either species were caught. Megalopta ecuadoria were captured almost exclusively during the last hour before sunrise. Megalopta genalis were caught frequently in the hour preceding sunrise and the first hour after sunset, and infrequently throughout the night. Two individuals of M. genalis were caught with pollen loads. Both pollen loads contained only pollen of Pseudobombax septanatum, a large canopy tree that has a long flowering period and large, night-opening flowers with abundant and protein-rich pollen. There was no apparent association between capture abundance and phase of the moon.
25086373|Global warming is generally predicted to increase the intensity of herbivore pressure on plants. Support for this prediction often comes from short-term studies, or studies conducted in controlled laboratory settings. We examined the effect of long-term experimental warming on an aphid-sagebrush interaction (Obtusicauda coweni and Artemisia tridentata) in natural field plots in the Rocky Mountains. In no year did we find support for the prediction that warming increased aphid abundance or population growth. In fact, warming decreased aphid density on sagebrush in one year, tended to decrease aphids in a second year, and had no effect in a third year. In enclosures that excluded predators, warming decreased aphid population growth by an amount consistent with observed field density differences. Warming increased sagebrush carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio and plant size, but there was no significant correlation between these variables and aphid growth or density. In a separate snow-manipulation experiment in unwarmed plots, the timing of snowmelt did not affect aphid density. In conclusion, warming reduced or did not affect aphid density in each of three years, but this effect could not be explained by differences in plant size, bulk C:N ratio, predation, or snowmelt date. Our results suggest that long-term studies within a natural community context may provide counterexamples to the prediction that warming will increase herbivore pressure on plants.
25082588|Neivamyrmex baylori, n. sp. (Formicidae: Dorylinae) from Waco, Texas, U. S. A., collected 3 October 1972 in a blacklight trap by J. F. Watkins is described from one male specimen. Illustrations include a profile of the whole ant, fore and hind wings, frontal view of head, ventral view of subgenital plate, and lateral views of stipes, volsella and sagitta.
25084108|Principal components analysis is performed on 11 variables of Polistes exclamans nests, brood and associated adults in nest collections made in June, July and September. Four biologically meaningful principal components were found: (1) nest size, (2) nest growth, (3) nest decline, and (4) nest parasitism. In each sample nest size accounted for most of the variance, followed by nest parasitism. Comparisons among populations using principal components values instead of individual measures make more complete use of available information.
25084755|Feeding preferences of Irbisia pacifica (Uhler) (Hemiptera: Miridae) for 18 range grasses were determined in the greenhouse by evaluating damage to seedlings in replicated tests. Great Basin wildrye, Leymus cinereus, was the most preferred, whereas Russian wildrye, Psathyrostachys juncea, and Siberian crested wheatgrass, Agropyron fragile, were the least preferred. Agropyron spp. was preferred over Pseudoroegneria spp. and Elymus spp.
25085198|In the small carpenter bee, Ceratina calcarata (Robertson), female eggs are laid on provision masses that are larger than those that receive male eggs. Because there is a positive relationship between the size of the adult and the amount of food available to it as a larva, the females are larger than the males. Large size in female insects is often associated with an increase in fecundity. However, it was determined that in C. calcarata, there was no correlation between the size of the mother and either the number of brood cells in her nest or the number of eggs she laid. There was a positive correlation between a mother's size and her foraging ability judging by the size of the provision masses she stored. But larger mothers did not produce more daughters than sons as might be expected. The question of the advantage to C. calcarata mothers of making daughters larger than sons is considered.
25083878|The subfamily Iassinae of the New World is reclassified. Keys to genera and species of male specimens are included. A total of 26 genera and 93 species are included. There are 16 new genera: Absheta, Aztrania, Baldriga, Bertawolia, Betawala, Comanopa, Derakandra, Donleva, Julipopa, Maranata, Mogenola, Mormoria, Redaprata, Scaropsia, Torenadoga, and Webaskola; one new subgenus: Curistuva; and 37 new species. Numerous nomenclatural changes are also made.
25085431|Eight species of psychodids were collected from an emergence trap over Quebrada Prieta in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico during fifty-one weeks in 1990-1991. Only the species Maruina hirta was previously known and it was the most abundant mothfly collected.
25084818|The relationship between insects and the endophyte infestation level associated with tall fescue in Missouri was observed during 1984. The abundance of three leafhoppers, Draculacephala antica, Agallia constricta, and Endria inimica and the corn flea beetle, Chaetocnema pulicaria, decreased with an increase in endophyte level, indicating possible host plant resistance attributable to the endophyte. Conversely, the gray lawn leafhopper, E. exitiosus, and the issid, Bruchomorpha spp., were positively correlated at 83% and 69%, respectively, with endophyte level. Two additional leafhoppers, A. constricta and E. inimica were significantly correlated with endophyte level at the 90% confidence level. No significant increase or decrease in insect abundance was observed due to threshold responses.
25083621|Solierella inermis is a small digger wasp belonging to a natural group of the genus in which all of the species apparently prey mostly on immature Hemiptera. The female wasps usually select for their nesting sites the abandoned burrows of other insects or arthropods, rather than excavating their own tunnels. After presumably renovating such a site, the wasps hunt plant-feeding bugs belonging to the families Pentatomidae, Coreidae, Miridae, and Rhopalidae (= Corizidae), as well as the predaceous Reduviidae, place several individuals of many species mixed in each nest, and glue each egg to the throat region of one of the largest bugs, in front of the forecoxae. All of the bugs are usually smaller than the female wasp and weigh less than her, suggesting that they are probably transported to the nest in flight rather than being dragged on the ground. The prey individuals, when taken from the nest, are temporarily paralyzed, indicating that they were probably stung by the female wasp after being captured. After ovipositing on one of the prey, the wasp fills the top portion of the burrow with various debris such as small twigs, leaves, sand grains, and seeds which are obtained from outside the nest, and then searches for a new nest site.
25085059|Amaurobius ferox (Walckenaer), a large amaurobiid spider originating from Europe, was first discovered in Kansas in basements of several houses in Lawrence, Douglas County, in June 1987. This represents a range extension of several hundred miles west of the nearest recorded locality. The species overwinters in the adult stage and has a life cycle of more than 2 years.
25084603|Delphacid populations were sampled weekly in a weedy, mixed-grass habitat in central Kentucky during 1980 and 1981. Delphacodes lutulenta (Van Duzee) was the most abundant of the eleven delphacid species collected. The other most abundant species during the 2-yr period (in descending order) were Liburniella ornata (Stal), Delphacodes puella (Van Duzee), Delphacodes campestris (Van Duzee), and Euides weedi (Van Duzee). The 6 remaining species constituted only ca. 2% of the total specimens collected. The dryinid, Dicondylus americanus (Perkins), parasitized D. lutulenta and 3 other delphacid species, but the incidence of parasitism was consistently low. Percentage macroptery was much higher in D. puella and L. ornata than in D. lutulenta, D. campestris, and E. weedi.
25084937|Dispersal of buffalo gourd (Cucurbita foetidissima) pollen in Arizona at two sites and by two groups of pollinators is compared. Honey bees (Apis mellifera) were the primary pollen vectors in one cultivated field, and the squash bees Xenoglossa angustior, Peponapis timberlakei and P. pruinosa were floral visitors in another field. The foraging behavior of these bees is compared. Pollen admixed with fluorescent powders was used to indicate the distribution of pollen through each field. Statistical analysis of the distribution of flowers with marked pollen was made by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov two sample test and by logistic regression analysis. Although marked pollen was distributed farther by squash bees than by honey bees, the significantly different distribution of flowers on the vines in the two fields made analysis difficult. Squash bees dispersed marked pollen throughout the field and utilized all available pollen. Honey bees did not utilize all pollen but flowers and pollen dispersal were more uniform. Competition for pollen between honey bees and squash bees was reduced since the latter harvested most of the pollen standing crop before the honey bees became active. Both the native pollinators and honey bees in the absence of the other could effectively distribute pollen in their respective fields but honey bees could probably not compete as efficiently with native bees for pollen where the two groups occurred together.
25084156|Stictia maculata (F.) nests in diffuse aggregations in heavily shaded forests in loamy soil, an atypical habitat for the genus. Nest construction, provisioning and defense were studied with marked individuals. The unicellular nests, averaging 52 cm long and 32 cm deep, are provisioned progressively with flies; eggs are apparently laid in the empty cell. Unique behaviors include nest camouflaging and complete mound leveling. Solenopsis geminata (F.) ants raided nests, eliciting a distinctive "ant-clearing" behavior.
25085939|Notonecta (Paranecta) inca n. sp. is described and illustrated from Concepcin, Per. This species most closely resembles N. peruviana Hungerford. The male paramera with the posterior margin deeply notched, the internal stay of the male aedeagus straight with a short apex and the female sixth (fifth apparent) urosternite with the posterior margin projecting, deeply notched centrally and straight to weakly convex laterally distinguish N. inca n. sp. from all the South American species of Paranecta.
25083856|Three nests
25084536|A new species of leafhopper, Amphigonalia bispinosa, is described and is the replacement vector species for A. severini (DeLong) which had been previously misidentified. Distribution of both species is given and a revised key to five of the six known species in the genus is also included.
25084838|Liancalus similis Aldrich, a hydrophorine dolichopodid, often inhabits moist and shaded microhabitats. Adults were secretive in their behavior and were collected from culverts, freshet seeps, and a waterfall in east-central Washington and northern Idaho. Larvae were collected from algal mats growing on rocks below a waterfall and allowed to complete development under laboratory conditions. First instar to adult development time was 22 to 25 days. Pupal development was 4 to 8 days, and maximum adult life span was 3 days. The larval habitat, third larval instar, larval mouth parts, pupa, and pupal cocoon are illustrated with line drawings and photographs.
25085268|Maize (Zea mays L.) plants were artificially infested during 1987 and 1988 during anthesis with second-generation European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis [Hbner] larvae at three locations on the plant to determine the effect of larval placement on borer orientation within the plant. Infestation site had a minimal effect on borer orientation in the plant. Survival of borers was influenced by plant susceptibility and environment (season), and the number of surviving borers per plant affected orientation. The orientation response of ECB in susceptible and resistant plants differed. In resistant plants in 1987, the number of insects surviving was considerably less than in the susceptible plants, and significantly more ECB larvae and larval activity were found around the ear zone. No significant difference in borers and activity were noted either above or below the ear zone. The susceptible hybrid in 1987 had the orientation of borers skewed towards the lower areas of the plant. Less than 10% of the borers were found above the ear zone. During 1988, which had a hot, dry growing season, the population of ECB was reduced to such a low level that ECB effects on the resistant hybrid were not noticeable. The results of our study indicate that it is not necessary to dissect the upper portion of the maize plant to obtain an estimate of ECB population for pest management surveys and host plant resistance studies. Except when evaluating very susceptible cultivars, adequate estimates of the ECB population can probably be obtained by dissecting from one internode above the primary ear attachment point to one internode below the lowest ear attachment point.
25082526|Three cheyletid mites, Columbicheyla gen. nov., C. macroflabellata sp. nov., Eutogenes pinicola sp. nov., and Neoeucheyla beeri sp. nov., are described and illustrated. C. macroflabellata and E. pinicola were found on shagbark hickory (Carya ovata L.) and Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris L.), respectively, in Missouri. N. beeri was taken from cedar bog sphagnum moss in Michigan.
25085369|Pitfall-trap sampling was conducted during two growing seasons in soybean (Glycine max) fields located in southern Indiana, to determine the species composition of the adult ground beetle community and to understand their dynamics. We collected 2366 carabids of 34 species in 1985 and 1722 individuals of 39 species in 1986. Twelve species collected in 1985 were not found the following year, and 17 species were collected only in the second year. Pterostichus chalcites made up over 50% of all specimens collected in both years. The second and third most abundant species were Harpalus pensylvanicus and Scarites subterraneus, which alternated in numerical predominance between the two years. Together, these three species accounted for 81% and 73% of all carabids collected in 1985 and 1986, respectively. Pterostichus chalcites dominated the ground beetle community through early August, H. pensylvanicus occurred later in the summer, and S. subterraneus was found primarily in June and September. Estimates of species diversity showed a decline in the middle of the sampling season, corresponding with the predominance of P. chalcites. Patterns of population dynamics for P. chalcites, H. pensylvanicus and S. subterraneus correspond well with other studies of carabids associated with agricultural habitats. Carabids may be able to deter population increases in some crop pests. However, the magnitude of such beneficial effect cannot be quantified, because little is known of the diets and attack rates of these species.
25084045|Three species of gall-forming Tephritidae in the genus Procecidochares were collected from rabbitbrush (Compositae: Chrysothamnus spp.) in Idaho. Morphologically alike, adults fit the description of P. minuta Snow; however, biological characteristics clearly differentiate each species. Significant differences exist in regard to 1) host plants, 2) type of gall formation, 3) seasonal occurrence, 4) larval behavior, and 5) puparium morphology. The life history and habits of each species are discussed with emphasis on the salient features for their identification.
25086395|A key to the Chinese species of Hydrotaea is given. Four new species from China are descripbed, viz. Hydrotaea unidenticulata n. sp., Hydrotaea plumitibiata n. sp., Hydrotaea subscambus n. sp., and Hydrotaea bidentipes n. sp., and Hydrotaea spinosus Ye and Ma, 1992 is given a new name, viz Hydrotaea dispilipes n. n. The type specimens are deposited in Institute of Entomology, Shenyang Normal University, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China.
25086066|Larval midges (Diptera: Chironomidae) exposed to high concentrations of heavy metals in a stream flowing through an area of defunct lead and zinc mines exhibited differential morphological deformation. Larvae in the subfamily Orthocladiinae had significantly more frequent and sever deformities than larvae in the subfamily Tanypodinae (paired sample t-tests, P < 0.01). The frequency of antennal deformities in the Orthocladiinae was significantly different between sites (P < 0.05, Kruskal-Wallis Median Test) and generally increased with the concentration of heavy metals in the sediment.
25084370|Eggs were collected from Anagasta kuehniella (Zeller), Ephestia cautella (Walker), E. elutella (Hbner), E. figulilella (Gregson), and Plodia interpunctella (Hbner) and exposed to adults of the egg parasite Trichogramma pretiosum Riley, in all possible pairing combinations. Host eggs were ranked by decreasing percentages of parasitization after adjustment for control infertility as follows: E. cautella > E. elutella > E. figulilella > A. kuehniella > P. interpunctella. Differences in per cent parasitization were significant in only three of the paired comparisons. Percentage egg hatch after exposure to Trichogramma ranged from 3.3 to 8.3% and averaged only 4.9% for the species tested. Therefore, it appears that the release of Trichogramma into commodity storages could play an important role in population suppression of stored-product moths, especially as part of an integrated control program.
25085418|In the mosquito Aedes aegypti, proboscis length and allometry are similar in both sexes. Body size of males is smaller, however, so males have disproportionately long feeding structures in comparison to females. Male genitalia, however, scale at significantly less than isometry (slope  0.3). These patterns of variation in size and shape suggest functional constraints in the scaling of feeding and reproductive structures.
25082336|Athryoglossa cressoni n. sp. is described from North America, and a revised key is given to the eight North American species. Notes and distribution records are presented for four of these.
25085881|Calliopsis (Calliopsis) hondurasicus is the most widely distributed member of its genus, found from the southern United States throughout Mesoamerica, yet little has been recorded about its biology. Female nesting behavior and male territorial behavior are described for a population on the Pacific coast of central Panam. This population is protandrous, and bees become active at the start of the dry season in mid- to late-December, and activity ends in late January or early February. Males patrol areas where females emerge and later nest, and they defend territories to which they return repeatedly. Male-male contests involve a rapid spiraling-upward flight, often followed by physical aggression after the pair tumbles to the ground. Nearly all females are solitary nesters, but they dig nests within aggregations near other females. Details of nest architecture are given for comparative purposes. At this site females are restricted in their use of pollen, which may constrain the number of generations they produce per season.
25085687|Dioryctria ponderosae Dyar, D. tumicolella Mutuura, Munroe and Ross, and D. zimmermani (Grote) are the three most damaging borer pests of pines in Nebraska. D. tumicolella and D. zimmermani have similar 1-year life cycles with adults present from late July to early September. Larvae overwinter as first instars under bark scales on the surface of the trunk and branches, begin boring into trees in April, pupate in July, and emerge as adults in late July and August. The life cycle of D. ponderosae varies in length from 14 to 24 months. Larvae spend either one or two winters in tunnels beneath the bark. Most adults are present from the end of May through mid-July. Some emerge in August. Three species of hymenopteran parasitoids were reared from larvae of D. ponderosae: Bracon rhyacioniae (Muesebeck), Exeristes comstockii (Cresson), Hyssopus novus Girault. Three species were reared also from larvae of D. tumicolella: Hyssopus novus Girault, Orgilus dioryctriae Gahan, and Chelonus sp.
41262860|Bolitogyrus huanghaoi. n. sp. is described from China. The male characters of B. kitawakii Smetana and Zheng and B. electus (Smetana and Zheng) are also illustrated. A key to species of Bolitogyrus from Mainland China is provided.
40961681|The Great Plains of Colorado occupies over two-fifths of the state, yet very little is known about the aquatic insects of this area. This paper reports on the aquatic insects found in temporary and permanent pools of Big Sandy Creek within the Sand Creek Massacre National Historic Site, on the Great Plains of Colorado. A total of 107 distinguishable taxa were collected representing six orders and 27 families of insects. The orders Coleoptera (39% or 42 taxa), Dptera (23% or 25 taxa), and Odonata (21% or 23 species) dominated this site. Most of these taxa are geographically widespread and considered common. The aquatic beetles Thermonectus intermedius Crotch, Gyrinus parcus Say, Berosus hatchi Miller, B. infuscatus LeConte and B. miles LeConte are reported from Colorado for the first time.
25084452|Soil cores were placed in nylon-mesh laundry bags, immersed in water about an hour, then rinsed in running water. This method was more effective in recovering larvae of the sunflower seed weevil than hand sorting and about twice as fast.
25084476|Thirty-three records, drawn from personal observations and the literature, of phytophagous Hemiptera-Heteroptera feeding at bird droppings, dung, and carrion are summarized. Eighteen species and eight families are represented; approximately 70% of the records involve the coreoid families Alydidae and Coreidae. These feeding records further illustrate the exploitation of extra-phytophagous food sources by herbivorous insects with haustellate mouthparts.
25083269|A convenient and rapid technique permits measurement of
25083446|The gross morphology of the principal internal structures of Peponapis pruinosa is described for use as "type" in studies of the comparative internal morphology of bees. Notable differences from the familiar structure of the honey bee include: absence of cephalic salivary glands, simpler hypopharyngeal gland development, complex mandibular gland structure, and different organization of the male reproductive tract. The internal anatomy of this bee is more representative of that of the majority of apoids than is that of the honey bee.
25085972|Observations are presented on an aggregation of Cerceris mimica in the Pawnee National Grasslands, Colorado. Males patrolled flowers being visited by females, and females nested in the hard-packed soil of a dirt track. Nests lacked tumuli and were sometimes occupied by two females. Burrow was initially vertical, but deep in the soil descended at about a 30 degree angle to the horizontal and was considerably broadened. Prey consisted of weevils of the genus Sphenophorus.
43288786|Eight species of the genus Phthitia Enderlein are recorded from China, including the following three new species: P. longula Su, new species, P. globosa Su, new species, and P. sternipilis Su, new species. The descriptions and illustrations of three new species, along with a key to the currently known species of Chinese Phthitia, are presented.
25083512|Polyphylla devestiva sp. nov. is herein designated and described on the basis of 53 male specimens, all of which were taken from populations in extreme south-western Idaho. Elytral, pronotal, and pygidial vestiture, and conformation of the terminal segment of the maxillary palpi are considered as significant. Furthermore, lectotypes for P. fuscula Fall (= diffracta Casey) and P. crinita LeConte are designated and their location given.
25086206|A 5 yr study in the semiarid wheat production region of eastern Washington documented the relative densities of pest aphids and their natural enemies in cereal production systems using on-farm replicated plots. The systems were reduced-tillage soft white winter wheat (SWW) (Triticum aestivum L.)-summer fallow rotation; no-till soft white spring wheat (SWS)-chemical fallow rotation; continuous no-till hard red spring wheat (HRS); and no-till HRS-no-till spring barley (SB) (Hordeum vulgare L.) rotation. The English grain aphid, Sitobion avenae (F.), was the dominant species, followed in abundance by the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko). The bird cherry-oat aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi (L.), and rose grass aphid, Metopolophium dirhodum (Walter), were infrequently encountered. Overall, aphid densities were low, with aphids rare or absent in SWW and SB plots. The data revealed no clear and consistent effects of cereal production systems on aphid densities, but it did reveal, based on analysis of data from continuous HRS plots, high among-year variability in S. avenae and D. noxia densities. Only in 1996 and only in continuous HRS was it necessary to chemically control damaging populations of D. noxia. English grain aphid densities never approached threshold levels. S. avenae parasitism averaged >16% in some spring wheat systems in 1998 and 2000, while only two mummified D. noxia were observed. Coccinellid beetle counts in all plots totaled 143 in 1998 and 163 in 2000, with 90.2% and 94.5% in the genus Hippodamia, respectively. The ladybird beetle Coccinella septempunctata L. comprised 9.8% (1998) and 5.5% (2000) of the populations. The results suggest that damaging aphid populations are unlikely to develop in winter wheat, but populations in spring cereals warrant monitoring because they fluctuate from year-to-year and can be damaging.
25084754|Overwintering survival of onion maggot, Delia antiqua (Meigen), pupae was investigated for various soil depths and for various habitats in Michigan during 1978-1980. Survival of pupae averaged 89% over all depths examined (3, 8, 13, 18, 23, 28 and 36 cm) and there were no significant differences in survival among depths. Survival of pupae overwintering in different habitats averaged 78% and there were no significant differences in survival among habitats. These abiotic factors appear to have little effect on overwintering survival of onion maggot pupae in the field.
25085180|Five subgenera of the genus Athysanella Baker are reviewed, and a proposed phylogeny for Diphipyga Blocker is presented. Acamella Wesley and Blocker includes a single Mexican species; Brachydella Ball and Beamer includes a single species from Arizona; Diphipyga includes five species which range from Mexico into Canada, west of the 100th Meridian; Pectinapyga Osborn includes a single species from Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas, and Mexico; and Pedumella includes two species from Arizona, Colorado, California, New Mexico, Texas, and Utah.
25085751|Male Eulaema seabrai apparently collect odoriferous substances from the hind tibiae of dead conspecific males.
25085647|The horned powderpost beetles (Bostrichidae) represent a highly destructive group of wood-boring and stored product beetles, yet have received little recent systematic or ecological attention. Presented here is an annotated list of 25 species of known or potential occurrence in Missouri, including adventitious species, and an illustrated taxonomic key.
25085346|The predatory ground beetle, Pasimachus elongatus, was trapped during the summers of 1988 and 1989 from six plots on the shortgrass prairie in eastern Colorado. After initial sampling, 4 plots were sprayed with the insecticide methamidophos. Pitfall traps arranged in a trapping web were used to capture beetles. A Fourier series analysis converted field data to density estimates. Pasimachus elongatus density was negatively correlated with pesticide level.
25086117|Foraging behaviors, host plant breadth, and vagilities of social and solitary bee species differ dramatically. We illustrate how these phenomena can obscure the effects of floral resource competition from our studies on a species-rich, native bee fauna that visit the flowers of creosote bush [Larrea tridentata Coville (Zygophyllaceae)], a widespread dominant perennial plant species in the warm deserts of North America. The potential for competition among the solitary bees that visit creosote bush and honey bees was investigated by two methods; one that is widely used asks if solitary bee abundance and species diversity is less at sites with greater honey bee abundance; and a second, more novel approach that asks if pollen availability is limiting at sites with high bee biomass. We found no relationship among number of honey bees at sites and species richness and abundance of all native bees combined or of pollen specialist species considered alone. Protein represented in the pollen of the primary host plant greatly exceeded the biomass of bees present at a site. We suggest bee populations are rarely pollen limited in this system or that competition, when it occurs, is highly episodic. Future studies of bee competition will need to assess long-term population variation among solitary and introduced bees in habitats where floral resources can be measured for multiple flowering plant species, and where bee colony/nest dynamics can be documented. Studies of bee faunas in temperate areas are needed. This paper demonstrates some of the possible pitfalls for studies of competition among highly eusocial and solitary bees. We conclude that basic data on bee biology and population dynamics are needed before these questions can be satisfactorily answered and, at present, little hard data are available to evaluate the competing hypotheses.
25086034|Larvae of Hybosciara gigantea fed on leaf litter and formed compact masses of up to several hundred individuals. Sex ratios were often highly biased, and varied widely in different masses. Given the fact that in some sciarid species females are able to produce only a single sex of offspring, larvae in masses were probably often siblings; several other aspects of the flies's natural history were in accord with this hypothesis. Young adult females, but apparently not males, dispersed long distances. Males formed loose ephemeral swarms near vegetation where copulation occurred.
25085084|Adult flies of Conioscinella nuda (Adams) were reared from seedheads of Andropogon gerardii Vitman, Schizachyrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash, and Bothriochloa ischaemum (L.) Keng var. ischaemum collected near Stillwater, El Reno, and Sayre, Oklahoma, respectively. Previously, studies on taxonomy had been conducted with this insect, but no information on host range was given. C. nuda could potentially be an economically important pest of native and introduced chaffy-seeded, warm-season grasses grown for seed.
25084048|Ptilothrix bombiformis (Cresson) nests in hard-packed roadways and levees along Delaware coastal marshes. Nests contain 1 or 2 wax-lined cells. The spherical pollen-nectar mass is from Hibiscus palustris L. The egg is located on the bottom of the provision. Overwintering is as a post-defecating larva. The nesting biology of P. sumichrasti (Cresson), P. plumata Smith and P. fructifera (Holmberg) is compared to P. bombiformis.
25084301|Fourteen of 18 colonies of Vespula consobrina (Saussure) had nests that were subterranean, all constructed in rodent burrows, while 4 were aerial. The average number of cells for 15 mature nests was 703, range 308-1368. This is considerably smaller than nest sizes reported for other members of the V. rufa species group in North America. Number of workers in mature colonies ranged from 53-97. The upper limit for workers is probably 200 or less. V. consobrina, in regard to nesting biology and behavior, is a typical V. rufa species group member. The only unique behaviors observed were a general level of hyperactivity as compared to other studied yellowjacket species, and the ability of workers from some colonies to hover in flight, a behavior perhaps adapted to their usual foraging habits. In addition, unlike typical yellowjacket queens, the queen of one small colony physically dominated (mauled) her workers.
25082534|Sphecodes (Microsphecodes) kathleenae infested at least 76% of 21 nests in an aggregation of the social sweat bee Dialictus umbripennis in July and August of 1965. Host guard bees frequently allowed the adult female Sphecodes to enter the nests, and 1 to 9 adult cleptoparasites coexisted with host workers and queen within each nest. Eggs were laid in place of the host's, larvae fed on the host's provisions, and pupae developed similarly to other Sphecodes. Adult hosts were neither killed nor driven from their nests and continued to provision cells and produce offspring, but S. kathleenae displaced over 80% of the distinguishable brood in some nests and could therefore severely reduce the number of workers in a colony. The mature larva, with distinctive lateral head protuberances and narrowly attenuate mandibles with unidentate apices, and the pupa are described. This is the first record of social parasitism in the Halictidae.
25083913|A further analysis of the mite (Acari) fauna associated with foliage of live oak in Austin, Texas is presented. A total of 18 species of oribatid mites (12 genera, 8 families) was collected from a natural stand, a recently established urban planting and a long-established urban planting. The data suggest a species equilibrium among the Oribatei at each site and provide further evidence for structural similarity of arthropod communities in urban vs. nonurban environments. The significance of a small number of dominant species in an equilibrium community is discussed.
40783247|The honey bee races Apis mellifera carnica Pollman and A. m. caucasica Gorbachev are both found in Turkey, A. m. carnica primarily in Thrace (European Turkey) and A. m. caucasica primarily in north-eastern Anatolia (Asia Minor). Standard measures of forewing vein angles were investigated for their utility in discriminating between these two races and in identifying bees of unknown origin. A total of 76 honey bee samples was used, 61 of which were taken from north-eastern Anatolia (NEA), 8 from Thrace region (TR) and 7 from a private beekeeper who imported queens of A. m. carnica (IQC) from abroad. In each sample, 11 forewing vein angles used in standard honey bee morphometrics (A, B, D, E, G, J J, K, L, N and O were measured. Multivariate linear discriminant analysis step-wise methods showed that A, K and G were sufficient to discriminate between the samples. While A vein angle was found to be a key geometric character for the A. m. caucasica (NEA) race, B was found to be key for the A. m. carnica (IQC) race. Standard norm values of A, and B are 33 and 104 for A. m. caucasica (NEA) race and 32 and 105 for A. m. carnica race (IQC). It is possible to discriminate unknown worker bee samples of these subspecies by using these standard norm values. The range of real and observed agreement for estimation of unknown samples was 0.93-0.77 for A. m. carnica and 0.89-0.65 for A. m. caucasica honey bee subspecies. Although in discriminant analysis Thrace and Carniolan (IQC) honey bee samples were overlapping in low percentage, according to forewing geometric veinal angles they were found to be similar.
25084032|Carvalhoana pilosus n.gen., n.sp., (Deraeocorini) from the states of Morelos and Guerrero, Mexico, and Adlargidea pinicola n.gen., n.sp. (Clivinemini) from the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico, are described and illustrated.
25084198|Polistes fuscatus females rub onto the nest petiole a secretion produced by a gland located on the terminal gastral sternite. Bioassays supported the hypothesis that the secretion functions as an ant repellent. Both the nest petiole and the secretion from the terminal sternite of females had a repellent effect against four species of ants tested. The effectiveness of the repellent was greater against smaller than against larger ant species. In addition, rubbing was performed in contexts consistent with the interpretation of its role in defense against ants. The frequency of application of the secretion was high following petiole enlargement, prior to foraging trips by lone foundresses, and in the presence of ants near the nest. Simulated ant attacks on intact P. fuscatus colonies showed that chemical defense played a greater role than active defense in smaller colonies than in larger colonies.
25083061|Nannocyrtopogon neoculatus Wilcox and Martin was studied at Pinyon Flat campground near Palm Desert, Riverside County, California during April, 1977. Censuses of individuals showed feeding was more frequent in the morning compared with the afternoon, and courtship occurred primarily during the afternoon. Courtship behavior consisted of a male's rhythmically lifting the forelegs of the female while the two were in a face-to-face orientation. Prey items were predominantly Homoptera, especially aphids, and Diptera; and Hymenoptera, Hemiptera, Lepidoptera, Thysanoptera, Isoptera, and Coleoptera each accounted for less than 5% each of prey records. Mean prey size was 1.8 mm, with cicadellids, Hemiptera and termites larger and psyllids smaller.
25083818|The 27 species of North American Pseudoplisus Ashmead are arranged in six species groups for which characteristics and a key are given. Twelve new species are described, P. butleri, californicus, catalinae, claripennis, erugatus, flavidulus, hadrus, imperialis, ocellatus, nigricomus, samiatus and tanythrix. These are from western and southwestern United States and Mexico.
25083600|Sphecodogastra texana is a bee active at dusk and continuing through the night when the moon is up. The only flower observed to serve as a pollen source is Oenothera rhombipetala. Nests are made in stabilized sand. Each consists of a deep, straight, vertical burrow with a smaller lateral extending to each cell. An unusual feature is the lack of closure at the anterior end of each completed cell, the distal part of the lateral or rarely the whole lateral being open. The proximal part of the lateral, next to the main burrow, is ordinarily filled with sand. Another unusual feature is that the secreted lining of the cells covers only the lower surfaces of the cells, the other parts being unlined. Most nests contain only a single female and there is no evidence of a worker caste.
25085375|Six additional males of Faltala furcipennis from the type location in Paraguay are reported. Three new species of Clorindaia (adama, latiabdoma, and cyphora) including the first reported male specimens, are described. A male and female are also assigned to the type species. A new species, Kramerana hypera, from Peru is described; this is the northernmost locality reported for genera of the Faltala group. A synopsis of the group is included.
25085410|All three seasons that this research was conducted were drier than normal on the Texas High Plains. Temperatures were seasonal each year. Aphid densities were low in the fall. Greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), and bird cherry-oat aphids, Rhopalosiphum padi (L.), were the most common aphid species on wheat in the fall. The most dramatic increase in densities of the Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), occurred in the spring. RWA survived cold winter temperatures better than the other two species. Alates of RWA were recovered in November and December, indicating migration to wheat throughout the fall. Their low densities in the fall indicate that summer survival of RWA on the southern High Plains is poor. Although alates of RWA were found every month, large numbers of alates were not recovered until May when plants were senescing. Probably large migrations of Russian wheat aphids to states north of Texas do not occur until late spring. Densities of beneficial insects were very low on wheat indicating that native predators and parasites probably are not very effective at reducing populations of RWA. High correlations between aphid densities and percentage of infested plants, infested and damaged plants or infested tillers indicate that the numbers of RWA can be estimated when plants or tillers are used as the sampling unit.
25078469|Osmia georgica utilizes trap-nests with 6.4 mm borings and builds a series of 14 to 20 cells provisioned with a relatively dry pollen-nectar mass. Females appear to be more numerous than males and emerge from significantly larger cells. This suggests that there is a greater investment in the production of females. The distribution of the sexes within the nest is significantly different from expected values based on the sex ratio of reared bees with females emerging from the inner cells and males from the outer ones. Although both sexes overwinter as adults, males emerge from diapause 1 to 19 days before females. Chrysura pacifica (Hymenoptera: Chrysididae) is a major parasite that emerges synchronously with females of O. georgica.
25085625|In late August 1994 a 32 ha field of 'Sunup' proso millet, Panicum miliaceum (L.) in full maturity and located in central Washington County, CO, was observed to have a high number of blasted seed heads (inflorescence). In order to determine the insect responsible for this damage, one hundred blasted seed heads were collected from this field and placed in a nylon screened cages in a greenhouse where the insects were reared to adults. Twenty three flies emerged; nine were the wheat stem maggot, Meromyza americana (Fitch), the remaining 14 were identified as Rhopalopterum carbonarium (Loew). The biology and damage by these two chloropid flies infesting millet has not been recorded in the literature.
25085577|Growth chamber and field studies indicate that initial potato leafhopper feeding on alfalfa alters the plant's response to subsequent feeding. Growth chamber comparisons made on different stems of the same plant at a 72 hr interval had consistently higher damage ratings at the second insect exposure. Comparisons of different plants receiving one versus two 72 hr insect exposures also showed greater damage on the second exposure though differences were not as dramatic. Field trials on different plants supported growth chamber studies in that plants receiving two insect exposures had greater damage. Differences in the plant's ability to recover from one versus two insect exposures were apparent only in the same plant studies. A plant whose stem did not recover from the first exposure would be unlikely to recover from a second.
25086093|Cavitermes rozeni, new species, from Manaus, Brazil, is described and illustrated, based on the soldier caste. A key to the species of Cavitermes is included.
25568923|The globose scale (GS), Sphaerolecanium prunastri Fonscolombe (Hemiptera: Coccoidea), is a principle pest of Prunus trees, but it is also found on other stone fruit trees in Isparta Province, Turkey. The parasitoid complex was studied in 2006 and 2007 and total of eight (five primary and three secondary) hymenopterous species were found associated with S. prunastri at the five sites studied, but not all species were recorded at all five sites. The most important primary species reducing GS population were Discodes coccophagus, Metaphycus silvestrii, Coccophagus spartanus and C. lycimnia (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea). Average percent parasitism at the five sites by primary parasitoid species was 27%. The level of total parasitism of S. prunastri was 71.4% in 2007 in Egirdir. The parasite complex was richer and percent parasitoid-caused mortality was higher at those sites that did not receive chemical treatment to suppress the host population. Seven of the eight species of parasitoids were recovered at Mehmet Tonge in 2006 and at Gonen in 2007. /// Sphaerolecanium prunastri Fonscolombe (Hemiptera: Coccoidea) erik aalarnn ana zararllarndan biri olup, Isparta (Trkiye) blgesinde dier taekirdekli meyveler zerinde de bulunmutur. Bu zararlnn asalaklar zerindeki almalar 2006-2007 yllarnda, 5 farkl alanda srdrlm vetoplam sekiz (8) asalak tr (5 birincil ve 3 ikincil asalak) saptanmtr. Zararlnn populasyonunun azalmasnda etkili olan bu asalaklar, Discodes coccophagus, Metaphycus silvestrii, Coccophagus spartanus ve C. lycimnia (Hymenoptera: Chalcidoidea)'dr. Tm blgede ortalama parazitleme oran %27 olmutur. Parazitlenmenin enyksek olduu Eirdir'de 2007 ylnda bu oran %71.4'e ulam ve herhangi bir kimyasal uygulamaya gerek kalmamtr. Sekiz asalak trn yedisine 2006 ylnda Mehmet Tnge'de ve 2007 ylnda Gnen'de rastlanmtr.
25084046|Constant rearing chamber temperatures were fatal to many larvae and pupae of the American aspen beetle, Gonioctena americana (Schaeffer); adults which did emerge were deformed. Development was normal under a fluctuating daily temperature regime.
25083852|Liotrigona vetula, new species, preserved in copal but of unknown geologic age or geographic origin, is described and illustrated. Plebeia dominicana (Wille and Chandler) and Tetragonula devicta (Cockerell) are given new generic placement. Kelnermelia, new genus, is described; type species, Trigona eocenica Kelner-Pillault.
25085288|Insect parasitoids and arthropod predators of European corn borer larvae were surveyed in corn grown on an irrigation gradient in Lincoln County, Nebraska in 1987 and 1989. Eriborus terebrans Gravenhorst (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) was recovered in both years of the survey and was found parasitizing 2.04% in 1987 and 2.9% in 1989 of the European corn borer larvae recovered. In 1989, Lixophaga sp. (Diptera: Tachinidae) was found parasitizing 1.1% of the European corn borer larvae recovered. Recoveries of both species of parasitoids represent new county records, and this is the first report of Lixophaga sp. parasitizing European corn borer larvae in Nebraska. No clear trend of the effects of host plant water stress on European corn borer larval parasitism was observed. The arthropod predator complex was comprised mainly of anthocorids, spiders, and coccinellids. The drought-stressed corn showed a trend towards larger densities of arthropod predators than the fully-irrigated corn.
25084896|Numbers of feeding sites of adult Irbisia pacifica (Uhler) were counted on leaves of Great Basin wildrye, a crested wheatgrass hybrid, and a quackgrass-bluebunch wheatgrass hybrid in laboratory trials, and on field-collected leaves of intermediate wheatgrass. Feeding density data indicated that the second and third youngest leaves were preferred over the youngest and oldest leaves. In the laboratory trials, the average number of feeding sites along the linear axis of leaves was greatest near the tip and least at the base of the leaf. To compensate for the tapering of the field-collected leaves, a mathematical model for estimating leaf area was developed by relating the change in leaf width with length. The greatest feeding density was at the leaf apex and the least at the base. Although the nutritional properties of leaves may be sufficient to explain interleaf preferences, other undetermined factors may be involved with direct intraleaf feeding site selection.
25085697|A detailed outline of the methods for rearing certain aphidophagous Leucopis species (Diptera: Chamaemyiidae) is provided, including those for colony maintenance and for mass rearing. On a diet of Russian wheat aphids, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko) (Homoptera: Aphididae), nine populations of Leucopis (s. str.) from different collection sites in the Holarctic Region were maintained in the laboratory for an extended period of time, using the methods discussed. We used rearing cages with pots of aphid-infested wheat, Triticum aestivum Linnaeus (Poaceae), to maintain the colonies. Adult Leucopis were fed on a honey-Brewer's yeast diet, while the larvae were predaceous on the aphids supplied.
25084985|Flies emerging in the fall from a corn and sorghum pre-ensiled pit silo became so burdened with histiostomatid hypopi that the former were unable to fly or behave normally. Populations of potential carrier flies and phoretic hypopi crashed, eventually resulting in eradication of both species from the pit. Phoretic macrochelid mite populations also decreased sharply.
25082703|Morphological features of Sigara saileri and S. johnstoni are compared and clarified.
25085550|Vespula vidua foragers repeatedly visited baits consisting of portions of Manduca sexta caterpillars, and interacted agonistically with other wasps visiting the resource. This observation differs from previously documented characterizations of the foraging behavior of wasps in the Vespula rufa species group, and bears upon the discussion of yellowjackets as pests.
25084788|The taxonomic history of Euschistus rubiginosus Dallas is reviewed. E. rubiginosus is removed from the synonymy of Thyanta perditor (Fabricius) and placed as a senior synonym of E. incus Rolston.
25082388|The new species Eurytoma ceanothi, phytophagous in the seeds of Ceanothus greggii Gray, is described from Arizona.
25086346|We describe the immature larvae of Coelioxys (Liothyrapis) decipiens Spinola and compare them with those of Coelioxys (Boreocoelioxys) octodentata Say and C. (B.) sayi Robertson. All three species have five larval instars, and, in each case, the third instar is primarily responsible for assassinating the host immature. However, the anatomy of the third instar of C. decipiens appears to be plesiomorphic compared with highly modified features of the third instars of the other two species. This suggests that a study of the third instars of other taxa in this diverse genus might play a significant role in sorting out the phylogenetic relationships within the genus, which contains more than 320 species worldwide.
25086256|Caupolicana floridana new species is a large bee from the southern part of the Florida peninsula, known from only two areas, Dade County where it may be extinct and Highland County. It is a close relative of C. electa (Cresson) which occurs in the southeastern states including northernmost Florida. Data on seasonal and floral behavior are included.
25084126|In Florida, Prionyx "thomae" (Fabricius) nested in firm sand along the edge of a salt marsh. Six females were observed to restructure burrows of the fiddler crab, Uca rapax (Smith). Behavior of one female, observed during a complete nest cycle, differed from previous records for Nearctic species by construction of a nest prior to prey hunting and by carriage of prey in flight. Possible explanations for such different behavior include adaptation to a littoral habitat and the possibility that this represents a cryptic species which has been confused with P. thomae.
25085901|A first overview of the Psychodidae of the Dominican Republic is provided. The following seven new species are described and figured: Nemopalpus youngi (subfamily Bruchomyiinae), Trichomyia masneri, Trichomyia rawlinsi (subfamily Trichomyiinae), and Atrichobrunettia dominicana, Telmatoscopus thompsoni, Psychoda montana, Setomima (Setomima) triangularis (subfamily Psychodinae). A key to the species of Psychodidae of the Dominican Republic is given.
25083828|A new water strider, Rheumatobates aestuarius, n. sp., is described from near Guaymas, Mexico. Its relationship to R. carvalhoi Drake and Harris is discussed.
25084991|Replicated field tests were conducted in 1985 and 1986 to determine the effectiveness of eight insecticides for control of the sunflower moth (SFM), Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst), in western Kansas. The results indicate that all insecticide treatments significantly reduced larval numbers compared to the untreated check with no significant difference in control between insecticides. The synthetic pyrethroid insecticides (cyhalothrin, biphenate, cyfluthrin, fenvalerate, and Asana) performed as well as the standard treatments at the rates tested.
25084550|This study tested the technique for releasing adult Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson bees from natal nests placed in an isolated apple (Malus sylvestris Mill.) orchard. In addition, 5 nest materials were placed into each of 22 nest shelters located centrally in the orchard to determine their comparative attractiveness to nesting bees. Results obtained clearly demonstrated that: nest holes from which bees emerged were more attractive to nesting females than larger numbers of adjacent new holes; levels of attractivity to different nest materials were expressed consistently between shelters, with milk cartons least attractive and drilled holes in wood most attractive; and the number of nests or cells constructed/shelter was nearly equal. The bee population released in this orchard was increased by 240% after one generation. This increase was attributed primarily to those particular management practices tested.
25083499|Two new species of parasitic anthidiine bees belonging to the genus Heterostelis are described. A key to the known species of the genus is presented and the morphological relationships of the species are discussed. One of the new species was found to be parasitic on the pollen-collecting anthidiine Trachusa perdita Cockerell. The larva, male pupa, and cocoon of this Heterostelis are described. Possible host relationships for other species of Heterostelis are discussed.
25082833|A new species of Oudemansicheyla taken from Coprosoma sp. (Rubiaceae) in New Zealand is described and illustrated. A key distinguishing between the only two known species in the genus is presented.
25084941|Seasonal, geographic, and habitat data are provided for 13 species of black flies in Nebraska: Simulium (Byssodon) meridionale Riley, S. (Eusimulium) aureum Fries, S. (Hellichiella) johannseni Hart, S. (Psilopelmia) bivittatum Malloch, S. (P.) griseum Coquillett, S. (Psilozia) vittatum Zetterstedt, S. (Phosterodoros) luggeri Nicholson and Mickel, S. (Ph.) nyssa Stone and Snoddy, S. (Simulium) arcticum Malloch, S. (S.) decorum Walker, S. (S.) piperi Dyar and Shannon, S. (S.) tuberosum (Lundstrm), and S. (S.) venustum Say. Questionable records for Prosimulium sp., Simulium (Phosterodoros) jenningsi Malloch, and S. (Hellichiella) duplex Shewell and Fredeen are discussed.
25085722|Spalangiopelta georgei sp. n. is described from Oligo-Miocene amber of the Dominican Republic. A revised character and cladistic analysis based on this fossil and two extant Palearctic species described subsequent to the revision of the world species of Spalangiopelta are presented. The cladistic analysis strongly associates the amber fossil with the extant circum-Caribbean species group, suggesting that this derived clade has been present in the New World for at least 20 million years and that the repeated pattern of Nearctic-Palearctic species pairs is more recent and possibly related to Quaternary events.
25085132|Effects of larval crowding on size, general adult activity and flight capacity of the black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), were measured. Black cutworm larvae were reared at a constant temperature and photoperiod on a pinto bean/agar based diet at densities of one, three and five larvae per 30 ml cup. General flight activity was measured for 36 hours using a computerized flight monitor. Size was indicated by pupal weight. Moths resulting from larvae reared in crowded conditions were significantly more active and smaller than moths from individually reared larvae. No differences in flight capacity were found among treatments.
25085602|The subfamily Xeromelissinae is here divided into two tribes, the Chilicolini for the genera Chilicola and Xenochilicola and the Xeromelissini for the genera Xeromelissa and Chilimelissa. In the genus Chilicola seven subgenera are recognized, some of which have been considered as genera; they are: Anoediscelis, Chilicola s. str., Chilioediscelis, Hylaeosoma, Oediscelis, Prosopoides, and Pseudiscelis. The Xeromelissinae are found in South America, especially in xeric regions, with the greatest number and diversity in Chile. Two subgenera of Chilicola, however, also occur in Central America and Mexico and one of them occurs in the Lesser Antilles. Keys are provided to the tribes, genera, and subgenera.
25082973|A new species belonging to the bifida group of the caddisfly genus Hydropsyche is described. Illustrations for both the adult male and female are given. The immature stage is associated to the adult stage, however it is not described or illustrated.
25083698|A new subgenus, Belandrena, is erected for Andrena nemophilae, n. sp. (type species), A. sagittagalea, n. sp., and A. sphaeralceae Linsley from the south-western United States. The subgeneric position, a key to species, diagnoses, descriptions, variation, notes on parasites, range, seasonal activity and plant host records are included. A strong preference for flowers belonging to Hydrophyllaceae and Malvaceae is indicated.
25084595|In 1980 and 1981, a survey was conducted among wild bee populations (particularly Agapostemon angelicus Cockerell) studying their seasonal distribution and abundance as part of an on-going project to determine the most efficient method for producing hybrid cotton seed on the Texas High Plains. Over 20% of the 11,984 wild bees collected consisted of six species of Agapostemon; more than 98% of these were one species; A. angelicus Cockerell. The ratio of females to males of A. angelicus was highest in late May and again in early July and early August. These females accounted for more than 30% of the wild bees observed visiting cotton flowers. Females varied between 5 and 50% and averaged 16% of the A. angelicus collected. In 1980, females were 21.8%, and in 1981, 8.5% of the total Agapostemon collected. They averaged 12.8% of all individuals collected over both seasons. The collections were made on numerous species of wild and cultivated flowers from June 3 until July 27, 1980, and on alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) and sunflowers (Helianthus spp.) from May 18 until August 18, 1981. Populations of wild bees including Agapostemon on alfalfa and sunflowers dropped sharply and steadily beginning in early July. This was caused, at least partially, by the bees migrating to cotton fields which had commenced flowering by that time.
25083905|The host-parasite relationship between the house fly, Musca domestica L., and the microhymenopteran parasite, Muscidifurax raptor Girault and Sanders, was studied in the laboratory. The daily mortality of adult female wasps was 11%, the number of pupae parasitized and the number of progeny per female per day were 13 and 7.54, respectively. The male to female ratio was 1:2.2, and the growth rate per generation was 55-fold. The number of pupa parasitized per adult wasp differed significantly with age of pupae. Also, significantly fewer immature parasites survived in older host pupae then in younger host pupae.
25086270|The greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), is a major pest of wheat in North America, reducing U.S. wheat production by $60 to $100 million each year. Experiments were conducted to determine the categories of resistance to greenbug biotype I controlled by two different resistance genes in wheat germplasm lines 'KS89WGRC4', containing the Gbx gene, and 'Sando's 4040', containing the Gby gene. Antixenosis (non-preference), antibiosis (lowered greenbug intrinsic rate of increase) and tolerance (reduced plant tissue and chlorophyll loss) assays were conducted using plants of Sando's 4040, KS89WGRC4, 'Jagger' (susceptible control), 'Largo' (antibiosis control), and 'TA1675' (tolerance control). Neither Sando's 4040, KS89WGRC4 nor the controls exhibited antixenosis to greenbug biotype I. There was an antibiotic effect on the greenbugs confined to Sando's 4040
25082551|Six new species of Paracymus are described from South America. They are Paracymus robustus, P. giganticus, P. insularis, P. placidus, P. limbatus and P. sedatus. A key suitable for separating the known South American species is included.
25082961|Brood combs of Apis mellifera L. that contained American foulbrood scales were treated with a spore suspension of Penicillium waksmani Zaleski. After the mold grew into the cells, then the utilization of individual cells in these combs was compared with that of cells in AFB-containing combs not treated with the mold. Adult honey bees did not readily accept the cells of the mold-treated combs for brood rearing or food deposition until all the mold and visible scale had been removed. Some cells in combs without mold were accepted for brood rearing even when scales were present. Active food deposition took place in the combs without scales or mold, but only a limited amount of honey was placed in cells with scales. The mold treatment, therefore, delayed food deposition and brood rearing in the cells of diseased combs until all visible infectious material had been removed. This delay could be beneficial in terms of American foulbrood control.
25083540|Males of Tachysphex similis and terminatus dig short, shallow burrows in sand and often maintain territorial stations near these holes. Males of T. apicalis apparently do not dig burrows but nevertheless maintain similar stations near female nests and pre-existing holes. Behavior associated with these stations includes resting, grooming, upright perching, pivoting, spontaneous flights, zigzag walking, hopping flights, exploration of holes, circling, chasing, and grappling. Grappling and other defensive behavior seems designed to decrease aggression between conspecific males by spacing them. Recently emerged females of terminatus often mate near a male's station, indicating that the territory facilitates copulation.
25085510|Nine species of ectoparasitic arthropods were collected from 27 raccoons from north-central Arkansas between November 1989 and April 1990. Collected were 5 acarine (Androlaelaps casalis, Dermacentor variabilis, Ixodes cookei, I. scapularis, I. texanus), 3 siphonapteran (Chaetopsylla lotoris, Orchopeas howardi, Pulex simulans), and a single mallophagan species (Trichodectes octomaculatus). The rodent mite, A. casalis is reported for the second time from a raccoon. The occurrences of the fleas O. howardi and C. lotoris and the louse T. octomaculatus represent new geographic distribution records.
25084333|The nature of spacing and movement of Neoconocephalus ensiger Bruner males was studied by marking and relocating all of the singing males in a population. The males were aggregated (confirmed statistically) in a strip of smooth brome along a shrub-covered fence. Aggregations or clumps within the overall aggregated population were defined by the nearest neighbor distance (NND) (=12.2 m) at which the overall distribution of NNDs dropped to minimum value. We suggest that males 12.2 m or less from one another mutually stimulate singing; clumps of such males were termed choruses. Distribution of NNDs within the main chorus was shown statistically to be uniform. Most males changed singing sites every 24 hr averaging 6.2  6.8 m horizontal displacement. There was considerable variation between and within individuals in the distance between 24 hr singing sites. Aggregation probably is both passive (males move to specific plants) and active (males move toward sounds of conspecific males) and the site a male chooses to sing from on a given evening may be conditional upon a number of factors including: 1) whether the plant can be used for food or oviposition by females; 2) potential for protection from predators; 3) height from which a male can broadcast his signals; 4) density of competing males, and 5) success in attracting females.
25082732|Optimum temperature for brood production and development under laboratory and field conditions was determined to be 32 C. Minim workers were produced in 18 days, while minor and major workers were produced in 24 and 28 days respectively. Thirty-four days were required to produce male and female reproductives. Brood production for all castes was shown to be cyclic.
25083680|Two new macrochelid mite species are described from geotrupine scarabs of the genera Mycotrupes, Peltotrupes, and Geotrupes from Florida. A high degree of host specificity is noted, with Macrocheles mycotrupetes n. sp. being found primarily on Mycotrupes, and Mac. peltotrupetes n. sp. occurring on Peltotrupes.
25084606|The nominal genus Atalonella is synonymized with Nousia Navs and reasons for the synonymy are discussed. Adults of four species, N. grandis (Demoulin), n. comb., N. maculata (Demoulin), n. comb., N. minor (Demoulin), n. comb., and N. delicata Navs (=Atalonella ophis Needham and Murphy, new synonymy) are redescribed, and their nymphs are described for the first time. Two new species, N. bella and N. crena, are described from the nymph and imagos. Illustrated keys for the nymphs and imagos, and distribution maps are presented for each species. Notes on the biology and ecology of the species are included. A proposed phylogeny of the species is presented.
25084061|The number of instars of the larvae of Sitona hispidulus (F.) was determined based on head capsule width measurements of larvae collected in alfalfa and red clover fields.
25086020|We tested chemical and insect feeding-induced insect resistance on soybean plants. The chemical induction effects of jasmonic acid (JA) and salicylic acid (SA) were investigated. We also evaluated the effects of plants stressed with previous insect herbivory. A larval antibiosis screening technique (LAST) and a preference test were performed in petri dishes using Mexican bean beetles, Epilachna varivestis Mulsant, to monitor the effects of resistance in soybeans. Results from the LAST assessment showed evidence of both chemical and insect feeding induction of resistance. JA applied to the plant resulted in greater insect mortality and less larval damage than did the controls, indicating an increased resistance to herbivorous stress. In contrast, plants treated with SA had slightly less resistance. In the previously insect-damaged study, plants that had portions of lower leaves consumed by the beetle developed a higher level of resistance to subsequent feeding of the upper leaves. Preference studies were inconclusive because of a general lack of insect feeding. Induced resistance could provide a means to enhance the natural resistance of soybeans to pests, benefiting both consumers and producers.
25082737|This study evaluates the persistence of four formulations of Bacillus thuringiensis on Eastern red cedar, a primary ornamental tree in residential areas of the midwestern United States. The formulations used were: Thuricide HPC, Thuricide + carbon, Thuricide + carbon + molasses, and Dipel. Samples of foliage were taken prior to treatment, immediately after treatment, and at 1, 3, 7, 14, and 28 days post-treatment. The number of viable spores and the remaining insecticidal activity was calculated for these time intervals. Addition of carbon and molasses significantly protected spore viability and insecticidal activity. Residual activity for Dipel and Thuricide + carbon could still be detected up to 14 days post-treatment.
25083425|A key to the species and their distribution in North America of Proctacanthella Bromley is given along with figures of the male genitalia; tolandi new species from California and the female of robusta Bromley from Texas are described.
25084334|Three new species of North American sand wasps of the genus Stictiella are described (Bembicini, Stictiellina). These are fairchildi from Florida, gillaspyi from Arizona and western Mexico and villegasi from southern California.
25086138|Two new species of Tambinia Stl (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha: Tropiduchidae), T. rubrolineata Liang sp. nov. (south China [Hainan Island], Laos and Vietnam) and T. similis Liang sp. nov. (Vietnam), are described and illustrated. This represents the first records of the genus Tambinia Stl from Laos and Vietnam. Scanning electron micrographs of the antenna, female genitalia and egg chorion of T. rubrolineata Liang sp. nov. are provided.
25085941|The third-stage larva and the pupa of Paraheterosternus luedeckei (Becker) are described and illustrated, based on 18 specimens collected in oak rotten log near Autln, state of Jalisco, Mxico, and reared to the adult stage. Morphological characteristics of the larva are compared with those of Heterosternus, Macropoides and Parisolea species. Some observations and comments on the biology and distribution of P. luedeckei are also included. /// Se describen e ilustran la larva de tercer estadio y la pupa de Paraheterosternus luedeckei (Becker), con base en 18 ejemplares recolectados en un tronco podrido de Quercus rugosa en las montaas cercanas a Autln, estado de Jalisco, Mxico, la mayor parte de las cuales fueron criadas en condiciones de cautiverio hasta el estado adulto. Los caracteres morfolgicos de la larva se comparan con aquellos equivalentes en algunas especies de Heterosternus, Macropoides y Parisolea. Se incluyen algunas observaciones y comentarios sobre la biologa y la distribucin de P. luedeckei.
25082580|Investigations were conducted on the abundance and distribution of M. cothurnatus larvae in nests of Formica obscuripes. One hundred twenty-one nests were searched and 19 nests contained evidence of Microdon; 555 specimens were collected. Data were collected on pupation, emergence, sex, color, mating, and ovi-position by adults. Evidence suggested newly-eclosed females have a sex pheromone which attracted males.
25082363|Longirostris, n. gen., is described with its type species, L. raji, and a key to distinguish the genus from its close relatives is presented. In addition, Lachnus acutihirsutus, n. sp., and Aphis clematidis simalensis, n. subsp., are described and illustrated.
25085436|Trapping with water pans can provide quantitative information on grasshopper assemblages while causing minimal habitat disturbance. We compared pan traps (black and clear) with sweeping as means of sampling grasshopper assemblages in a replanted grassland in northern Utah. Black and clear pans were effective in capturing grasshoppers; clear pans trapped slightly more grasshoppers per unit time than did black pans early in the season, but the pattern was reversed later in the season. Throughout the growing season, there was little difference in the relative abundances of individual species in black and clear pan samples. Relative abundances of individual species varied considerably (and consistently over time), however, between water pan samples and sweep samples taken concurrently. While pan trapping and sweeping revealed the same groups of species to be common versus rare, water pans were especially effective in capturing Oedaleonotus enigma, while sweep sampling captured this species and two locally abundant species of Melanoplus (M. packardii and M. sanguinipes) in more nearly equal numbers. In comparison with sweeping, pan trapping was also especially effective in capturing adult females (vs. males) of O. enigma. The differences in results from the two sampling methods cast doubt on the reliability of estimates of relative abundances among grasshopper species at a given location derived from pan trapping. But for within-species assessments, pan trapping provides a useful means to compare abundance among small study plots without causing excessive damage to vegetation.
25084388|We examined the effects of nutrition, access to brood by the workers, starvation, and use of
25085312|Six new state records of Hydroptilidae (Trichoptera) from the Interior Highlands of northwestern Arkansas are reported. Hydroptilids reported from this region now number 45.
25082399|Hymenoepimecis wiltii (Cresson) was captured for the second time parasitizing Neoscona arabesca (Walckenaer). The parasite was reared on its host in the laboratory.
25084957|Blacklight traps operated in snap bean fields in northwest Arkansas caught 38 species from the family Noctuidae and three species from the family Pyralidae during a 3 year period. Lepidopterous pests reported on snap bean from other areas in the U.S. (i.e., European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner); cabbage looper, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner); and velvetbean caterpillar, Anticarsia gemmatalis (Hbner) were either not trapped or trapped in very low numbers in northwest Arkansas. The corn earworm, Heliothis zea (Boddie), was collected throughout the study and in 1985 and 1986 was very abundant in fall snap beans.
25083337|Philornis aitkeni new species (Trinidad, larvae scavengers in nest of the jamacar, Galbula ruficauda Cuvier) and five other species of unknown habits, schildi new species (Costa Rica), zeteki new species (Panama), rettenmeyeri new species (Panama), setinervis new species (Brazil), and fasciventris (Wulp) (Mexico), are characterized by the presence of ventral setules on the third, and sometimes also the fifth wing vein. A key is presented to separate these six species. P. fasciventris is a generic transfer from Mydaea.
25085458|Sublethal effects of a field-applied rate of permethrin on fecundity and longevity of adult female Hippodamia convergens Guerin were investigated. Most females experienced knockdown effects after 12 hours of exposure to permethrin but 60.7% recovered. Those that recovered showed no significant difference in total egg production or ovipositional period compared to beetles not exposed to permethrin. Also, there was no significant difference in longevity between exposed and unexposed females. These data indicate that when H. convergens survives a field dose of permethrin, there are no detrimental long-term effects on female reproduction or longevity.
25085453|The effects of plant characteristics on the movement behavior of a willow flea beetle, Altica subplicata, were studied along a sand dune in northern Michigan, using mark-recapture techniques. Beetles were group-marked on each of 6 plants, and residency and subsequent colonization of plants were monitored by tagging each plant colonized by beetles, and sampling all tagged plants up to 9 days after marking. Beetles exhibited a high degree of mobility among plants, with almost half of the plants having marked beetles present on only one out of six sampling dates. Over 70% of the beetles colonized the usual host plant, Salix cordata, and the remainder occurred on 12 other plant species. Beetle residence was significantly longer on host plants than on nonhost plants and longer on plants with higher beetle densities, but was unaffected by plant height or the density of neighboring herbaceous monocots, herbaceous dicots, S. cordata, other willow plants, or other woody plants. Beetle colonization of S. cordata was significantly greater on taller plants and on plants with higher density of surrounding S. cordata and lower density of surrounding herbaceous monocots. Thus, patterns of colonization were more important than patterns of residence in influencing beetle movement and overall abundance.
25082453|A group of four new species of Euschistus are described: E. corcovacitus, E. olacitus, E. palacitus, and E. sulcacitus.
25082928|The courtship behavior of a species of Heteropogon is described. As in other species belonging to this genus, males employ complex courtship displays involving a hovering flight and leg extension when flying toward perched females. The courtship of H. stonei may represent an intermediate step in an evolutionary pathway leading from stationary hovering displays to the elaborate oscillating hover-flights of some other species of Heteropogon.
25082840|A population thought to be Gyponana (Gyponana) hasta DeLong was reared for two generations under two separate photoperiods. The aedeagus was highly variable among the males reared under both photoperiod regimens. However, the variation in the configuration of the aedeagus of males reared under the two photoperiod regimens was about the same. The total variation ranged from that found in a typical hasta to that found in a typical angulata Spngberg. These data indicate that hasta is the same species as angulata. Therefore we have suppressed hasta as a new synonym of angulata.
25086139|A new species of allodapine bee (Apidae, Xylocopinae, Allodapini), Braunsapis bislensis, is described from southern India. To judge by its reduced mouthparts and scopa, it is a social parasite, perhaps in nests of B. puangensis (Cockerell).
25083724|Two new species, Nephrotoma rogersi and N. alexandriana, are described and illustrated.
25085179|Praon pequodorum Viereck parasitized the pea aphid (PA), Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris), and the blue alfalfa aphid (BAA), A. kondoi Shinji. There were preferences for aphids of certain ages but no significant preference for either species. Parasitism significantly affected reproduction of both BAA and PA. Aphids parasitized at 1-5 days old (at 20C), produced significantly fewer offspring than unparasitized aphids up to 9 days of age. PA exposed to the parasitoid at 6 days of age did not show significant reproductive reduction until they were 13 days old. All aphids parasitized at 4 days old failed to reproduce. Apterous BAA, parasitized when 5 days old, reproduced when reaching adulthood but apterous PA did not. Parasitized alate BAA or PA did not reproduce regardless of age when parasitized.
40783248|Dominance behaviours among members of colonies of primitively eusocial wasps establish the social hierarchy, and are very important for the maintenance of social stability. The present work aimed at the factors involved in the social organization of colonies of Mischocyttarus (Monocyttarus) cassununga, during the post-emergence phase. Our results show that females at the top hierarchical positions are the most aggressive individuals in the colonies, sitting at the front of the comb, and that this stabilizes the social hierarchy. Actual violent competition for hierarchical positions was not observed, and the position of the queen was never challenged, the queen being relatively long-lived and active in socially controlling all the observed colonies. Therefore, we conclude that there are three main factors regulating social organization in this species: queen longevity, a stable linear hierarchy, and the constant control of the queen over the social organization of the colony.
25083045|A new technique was devised for rearing large numbers of larvae of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera LeConte, from the 1st to the 3rd instar with minimum maintenance. The method involves using a paper substrate with seedling corn as the food source and a wicking system for moisture control. This technique has been used on field and laboratory populations over the past 2 yr to provide larvae for topical insecticide evaluations.
25085789|The effect of corn hybrid maturity class on western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, larval occurrence and adult emergence was investigated in a 2-year field study. Nodal root development, larval occurrence, and adult western corn root-worm emergence were compared among Pioneer hybrids 3979 (76 days to maturity), 3769 (97 days to maturity), and 3394 (110 days to maturity). The early maturing hybrid developed a total of 6.5 nodes of roots, while the late hybrid developed an average of 7.0 nodes of roots by the end of the growing season. Adventitious rooting extended approximately 2 weeks longer in the late hybrid. Faster nodal root development was observed early in the season in both 1994 and 1995 for the early hybrid, and 6 nodes of roots were attained one week sooner in the early than in the middle or late maturing hybrids in 1995. First instar western corn root-worm occurrence was completed approximately 140 degree days (air temperature, base 11C) sooner in the early hybrid, and third instar occurrence continued for approximately 150 degree days longer in the late hybrid in 1995. In both 1994 and 1995, adult emergence began concurrently, but the duration of emergence was longer in the later maturing hybrids. Ninety percent emergence occurred 90 degree days sooner in the early than in the late hybrid in 1994, and 76 degree days sooner in the early than in the late hybrid in 1995. During both years, approximately 60% as many adults emerged from the early hybrid as from the late hybrid. Prolonged root development, as observed in the late maturing hybrid, led to prolonged western corn rootworm larval occurrence, and played a role in extending the duration of adult emergence and increasing survival from the late maturing hybrid. Further, a shortened period of root development in the early hybrid decreased the survival of later hatching larvae.
25084986|Field populations of northern and western corn rootworms, Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence (NCR) and D. virgifera virgifera LeConte (WCR), respectively, were sampled to quantify adult population parameters and oviposition. From 1981 through 1983, eight cornfields were intensively sampled for NCR and WCR adult emergence and adult and egg populations. Predictive equations for seasonal emergence of both species were developed. Significantly (P < 0.05) more WCR females than WCR males emerged in four of five fields, and significantly more NCR females than NCR males emerged in three of five fields. Equations describing adult survivorship in the field for both species demonstrated a substantial removal of emerged adults from populations within a field. A separate field study found that the proportional decline in populations after the peak population in a field was negatively correlated with the magnitude of the peak population. This correlation indicates the possibility that density-related factors may be important in rootworm population dynamics. The relationship between adult NCR populations and egg populations was found to be significant (P < 0.01). However, the adult-egg relationship for the WCR was more variable, particularly at high adult populations.
25082383|Rice weevils were exposed to pyrethrins in combination with piperonyl butoxide in cages in which the weevils were in constant contact wth the treated surface. Weevils were exposed for either 1 hr, 2 hr, or 6 hr. Two 6-hr groups were studied-one of insects knocked down, the other of insects not knocked down. Five replications of 20 insects from each exposure group were placed in separate containers of wheat for 3 consecutive 7-day oviposition periods. All parent treatment groups, except the insects exposed for 6 hr with knockdown, exceeded the production of progeny of the untreated controls during all oviposition periods. The increase in the production of progeny by synergized pyrethrins-treated rice weevils over the production of progeny by untreated weevils is the first recorded evidence that production of progeny by rice weevils can be so affected.
25083028|Male western corn rootworms, Diabrotica virgifera LeConte, were sterilized as 0- to 1-day-old adults by exposure to 2.8 krad of gamma radiation from a cobalt -60 source. This dose did not significantly shorten lifespan.
25084495|The distribution of biotype-E greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), was determined in Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, and northern Texas during 1980-1981. In Kansas during 1980 biotype-E was present in 5 of 13 counties, and in 1981 in 23 of 24 counties sampled. During 1981 in Nebraska 40 of 42 counties sampled were infested with biotype-E. The 1980 Oklahoma-Texas collections indicated that biotype-E was present in 23 of 27 counties, with the highest concentrations of biotype-E in the "panhandle" regions of Oklahoma and Texas.
25084876|Comparative study of the cecidomyiid spindle gall (Pinyonia edulicola Gagn) on pinyon pine (Pinus edulis Engelm.) in natural and urban areas of Colorado revealed several differences in gall densities and natural enemies on host trees. A systematic survey of the gall indicated that it was rare in natural areas and rare to extremely abundant in urban areas. Gall dissections yielded two hymenopterous parasites. The eulophid Tetrastichus sp. (Chalcidoidea) was the most common species in natural areas, whereas Platygaster pinyonicola (Proctotrupoidea: Platygasteridae) predominated urban areas. It is suggested that Tetrastichus does not colonize or reproduce well in urban areas. Residual mortality in the midges, the source of which was unknown, occurred at low levels in all sites surveyed. Cumulative evidence suggests that there may be a time lag between colonizing midges on urban trees and their natural enemies. The lag, which may be responsible for higher gall densities in some urban areas, may be due to the relative isolation of planted ornamental trees. Other factors that may contribute to the regulation of gall populations are also discussed.
25082530|Sphecodes (Microsphecodes) is described to include the type species S. kathleenae Eickwort, n. sp., from Costa Rica, S. dominicanus Stage, n. sp., from Dominica, West Indies, and related species. Included species are small, broad-headed, shiny, sparsely punctate bees, usually with extensive translucent orange or yellow areas on the head, thorax, legs, and base of the subpetiolate gaster. Species are known from Guatemala and the Lesser Antilles to southern Brazil and Per, and two are known to be cleptoparasites of Dialictus.
25084049|Larvae of the velvetbean caterpillar, Anticarsia gemmatalis Hbner, were collected in soybean, alfalfa, and red clover in Missouri. This is the first report of the species in the state. There are some indications that these populations originate in Mexico or southern Texas. They were not damaging to early-planted soybeans from 1972 through 1977.
25084143|Olycella subumbrella Dyar (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) is a univoltine species in northwest Texas where it attacks prickly pear (Opuntia polyacantha Haw). In the spring adult moths emerge and live ca. 7-10 days. The females deposit eggs in the form of eggsticks on primary spines of the host plant. The mean incubation period is 6  1.7 days and each eggstick has an average of 2.2  2.1 eggs per stick. More than half of the eggs are consumed by predators. Larvae, upon hatching, disperse and bore into separate cactus pads (stems). They remain solitary throughout larval life and damage pads by hollowing out the center as they feed. Larvae remain hidden while feeding except during extremely high temperatures when they may leave the pad or plant for brief periods. Predation is an important mortality factor at these times. Larvae mature by late summer and pupate in the soil in early fall. Diapause occurs during the pupal stage and adult emergence begins the following spring. Predation continues to be a mortality factor during the pupal period.
25086063|Basic habitat selection theory predicts that individuals will prefer relatively high quality habitats over low quality habitats. This preference may affect settlement patterns, with higher quality habitats being occupied first and more frequently. If locations vary in quality and good locations are limited, individuals may compete for the best locations rather than settle in lower quality sites. Thus, any factors which influence the number of individuals in an area may potentially affect patterns of habitat occupation. In this study, I tested these ideas using the settlement and fighting patterns of a territorial dragonfly, the eastern amberwing (Perithemis tenera (Say)) (Odonata: Libellulidae). Females consistently arrived later and departed earlier than males. Male and female arrival, and male departure, was correlated with temperature, with earlier arrivals and later departures on warm days. More males were present at the pond as the summer progressed and on warmer days, but the number of females was not related to date or temperature. The amount of fighting for territories increased as the number of males increased. Individuals tended to occupy high quality sites (i.e., sites with a higher number of matings per minute occupied) first within a day, and were more likely to occupy low quality sites when the number of males on the pond was relatively high. The locations that were occupied first during a day were of relatively higher quality and more likely to be occupied by site-faithful males (i.e., males returning to their previous day's location) than those occupied later in the day. Finally, higher quality sites were occupied more often, had more fighting on them, and had a higher proportion of escalated fights than lower quality sites. These results indicate that patterns of competition and habitat occupation are a result of relationships among local breeding population size, individual behavior (e.g., preference for sites and reaction to environmental conditions), and habitat availability and quality.
25086384|A new host association is made for the Neotropical spider wasp Priochilus gloriosum gloriosum Cresson, which also represents the first host association for this genus. A new host association also is made for Aporinellus fasciatus Smith and additional host associations are provided for Ageniella conflicta Banks, Ageniella (Ameragenia) nr. fabricii Banks, Ageniella (Alasagenia) sp. A, Cryptochilus attenuatum Banks, Priocnemella sp. A, Agenioideus birkmanni Banks, Ammosphex silvivagus Evans, Anoplius imbellis Banks, and Tachypompilus ferrugineus ferrugineus Say. Host transportation behaviors are reported where observations were made.
25083591|Colpocephalum pilgrimi is described as a new species, with the type host being a New Zealand psittaciform, the kea, Nestor notabilis.
25084106|Young queen honeybees go out of their way to walk over workers which sometimes flatten themselves as the queen crosses. This, other dominant behavior, and piping seem to help the queen win acceptance from workers. Queens occasionally sting workers. An hypothesis that is advanced to account for relationships between queen and worker honeybees is most easily explained by a combination of selection at the individual and colony levels.
25085204|Females and males of Lasioglossum (Dialictus) figueresi, new species, are described. The female can be distinguished from the similar Dialictus aeneiventre by its larger size, the yellowish wings, the distinct mesepisternal striae, and the anterior mesoscutal areolate punctation. Males of the two species are readily distinguished by sternal and genitalic characters.
25084575|Crawfordapis luctuosa, a large, diurnal bee, is recorded from cloud forest in western Panam, at a nesting aggregation reported to be 25 years old. The species is polylectic. One to ten pollen species were found in individual cells; a sample of 30 recently provisioned and old cells included over 60 pollen species. Predominance of pollen from Melastomataceae and other buzz-pollinated plants was evident, however. Adult bees appear to be active throughout the year. When air and soil temperatures were near 17C, thoracic temperatures of adults both in nests and in flight averaged 34.5C. The peculiar cocoon, which isolates liquid and feces in the lower part of the cell from the prepupa or pupa above, is a noteworthy but incompletely understood adaptation. The pupa is described for the first time. The parasitic meloid beetle Tetraonyx cyanipennis was found in larval and adult stages within Crawfordapis cells.
25083707|New taxa are Nephochaetopteryx angrensis, biculcita, coxalis, grajahuana, juquiana, lopesi, paraensis, shannoni, tinguensis. A key to Brazilian species is included.
25084745|Activity of Melanotus depressus (Melsheimer) and M. verberans (LeConte) adults in corn was monitored during 1976 using pitfall and sticky flight traps. Adults were active from 12 May until 3 Aug., with major activity occurring in June. Catch in flight traps was greatest at heights of 1.22 m or less and consisted mainly of males except for the catch of M. verberans on 15 June, when an almost equal number of males and females were captured. M. depressus was most numerous in flight traps on 9 June, and M. verberans was most numerous on 15 June. Pitfall trap catch was greatest for both males and females on 15 June for both species. Females greatly outnumbered males in pitfall traps. Overall male to female ratios were 1:1 for M. depressus and 5:7 for M. verberans. Distribution of adults in the field, particularly that of females in pitfall traps, appeared to be non-random or clustered. It is suggested that adult trapping could be used to detect incipient infestation of wireworms.
25085622|Diel emergence patterns of adult Bathyplectes curculionis, an introduced parasite of the alfalfa weevil, were investigated at two photoperiods, 14L:10D and 10L:14D, at 20C in the laboratory. Emergence at each photoperiod occurred in a specific time interval (emergence gate) that began around dawn and continued for four hours. Male and female wasps had the same emergence gate. The emergence gate at 14L:10D, the more natural photoperiod, occurred slightly later than the emergence gate of the shorter photophase.
40961679|A taxonomic study of Aleochara (Aleochara) kochi Bernhauer, identified for the first time in the Korean peninsula, is presented. A lectotype of A. kochi is designated to establish the identity of the species without ambiguity. A habitus illustration, line drawings of diagnostic characters and redescription are provided. A key to the species of the subgenus Aleochara from the Far East is provided.
43288244|The Meropeidae consists of only three rare, highly disjunct Recent species, Merope tuber Newman from eastern North America, Austromerope poultoni Killington from Western Australia, and the recently discovered A. brasiliensis Machado, Kawada, and Rafael from southeastern Brazil. A new genus and new species of meropeid scorpionfly, Burmomerope eureka Grimaldi and Engel, is described in 99 myo amber (mid-Cretaceous: Aptian/Cenomanian-aged) from northern Myanmar. It is one of only two fossils known for the family, the other (Boreomerope Novokshonov: mid-Jurassic of Siberia) known only as a compression fossil wing. Burmomerope shares with the three living species several distinctive, derived features of the antenna, wing, as well as the uniquely large, forcipate male terminalia. Burmomerope plesiomorphically possesses fewer crossveins (though this may be related to its small size), and possibly ocelli; its robust rostrum may be either plesiomorphic or apomorphic. Burmomerope appears to be a stem-group meropeid probably more closely related to the living species than is Boreomerope. The mid-Triassic fossil species Sinothauma ladinica Hong and Zhu is removed from Meropeidae and considered to be a dictyopteran.
23355948|We studied the biological characteristics and chemical control of Phenacoccus solenopsis Tinsley (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae) on tomatoes under laboratory conditions within the temperature and relative humidity ranges of 25  2C and 70  5% RH, respectively. Results show that the nymphal stage of males (16.3  0.2 days) is longer that for females (15.4  0.5 days) and the survival rate of second instars is lower (56.5%) than for first (80.5%) and third instars (68.1%). The average lifespan of males (1.8  0.2 days) is significantly shorter than for females (42.6  1.1 days), and the average fecundity per adult female is 134.6  16.3 crawlers. Phenacoccus solenopsis grows rapidly in the end of the nymphal stage, and the size of adult females is nearly twice that of third instars. Control of P. solenopsis using imidacloprid was increased by nearly 35% by adding laundry detergent and this was most effective on the first instars. These results add to our scientific understanding how to improve effectivity of measures for control of this insect pest.
25085124|A population of the bee Centris pallida has been sampled at intervals from 1974 to 1988, revealing persistent variation in male body size even though large individuals consistently enjoy superior mating success. A component of the large male copulatory advantage stems from the ability of very large males to wrestle females away from groups of fighting rivals that sometimes form around freshly-emerged females. Despite the high reproductive success of large males, there has been no reduction in the range of variation in male body size nor any increase in the mean body size of males in this population over 14 years.
25085946|Magnetic compass orientation in migratory monarch butterflies (Danaus plexippus L.) was recently reported by Etheredge et al. (1999). Our attempts to replicate and extend their experiments failed, leading us to test alternative hypotheses, specifically the effect of an observer adjacent to the experimental arena. With the observer at 60, monarchs oriented toward the observer (P < 0.005, V-test); with the observer at random locations, monarchs oriented toward the observer (P < 0.05, V-test), and with no observer visible to the butterflies, orientation was not significantly different from random (P = 0.14, Rayleigh test). These findings suggest that observer effects, possibly due to positive phototaxis, could explain the results interpreted as magnetic compass orientation by Etheredge et al. (1999).
25085081|A list of Nearctic species of Miltogrammini and their associated species of Vespoidea, Pompiloidea, Sphecoidea, and Apoidea is presented. The list is based upon examination of late 19th and 20th century literature on the nesting behavior of solitary wasps and bees and current research of the authors.
25084819|The mechanisms for sound production by male lesser wax moths, Achroia grisella (F.), were examined using dissection, manipulation and comparison of the frequency of sounds produced by males in low-density helium-oxygen air with sounds produced in normal air. A tymbal buckles inward to produce an ultrasonic pulse when the wing pushes the tegular-wing coupler down. As the wing moves up, pressure is released and the tymbal snaps out, producing a second pulse. The frequency band of the sound narrowed in diver's air. The results suggest that the highest frequency is determined by mechanical resonance of the tymbal, while lower frequencies are affected by an air chamber associated with the tymbal.
25085447|The genus Prosmittia Brundin, 1956, is resurrected, a generic diagnosis given and the phylogenetic position of the genus is discussed. The genus may be related to Unniella Sther and genera near Parakiefferiella Thienemann rather than to Pseudosmittia Goetghebuer as previously supposed. Shinanoyusurika Sasa and Hirabayashi, 1991, and Togasmittia Sasa and Okazawa, 1992, are generic synonymies. Prosmittia jemtlandica (Brundin, 1947) (=Pseudosmittia jintusexta Sasa, 1990 syn. nov., Togasmittia togarotunda, Sasa and Okazawa, 1992, syn. nov.) is redescribed on the basis of the male imago. Prosmittia kamiquarta (=Shinanoyusurika kamiquarta, Sasa and Hirabayashi, 1991, comb. nov.) is also placed in the genus.
25082814|Thirteen new species of Erythroneura (Erythridula) are described: dorisae, jeanae, dianae, belindae, martini, lindleyi, paigeae, patricki, chambersi, frazieri, harrisi, sikorowskii and crossi.
25083860|Some 1,670 female butterflies were dissected to determine mating frequency, presence or absence of mating plugs, and numbers of eggs. Multiple mating was found at some level in all subfamilies of the butterflies. It seemed to be relatively rare in some groups such as the Satyrinae and Lycaeninae, whereas in others it seemed to be almost the rule, notably the Danainae, Ithomiinae, Charaxinae, and Riodininae. Females of many species with low spermatophore counts seem to absorb spermatophores for their nutrition, and these groups doubtless mate more frequently than their spermatophore counts indicate. This was most common among Lycaeninae, but was found in other groups as well. There seemed to be no particular association of multiple mating with high egg counts. Mating plugs were found in all subfamilies except the Dismorphiinae. In some groups plugs occurred in only a few species or at low levels, suggesting that they are only temporary structures for those species. In some subfamilies (Parnassiinae, Papilioninae, Acraeinae) plugs were nearly universal and appear to be more or less permanent. Whether plugging effectively prevents or only delays multiple insemination remains unclear; unplugged species had only a slightly higher mean spermatophore count (1.30) than plugged species (1.25).
25083546|A wheat germ medium, apparatus, and procedures used in rearing the fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea (Drury), are described. Observations on the biology of diet-reared webworms including number and duration of larval instars; measurements of head-capsule width; rates of prepupation, pupation, and adult emergence; and adult longevity are also presented.
25083678|Descriptions are given for both sexes of the psittaciform louse, Menopon coracopsis Mjberg, from Madagascar and the species is placed in the new genus Coramenopon.
25085104|Larval staphylinids collected from the nest of the Chilean tuco-tuco, Ctenomys maulinus brunneus, are presumed to be those of an undescribed species of Edrabius, adults of which are known to occur on this host. These larvae are described and illustrations are provided for their identification. The larvae are characteristic of the subfamily Staphylininae; however, they do not have a combination of characteristics which allows unambiguous placement into one of the described tribes of this subfamily. Edrabius larvae share the greatest number of characteristics with larvae of the tribe Staphylinini, and, among these, with members of the subtribe Xanthopygina. Importantly, they differ from larvae of the tribe Quediini, to which the amblyopinines were believed to be related, in a number of significant ways. However, Edrabius may not be a part of a monophyletic lineage with the remainder of the South American amblyopinines.
25085485|Colonies of carpenter ants are more populous than previously suggested. Colonies of Camponotus modoc Wheeler can have up to 50,000 workers, and colonies of C. vicinus Mayr can have approximately 100,000 workers. Colonies of other species may contain up to 10,000 workers.Most species of North American carpenter ants have a single queen, but colonies of C. vicinus frequently have multiple physogastric (egg laying) queens.Polygyny in carpenter ants seems dependent on their habits and habitats, with species in harsher, more exposed, habitats tending towards polygyny, while those that are exposed to fewer environmental extremes are primarily monogynous.
25082907|Experiments were conducted in 1969 with eggs and larvae of A. fimetarius (L.). Eggs had a mean length of 1.20 mm, and mean width of 1.05 mm and were very susceptible to desiccation. Exposure to 5% and 10% formaldehyde solutions for 15 to 30 minutes had a detrimental effect on hatchability. The first instar had a mean head capsule width of 0.94 mm, the second instar 1.49 mm and the third instar a mean width of 2.09 mm. The pupae had a mean length of 6.90 mm and a mean width of 2.73 mm. Comparison of day degree accumulation at 17, 18, 24, and 27C indicated that 24C is the optimum temperature for egg hatch. Eggs hatched in the field in the first or second week of April. Eggs that appeared to have overwintered in the cattle manure pad hatched before those oviposited in the spring. Pupation occurred both in the soil and in the cattle manure pad.
25086205|Epeoloides pilosula (Cresson) (Hymenoptera: Apidae), a cleptoparasitic bee thought to be extinct, was recently discovered in Nova Scotia, Canada. This, the first documented capture in over 60 years, expands the reported range of this species in North America which coincides with that of its host, bees of the genus Macropis (Melittidae). Macropis bees are floral oil collection specialists which are themselves dependant on and thus confined within the range of their food plant Lysimachia (Primulaceae). The restrictions inherent within this triumvirate are factors contributing towards the tenuous existence of E. pilosula, one of the rarest bees in North America.
25086394|The species of the firefly genus Vesta occurring in Taiwan are revised. Three species are recognized: Vesta scutellonigra Olivier (nomen emendatum), V. impressicollis Fairmaire, and V. rufiventris (Motschulsky). Vesta chevrolatii var. scutello nigro Olivier is automatically emended to scutellonigra under ICZN rules. Okada described as a distinct species V. scutellonigra, employing the same name and material as Olivier, thereby automatically rendering his taxon a junior synonym (n. syn.). The name V. scutellonigro, simultaneously employed by Okada, is considered an incorrect subsequent spelling and therefore unavailable. Vesta formosana Pic (n. syn.) is a new junior synonym of V. scutellonigra. The spelling chevrolati, employed by Gemminger and Harold, is determined to be an incorrect subsequent spelling of chevrolatii and thus unavailable. Lectotypes are newly designated for V. scutellonigra Olivier, V. impressicollis Fairmaire, and V. formosana Pic. A key to the species of Taiwan is provided. Vesta flaviventris (Fairmaire) (n. comb.) from China is transferred from Lucernuta.
25082362|Spores of the microsporidian pathogen Nosema apis were heat- or ultraviolet-treated until non-viable, then fed to healthy honey bees, Apis mellifera. One week after the bees were fed treated spores, they were fed viable spores. The feeding of treated spores produced no protective response to nosema disease.
25084167|The number of antennal olfactory discs was studied in africanized and Italian bees and in the descendants of their crossings. Unidimensional analysis showed that segment 4 of the antenna is the one with the highest discriminatory power between the two subspecies studied. Italian bees have a greater amount of olfactory structures. The data for samples of
25086359|The genus Celypha Hbner, [1825] is known to be represented in Turkey by five species, namely, C. flavipalpana (Herrich-Schaeffer, [1851]), C. cespitana (Hbner, [1817]), C. striana ([Denis & Schiffermller], 1775), C. rurestrana (Duponchel, 1843), C. anatoliana (Caradja, 1916). Celypha anatoliana was observed in Konya in 1916 and is recorded for the second time in this study. Its similarities and differences with C. capreolana (Herrich-Schaeffer, [1851]) are discussed with the use of adult and male genital photographs. Celypha woodiana (Barrett, 1882) is a new record for Turkey. With this study, the number of species of this genus in Turkey is raised to six. /// Trkiye'de Celypha Hbner, [1825] cinsinin be trle temsil edildii bilinmektedir, C. flavipalpana (Herrich-Schaeffer, [1851]), C. cespitana (Hbner, [1817]), C. striana ([Denis & Schiffermller], 1775), C. rurestrana (Duponchel, 1843), C. anatoliana Caradja, 1916. Konya'da 1916 ylnda tanmlanan sp. anatoliana bu almada Trkiye'den ikinci kez kaydedilmi, ergin ve erkek genital fotograflar verilerek C. capreolana (Herrich-Schaeffer, [1851]) ile benzerlii ve farkllklar tartlmtr. Celpha woodiana (Barrett, 1882) Trkiye iin yeni kayttr. Bu alma ile cinsin Trkiye'deki tr says 6'ya ykselmitir.
43288243|A new fossil stephanid wasp (Stephanidae, or so called 'crown wasps') is described and figured from mid-Cretaceous Burmese amber. Kronostephanus zigrasi Engel and Grimaldi, new genus and species, is the oldest stephanid currently known in amber, and only the second amber specimen documented from the Mesozoic. Like Archaeostephanus corae Engel and Grimaldi (Turonian, New Jersey), the Burmese species belongs to the basal subfamily Schlettereriinae. The implications of this new taxon are elaborated and comments are provided regarding the age of the clade as well as the Hymenoptera as a whole.
25083430|The bottom fauna of 10 streams in the Beaver Reservoir Basin, Northwest Arkansas, was studied previous to impoundment. The streams were grouped according to size and seasonal pattern of flow. Small spring-fed streams produced the most bottom organisms per unit area, large tributaries produced less, and small streams subject to surface drying produced least. Riffles were much more productive than pools in spring-fed streams and in larger tributaries; but in streams subject to surface drying, pools produced almost twice as much as did riffles. No satisfactory sampling technique was developed for deep pools in the larger tributaries; samples were confined to marginal areas of 14-inch depth or less. Diptera, mostly Chironomidae, were dominant in both riffles and pools in all streams studied. Ephemeroptera were subdominant in both pools and riffles in spring-fed streams and tributaries and in pools of streams subject to drying. Plecoptera were subdominant in riffles of the latter. Site clearing drastically reduced bottom fauna but was followed by rapid recovery. Bottom organisms were most abundant in water temperatures below 65 F.
25082474|The coreoid family Alydidae consists of three subfamilies; the Leptocorisinae and Alydinae arose from the Micrelytrinae. The Alydinae constitute one of three grades (seed-feeders); ant-mimicking micrelytrines constitute a second grade; the remainder, with the Leptocorisinae, make up the third, the grass-feeders. This grass-feeding grade may be subdivided: some micrelytrines and the leptocorisine tribe Noliphini are "primitive" grass-feeders; the remainder of the micrelytrines and the Leptocorisini are "advanced" grass-feeders. Evidence from the metathoracic scent-gland apparatus supports this division.
25082402|The threshold temperature for hatching of eggs of Diabrotica vergifera (LeConte), obtained from a Minnesota population, was estimated at 52 F, with a thermal constant for first hatching of 380 degree-days. A few eggs hatched without exposure to a cold, or diapause, period.
25085542|The centipede Scolopendra viridis Say was found to use its anterior front pairs of legs to hold prey during capture and feeding. The number of legs utilized varied with the size of prey. Additional observations on prey preference, capture, and leg use are discussed.
25084371|Evidence gathered from 15 hours watching Tutelina similis in big sage shrubs (Artemisia tridentata) in northeastern Utah suggests that T. similis is a myrmecomorph and a behavioral ant mimic that consistently preys on ants. A measurement index (carapace/body length) calculated for common salticids found in big sage shrubs was significantly lower for T. similis, indicating mimetic adaptation (sensu Reiskind, 1977). Its reddish body and dark eye region appear similar to the coloration of formicine workers encountered in big sage shrubs. T. similis has long, thin, horizontally striped legs I which are moved about in antenna-like fashion. Forty-three T. similis were seen feeding on prey-all workers of Formicinae. Although Drosophila was captured and eaten under laboratory conditions, that prey sequence differed from the sequence used by T. similis to capture ants in big sage shrubs. Laboratory studies on prey preference and observations from other geographic regions are necessary to distinguish if aggressive mimicry in T. similis is a pervasive characteristic of the species as a whole or a genetically plastic, learned behavior restricted to this Utah shrub-steppe population.
25085612|Honey bee forager use of flower pigment patterns (patterns) was examined in the context of a repetitive decision process of flower choice made within-visits that occurred over several trips to the flower patch (among-visits). The study examined whether foragers can utilize shape (three-dimensional form) information alone as the basis for a complex foraging strategy, and if they can, which strategy is used (e.g., energy maximization, risk aversion, individual constancy)? Horizontal two-dimensional, Vertical two-dimensional, and L-Shape three-dimensional flowers were used in dimorphic artificial flower patches. When rewards were identical in flower morphs, bees showed no uniform preference. Some bees foraged randomly, while other bees had flower morph preferences, but not all to the same flower type. When rewards differed between flower morphs, bees utilized flower form to restrict flower visitation to the morph offering the greater caloric reward. Forager behavior thus conformed only to expectations of the energy maximization model. Forager "error" rate (choice of the flower morph offering the lower caloric reward) within flower-form dimorphic patches, however, was approximately three times that observed when only a color dimorphism existed. Bees changed flower morph preference usually on their first visit to the flower patch after rewards were altered, often after visiting just one flower with the lower caloric reward. Increasing accuracy in choosing the more rewarding flower morph on return trips was not generally observed, as might be expected with gradual learning or a prolonged conditioning response.
25084189|New synonymy is given for 7 Pheidole species, mostly neotropical. P. punctatissima (=subsp. napaea); subspp. or varr. annectens, insulana, jamaicensis, barbouri, and praetermissa are removed from P. punctatissima and are all considered temporarily as forms of P. annectens. P. vafra idiota var. maculifrons is placed as a junior synonym of idiota. P. subarmata (=cornutula, s. var. elongatula, c. var. imbecillis, s. var. nassavensis, s. var. borinquenensis, hondurensis, s. var. nefasta, c. var. dentimentum). P. tristis (=fumipennis); P. fabricator (=nigriventris). P. ursus (=cressoni, u. var. gracilinoda); P. megacephala (=testacea). Ceratopheidole pergandei is transferred to Aphaenogaster.
25082519|Eight species of Culumana are treated, one the type species C. torqua, previously described and seven new species C. pilana n.sp., C. excava n.sp. C. incida n.sp., C. turba n.sp., C. vitta n.sp., C. fascia n.sp., and C. tormina n.sp.
25083718|Adults of both Asilus gilvipes and A. formosus were collected within and about animal burrows. Abandoned badger holes were most frequently occupied, with only one adult ordinarily present in each burrow. Their prey consists of insects which fly into the burrows to avoid the heat on the open plains where vegetation is scarce.
25082431|The genus Plinthisus is recorded from the Neotropical region for the first time. Three South American species are newly described, chilensis and neotropicalis from Chile and parvioculatus from Brazil. A discussion of the general distribution of the genus is included, as well as a key to the Neotropical species and two figures.
25082313|The four known Nearctic species of the grassland genus Mocuellus are illustrated and keyed, including two new species: M. caprillus (previously erroneously identified by American authors as the European M. collinus) from Colorado and North Dakota, and M. strictus from northern British Columbia and southern Yukon Territory.
25084577|Phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that Bergidea, with two species, is a paraphyletic South American mainland genus (Chile, Argentina) from which evolved a holophyletic group of two genera on the Juan Fernandez Islands, Micrymenus and Rugomenus, each with two species. Bergidea atrata and Micrymenus brevalatus are new species and Rugomenus is a new genus (Rhyparochrominae, Ozophorini).
25084766|The ability of individual female Sphecius grandis to provide cicadas for their offspring is influenced by their body size and date of emergence. Females with a forewing length of 29-30 mm are more successful providers than smaller individuals. Females with a forewing length of less than 25 mm have virtually no provisioning success. Female wasps emerge over a 3-4 week period in July and August. Females emerging in midseason have the highest provisioning success possibly because they are active during peak prey abundance. A slight male bias in the cicada provisions was observed. Though female cicadas contain more consumable tissue than male cicadas, males are apparently easier to locate and are therefore more frequently captured.
25086211|A new fossil insect is described and figured from a specimen of a nearly complete forewing taken from the Lower Permian of Noble County, Oklahoma. Raaschia oklahomensis Beckemeyer, n. gen. et n. sp., is assigned to Raaschiidae, n. fam., which appears most closely allied with the families Chelopteridae, Aliculidae, and Phenopteridae of the Grylloblattida: Protoperlina.
25083547|Antigens of adult rice weevils, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), S. zeamais (Mots.) and of the granary weevil, S. granarius (L.), were compared by precipitin tests. Results indicated that the species were distinguishable serologically.
25086248|Torymus evansi Grissell, new species, is described, illustrated, and compared to other Nearctic species of the genus. Morphologically it is intermediate between the varians and tubicola species groups. Torymus evansi is associated with rearings of Dactylopius sp. (Hemiptera: Dactylopiidae) on Opuntia sp. (Cactaceae), and although its true host remains unknown, the association with this host-complex is unique for the genus.
25085663|Sexual reproduction capabilities of greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), were studied using 180 field collected samples, 91 laboratory clones and 8 biotypes exposed to a photoperiod of 11:13 (L:D) h at 20:18C. The clones of biotypes C, E, and I produced large quantities of sexual morphs and viable progeny under these conditions. Biotypes G and F developed slowly and produced few viable eggs. Biotypes B, H, and J did not produce any sexual morphs. Field samples collected in May and moved directly to a long scotophase did not produce sexual forms. For other samples and laboratory clones with extended exposure to a 15:9 (L:D) h photoperiod, 73% produced males, 65% produced oviparae; and 67% of the oviparae produced black eggs considered to be viable. Prolonged cold treatment at 0C beyond the standard seven weeks did not affect eclosion or nymphal survival. Hatching percentages ranged from 17 to 26%. Survival of fundatrices ranged from 5 to 52%. Our results suggest that holocycly may be lost entirely for some greenbug biotypes and is not readily induced in all individuals of any population.
25083800|A new genus, Ponanella-Gyponinae (Homoptera, Cicadellidae) -is described from Central and South America, with seven new species included: P. ena (type species), P. felera, P. minuenda, P. santara, P. rubravenosa, P. gelata, and P. astra.
25083518|Aspects of the biology and behavior of Augochlorella striata and A. persimilis in eastern Kansas are presented. The biologies of the two species are similar and are discussed as one except where differences could be found. Colonies of both species occur together in mixed aggregations, usually in well drained soils, from May to September. A nest consists basically of a vertical burrow in the ground, enlarged to form a cavity at about 7 cm below the surface; the cavity contains a cluster or comb of subhorizontal earthen cells. There may or may not be a blind burrow below the cavity, a side branch below the constricted entrance, or a turret above the ground surface. Various methods of construction are used, but usually the cavity is excavated and brood cells are built within the cavity, the cell cluster being supported by pillars of earth extending to the walls of the cavity. One to six overwintered females start a new nest in the spring, and eggs are laid irregularly throughout the summer from May to August. The life cycle takes about four weeks to complete. A few males appear in the first brood, but their numbers increase as the summer progresses. Emerging males leave the nests and do not return, whereas females remain with their natal colonies and perform such activities as the construction and provisioning of cells and guarding of nests. Slight differences between A. striata and persimilis were found in nest structure, in nest populations and in the periods of nesting activity. Differences in nesting sites can only be suggested since both species were regularly found in the same aggregations. None of these differences appears to be significant in maintaining specific isolation, and yet no colony was found that contained individuals of both species.
25084292|Brueelia superciliosa Williams, 1981 is a synonym of Alcedoffula alcedinis (Denny), 1842.
25083681|Menacanthus prieei n. sp. from the Bobwhite quail in Texas, Oklahoma, Mississippi, and North Carolina is described and illustrated.
25085908|In forest with emergent trees 70 m in height we tested whether honey bees effectively communicated three-dimensional forage locations to nestmates. Worker Apis koschevnikovi, trained from nests established on a 50 m tree tower, visited feeders on two additional towers, 200 or 60 m distant, at Lambir Hills Field Station, Sarawak. Twenty experiments were run in which bees were trained at one level (0.2-36 m), then 727 total new recruits were recorded at control and experimental feeders separated by at least 13.5 m height. Recruits arrived at all feeders, but experimental feeders (where other bees fed) received significantly more (average 4.9 times that of a control), with the exception of 1 experiment in 20. Systematic or random searching-between canopy and ground, by surveying for odors, or by sighting conspecifics-were ruled out by our findings. Rather, we suggest distance and direction communication, perhaps combined solely with conspecific odor recognition and vertical ranging behavior, in successful three-dimensional recruitment.
25085417|A population of Glenostictia pictifrons in Kansas practices progressive provisioning, using Diptera of at least 7 families as prey. Nests have a single terminal cell at a mean depth of 4.1 cm, which is also the average depth at which the shallow soil is underlain by bedrock at this nesting site. Adult females provision one nest at a time, spending a mean of 5.5 days per nest. The wasps make an outer closure when away from the nest, but no inner closure, and neither sex spends the night or periods of inclement weather inside nests. Wasps do not level mounds while digging or after completion of a new nest, although the mound is completely levelled during final closure. The egg is laid erect on the base of the wing of the first prey placed in the cell, and the cocoon has an outer shroud of silk embedded with prey remains. Circumstantial evidence suggests nest parasitism by the mutillid wasp Dasymutilla quadriguttata (Say).
25082653|A new genus and species of Miridae, Texocoris secludis, belonging to the tribe Orthotylini of the subfamily Orthotylinae are described. Certain male genital structures are illustrated.
25085634|In semiarid rangelands, a variety of permanently wet habitats can be classified within the general category of springs. They may grade imperceptibly to either typical streams or to wetlands; habitats differ in water transit time and nature of aquatic and riparian vegetation. Emergence traps were used to collect aquatic insects from helocrene habitats in the Bridge Creek watershed in central Oregon. Water chemistry analyses showed high conductivity, pH, and cation concentration values at all sites. Nematocerous Diptera typically comprised greater than 90% of the aquatic insects in emergence traps. Other aquatic orders were uncommon and low in species richness and abundance. Plecoptera were common at only one site, while the damselfly, Argia vivida occurred at all sample sites. Terrestrial insects associated with emergent vegetation also were present in the samples. Many of the insect taxa that were collected do not occur in larger streams and thus insects of springs provide a significant contribution to the diversity of aquatic fauna in semiarid landscapes.
25082452|Water extracts and whole silks of 15 genetic sources of corn were exposed to western corn rootworm adults in the laboratory. Significant differences in beetle preference were found in two-choice feeding tests.
25085053|In experiments with honey bee colonies, doubly-inseminated queen bees produced worker patrilines differing in age at onset of foraging. This difference was found in colonies stressed by heavy wax-deprivation or colonies in a nectar-poor region. Unmanipulated and moderately wax-deprived colonies in a resource-rich environment did not express this difference. Foraging differences were greater between patrilines (offspring of different males) than between the offspring of sister queens. In an observation colony of honey bees containing six patrilines of individually marked and known-aged worker bees (produced by three doubly-inseminated sister queens), behavioral differences between patrilines in the performance of approximately 10% of hive duties were apparent. Differences between patrilines were as great as differences between the offspring of different queens, or between the three dark patrilines and the three light patrilines. Haplodiploidy in honey bees produces reduced genotypic variance within each patriline, and the identical half-genome possessed by all members of a given patriline (and the 3/4 of their genetic material shared overall) may help provide a genetic mechanism operating to produce a worker force of variable patrilines with individually distinctive behavioral profiles. These results are consistent with the view that the flexibility of division of labor in honey bee colonies is used to overcome environmental challenges.
25086275|Early studies of Atta nest founding showed that gynes exhibit claustral nest foundation, cultivate fungal gardens with fecal secretions, and nourish their larvae with eggs. These studies also showed that gynes sometimes lose their fungal pellets, or the fungal garden fails before workers emerge, apparently dooming the incipient colony. Here we report that Atta colombica foundresses maintained in the laboratory can produce workers even though they lack fungal pellets to initiate gardens. If such behavior occurs in nature, it raises the possibility that workers might re-acquire a fungal symbiont after nest establishment, and potentially rescue failing colonies. /// Estudios sobre la fundacin de nidos por hormigas del gnero Atta, muestran que hembras conducen una fundacin claustral, cultivan los jardines de hongo con sus secreciones fecales y nutren las larvas con huevos trficos. Estos estudios tambin muestran que las hembras algunas veces pierden sus sepas de hongos, o los jardines de hongos, antes de la aparicin de las obreras, aparentemente condenando las incipientes colonias. Aqu reportamos que fundadoras de Atta colombica mantenidas en laboratorio pueden producir obreras en la ausencia de sus sepas de hongo simbionte para iniciar los jardines y colonias. Si este comportamiento ocurre en la naturaleza, esto sugiere la posibilidad que obreras pueden re-adquirir un hongo simbionte despus del establecimiento del nido, y potencialmente rescatar la colonia de la muerte.
25084481|The effects of suspended and deposited volcanic ash on survival and behavior of stream insects in the orders Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera were investigated in artificial streams. Insects were tested at concentrations of 2 g/liter of Mount St. Helens ash for 14 days; we found no significant mortality attributed to suspended ash. An ash coating of 5 mm or more on otherwise preferred substrate of cobbles, pebbles and sand significantly inhibited colonization. However, in choice tests, comparing ash-covered sand and sand alone, the overall rejection of the two substrates was comparable.
25083478|The primitive wing venation and the female eighth sternite indicate that the genus Phylocentropus is an extremely archaic member of the subfamily Polycentropinae. The genus is divided into four groups: the auriceps and placidus groups (both recorded from Baltic amber fossils and Recent species in eastern North America), the orientalis group (from Malaya and possibly from Baltic amber), and the antiquus group (poorly defined and only from the Baltic amber). Morphology and present distribution suggest that the four groups had differentiated in Eurasia before the time of the Baltic amber deposits and the auriceps and placidus lines spread into North America in middle Cenozoic.
25085363|Mating success in the polygynous colonies of Monomorium minimum Mayr is discussed in terms of colony structure, sex allocation and sperm transfer. Locally distributed colonies sampled from the population subsets at the Texas and Louisiana sites suggested that a numerical 1:1 (female:male) sex ratio is reached at a population rather than colony level. On the basis of biomass the investment in female sexuals superseded that in the males by a factor of 1.5. Most colonies collected from the study sites at Bryan, College Station, Austin and coastal Louisiana were sex-biased. The female-biased colonies contained a small number of mostly (72-100%) aspermic males while male-biased contained mostly (87-100%) spermic males. Females flew to the males but evoked male orientation towards them for mating. The females were choosy in mate selection and mated once. Analysis of the mating responses between concolonial and allocolonial mates suggested that allocolonial mates were more successful in mating than the concolonial. This outbreeding strategy suggested the input by one or few queens in the production of sexuals in polygynous colonies.
25086225|The nesting behavior of Trachypus petiolatus is described from central Panam. Females nested within aggregations in bare soil; they re-used nests from a prior generation, and provisioned their nests with small bees, mainly Apidae and Halictidae. These nests had a communal social organization among resident females, and also included one or more males. At least some males left the nest in the morning on a daily basis, and then returned later in the day. Based on limited nest excavations, we did not observe any parasitized cells, which may be associated with communal nesting.
25085811|The first fossil orchid bees are described from amber deposits in the Dominican Republic. These bees are assigned to the new genus and species, Paleoeuglossa melissiflora (Euglossinae: Apidae) and are thought to represent a progenitor to the Eulaema-Euglossa clade. The fossil bees are characterized by a genal projection, scutellar tuft and a protruding supra-clypeal ridge. The discovery of two female specimens together in the same piece of amber suggest that these female orchid bees also used resin for nest construction some 20-40 million years ago.
25082357|Two spermathecae occur in Periplaneta americana; their structure is basically alike but notable differences exist. Cuticular tubules (canaliculi, efferent ducts) occur within modified epidermal cells in both, extending from the lumen of the organ outward to a recurved apical termination within a secretory cell. Peripheral muscles apply hydraulic pressure to the lumen contents via the tubules; an apical valve on each tubule allows a drop of sperm to be extruded for each egg but prevents emptying of the organ.
25481804|Evidence is presented that females of the cleptoparasite Thyreus ramosus (Lepeletier) insert their eggs into the closed host cells of an Anthophora (Dasymegilla), tentatively identified as A. muscaria Fedtschenko, just as other members of the Melectini whose egg deposition habits are known insert their eggs into host cells. The eggs of both host and cleptoparasite are described and illustrated. Comparison of the eggs of T. ramosus with those of other melectines strongly suggests that the melectines are monophyletic. /// Kleptoparazitik tr olan Thyreus ramosus (Lepeletier)'un bilinen dier Melectini yelerinin davranlarnda olduu gibi yumurtalarn konukusu Anthophora (Dasimegilla) muscaria Fedtschenko' nun kapatlm hcrelerine yerletirdii belirlenmitir. Konukunun ve kleptoparazitin yumurtalar tanmlanm ve izimleri yaplmtr. T. ramosus'un yumurtalar, dier melectin yumurtalar ile karlatrldnda, melectinlerin monophyletic olduu fikri kuvvetlenmektedir.
25086283|Two new species of Paranura are described and illustrated, one from Colombia and another from Mexico. Tables for the chaetotaxy are elaborated and a key for the American species is given. /// Deux espces nouvelles de Paranura sont dcrits et dessins, une de la Colombie et une autre du Mexique. Des tables chaetotaxic ont etaint confection et en plus une cle de identification pour les espces americaines y est inclu.
25085895|A field study was conducted to determine if high dosages and multiple applications of insecticidal baits could be used to increase mortality of rangeland grasshoppers. Twenty-four rangeland plots in western North Dakota were treated with either single applications of 2% (AI) carbaryl bran bait at 1.68, 3.36, or 5.04 kg/ha; double applications of carbaryl bran bait at 1.68 kg/ha for each application; triple applications of the bait at 1.68 kg/ha; or left untreated. Densities of all grasshopper species were estimated before treatments and 2, 4, and 7 days after treatments. The insecticidal bait treatments caused significant reductions (57-100%) in densities of Aulocara elliotti Thomas, Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.), Camnula pellucida Scudder, and Ageneotettix deorum (Scudder), but had no significant effect on Aeropedellus clavatus (Thomas) or Melanoplus bivittatus (Say). A single application of the insecticidal bait at 5.04 kg/ha caused significantly greater mortality of A. elliotti (82%) than single applications of the other dosages. Dosage had no consistent effect on densities of M. sanguinipes, C. pellucida, A. deorum, or all species combined, after 2 days. Multiple applications of the insecticidal baits caused additional 32-52% reductions in densities of total grasshoppers after each successive application, indicating that the quantity of bait can affect grasshopper mortality. However, final mortality of total grasshoppers after 7 days was not affected by high dosages or multiple applications of the insecticidal baits, indicating that multiple and high dosages of insecticidal baits had no real advantage over single applications at 1.68 kg/ha.
25083944|Ataxia hubbardi Fisher and Mecas inornata Say were reared in the laboratory on a modified wheat germ diet. Development and generation time for A. hubbardi averaged ca. 86 and 117 days, respectively, for females, and ca. 82 and 113 days, respectively, for males. Development time for M. inornata averaged ca. 331 and 374 days for females and males, respectively. Female pupae of both species weighed significantly more (P = 0.05) than male pupae. The male to female ratio among adults was 1.8 to 1 for A. hubbardi and 1.4 to 1 for M. inornata. Females of A. hubbardi laid an average 34.9 eggs, with 97% viability. Females of M. inornata did not oviposit in the laboratory. A. hubbardi has 2 generations/yr, and M. inornata has 1 generation/yr in the southern Plains.
25086189|The nesting behavior of Megachile prosopidis Cockerell, Megachile chilopsidis Cockerell, and Megachile discorhina Cockerell was studied in trap nests placed near Tucson, Arizona. Quantitative differences among the five distinct nest plugs made by M. prosopidis are described. The nest plugs fall into three structural types. The first layer of capping material deposited in the first structural type is sand and an unidentified oral secretion mixed to form a hard layer. In the second structural type, the first layer is made of soft resin mixed with sand or organic matter. A third, less common, structural type includes those nests capped with pure resin. The dominant pollen host plant species was identified as Cercidium microphyllum (Torr.) Rose and Johnston (Fabaceae). Two other legumes, Prosopis velutina Wooton and Olneya tesota A. Gray, became important pollen sources late in the nesting season. Resin samples taken from the nest caps were indistinguishable, by gas chromatography, from resin of Encelia farinosa A. Gray (Asteraceae). The following parasites and predators were reared from the nests: Tricrania stansburyi Haldeman (Coleoptera: Meloidae), Lecontella gnara Wolcott (Coleoptera: Cleridae), Anthrax cintalpa Cole (Diptera: Bombyliidae), Stelis (Dolichostelis) perpulchra Crawford (Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), and Sapyga sp. Latreille (Hymenoptera: Sapygidae). New host records are reported for T. stansburyi, L. gnara, and A. cintalpa.
25084201|The resistance of some cultivars of sweet potato, Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam., to the sweetpotato weevil, Cylas formicarius elegantulus (Summers), that has been observed in small-plot tests is apparently due in most cases to nonpreference resistance. No antibiosis resistance inhibiting feeding and/or oviposition was found in cultivars in no-choice tests. Escape from weevil damage as a result of some attribute of the cultivar, rather than by chance, is inferred from comparisons of field and laboratory tests. Concentration of weevil damage on the proximal part of edible roots reflects accessibility and does not indicate a preference by the weevil for this part of the roots.
25083589|The weight of artificially reared European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), was recorded daily until emergence comparing the 3 handling procedures of total light, partial light (our standard procedure), and total darkness. Some light was found necessary for normal development. An increase in light hastened and increased larval weight and shortened developmental time. A weight loss from pupation to emergence was shown.
25085165|The North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station (NCRPIS) maintains the national germplasm collection of sunflower, Helianthus annuus L. The germplasm collection is evaluated in the field for sources of resistance to the sunflower moth, Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst), a serious pest of sunflower. Laboratory rearing of the insect is the only reliable method of obtaining insects for field infestation. The technique for rearing the sunflower moth at the NCRPIS is described. A modified wheat germ diet is the medium used for larval growth. Larvae pupate in cardboard rings and, upon removal, are placed in glass jars to complete development. Adults oviposit on velour cloth pads placed in the glass colony jars. This rearing method is more efficient than previous methods.
25085851|The phylogenetic interrelationships between the different subgenera and species groups of the genus Polypedilum and its closley related genera are outlined. Collartomyia Goetghebuer can with some hesitation be kept as a separate genus, while Asheum Sublette et Sublette must be regarded as at most a subgenus of Polypedilum. The subgenus Uresipedilum Sasa et Kikuchi apparently is monophyletic and may form the plesiomorphic sister group of the remaining subgenera. The subgenera Pentapedilum Kieffer and Polypedilum s. str. both in all likelihood are paraphyletic, while the subgenus Tripodura Townes probably is monophyletic when extended to include some species previously placed in other subgenera. A new subgenus, Cerobregma, is erected for the P. ontario group of species. The males of Cerobregma are characterized by strong anal tergal bands; bulb-like, extended gonocoxites, with a deep incisure between gonocoxite and gonostylus; and usually setae along inner margin of style conspicuously strong and mostly split. The pupae are characterized by having the cephalic tubercles fused to form a dark slender, strongly chitinized cone; anal comb very large with numerous scale-like toothlets; and tergites II-VI usually without anterior band of shagreen. The known larvae have a triangular head, unusually small mouthparts, teeth of mentum of about equal height, and striations on ventromental plates indistinct. Polypedilum (Cerobregma) ontario (Walley) is designated as type species. P. (Cerobregma) ontario (Walley) and P. (C.) volselligum n. sp. are described in all stages and both sexes; P. (Cerobregma) brevipalpe n. sp. as male and female imagines; P. (Cerobregma) exilicaudatum n. sp. as male imago and tentatively associated pupa; P. (C.) ramiferum Kieffer, P. (C.) bulbocaudatum n. sp., and P. (C.) subulatum n. sp. as male imagines, P. (Cerobregma) sp. A as female imago; and seven species respectively from Brunei, Nepal, Thailand, South Africa, Kenya, and Rio Aripuana and Rio Marauia in Brazil, all known only as pupae, are described. The species P. kamotertium Sasa and P. okigrandis Sasa are placed in the subgenus. The subgenus as a whole shows a northern Gondwanian or Inabrezian distribution. Except for the plesiomorphic Brazilian species the rest of the subgenus shows an Afrotropical East-Asian lineage with a secondary East Asian-Nearctic vicariance.
25085411|Organophosphate (OP) insecticides, disulfuton and phorate, applied in combination with liquid fertilizer (10-34-0) at planting, suppressed the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko) (RWA) in 'Carson' winter wheat for a longer period of time than carbofuran used with and without liquid fertilizer. However, yields from carbofuran treated plots were greater (average of 631 kg/ha) than those treated with OP insecticides. Based on post-harvest soil samples, lesion nematodes (Pratylenchus thornei) were found to be the yield limiting factor in the OP + liquid fertilizer treatments, the untreated control and the treatments with liquid fertilizer alone. Carbofuran provided increased yield, test weight and seed weight per head when compared with the other treatments. The lesion nematode was the more economically damaging pest of winter wheat in this study, compared with the Russian wheat aphid.
25082567|Collections from 453 colonies of ants in the Bearpaw Mountains of north central Montana were made during the summers of 1965-1969. Thirty-eight species and subspecies were found. Distribution records show that 58% are primarily from Western United States, 18.4% with ranges covering most of the United States and southern Canada, and 13.2% with centers of distribution primarily from northeast United States. Boreal and Holarctic ants each form 5.3% of the population. New records on the distribution range of eight species or subspecies were made.
25083660|Twelve light traps were operated, in most cases for a year, in 1965 to 1967, near the gulf coast of Louisiana to survey the incidence of Culicoides. Densities of the species and seasonal incidence were recorded for each station. The picture of seasonal incidence of C. hollensis was revised and the incidence of C. furens was studied. These are the dominant species of the coastal regions. There was a larger proportion of males in C. hollensis populations than earlier studies had shown. Wing maculation varied widely in C. hollensis females.
25084355|Two new genera of Ozophorini are described from Central America each including a new species.
25086311|Host establishment of larvae of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, on a corn plant is approximately ten fold higher in artificial infestations in the greenhouse compared to artificial infestation in field experiments. We hypothesized that the paths that western corn rootworm larvae use to find their host from an individual point source (location where agar containing eggs is injected into the soil) in artificial infestations in the field may be limited and become obstructed by early hatching larvae. To evaluate our hypothesis, we tested two infestation levels (400 or 800 eggs/plant) each with five infestation patterns (1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 infestation points around the plant). An effect of infestation pattern was observed. Root damage on the 0 to 3 scale from an infestation of 400 viable western corn rootworm eggs increased significantly from 0.12  0.03 to 0.74  0.23 when the number of infestation points around the plant was increased from 1 to 16 at one location. Root damage from an infestation of 800 viable eggs increased from 0.18  0.11 to 0.56  0.15 as the number of point sources increased from 2 to 16 at the same location. In addition, larval recovery increased significantly from an average of 1.67  0.49 to 6.22  0.83 when the number of point sources increased from 1 to 8 for 400 viable eggs at one of the locations. However, there were no significant differences in adult emergence. The number of point sources around an individual corn plant apparently affects host establishment in a minor way.
25081809|This paper comprises a taxonomic study of the genus Mistharnophantia, described by Kirkaldy in 1907. A brief history of the genus and comparative notes are given. A key to the species is included. The following six new species are described: curta, ajoensia, extensa, sima, angusta and acuta. Rhyncopteryx caudata Van Duzee is considered a synonym of Mistharnophantia sonorana Kirkaldy.
25083763|The male, pupa, and larval habitat of Nilobezzia brevicornis (Wirth) are described and illustrated, and the species' relationship with other North American Nilobezzia is reviewed. The occurrence of N. minor (Wirth) in New Mexico is recorded. Terminology for the fused basimere and telomere of the genitalia is discussed.
25085009|Encapsulation of some or all of Cotesia glomerata (L.) eggs was observed in 16.7% of 779 parasitized Pieris rapae (L.) larvae in a field population. All parasitoid eggs were encapsulated in 9.8% of these larvae. Encapsulation occurred in all host instars but was rare in the first instar and became increasingly more likely with greater larval age. Second clutches of parasitoid eggs occurred in 8.0% of parasitized larvae and were most common in second instars.
25084511|This complete revision of our previous articles on the larvae of army ants (Dorylinae) is the immediate result of the acquisition of much new material. The larvae of 22 species in the genera Aenictus, Cheliomyrmex, Dorylus, Eciton, Labidus and Neivamyrmex are described. Genera are keyed and characterized and each is assigned a specialization index. Feeding behavior is discussed. This study does not support the separation of Old World and New World army ants into separate subfamilies.
25085191|Adults of the alfalfa seed chalcid (ASC), Bruchophagus roddi Gussakovskii, were monitored in four counties in Oklahoma from mid-May until the end of September, with maximal population densities generally occurring in August. Female ASC in the alfalfa fields outnumbered males by ratios of 1.5:1 to 2:1. Peaks of adult ASC emergence in different fields ranged from three to six per year. Four genera of ASC parasites were collected: Liodontomerus perplexus Gahan, Tetrastichus bruchophagus Gahan, Trimeromicrus maculatus Gahan, and Eupelmus allynii (French). Percentage of adult parasites in the host/parasite complex was 41.5% in 1983 and 55.7% in 1984. Adult parasites were more numerous than adult ASC during the later part of the season, and peak densities of parasites occurred one week later than peak densities of ASC. Female parasites outnumbered males by ratios of 3:1 to 7:1. This study shows that during the alfalfa seed production season in Oklahoma there is no "safe date" or time period where adult ASC are not present in the fields. Degree day accumulations were calculated for each field and compared to peaks in the field data to determine if peak ASC populations could be predicted. Although the majority of the ASC peaks did occur near a predicted date, the degree day calculations did not account for all of the variation in ASC generation time.
25082856|Freshly emerged Osmia lignaria collected from previous trapping experiments were placed into man-made nesting materials (paper soda straws inserted into Styrofoam containers), and these nests were placed in shelters in a Pyrus and Prunus orchard. The 550 female bees used in the experiment constructed 1,690 cells in the nests of which 1,278 cells contained live progeny. Although 22 species of plants were in bloom within and around the orchard during the flight season of the bee, only Pyrus and Prunus, Taraxacum, and Ribes pollens were recovered from provisions and fecal particles sampled. Pyrus and Prunus made up 78.6 percent of these samples, and Taraxacum and Ribes accounted for the remaining 21.4 percent of pollen recovered.
25082361|A taxonomic study of the Micropezidae of western North America revealed regional melanism in leg coloration of Compsobata mima (Hennig). Many specimens have a dark brown to black marking on the middorsal aspect of each femur, in other this marking is only moderately dark brown, and in still others it is lacking. Geographical evidence indicates this variation is non-genetic and environmental. Definite trends toward increased melanism are shown with increase in altitude, in latitude north, and in longitude west.
25084789|Egg morphology of the giant North American heteronemiid stick insect, Megaphasma dentricus (Stl) is observed with scanning electron microscopy. The bicolored egg is 3.9 mm long, has a width of 2.0 mm, and has an irregular surface texture due to closely packed, fine tubercles. The "hollow dome" type of capitulum with a circumlinear setal fringe suggests the placement of Megaphasma as a near-relative of Diapheromera within Heteronemiini.
25085474|The male surstyli of the medfly, Ceratitis capitata, are used both to nip the female and thus apparently to induce her to extend her aculeus and to clamp her aculeus after it is extended so that intromission can occur. The design of the surstyli results in a very strong mechanical clamp.
25082904|Olfactometer tests were run to examine cues by which females of the parasitoid Bathyplectes curculionis locate larvae of the alfalfa weevil (Hypera postica). Parasitoids were not attracted to alfalfa field plants tested but were attracted to the alfalfa weevil larvae and larval fecal matter.
25084275|Ovarian development and dispersal flight were examined in convergent lady beetles collected at fall aggregation sites and stored overwinter at 32C to simulate natural spring populations. Fed beetles attained ovarian maturity within 8 days. Beetles treated with juvenile hormone mimic (JHM), methoprene, showed intermediate ovarian development but maturity was not attained. Unfed convergent lady beetles showed 18% dispersal the day of removal from cold storage, 84% after 3 days and 66% after 6 days. Fed beetles showed 63% dispersal after 3 days. Fed and unfed convergent lady beetles flight tested from 8:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. did not significantly disperse until 11:00 a.m. when temperatures were 15 to 22C, although feeding on aphids was observed at lower temperatures. It is suggested that naturally occuring spring dispersal flight of the lady beetles alternates with feeding behavior until the ovaries are mature.
25084912|The shape of the prepygidium of adult Smicronyx fulvus LeConte and S. sordidus LeConte were used to correctly identify the sex of 630 specimens studied. The posterior margin of the prepygidium is truncate in females and is emarginate in males.
25084374|Ovarian growth in groups of four callow workers over a five-day experimental period was measured. Workers were confined with either a female Psithyrus or host queen as well as in isolated groups. In addition, samples were taken of ovaries of workers from nests containing either a female Psithyrus or host queen. Comparison of ovary weights showed that females of P. ashtoni cannot suppress workers' ovarian development. These results are discussed in the context of observations that this parasite never kills the host queen.
40783181|The initial results of the first formal survey of the bee fauna of Pennsylvania are reported. Specimens were examined from some 20 private, research and institutional collections in and around the state, as well as from pan-trapping and sweep-netting results from three years (2005-2007) of surveying by the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture (PDA) Apiary Inspection Service. Of the 371 species reported here, 150 are new state records, including 27 of the 98 species found in the PDA surveys. Non-native species are indicated along with the earliest year of collection in the state and, for all species, the range of collection dates and the most recent year of collection are reported.
25084581|Larval foods (nest cell provisions) and larval feces of the black and yellow mud dauber, Sceliphron caementarium (Drury), were assayed for fresh and dry weight, % water, total protein, digestible and indigestible carbohydrates, lipids, ash, and caloric value. Provision and fecal mass dry weights are smaller in S. caementarium than in the organ-pipe mud dauber, Trypoxylon politum, but caloric values for unashed samples of provisions and feces are similar to published values for T. politum. The use of ash-free dry weight is, however, recommended for calculation of caloric values. Protein, lipid, and carbohydrate data are not available for other wasp provisions and feces; corresponding data for foods and feces of final instar house cricket nymphs are briefly reviewed.
25085443|Russian wheat aphid (RWA), Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), colonized grass germplasm nurseries maintained by the Western Regional Plant Introduction Station (WRPIS) in southeastern Washington. Although most accessions exhibited little or no RWA-induced damage, 22 accessions in the genera Agropyron, Elytrigia, Leymus, Rostraria, Stipa, and Heteranthelium required an application of a foliar insecticide (dimethoate) to suppress damaging RWA populations. This study demonstrated that seed-regeneration protocol at WRPIS should include routine surveys of grass nurseries to detect germplasm at risk to colonization and damage by RWA.
25085133|Egg development in the giant water bug, Abedus indentatus Haldeman, is described. Time from oviposition to hatching is highly temperature dependent, ranging from 13 days at 30C to 54 days at 15C. The logistic nature of the development curve for individual eggs explains the bimodal distribution of egg sizes observed in the field. The increase in egg size that accompanies development is the consequence of water uptake. As a result, egg-encumbered males are no less buoyant than their unencumbered counterparts as long as they remain submerged. The survivorship of egg pads carried by males in the field is compared to that of artificially-removed egg pads maintained under three different conditions in the laboratory. While the former had significantly higher survival rates than did any of the latter, egg pads removed from males and placed in shallow water had a median failure rate of only 17.6%. This indicates that brooding by males is not required for hatching in the laboratory.
25086071|Eggs, larvae, and pupae of the Palearctic species Oxyporus germanus Sharp are redescribed and illustrated. Late instar larvae are compared with O. japonicus Sharp. Adults have been found on various higher, fleshy fungi, Suillus spp., Xerocomus sp., Agaricus sp., Heimiella japonica Hongo, Marasmius sp. Oxyporus germanus is hypothesized to exhibit a pattern of overall host selection that is relatively narrow with a well defined subset of preference, a host pattern that is similar to O. japonicus.
25084628|Perdita opuntiae is an oligolectic forager, visiting Opuntia compressa and O. polycantha. These two cactus species flower sequentially, providing an extended period of food availability for the bee. Previous reports indicated that P. opuntiae nests in sandstone of the Laramie Formation; the only recorded nesting site is in Boulder County, Colorado. We have observed nests in the Fox Hills sandstone formation, adjacent to the previously described nesting area. Perdita opuntiae nests communally, with an average of 8.9 bees per nest. Larger nests have multiple entrances. Mating behavior is similar to that reported previously for other Perdita species. Males occupy a flower and attempt copulation with females entering the flower. Two cases of intermale aggression were recorded. Up to six females, however, were observed foraging simultaneously in a single flower with no overt aggression, although some females left flowers with partial pollen loads, perhaps as a result of being displaced. Females visiting more than one Opuntia flower may transfer pollen between Opuntia flowers.
25082468|The crop contents of 8,535 grasshoppers representing 31 species were collected and analyzed in the Flint Hills region of Kansas during the frost-free seasons of 1965 and 1966 in 6 planted-pasture sites. Sites were predominantly (1) western wheatgrass-Korean lespedeza; (2) smooth brome-sweetclover-alfalfa; (3) Kentucky bluegrass-Japanese brome-downy brome-sideoats grama-big bluestem; (4) smooth brome-bindweed; (5) smooth brome-ironweed-ragweed; and (6) reed canarygrass-smooth brome. Total plant species were: 17 perennial grasses, 8 annual grasses, several species of Carex, a Typha, 33 perennial forbs, 5 biennial forbs, 17 annual forbs, and 8 woody plants. Ingestion of both the planted forage plant species and the native plant species was determined at each site by percentage of plant fragments in crops of each grasshopper species. The weather during 1965 was normal, but the spring of 1966 was cool, followed by a hot, dry summer. Grass-feeding grasshoppers predominated and ingested the most grasses in sites planted with grasses. Some forb-feeding grasshoppers were abundant in the western wheatgrass-Korean lespedeza site, where this lespedeza was ingested by M. differentialis, M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum, M. keeleri luridus, and M. sanguinipes; normally, predominantly grass-feeding C. viridifasciata, H. rugosus, and P. nebrascensis also ingested lespedeza in significant amounts. Smooth brome was ingested in significant amounts by all species except M. keeleri luridus. Western wheatgrass was ingested significantly by C. viridifasciata, H. rugosus, O. speciosa, and P. nebrascensis and was not ingested in proportion to prevalence by M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum and M. sanguinipes. Sweetclover was ingested significantly by M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum, M. keeleri luridus, M. packardii, and M. sanguinipes. Reed canarygrass was ingested significantly by M. differentialis, M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum, and P. nebrascensis, and was not ingested in proportion to prevalence by O. speciosa. Kentucky bluegrass was significantly ingested by M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum, M. sanguinipes, and O. speciosa but was not by S. admirabilis. Japanese brome, a weed grass, was not ingested in proportion to prevalence except in one site where smooth brome was not present. Downy brome was not ingested in proportion to prevalence by O. speciosa.
25082898|Laboratory tests were conducted to establish a development model for the painted lady, Cynthia cardui (L.), on soybeans. Insects reared at 65 and 90F required ca. 73 and 22 days, respectively, for egg-to-adult development. A thermal-unit system was established for painted lady development. An accumulation of 792 thermal units was required for egg-to-adult development.
25084895|The cleptoparasitic bees of the South American tribe Caenoprosopidini are reviewed. A new genus and species, Caenoprosopina holmbergi, is described. Descriptions, drawings and distributional data are provided for it and the only previously known species, Caenoprosopis crabronina Holmberg. New synonyms are established: the genus Austrodioxys Cockerell is a junior synonym of Caenoprosopis Holmberg and Austrodioxys thomasi Cockerell and Brachynomada subminiata Cockerell are junior synonyms of C. crabronina. The cladistic analysis suggests that the Caenoprosopidini is the sister group of the tribe Ammobatini.
25084964|Results from four tests during 1984 and 1985 showed that greenbug (Schizaphis graminum (Rondani)) numbers per plant were consistently lower on resistant than susceptible sorghum hybrids when compared at the same plant densities. Greenbug populations on the same hybrid were also consistently lower on plants grown in high population densities than on plants in low population densities. The numbers of greenbugs on the resistant hybrid at low plant population densities were not significantly different from the numbers on the susceptible hybrid at high plant population densities. Our results indicate that growing resistant hybrids in thick stands may keep greenbug infestations below the economic injury level, and that any practice resulting in decreased plant population densities could intensify the greenbug problem on sorghum.
25084038|Three new species of Thagria from Malaysia are described and illustrated; ventrocarina and furculata from Sarawak, and kaloostiani from Malay Peninsula, bringing the total known species in the genus to 149.
25084283|The pavement ant, Tetramorium caespitum (L.), has an unusual method of attacking ground-nesting alkali bees. Upon discovering a bee guarding the entrance to its nest, the ant responds by searching for pieces of soil and dropping them onto the bee's head. Soon other ants join in the attack which often leads to the death of the bee.
25086119|This paper reports the species of solitary bees and wasps nesting in wooden trap-nests on the campus of the University of So Paulo (2333S, 4643W), in southeastern Brazil, during three years (1998-2001). The wooden trap-nests offered circular holes 3 to 10 mm in diameter, drilled 5 to 12 cm deep. Rolled papers were inserted in the hole, so that the paper tube could later be periodically extracted to reveal the nest. Females of eight species of bees and eleven species of wasps occupied a considerable percentage of the trap nests. The two predominant bee species in the first two years were Tetrapedia diversipes Klug and Anthodioctes megachiloides Holmberg, while in the third year the population of Hylaeus spp. increased considerably and T. diversipes decreased. Wasps of the genus Trypoxylon were abundant during the studied period, and in 2001 populations of non-native Passaloecus pictus Ribaut increased. Natural enemies of the trap nest occupants were fungi, mites and Melittobia wasps.
25083022|The previously described nymph of Enallagma basidens Calvert is morphologically similar to the known nymphs of Walker's (1953) Enallagma Group II. It is most similar to Enallagma exsulans (Hagen) but can be distinguished from this species by the shape and color patterns of the caudal lamellae and by the number of abdominal lateral carinae that bear coarse setae. The nymphs of E. basidens can be found in most permanent lentic and lotic waters within its range.
25082667|A state-wide search revealed Bathyplectes curculionis (Thoms.) to be the only known primary parasite of the alfalfa weevil Hypera postica (Gyll.) in Wyoming, 1972. The parasitic wasp was present throughout the state, and in most alfalfa growing areas there was reasonably good synchronization between peak parasite and peak weevil larval populations. Actual seasonal weevil parasitism ranged between 9.6 and 71.4%. Unfortunately, the parasites effectiveness was inhibited by a low viability factor. From combined 1971-72 data, it was ascertained that viability of diapause and non-diapause cocoons was only 25.9%.
25084317|Variation in the subapical hind-wing banding pattern of Trimerotropis sparsa (Thomas) contributed to confusion in the early classification of this species. A total of 129 specimens collected in northwestern Nebraska were examined and the differences in wing markings noted. These differences were classified into three groups. Sixty-nine percent of the individuals fit into Group 1 (without a band), 32% into Group 2 (with a weak band) and 6% into Group 3 (with a strong band).
25084543|Byersalges, new genus, is described; the type-species is Pterophagoides talpacoti ern, 1975; many new columbid host associations are listed for this mite and new records for Proctophyllodidae species collected from diverse hosts in El Salvador are given.
25086102|Thousands of bee species nest in the ground, sometimes gregariously, digging central tunnels whose excavated soil is pushed to the surface as tumuli. To quantify tumulus production across a landscape, nesting female alkali bees (Nomia melanderi) were censused for the
25084866|Females of the communal sweat bee Lasioglossum (Chilalictus) erythrurum construct tunnels independently, lack agonistic interactions even with non-nestmates, and exchange food by oral trophallaxis in artificial nests. This contrasts with known within-nest behaviors of the eusocial L. (Dialictus) zephyrum in which burrow construction is cooperative and in which agonistic interactions may occur during colony ontogeny, and trophallaxis is absent. We conclude that in communal species both cooperative and agonistic behaviors are less likely and that food exchange through oral trophallaxis may not be a necessary or sufficient precondition for the evolution of eusociality in halictine bees.
25082806|Newly-emerged honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) workers were observed after injection with 10 g synthetic juvenile hormone (JH) and topical application of up to 100 g JH. Bees injected with JH ate less pollen than untreated bees but those treated topically showed no change. Workers injected with 10 g JH were active in greater numbers at the colony entrance, began to fly 3 days earlier, and made more flights than oil-injected bees. Pollen collection by both groups was very low. Pollen consumption and hypopharyngeal gland development of bees in laboratory studies was not changed by varying their exposure to light from 1 h to 12 h per day. The response to JH injections suggests that JH has a role in division of labor and changes in activity as bees age.
25084284|Studies were conducted in the greenhouse to determine the importance of the cabbage aphid, Brevicoryne brassicae (L.) as a pest of Brassicaceae oilseed plant introductions. The following species and botanical varieties were evaluated: Brassica napus L., B. juncea (L.) Coss., B. nigra (L.) Koch, B. campestris L., B. campestris var. sarson Prain, B. campestris var. dichotoma (Roxb. ex Flem.) Watt., B. campestris var. autumnalis L., B. hirta Moench, B. carinata A. Br., B. integrifolia var. carinata (A. Br.) O. E. Schulz, B. kaber var. pinnatifida (Stokes) L. C. Wheeler, Crambe abyssinica Nochst. ex R. E. Fries, and C. juncea Bieb. All accessions of B. napus and B. carinata tested were highly susceptible to aphid attack. Other Brassica spp. and C. abyssinica were less susceptible but no accessions showed evidence of either antibiosis or tolerance type of resistance. C. juncea was highly resistant and may not be a host of the cabbage aphid. Brassicaceae most susceptible to aphid feeding were also the most attractive to alate aphids.
20621958|Three new species of Palmanura are described and illustrated. Palmanura sernaius, new species, of Colombia differs from most Palmanura species in having more abundant and barbulate rather than palmate chaetotaxy. The Mexican Palmanura goyai, new species, lacks the cephalic seta "G" and is the biggest in the genus (1.1 mm), while Palmanura hieronimus, new species, presents the cephalic seta "G," has only one palmate seta on the dorsolateral cephalic tubercle and it is very small (0.55 mm). A key for the species in the genus is included. /// Se describen e ilustran tres nuevas especies de Palmanura. La nueva especie Palmanura sernaius de Colombia difiere de la mayora de las Palmanura en tener una abundante quetotaxia de sedas barbuladas en lugar de palmeadas. La especie mexicana Palmanura goyai, carece de seda ceflica "G" y es la ms grande del gnero (1.1 mm), y Palmanura hieronimus presenta la seda ceflica "G," tiene una sola seda palmeada en el tubrculo ceflico dorsolateal y es muy pequea (0.55 mm). Se incluye una clave para las especies del gnero.
25084966|A new species of chewing louse, Cummingsia izori (Mallophaga: Trimenoponidae), is described and illustrated from a Peruvian mouse-opossum, Marmosa noctivaga (Marsupialia: Didelphidae). To date C. izori is known only from two individual hosts from the type locality in Peru; however, we suspect that this species of louse will be found on M. noctivaga throughout its range in the Amazonian basin of northern Brazil, eastern Ecuador, eastern and central Peru, and northwestern Bolivia.
25085856|General features of the taxonomic composition and temporal organization of species assemblages of tropical and temperate lotic Chironomidae are described and compared. Seven studies of emergence phenology using pupal exuviae are included in the analysis: four studies on three streams of northwestern Costa Rica, and three studies on two streams in western Pennsylvania. Each of the seven studies was conducted for at least one year, but all phenological analyses were restricted to one-year periods. The collection sites for all seven studies were 2nd- to 3rd-order sections of the streams. Species richness of the Costa Rican assemblages ranged from 142-151 for the one-year periods used in the phenological analyses, and from 82-184 for the Pennsylvanian assemblages. Each assemblage was dominated by members of the subfamilies Chironominae, Orthocladiinae and Tanypodinae. The average number of species occurring in the tropical stream samples was about 1.8 times the number in the temperate samples (45.9 and 26.1, respectively). The number of species emerging was moderately to greatly influenced by seasonal changes: dry-wet season shifts in the tropical streams, and summer-winter shifts in the temperate streams. The number of days per year during which the average species was emerging was determined for all seven assemblages by estimation and direct calculation methods. By both methods, the average Costa Rican species was found to be emerging for many more days (116.2 and 132.9 per year by the two methods) than the average Pennsylvanian species (70.0 per year by both methods). Change in taxonomic composition through the year was determined by calculating the change in similarity (Sorensen Similarity Coefficient) for all combinations of pairs of samples. Pairs of temperate stream samples were generally less similar the greater the time period separating them. The mean change between compared samples of the three temperate studies ranged from 0.73 to 0.74. Although taxonomic composition of the tropical stream samples changed throughout the year, the degree of change between compared samples generally did not increase with time. The mean change between compared samples for the four tropical studies ranged from 0.50 to 0.58. On the whole, the results of these studies are consistent with the hypothesis (Coffman, 1989) that the life cycles of low-latitude stream species are much less seasonally regulated than those of temperate latitudes, and that there may be different developmental stages representing several generations of a species present at the same time.
20621944|Lisotrigona cacciae, L. furva and Pariotrigona klossi (Meliponini, Apidae) workers drank lachrymation (tears) from human eyes in more than 262 naturally-occurred cases at 10 sites in N and S Thailand during all months of the year. A few visits were also seen to eyes of zebu and dog, indicating a probable broad mammalian host range. On man the bees were relatively gentle visitors, mostly landing on the lower eyelashes from where they imbibed tears for 0.5-2.5 min, often singly but occasionally in congregations of 5-7 specimens per eye. Less typically, they also took sweat, a behavior found in 11 other species of anthropophilous meliponines which are not lachryphagous. Nine further meliponine species were not anthropophilous. Lachryphagy in bees is compared to lepidopterous tear drinking and related feeding strategies such as puddling by various insects, mostly for salt requirements but in other cases proteins are sought. We propose that L. cacciae, L. furva and P. klossi drink tears for their high content in proteins in addition to, or in lieu of pollen, rather than only for salts and water. Few reports of flower visitation, rare presence of only minor amounts of pollen on legs, reduced pilosity, absence of resin on body and legs, presence of a strongly extensible metasoma for fluid transport, are all interpreted as possible indications of an adaptation to lachryphagy for proteins. The potential hazard of pathogen transmission by eye-visiting bees is discussed.
40783246|Terrestrial communities are strongly affected by habitat area and successional stage. As generalist predators, spiders represent an important community component that may be particularly sensitive to these landscape features. We used pitfall traps to sample grounddwelling, cursorial spider abundance at 2 successional stages on an experimentally fragmented old-field site in northeastern Kansas. The site, established in 1984, includes replicate habitat patches undergoing secondary succession separated by a matrix of low turf maintained by regular mowing. Spiders were collected from traps located in large (5000 m) and small (32 m) patches during 1988 and 1990 (early succession), and 2005 (mid-succession). Total numbers collected were about 20% lower in 2005 than in 1988 and 1990. However, in all 3 yr significantly more spiders were collected by traps in large patches than by traps in small patches. The positive density-area relationship did not differ among years (no significant patch-size by year interaction), despite substantial change in patch vegetation during the 17 yr spanned by this study. The results for patch size are similar to those obtained in a study of insects sampled by sweep-net transects at the same site, which contrast with the negative density-area relationship reported for some small mammal species. The form of the densityarea relationship may be determined by the size of the animals relative to the spatial scale of habitat fragmentation.
25085345|Maxschwarzia Pagliano and Scaramozzino is an unnecessary replacement name and a synonym of Meganomia Cockerell. The name of the subfamily Meganomiinae should not be changed. Agemmonia Michener is a junior synonym of Pseudophilanthus Alfken. The species of this genus are reviewed.
25084765|Five marking techniques were tested for mark permanency on Supella longipalpa (F.). The best method (tags glued through holes burned in wings) was tested against mark-recapture assumptions for both S. longipalpa and Periplaneta americana (L.). This marking technique satisfactorily conformed to some but not all mark-recapture assumptions. Less than one percent of cockroaches of each species lost glued wing tags under field conditions, and when applied with
25086181|A new species, Homidia emeiensis, is described from Sichuan Province, China. It is similar to the Chinese species H. tiantaiensis Chen & Lin 1998 and to the Korean species H. minuta Kim & Lee 1995. The new species can be distinguished from the former by the much smaller number of macrochaetae on fourth abdominal segment (6-8 vs. 22-27) and from the latter by the much smaller number of dental spines (5-17 vs. 20-25).
40783245|Perdita (Perdita) pedernalensis Neff, new species, is described from Blanco County, Texas. It is the first member of the Perditini associated with the Rubiaceae and the only member of that tribe regularly collecting pollen from a heterostylous species.
25085252|The wingbeat frequencies of male Centris caesalpiniae flying over an aggregated nest emergence site were recorded at 30 min intervals for 4 hr. During the recording period the ambient temperature rose from 18.8 to 32.3C. The data showed a slight negative correlation with temperature, a phenomenon previously noted in large social bees. This suggests that these solitary bees, unlike many flying insects, do not increase their wingbeat frequency as temperature increases.
25085406|A review of disparate aspects of adult screwworm behavior indicates a coordination with the flies' ecology. This analysis suggests that the screwworm fly undergoes a sequence of maturational phases as an adult, each of which has a different set of behavioral, ecological and physiological characteristics. Beginning with eclosion these are: (1) the adolescent phase, (2) the sexual phase, and (3) the reproductive phase. The adolescent phase, the first two days post-eclosion, are spent roosting in flowering vegetation and feeding on nectar. At 3-4 days of age the flies become sexually active and seek mating arenas where males aggregate and copulate with passing females. The reproductively mature females, at 4-5 days of age seek out wounds on warm-blooded animals to oviposit. As the maturing fly shifts its ecological setting in response to the changes in its physiological status, its behavior, nutritional requirements and risk of mortality change accordingly. The reproductively mature phase cycles between ovipositional and interovipositional stages with a 3-day periodicity, involving alternating shifts between the oviposition site and the roosting site. The typical life span is about 10 days, which allows time for the completion of two vitellogenic cycles. A small but significant percentage of adult females achieve an extended life span of 4-5 weeks. Although the screwworm is autogenous, extended life with continuing vitellogenic cycles requires exogenous protein. The female probably obtains that protein by feeding on the serous discharge at the oviposition site.
41262854|Three new Mexican species of Panorpidae, Panorpa accola, Panorpa michoacana, Panorpa teziutlana, and one bittacid, Eremobittacus sodalium, are described, illustrated and compared to previously named species. Distributional notes are added for some other species from Mexico. An alphabetical list is included of described Mexican Mecoptera, the states in which they have been recorded and relevant literature references.
25084667|A survey of the native phytophagous insects associated with Canda thistle, Cirsium arvense (L.) Scop. (Compositae), in southern Montana yielded 57 species, representing 6 orders, 21 families, and 50 genera. Of these, only four species caused conspicuous damage to the plant. A root-boring weevil, Baris sp. (probably B. cirsii Gilbert) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), stunted plants and prevented seed production. A seed head fly, Orellia ruficauda (Fabricius) (Diptera: Tephritidae), damaged up to 38% of the seed heads. Corythucha distincta Osborn and Drake (Hemiptera: Tingidae) produced localized lesions and necrosis, but had no noticeable effect on plant growth. The painted lady butterfly, Vanessa cardui L. (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), caused extensive defoliation in localized geographical areas; however, its yearly impact on the plant is unpredictable due to its irregular migratory patterns.
25083531|Pneumolaelaps aequalipilus, mistipilus, and longipilus, all from bumble bees, are described and illustrated making a total of six species and one variety for the genus. The genus has been recorded from Europe, India, Greenland and now from North America. A key to the species, based on females, and bibliographic information is given for the known species. Information on the number of individuals and location on the host bumble bee is included for the new species.
25568924|The seasonal emergence periods from the soil of adult lesser chestnut weevil, Curculio sayi (Gyllenhal), was assessed for three years at a site in mid-Missouri using wire cone emergence traps. Two additional trap types, Circle and pyramid, were used to assess the timing of adult movement into the trees. The trap data indicated there were two distinct adult emergence periods, the first occurring in early-May and the second beginning late-August. This is in contrast to previous studies that have reported C. sayi as having only one seasonal emergence period (which occurs in the spring). Our study also examined the underground development of C. sayi. The data showed that, after leaving the chestnut, most larvae burrow to a soil depth of 7.5-15 cm where they remain for at least 19 mo, and that the weevils have an overall life cycle (egg hatch to adult emergence) of about 20-21 mo.
25084663|The non-target impact of 3 insecticides applied for variegated cutworm (Peridroma saucia) control was evaluated on short (10 cm) alfalfa in 1982 and 20 cm tall as well as short (5 cm) alfalfa in 1983. Results indicate that chlorpyrifos and methomyl treatments were more detrimental to the beneficial arthropod fauna than carbaryl treatments, but these two treatments controlled pea aphids. Carbaryl-treated plots generally had fewer beneficial arthropods 24 hr post-treatment as compared to untreated plots, but pea aphid increases were not observed at 14 days post-treatment in 1982 nor at 7 days post-treatment in 1983 in stubble alfalfa. Significantly more pea aphids were observed on 20 cm tall alfalfa in carbaryl-treated plots at 7 days post-treatment as compared to the other treatments.
25084487|Varying densities of European corn borer larvae were confined under laboratory conditions and forced to compete for artificial diet. This competition resulted in decreased larval survival, increased developmental time, decreased pupal weight, and fewer oocytes/ovariole. Developmental time from pupa to adult, sex ratio, and cause of death were not related to larval density. These results held whether larval density was measured in the 1st-instar (when larvae would normally be outside the plant) or 3rd-instar (when larvae would normally bore into the plants).
25082360|Harmostes reflexulus (Say) is a bivoltine species that overwinters as an adult. Host plants included Senecio plattensis Nutt., Erigeron strigosus Muhl., E. annus (L.), Achillea millefolium L., and Solidago missouriensis Nutt. in Missouri; and Haplopappus gracilis (Nutt.) Gray and Senecio saliguus D. C. in Arizona. There was a seasonal migration to host plants correlated with the maturity of flowering heads. Adults of H. reflexulus were parasitized by Leucostoma acirostre Reinhard (Tachinidae), and eggs by Telenomus sp. (Scelionidae). The incubation period for eggs averaged 8.5 days and nymphal development took 19 to 28 days (avg 22 days).
25084125|The laboratory life history of the water strider Trepobates subnitidus is describd. Eggs were deposited on floating corks or bits of styrofoam, were always vertically oriented, and were attached by a translucent holdfast substance. Eggs developed numerous pairs of red spots. The mean number of eggs/mass was 3.3 (1-15), mean incubation time was 14.3 days (12-18), mean length was 0.95 mm (0.86-1.02), and mean width was 0.26 mm (0.23-0.30). Descriptions of the five instars are given. The mean number of days required for completion of all instars was 37.1 (32-41).
25082586|This paper is the third in a series of four that will treat the 85 confirmed and 16 probable occurring species of Membracidae in Missouri. The tribe Smiliini of the subfamily Smiliinae is presented. The 31 species treated in part 3 are Atymna helena (Woodruff), A. querci (Fitch), Cyrtolobus arcuatus (Emmons), C. auroreus Woodruff, C. discoidalis (Emmons), C. dixianus Woodruff, C. fuliginosus (Emmons), C. funkhouseri Woodruff, C. fuscipennis Van Duzee, C. griseus Van Duzee, C. inermis (Emmons), C. maculifrontis (Emmons), C. ovatus Van Duzee, C. pallidifrontis (Emmons), C. parvulus Woodruff, C. pulchellus Woodruff, C. puritanus Woodruff, C. tuberosus (Fairmaire), C. vau (Say), Ophiderma definita Woodruff, O. evelyna Woodruff, O. flava Goding, O. flavicephala Goding, O. grisea Woodruff, O. pubescens (Emmons), O. salamandra Fairmaire, Smilia camelus (Fab.), Xantholobus intermedius (Emmons), X. lateralis Van Duzee, X. muticus (Fab.), and X. nitidus Van Duzee. Generic and specific keys are provided. Illustrations, a description, distribution, host plant records, and biological notes are given for each species treated.
25084485|Larval parasitism of 3 Psilocorsis species in central Missouri forests averaged 22% for the years 1977-1979. Twenty-three species of parasitoids were reared in the laboratory from the larvae collected. Seventeen species emerged from P. reflexella Clemens, 14 from P. quercicella Clemens, and 10 from P. cryptolechiella (Chambers). The most abundant parasitoids were the braconids Apanteles n. sp., Agathis calcarata (Cresson), and A. cincta (Cresson); the eulophid Elachertus proteoteratis Howard; the ichneumonid Diadegma psilocorsis Walley; and the 3 closely related pteromalids, Perilampus fulvicornis Ashmead, P. prothoracicus Smulyan, and P. n. sp. Elachertus proteoteratis was reared only from P. reflexella. Twenty-three new host records were obtained-9 from P. reflexella, 8 from P. quercicella, and 6 from P. cryptolechiella. Nine parasitoids reared in this study were previously reported from the same Psilocorsis host species. Sex ratios and adult emergence periods were reported for some of the most abundant parasitoid species.
25085538|Drums containing 45.36 kg (100 lbs) of shelled corn were used to test the ability of Anisopteromalus calandrae (Howard) to suppress populations of the maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky. On July 15, 1992, 10 pairs of maize weevils were released into each drum. Three weeks later, A. calandrae were released in half the treatment drums (4 replicates) at rates of 5, 10, 20 or 40 pairs. No further A. calandrae were released in these drums. At the same time, releases of A. calandrae were begun in the other treatment drums at rates of 2, 5, 10 or 20 pairs and continued at these rates for 29 weeks. Insect populations were sampled four times during the experimental period: at 8, 14, 23 and 33 weeks. In control (untreated) drums and drums from single and multiple release treatments, maize weevil populations increased from 8 weeks to 33 weeks; however, populations in the controls increased much more rapidly than in either treatment. Both single release and multiple release treatments greatly suppressed maize weevil population growth. Final population counts showed that percentage suppression was over 90% in all release rates of both treatments. At high maize weevil population levels there was no significant difference between single and multiple release treatments in suppressing maize weevil populations in drums of corn.
25083614|This paper describes a new genus, Sacatonia, and two new species, S. graminivora (N. Mex., Colo.), which seriously affects seed production in range grasses, notably in alkali sacaton, Sporobolus airoides; and Goniopsita oophaga (Idaho, B.C.), the larvae of which are predaceous on grasshopper eggs.
25083597|Chilicola ashmeadi (Crawford) visits solanaceous flowers for pollen in Costa Rica. A wide variety of herbaceous Compositae and Saracha (Solanaceae) are visited for nectar. Mating takes place on flowers. The bees nest in hollow twigs of Erythrina poeppigiana (Skeels), usually from trees killed as the result of dust from volcanic eruptions. The bee constructs a series of cells lined with a cellophane-like secretion and lays eggs on semi-liquid provisions. The developmental pattern from egg to adult was followed and the immature stages described. Females are always produced in the basal nest cells, males in the apical cells, and a male to female sex ratio of about 2: 1 was obtained from the nests. No parasites were observed. The twigs were also used for nests by the aphid wasp Stigmus temporalis Kohl (Sphecidae). The remarkable abundance of Chilicola during the wet season of 1964 was perhaps due to oligolecty on an abundant pollen source, a wide choice of nectar sources, and an unusual abundance of nest sites due to volcanic activity.
25084521|Reports of from five to seven larval instars for range caterpillar, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell, occur in the literature. Lower values occur in field studies, but are suspect because of the difficulty associated with use of frequency distributions of head capsule width for assigning instar number. Laboratory studies report higher instar numbers but are suspect because larvae are reared on artificial diet. This study used head capsule width, direct observation of molting, and native range grass as a food source, and determined that seven was the usual number of instars. Sex influenced head capsule width.
25085162|Quinoa, Chenopodium quinoa Willd. (Chenopodiaceae) is a cultivated crop endemic to the Andes of South America and grown primarily for its seed. Recently, interest in the plant has greatly increased in North America. Limited production of this crop occurs in the United States, primarily in the Rocky Mountain region, centered in Colorado. Observations of insects associated with the crop in Colorado indicate that it shares much of the fauna previously described from both sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.) and lambsquarters [C. alba (L.)]. Significant seedling injury is caused by the plant bugs Melanotrichus coagulatus (Uhler) and Atomoscelis modestus (Van Duzee), and by the seed bug, Nysius raphanus Howard. Foliar feeding species include two leafminers, a fly Pegomyia hyoscyami (Panzer) and a beetle Monoxia nr. pallida Blake; a leafcurling aphid, Hayhurstia atriplicis (L.); and various foliar feeding Lepidoptera, notably Spodoptera exigua (Hbner). The foot feeding aphid, Pemphigus populivenae Fitch, causes significant injury during the late season. Lygus spp. plant bugs appear to be the major phytophagous species associated with injuries to the developing seeds. Various entomophagous and saprophytic species frequently collected are also reported.
25084752|Extracts and fractions thereof from two corn genotypes, A619 and B37, were exposed to Sitophilus oryzae (L.) and S. zeamais Motsch. to test their comparative attractiveness to these weevils. Both species were attracted to most of the fractions. Generally, S. zeamais responded more quickly than S. oryzae. S. zeamais was also more discriminating between the two genotypes, preferring the dichloromethane and some of the ether extracts of A619 over those of B37. Several attractive components appear to be present as evidenced by the sequential extractions by different solvents of the same meal. The later extractions were still attractive. S. oryzae may not have responded as sensitively as S. zeamais because it was reared on a wheat diet.
23355958|Biographical information is provided for Dr. Jules Desneux, prominent entomologist of the early 20 th Century who contributed not only considerably to the study of termites (Isoptera) but also to our knowledge of Paussidae (Coleoptera), ancient Greek numismatics, art criticism from a scientific perspective, as well as his professional field of dermatology.
25082918|The "pars stridens" type of stridulatory apparatus in two species of Tetraopes consists of a scraper on the mid-central area of a flattened, posterior collar of the pronotum and a finely cross-striated file on the median, dorsal anterior portion of the mesonotum. Features of the file and nearby lateral areas distinguish the two species.
25084491|Two new species of Culumana, C. proba, n. sp. (Peru) and C. parvula, n. sp. (Costa Rica) are described and a revised key is prepared for the identification of the 14 described species.
23356033|The native bee community in a high grassland area in Santa Catarina State, Southern Brazil, was studied during 2001 and 2002, using entomological net sampling on flowering plants. The goals were to know the potential bee pollinators in this particular habitat, their abundance and diversity and to fill the gaps in their geographic distribution. Sixty-three bee species in 4 families were collected. Six bee species are new state records. Representatives of Colletidae were not sampled and Halictidae was strongly represented (65% of the species, mainly Dialictus and Augochloropsis). Megachilidae was sampled (5 species) as well as Andrenidae (3 species). The decreasing sequence of importance was almost the same for species and individuals, without the introduced species Apis mellifera L. Threatened (Bombus spp) and specific bee species of this environment were of particular interest. The total number of sampled taxa represent nearly thirteen percent of the bee species known to occur in Santa Catarina State. Capture rates for different bee genera varied temporally as the bees' activity was strongly influenced by the cold season. The bee species composition found shows similarity of 35% to distant but similar environments. The high grasslands in Santa Catarina State conform to an archipelago framework, that likely corresponds to an island biogeographical pattern in terms of apifauna composition and dynamics.
25083747|A new species, Neivamyrmex moseri, collected from a nest of Atta texana (Buckley) in Louisiana is described. Illustrations of the head, mandible, alitrunk, petiole and postpetiole are included.
25083643|The life histories of Lema trilineata, L. simulans, and L. jacobina in the Manhattan, Kansas, area generally were similar, but unique features such as adult feeding patterns, oviposition habits, and larval behavior were noted. Last instar larvae differed in size, color, and chaetotaxy.
25083514|Male Xenorhipis brendeli LeC. possess elaborate pectinate antennae which presumably are the sensory organs involved in locating virgin females of the same species. The male to female attraction occurs at a particular time each day. The duration of the emergence period, the time of daily emergence, and certain other biological factors are reported.
25082328|Nymphs of Chromacris colorata aggregate in masses on their host plants, forming groups of from two to several hundred individuals. Individuals have black bodies and red heads, which, with their erect antennae, probably help protect the group. Movements of the mass of individuals are synchronous, permitting cohesion of the mass at all times. There are strong indications that vision plays a major role in maintaining this synchrony. Molting and other biological characteristics are discussed in terms of their survival value. Finally, the possible origin of this behavior is presented.
25085588|Fungus gnat, Bradysia sp., larvae have been widely reported as nuisance pests of greenhouse-grown ornamentals and several field crops. Although damage to seedlings has been described, no reports have been made that describe fungus gnat feeding damage at the tissue level. The objective of this study was describing fungus gnat larvae feeding damage on stem and root tissues of crimson clover, Trifolium incarnatum L., seedlings at the microscopic level. Photomicrographs of longitudinal sections of the feeding site showed that fungus gnat larvae consumed the tissues of the epidermis and the cortex; however, the lignified tissues of the vascular cylinder were not eaten. In transverse sections of stem and root segments next to the feeding site the epidermis had a wavy appearance. This discernible variation in the stem and root anatomy was possibly due to wilting of the seedling. Wilting can cause thin cell walls, as of parenchyma cell, to collapse. Areas of collapsed parenchyma cell were observed in the cortex region of the stem and root. Similar fungus gnat damage symptoms have been observed at the macroscopic level in seedlings of other legume species. It is suspected that similar damage occurs at the microscopic level as well.
25086412|Two new species of the genus Dryinus Latreille from China are described: D. spathulatus new species, from Guangdong, Liuxihe, and Dryinus punctulatus new species, from Guangdong, Nanling. Keys are provided for the determination of the species along with illustrations of female chelae.
25086215|The biology of the wood-boring bee Lithurgus chrysurus Fonscolombe, 1834 is described and the biology of the genus Lithurgus is summarized. Lithurgus chrysurus is univoltine and over-winter as prepupae inside cocoons. The females excavate their own burrows in various dead woods and they do not reuse burrows. The cells are separated by partitions composed of cut wood pieces. To assess the diet breadth of L. chrysurus, pollen analyses were conducted on 8 samples of provisions from 3 nests and 2 feces samples from one nest. The provisions averaged 30,600 pollen grains per mg of dry matter. The proportion of broken pollen grains averaged 3.3% and was consistent among nests and for provisions and feces. Centaurea (Asteraceae, tribe Cynareae) was the dominant pollen type found in all provisions and feces, accounting for 98.0 to 99.9% of the pollen based on the number of grains. This proportion was similar among nests for both provisions and feces. These results indicate that, at the study site, L. chrysurus was strictly oligolectic on Centaurea pollen while nectar was probably collected on other plant species as well.
25568921|Social bees have been widely used as model systems for studying learning and memory. Much less is known about these phenomena in solitary bees, in spite of the fact that most bee species of the world are solitary. We explore the ability of the solitary blue orchard bee, Osmia lignaria Say, to learn and remember information when foraging. First we tested innate flower color preference using blue and white flower patches, and yellow and blue flower patches. The blue orchard bees showed a marked color preference for blue flowers in blue-white as well as in blue-yellow flower patches, even though all flowers provided the same reward. However, when white flowers offered the greater reward (either quality/molarity or quantity/volume) in blue-white dimorphic floral patches, the preference for blue readily decreased, which was not observed in control bees. Learning occurred more rapidly when a difference in reward volume rather than reward molarity was used. These results were approximately the same for males as for female bees. The information learned about flowers was retained for at least three hours.
25082819|Four new species of Osbornellus, O. lunus n.sp., O. dicerus n.sp., O. albonotus n.sp., and O. angustatus n.sp. are described from specimens from Bolivia. One species, O. lunus, is also represented by material from Brazil. New names are proposed for two species, O. apicalis n. n. for O. apicatus DeLong, the name preoccupied by O. apicatus Beamer, and the name O. linnavuourii n. n. is proposed for O. hyalinus Linnavuori which apparently was misidentified and which Linnavuori illustrated as O. hyalinus Osborn (p. 218).
25084951|Distribution records of Megachile (Eutricharea) apicalis Spinola indicate that the species was recently introduced into California. It has dispersed rapidly into the interior valleys and northward along the Coastal Range of California. Studies on seven isolated populations in 1986 suggest the species is amenable to domestication for crop pollination.
25083510|The prominent characteristics of Culicoides paraensis, C. niger, C. bermudensis, and C. bickleyi are given. C. paraensis is differentiated from both C. stellifer and C. hinmani. The identification of the U.S. form as C. bermudensis will remain doubtful until the male of this species is discovered in Bermuda. The U.S. form is compared with C. spinosus, C. hollensis, and C. crepuscularis. The specimens which are allied to C. piliferus are referred to C. bickleyi.
25084408|The distribution of Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor (Say), its parasites, and intensity of infestations on wheat in Washington were determined. On the basis of a 5-year survey (1977-1981) of wheat fields sampled in 32 counties, the insect was found to be widely distributed in western Washington and in some areas in extreme eastern Washington. In central Washington, only wheats grown under irrigation or in close proximity to irrigated wheats were infested. The majority of the state's wheat, grown as a dryland crop (about 1.1 million ha annually) in the semiarid regions of central and eastern Washington, was free of the pest. Infestations in irrigated wheats were sporadic and limited to fields in 6 central Washington counties, with the most serious infestations occurring in spring wheats. Six hymenopterous parasites were encountered, of which Homoporous sp. (Pteromalidae) was the most abundant. In some instances, parasitism exceeded 60% and was important in reducing fly populations.
25083646|Male courtship behavior in L. convexa is described in detail. Three phases are recognized: a preliminary phase leading to mounting of the female by the male, a generally extended dorsal phase in which the male rides the female while supporting himself with his fore legs and extruded genitalia, and a genital or precopulatory phase. The antennae of the male are not used in stimulating the female in any of the phases, and the antennae of the female are not contacted by the male. In the dorsal phase the male periodically rubs the middle and hind legs on the female's elytra. The duration and rate of occurrence of some of the activities of the male are shown to be affected by the response of the female. Modifications of the male's legs and genitalia presumably adaptive in courtship behavior are described and the distribution of similar traits among other species of the genus is recorded. Finally, patterns of courtship in L. convexa and other Meloinae are compared briefly. Although devoted largely to sexual behavior, this paper also contains information on adult feeding and antennal cleaning behavior as well as egg-batch size and incubation time. In addition, failure of first instar larvae to feed on the eggs of the grasshopper Melanoplus differentialis is reported.
25085665|The giant Himalayan honey bee, Apis laboriosa, was found in U.P. near Uttarkashi (el. 1300 m) and Harsil (el. 2660 m), along the gorge of the Bhagirathi Ganga, about 600 km west of its known range in Nepal. Combs at Uttarkashi were built on a south-facing cliff. These bees responded to repeated attacks by the giant hornet, Vespa mandarinia Smith, by hissing and shimmering (shaking), and foragers dropped their pollen loads. The colonies probably migrate to escape mass slaughter by these hornets, as well as to exploit alpine flowers. At Uttarkashi, in late April, foragers visited Callistemon trees 3 km. from their nests. This rare, seasonally migrating bee was a good pollinator of apple trees in early May at Harsil, and populations should be conserved. They may be viewed by eco-tourists, bringing some income to this region.
25084381|Galls of the cynipid Disholcaspis cinerosa are unequally distributed among host trees of two live oak species, Quercus fusiformis and Q. virginiana, in urban Texas environments. A few trees produce high numbers of galls, most produce low to moderate numbers, and a few have no galls. Experimental cagings of wasps of both asexual and sexual generations on apparently susceptible (A-SUS) and apparently resistant (A-RES) trees were conducted over a five-year period in Dallas. Significantly more galls of both generations were produced on A-SUS trees as compared to A-RES trees; most trees in the latter group produced very few or no galls. The A-SUS trees appeared to change in their susceptibility from year to year. It is suggested that as live oaks age, once-susceptible individuals may lose much of their capacity to produce galls of D. cinerosa.
40783183|During the dry season, males of several species of stingless bees (Meliponini) in Thailand aggregate at or near nest entrances. Mating with virgin queens occurs there, and with the male on her metasoma, such a queen commonly walks into the nest and on the nest floor. The males frequently carry pollen or propolis on the hind tibiae, which are hairy but lack corbiculae. Hind tibiae of males of such species are similar in size and shape to those of workers, a condition that might be termed isopodal, while those of males of other species are quite different from those of workers, a condition possibly termed anisopodal.
25085964|The nocturnal bees Megalopta genalis Meade-Waldo and Me. ecuadoria Friese are reported as hosts of Macrosiagon gracilis Brewer, a member of a genus more commonly parasitic on solitary wasps. These associations represent the first halictid hosts for Macrosiagon as well as the first examples of a rhipiphorid parasitizing night-flying Hymenoptera.
25085428|Seven mayfly species were caught by emergence trap from February 1990 through February 1991 at Quebrada Prieta, a second-order high-gradient stream, and a tributary of the Rio Sonodora in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Caribbean National Forest, El Verde, Puerto Rico (1818N and 6547W). Six mayfly species collected from the study site belong to the austral genera Cloeodes, Borinquena, and Neohagenulus and one to an unidentified baetid Genus A. Six species emerged throughout the trapping period, and one species, Borinquena n. sp., was restricted to October through early December. The two dominant species, Cloeodes (C.) maculipes Traver and Neohagenulus julio Traver, showed pronounced emergence fluctuations that may be seasonal. The other four species, Neohagenulus luteolus Traver, Borinquena (B.) carmencita Traver, Cloeodes (Cloeodes) sp. and baetid Genus A, displayed similar patterns of emergence but were less abundant. Moon phases showed no obvious correlations to emergence patterns of mayflies in the area. Quebrada Prieta appears to have a low diversity of mayfly fauna when compared to streams from higher latitudes.
25084489|Camponotus pennsylvanicus and Formica subsericea exhibit significant resource partitioning in their utilization of aphid honeydew. This is accomplished primarily by temporal differences in foraging activity. A marked difference in temperature activity ranges exists between the two species. C. pennsylvanicus, primarily nocturnal, moves faster at cooler temperatures than F. subsericea. The two species have different feeding strategies in honeydew collection. In spite of the evidence of partitioning, interspecific agonistic behavior is common, and C. pennsylvanicus is the dominant species in these interactions.
25082366|Serological comparisons were made among populations of Ageneotettix deorum deorum (Scudder), Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas), and Melanoplus femurrubrumfemurrubrum (DeGeer) collected from North Dakota, Nebraska, and Kansas. For each of the three grasshopper species different populations were serologically identical.
25085201|The cuticular hydrocarbons of larval Microdon albicomatus, a predatory syrphid fly, are qualitatively identical to those of its prey, the pupae of the myrmicine ant, Myrmica incompleta. Eighteen hydrocarbon components were identified, including n-alkanes, 3-methyl alkanes, 11- and 13-methyl alkanes, a single dimethyl alkane (5,17-dimethyl pentacosane) and two Z-9-monoenes (23:1 and 25:1). The cuticular hydrocarbons of worker M. incompleta were also identified and shown to contain the same components as the ant pupae, but in different relative abundances. A radiolabelling experiment using
25085374|The Phyllophaga subgenus Triodonyx Saylor is revised for the first time. Three new species are described, Phyllophaga bellamyi from southern Arizona, USA, and Phyllophaga woodruffi and Phyllophaga nogueirai from Jalisco, Mexico. Phyllophaga ecostata (Horn) is removed from the subgenus. The male and female genitalia of all species are illustrated, and a dichotomous key to the now five included species is presented. Field observations on mating behavior of P. bellamyi are discussed. /// Por primera vez se revisan las especies de Phyllophaga includas en el subgnero Triodonyx Saylor. Se describen tres especies nuevas: Phyllophaga bellamyi del Sur de Arizona, EUA, y Phyllophaga woodruffi y Phyllophaga nogueirai de Jalisco, Mxico. Phyllophaga ecostata (Horn) se excluye del subgenero Triodonyx. Se ilustran los genitales masculinos y femeninos de todas las especies, y se incluye una clave dicotmica para las cinco especies que ahora forman este subgenero. Tambin se exponen algunas observaciones sobre el comportamiento copulatorio de P. bellamyi en el campo.
25082985|Halictus caucasicus Radoszkowski, erroneously described from the Caucasus, is a senior synonym of Augochlora seminigra Cockerell and Augochlorella bidentata Michener from tropical America. This species is now placed in the genus Pereirapis.
25085558|Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers were used to examine genetic diversity within a potato leafhopper population infesting an alfalfa field in Kansas. Eight primers were used to generate a total of 52 RAPD fragments; 46 were polymorphic. All 48 potato leafhopper individuals examined had unique RAPD fragment profiles. Calculations of genetic parameters revealed little evidence of genetic linkage disequilibrium, suggesting the population was panmictic. The average genetic distance (proportion of loci at which two insects differed) was 0.29  0.11, and the estimated average level of heterozygosity per locus was 0.26  0.17. The high level of genetic variation within a potato leafhopper population infesting an alfalfa field appears to be maintained through random mating.
25085733|Variation in the relative size of the metapleural gland (bulla) was analyzed for workers of two sympatric but genetically differentiated species from the Acromyrmex octospinosus species complex. For the minor workers the increase of bulla width with pronotum width was about isometric, but the slope of this relationship gradually decreased through the media to have a slope of around 0.45 for the major workers of both species. Further analysis of relative bulla size in major workers showed that a significant proportion of the individual variation (35% in species 1 and 22% in species 2) was due to among colony differences. The significance of this variation is discussed, with particular reference to the antibiotic-producing function of the metapleural gland.
43288241|The new genus Hirsutapona is described and compared to the similar genus Hecalapona. The new genus contains H. aspira (DeLong and Freytag), new combination, type species and H. titula (DeLong and Freytag), new combination, previously included in Hecalapona (Carapona), and the following 19 new species, H. breviata, H. godoyae, H. hansoni, H. inflata, H. labella, H. lata, H. limba, H. mera and H. meta from Costa Rica; angula, H. delicata, H. granda, and H. prona from French Guiana; H. minuta from French Guiana and Suriname: H. myersi and H. mundo from Ecuador; H. dietzi and H. metano from Venezuela; and H. mediata from Brazil.
25085083|New host records for Anthrax simson habrosus (Marston) are Xylocopa varipuncta (Patton) and X. californica arizonensis (Cresson). X. micheneri micheneri (Hurd) is a host of A. xylocopae (Marston). The tigrinus group of Anthrax is polyphagous within the genus Xylocopa. Aspects of life histories and behavior of Anthrax are compared.
43288219|Two Panorpa Linnaeus (Panorpidae) are described and figured from Mexico as Panorpa pennyi, new species, from Hidalgo, and P. ultima, new species, from Michoacan and Mexico (state).
25084419|Adult and brood populations, stored honey and pollen, nest architecture and other features were recorded for 351 colonies of stingless bees in forests at low to middle elevations of central Panam. In the mature forest, up to 37 meliponine species were found, and examination of all trees cleared from a 5-hectare area revealed 30 nests of 14 species. Among 40 species, adult populations rarely exceeded 3000, and for 20 species colony size was less than 1000 workers. Colonies of Trigona subgenera Trigona and Scaptotrigona had populations in excess of 10,000 adults; the maximum was near 25,000. Most colonies had few or no males, but one nest of T. pectoralis panamensis contained 1731 males and 3470 workers. Brood populations of Melipona and Trigona were generally three to five times the number of adult bees. Only 7 species stored honey or pollen in excess of 1 liter. Honey of all species was generally between 68 and 73% sugar by weight, suggesting that antibacterial substances, for example, from resin used to make storage pots, help to prevent fermentation. Blackened and useless pollen was found in the nests of several species, typically those having large pollen stores. Trigona hypogea was found to be an obligate necrophage that does not collect pollen. Twenty-seven species nested in tree cavities, 5 used only termite nests, 4 nested in the ground, and 4 species, including T. (Plebeia) aff. minima, built exposed nests; 9 species nested in man-made cavities. Tree cavities of 9-20 cm diameter were used by most species, and 3 species constructed a soft batumen envelope, completely encompassing the nest in cavities far larger than the space it occupied. Extremely thick batumen envelopes of resin enclosed subterranean nests of T. fulviventris and nests of T. hypogea and Melipona spp. within tree cavities. The size of the opening leading to a nest cavity appeared to determine site suitability; only Melipona and T. capitata zexmeniae patched large fissures. Nest-cavity volumes ranged from 0.1-35 liters, with a mean of 8 liters. Contrary to nesting biology previously described, a nesting association with termite colonies was noted for T. pallens, and T. aff. cupira did not nest within termite nests. T. aff. cupira aggregated on trees or cliff sides in numbers sometimes exceeding 100 colonies; T. pachysoma often built nests in aggregations of 3 colonies in tree cavities. The former showed no collective colony defense of nests. All species building exposed nests displayed agressive nest-defense behavior against a large predator, but 19 other species completely lacked aggressive behavior in this context. The nest structure and distribution of two taxa of Scaptotrigona formerly regarded as subspecies of pectoralis suggest that T. barrocoloradensis be given specific status. Sympatric colonies of taxa of Oxytrigona formerly called subspecies of tataira also indicate species status of T. obscura and T. mellicolor.
25085238|Resistance to parathion and chlorpyrifos-methyl of two strains of greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), was evaluated using a vial-residue bioassay technique. The tests, repeated three times over a 3-month period, detected resistance to parathion and chlorpyrifos-methyl in a greenbug colony collected from a parathion-failure sorghum field when compared to a 3-year-old, susceptible, greenhouse colony. A gel electrophoresis test indicated that greenbugs from the parathion-failure field had an esterase band 6 times as dense as the band obtained from greenbugs form the susceptible colony. Increased esterase levels are often associated with pesticide resistance in arthropod populations.
25083549|Three new genera are described, one founded on Stilbopagus acclivus n. sp., the second on Tetraporosoma seriata n. sp., and the third, Melastolus, on Styraxodesmus chipinqueus Chamberlin. Three new species of existing genera are described-Hexodontia vesicularis, Saussurobolus boreus, and Messicobolus semiserratus-and the ranges of four previously known species are extended.
20621966|Paraboreochlus minutissimus (Strobl 1894) and Trichotanypus posticalis (Lundbeck 1898) have been collected from Gorkhi Terelj, Outer Mongolia resulting in the first record for these species and for the subfamily Podonominae (Diptera: Chironomidae) in this country. Both species were collected in habitats similar to their described habitats from Europe and North America. A review of their biogeography indicates that Trichotanypus are restricted to the more northern part of the Holarctic region and will likely be restricted to northern Mongolia; whereas Paraboroechlus has a more southern Holarctic distribution and future surveys may result in finding it in southern Mongolia, just north of the Gobi Desert.
25086108|A new species of panurgine bee from Israel, Melitturga krausi, is described and compared with its nearest relatives, M. spinosa Morawitz, 1892, and M. heinrichi Tkalc, 1978.
25084890|The nesting biology of Centris flavofasciata (Friese) (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) is presented along with descriptions of nest cell and parasite activity. Nests were located in moist sand of a beach strand along the Pacific coast of Costa Rica. In each case, a single urn-shaped cell was found at the end of a short tunnel. The tunnel of completed nests was filled with sand and the female often constructed a mound over the entrance. When present these mounds may reduce access to completed nests by the parasitic anthophorid bee, Mesoplia sp. Despite these mounds C. flavofasciata may sustain heavy parasitic pressure from this cleptoparasitic bee; 59% parasitism was recorded in a 1984 sample. Nesting activity appeared to occur in small, loose aggregations that may last less than a week, a phenomenon that may also be related to parasitic pressure.
25084021|Sexual selection theory predicts that in species where females contribute the majority of parental investment, males should compete for access to receptive females and that male risk-taking activity may result, causing increased mortality of this sex. Empirical evidence of increased mortality associated with intersexual selection is uncommon. Philanthus bicinctus, P. psyche, P. pulcher, and P. zebratus show a higher incidence of robberfly predation on males than on females as a result of conspicuous male activities associated with defense of mating territories.
25083894|Three new species of Hemicheyletia Volgin (Acarina: Cheyletidae) are described and illustrated. The new species were collected in Zaire (Belgian Congo), Mexico, Canada and U.S.A. (Wyoming), respectively. A key to the 17 known species is provided.
25084961|Taxonomic history of staphylinid beetles of the tribe Amblyopinini is discussed. Chilamblyopinus piceus, a distinctive new genus and species, is described and illustrations of diagnostic characters are provided. A key to currently recognized genera in the Amblyopinini is provided. A preliminary reevaluation of relationships among genera currently included in the Amblyopinini suggests that substantial changes in the classification may be required. Myotyphlus, which occurs in the Australian region, shares derived characters both with some members of the genus Quedius, which occur in the Australian region and with the amblyopinine genus Edrabius, which occurs in the Neotropics, as do all other amblyopinines. The monophyly of the lineage which includes these two genera is uncertain. Few characters other than structural reductions and association with mammalian hosts suggest that Myotyphlus and Edrabius are a part of a monophyletic lineage with other South American amblyopinines. In contrast, Amblyopinodes, Amblyopinus, Chilamblyopinus, and Megamblyopinus form a well supported monophyletic lineage of strictly South and Central American taxa. Chilamblyopinus appears to be the most basally derived. Megamblyopinus is a sister group to Amblyopinodes and Amblyopinus. Amblyopinodes is highly autapomorphic; however, Amblyopinus cannot be shown to be monophyletic, and may be a paraphyletic taxon in relation to Amblyopinodes. Additional characters and a more firmly established outgroup for the Amblyopinini as a whole are required for resolution of these problems.
41353894|A new genus and species of aetheogrammatid lacewings is described and figured from the Jurassic of eastern Inner Mongolia, China (Daohugou; Jiulongshan Formation). Ectopogramma kalligrammoides Engel, Huang, and Lin, new genus and species, is noteworthy for the forked c-sc crossveins and presence of veinlets between the c-sc crossveins and the presence of some marginal twigging, while still retaining many putative apomorphies with the slightly more extreme venation of Aetheogramma Ren and Engel (Early Cretaceous; Yixian Formation). The wing venation provides a tantalizing link between the more extreme venation of the younger and more derived Aetheogramma speciosum Ren and Engel, nomen emendatum, and the venation of families such as Kalligrammatidae. Ectopogramma is placed in a separate subfamily, Ectopogrammatinae, new subfamily. The genus Kalligrammina Panfilov is considered as family incertae sedis.
25082838|A preliminary survey of insects on C. sativa var. indica at three localities in the Kumaon Himalayas yielded 35 phytophagous species and 14 predators. Phorodon cannabis Pass. (Aphididae), found at two locations, also occurs in Europe and North America.
25082404|A Bombus pullatus nest 5.5 m above the ground in the foliage of a banana plant was collected at 1,400 m elevation near San Vito de Java, Costa Rica. Containing 36 presumably virgin queens, 259 workers, and 48 males, the colony has certain traits suggesting perenniality or mobility. It is postulated that the failure of bumble-bees to attain an abundance in the wet lowland tropics equivalent to that in temperate mesic habitats may be due to a shortage in tropical habitats of dry underground cavities plus the ephemeral nature of arboreal nest sites, increased predation on both individual bees and entire nests, and increased competition for arboreal nest sites by smaller social bees and ants.
43288781|Hyperapona, new genus, is described for some species formerly placed in Hecalapona DeLong and Freytag that differ in having the male subgenital plates overlapping. This genus includes seven species previously described, including: Hyperapona angera (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; H. brevisens (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; H. cena (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; H. dedeca (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; H. dumosa (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; H. quadretta (DeLong and Freytag), new combination; and H. rostella (DeLong and Freytag), new combination, and fourteen new species as follows: H. hansom, H. nana and H. parken from Costa Rica; H. camana, H. ligata,. macra and H. minispina from Panama; H. carpa, H chocoensis, H. longula, H, magdalensis, H, mima and H. misella from Colombia; and H. curvata from Ecuador. The present distribution of this new genus is from Costa Rica to Ecuador.
25086130|Antlions construct conical, mechanically unstable pits in sand for prey capture. If ants (a major prey item) have difficulty walking on inclined sand surfaces, this may explain the effectiveness of their capture by this trap design. We investigated the degree to which locomotion of ants is impaired on sandy slopes. The locomotion of ants, physical characteristics of sand, steepness of antlion pit walls, and sand-size preference of antlion larvae were evaluated using four size fractions of sand (0.1-0.25, 0.25-0.50, 0.50-0.71, and 0.71-1.0 mm diameter). An ant's probability of falling when walking on a sandy slope increased with increasing slope angle or decreasing sand-particle diameter. For a given particle size and angle of inclination, larger ants were more likely to fall and roll uncontrollably than smaller ants. The maximum inclination above horizontal (angle of repose) for sand of different particle sizes was measured. The angle of repose was higher for the finest sand fraction than for the three coarser sand fractions, but did not differ among these three coarser fractions. In each sand fraction, the steepness of pits constructed by antlions was not significantly different from the angle of repose. Antlion larvae preferentially built pits in the two finer sand-size fractions.
25084336|Telamona monticola (Fab.) (Homoptera: Membracidae) is a univoltine, solitary treehopper which overwinters as an egg. Eggs hatch the fourth week of April and the 5 nymphal instars develop in 8 weeks. Adults disperse and mate in mid-June. The life cycle is intimately associated with the oaks' phenology. Both the cryptic morphology of the treehopper and resting position change with stadia. The nymphs mimic the buds where they rest. Adult treehoppers mimic a twig base and rest on older woody tissue.
25086333|A systematic study of the chewing louse genus Acidoproctus (Phthiraptera: Ischnocera: Philopteridae) clarifies the identity of specimens placed as A. moschatae (L.) in the K. C. Emerson Collection. The described species are reviewed and A. kelloggi Carriker is placed as a synonym of A. moschatae. Acidoproctus granthami Arnold, new species is described from the freckled duck [Stictonetta naevosa (Gould)] from Australia.
25085014|A new diet was developed for adult Diabrotica virgifera virgifera. This diet forms a firm patty that adheres to the bottom of the diet container and does not spill. Beetles fed the new diet laid as many eggs as did beetles fed the old granular dry diet; egg viability was also the same for beetles fed the two diets. Not only is the new diet more resistant to spilling, but its use allows cages to be cleaned and maintained more easily and quickly. The new diet has been used in our rearing program for 6 months with no noticeable change in egg production.
25084218|Artificial swarms of 1.4 kg of black-bodied Carniolan and Caucasian honey bees selected homesites with volumes of 24.4, 43.5, and 85.1 liters (1) and with an average volume of 72.3 1. They rejected smaller cavities that were acceptable to yellow-bodied Italian swarms. Swarms consisting of 0.5 kg of black-bodied bees selected homesites of 13.3 1 volume in addition to the 3 larger sizes. The mean size selected was 45.4 1. Sites 50 to 200 m from the cluster were selected in preference to those farther away. The swarms showed no preference between sheltered and unsheltered sites but did select those whose entrances faced downwind.
25084447|Three new species of Costanana, C. santana (Brazil), C. circumaga and C. apicata (Panama), and a new species of Acuponana, A. cincta (Brazil), are described.
25085559|Dominance interactions among workers may influence division of labor within the worker caste of eusocial insect colonies. We examined the relationships between body size, dominance interactions, and age-based division of labor in the advanced eusocial (swarm-founding) wasp Polybia occidentalis (Olivier). Workers progressed through a series of task sets as they aged (age polyethism), but within task sets there was individual variability in the age of first task performance. Smaller-bodied workers passed through the age polyethism sequence more slowly: worker body size, as indicated by the length of the mesothoracic wing costa vein, bore a negative relationship with the age of first performance of tasks outside the nest. Larger-bodied workers therefore performed tasks that removed them from opportunities for direct reproduction in the nest interior at an earlier age. Smaller workers were also more likely to be dominant in observed social interactions, suggesting that patterns of social dominance are involved in structuring division of labor among P. occidentalis workers, with larger workers playing a subordinate role.
25082921|A comparative analysis of terrestrial and aquatic locomotion is used to show that swimming has evolved from the jumping of Melanoplus differentialis. Analyses of swimming movements, together with mechanical considerations, demonstrate that thrust is generated by the difference in velocity between the power and return strokes of the hind tibiae. With these facts we propose the argument that a behavioral modification has preceded a morphological change in the evolution of swimming in this animal.
25082944|A new species of the Proteriades subgenus Xerosmia is described from northwestern New Mexico. Both sexes are diagnosed and biological notes on nests, cells, and cocoons are included. Characteristics are given for separating P. zuni n. sp. from P. xerophila (Cockerell).
25084349|The Mylabrina Group of the genus Pyrota Dejean is defined to include 11 North American species: Pyrota concinna Casey, P. palpalis Champion, P. deceptiva Selander, P. mylabrina Chevrolat, P. perversa Dillon, P. punctata Casey, P. fasciata Selander, P. terrestris Selander, P. insulata (LeConte) (=P. terminata LeConte, new synonymy), P. engelmanni LeConte, and P. sinuata (Olivier). The group is characterized by a distinctive trifasciate elytral color pattern, consisting of a basal, median, and apical black fascia on an orange or yellow background. Data on seasonal and geographic distributions are summarized. Two species are found in the eastern United States, the remainder in the southwestern United States and adjacent areas in Mexico. Five species feed on Compositae, one on Malvaceae, two on Scrophulariaceae, one largely on Leguminosae, and one on Solanaceae and Malvaceae. Color pattern varies greatly in several species, in some cases showing a marked geographic trend. Although the species are surely aposematic, there is no indication that geographic variation in color pattern is influenced by mimetic relationships among species. A key to species of the group in the adult stage is presented, complete specific synonymies are given, and, except for those described by Selander (1963), the species are redescribed.
25084671|Original observations and published accounts are summarized regarding the use of vibratory pollen harvesting (buzz pollination) by bees from non-poricidally dehiscent anthers. Although buzz pollination by bees working poricidal flowers such as Solanum or Cassia is well known, examples of bees using vibratile methods to collect pollen from flowers with non-porose anthers is not. This phenomenon is now known for four bee genera (Bombus, Megachile, Xenoglossa and Xylocopa) on nine plant genera (Argemone, Cucurbita, Fallugia, Melampyrum, Pedicularis, Potentilla, Rosa, Rubus, and Senecio) in five plant families (Asteraceae, Cucurbitaceae, Papaveraceae, Rosaceae, and Scrophulariaceae). With the exceptions of Cucurbita, Melampyrum, Pedicularis and Senecio, these flowers share a common floral morphology. They offer massed stamens in a "shaving brush" or "tuft" presentation and often produce only pollen and no nectar.
25083715|The western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis, can locate and excavate workers buried in sand. Ants dug to any large part of a worker's body, and to ant larvae and pupae, but more slowly than to intact adults. Digging was oriented by odors detected by the antennae. The odors passed through waxed paper, but not through Saran wrap.
25084326|A synopsis of the planthopper genus Prokelisia Osborn for the United States is presented. Prokelisoidea McDermott is synonymized with Prokelisia. Five species of Prokelisia are recognized: P. dolus, n. sp., P. carolae, n. sp., P. salina (Ball), new combination, P. marginata (Van Duzee), and P. crocea (Van Duzee). P. constricta (Crawford) and P. frontalis (Crawford) are synonymized with P. salina, and P. setigera (Osborn) is synonymized with P. marginata.
25085546|The subfamily Oxyporinae (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) has one included genus, Oxyporus Fabricius. Members of the genus are obligate inhabitants of higher, fleshy fungi. The Illinois fauna of Oxyporus includes nine species from two subgenera. A key for the identification of adults, descriptions, fungal host lists, and distribution maps are provided for each species. Oxyporus vittatus bicolor Fauvel is reduced to synonymy with O. vittatus Gravenhorst.
25568939|Alley cropping is an integrated land management practice growing economic crops between rows of trees. This paper examines the effects of alley cropping on carabid beetles and other ground dwelling arthropod predators on species diversity and abundance by testing for differences among ground vegetation treatments in alleyways. Arthropods were collected with pitfall traps in two alley-cropped areas using the ground cover treatments of alfalfa, smooth bromegrass, and a vegetation-free control. Although not generally statistically significant, brome had the lowest means of any of the ground vegetation treatments, possibly due to the relative impenetrability of the thick grass. We found few significant differences among treatments. Carabidae numbers were negatively correlated with relative humidity and positively correlated to soil temperature and moisture. Sampling methods other than pitfall trapping are needed in future studies to clarify the role of ground cover in arthropod predator diversity and abundance in an alley cropping practice.
25085105|The life history of Spalangia cameroni Perkins collected in Brittany, France, and maintained on Musca domestica L. pupae in the laboratory for 15 generations was studied. The daily survival of the females was 0.7692. The mortality time when 50%, 90%, and 95% of the parasites had died was determined to be 3.0, 8.77 and 11.4 days, respectively. The mean number of parasitized pupae per female per day, and the mean number of
25084822|The effect of drought-stressed wheat on survival and reproduction of the corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch) was studied using polyethylene glycol 1000 M.W. as a matricum in hydroponic solution to simulate drought. Fecundity, longevity and reproductive period declined linearly as the level of drought stress increased. However, mean offspring per day, pre-, and post-reproductive period were not significantly affected by stress.
25084732|Over a 2-week period, mated sunflower moths, Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst), of a laboratory colony deposited an average of 337 eggs per female. The reproductive potential of some females appeared to be substantially higher than the mean. Females from diapause larvae produced fewer eggs than those from nondiapausing larvae, while egg deposition by virgins was about one-fourth that of mated diapause females. The virgins produced fewer eggs in their ovaries and also retained mature eggs longer than mated females. All females did not have mature eggs at eclosion and some would not mate on the day following eclosion. At 27C, egg deposition reached a peak at 3 days post-eclosion, and some viable eggs continued to be deposited at the end of 13 subsequent days. Under laboratory conditions, with a 12:12 light-dark regimen, oviposition was initiated and peaked during the early part of the scotophase, while most mating occurred during the last 3 hours of the scotophase.
25084151|The behavior of the carpenter bee, Xylocopa pubescens Spinola within the nest was observed using X-ray technology. Bees that nested in pre-constructed wooden nests within a special observation box were observed from the onset of the season in February and March to its cessation in November. Until the first-generation progeny emerge in May and June, the bees undergo a solitary phase that includes cell building, provisioning, and ovipositing. Once the brood has emerged, the bees enter a parasocial phase in which the mother feeds the teneral bees by trophallaxis in addition to performing the other above-mentioned chores; whereas they guard the nest against invaders. An apparent hierarchy exists among the female progeny, with the same female performing the guard duties most of the time. Once the progeny have matured and mated, the females establish their own nest tunnels, often as branches of the mother's nest. The compound nest that is thus formed is guarded jointly by its various female inhabitants.
25568937|In bees, both body size and shape may show considerable variation associated with differences between females and males, among populations, and due to local environmental variation. We studied multiple parameters of body size and shape of the large carpenter bee Xylocopa virginica, to understand how body size and shape are influenced by sex, and by seasonal and annual variation. In addition, we compared bees from a population near the northern edge of the range (southern Ontario, ON) which experience relatively severe winters, to bees from the central portion of the range (Maryland, MD), which experience milder winters. Overall, males and females differed in linear dimensions but were more or less the same mass. Seasonal variability was investigated using ON bees. In winter, females and males had the same overall mass, but male thoracic volume and linear dimensions such as head capsule width, intertegular width, and costal vein length, were all larger for a given mass. In summer, males weighed less than females, due to loss of mass from the abdomen. Year-to-year differences in size and shape were indicated in MD bees, which exhibited significant differences in linear dimensions and dry mass, but not wet mass. In addition, northern bees were smaller than southern bees in terms of linear dimensions, but it is not entirely clear if overwintering mass differs. We suggest that seasonal and sex differences in size are related to the different flight activity patterns of males and females in summer, and that geographic differences between the two populations are related to the length and duration of winters.
25085874|Male and female Ceratitis capitata employ at least nine different behavior patterns during aggressive interactions that include possible visual, auditory, and tactile stimuli. Male flies of a 4.5 year old mass-reared strain were less aggressive in some respects than wild flies.
25085660|On legumes, Plathypena scabra (F.), are parasitized by Cotesia marginiventris (Cresson), Diolcogaster facetosa Ashmead, and Aleiodes nolophanae (Ashmead); these primary parasitoids are hyperparasitized by Mesochorus discitergus (Say). D. facetosa and A. nolophanae are host-specialists and C. marginiventris and M. discitergus are host-generalists. In the first experiment, we tested the hypothesis that the specialists are more vagile than the generalists by placing trap plots consisting of either the native tick-trefoil, Desmodium paniculatum L., or soybean, Glycine max (L.) Merrill, between and within legume fields. D. facetosa parasitism of P. scabra placed in trap plots outside legume fields was high, while parasitism by C. marginiventris was low in those plots. This result suggested higher vagility of the host-specialist compared with the host-generalist. In addition, tick-trefoil and soybean plots were equally apparent to both parasitoid species. In the second experiment, we tested the hypothesis that generalist parasitoids respond to a broader range of volatiles than specialist parasitoids. The flight response of the four parasitoid species to volatiles was measured in a flight tunnel in no-choice assays. The 2 test odors used were green leaf volatiles released from soybeans damaged mechanically, and the plant-host complex that included soybeans fed upon by P. scabra larvae and P. scabra larvae plus associated kairomones. All 4 parasitoid species initiated upwind flight to green leaf volatiles, but the host-specialist, A. nolophanae, responded more strongly to the plant-host complex than to green leaf volatiles. Some upwind flights in the absence of volatile release were observed, but they were too few to explain the response of the parasitoids to green leaf volatiles or the plant-host complex.
25083969|Females of the anthophorid bee Centris pallida Fox vary in body size. In this study female size was significantly correlated with the dimensions of the brood pot (in which provisions for the offspring were stored) and the weight of the progeny (as a mature post-defecating larva). The degree of correlation between these variables differed in two populations. This might have stemmed from differences in density of nests in the two areas or differences in the degree of likelihood of nest failure as perceived by females of the two populations. Some females build two nests (each with a single brood pot) that have the same nest entrance; the weights of pairs of larvae found in close proximity are highly correlated. This is the only evidence bearing on the degree to which given females are committed to produce offspring of fixed size. The large number of variables that could potentially influence a female's decisions about allocation of resources to her progeny may contribute to the maintenance of size variation in this bee, despite the fact that larger-than-average individuals appear to enjoy greater reproductive success under some circumstances.
25085372|The within-plant distribution of and leaf area covered (LAC) by Banks grass mite, Oligonychus pratensis (Banks), colonies were investigated on 21 sorghum lines and on the commercial variety 'Wheatland' in dryland and irrigated treatments. The sorghums were previously classified as pre-flowering, post-flowering, overall drought-resistant or drought-susceptible. In the dryland plot, LAC was lower for pre- and post-flowering drought-resistant sorghums than for drought-susceptible ones on all sampled leaves, whereas LAC for overall drought-resistant sorghums was lower only on the flag leaf. There were no differences in LAC among the sorghums tested in the irrigated plot. In addition, spider mite colonies were concentrated on the upper leaves in the irrigated plot and on the lower leaves in the dryland plot. This information is useful for sampling spider mite colonies or modeling spider mite population dynamics on grain sorghum grown in irrigated or dryland environments.
25085137|In 1987 and 1988, 44 Missouri cornfields were sampled with wireworm (Coleoptera: Elateridae) baits. Wireworms were present in 25 percent of the sampled fields. White grubs were also attracted to the baits and were found in 13.6 percent of the fields. Four Melanotus species and Aeolus mellillus Say were collected. Wireworms were most common in fields with a history of sod, and significantly more wireworms were found in fields with a history of wireworm damage. Tillage practices did not appear to be closely related to potential economic infestations.
25083056|A new species, Paracymus seclusus, is described and its genitalia figured. It is also correlated with an earlier key to the Nearctic Paracymus.
25085859|Aspects of the symbiotic relationship of a species of Nanocladius (Plecopteracoluthus) associated with mayfly nymphs in a mountain stream in Arizona are described including its prevalence on three host species, infestation pattern, attachment site selection and feeding behavior. Larvae of this species, designated here as N. (P.) sp. 2, were found primarily on nymphs of Thraulodes sp. (Leptophlebiidae) and occasionally on Choroterpes sp. (Leptophlebiidae) and Leucrocuta sp. (Heptageniidae). Sixty-seven of 116 (58%) Thraulodes sp. nymphs from one collection site harbored from 1-5 N. (P.) sp. 2 larvae (abundance: 0.99 larvae/nymph; mean intensity: 1.72 larvae/host nymph). The range of larval attachment sites on the host became narrower as larvae matured. Most 3rd and 4th instar larvae constructed tubes on Thraulodes sp. that extended from the thorax between the middle and hind coxae posteriorly to the 7th abdominal segment along the lateral margin of the tergites. Pupation occurred within this tube with the pupa oriented posteriorly. The gut contents of larvae and presence of scars at sites of larval attachment on hosts indicate N. (P.) sp. 2 fed upon host hemolymph. Larval feeding and tube construction resulted in gill reduction, or deformation as well as scarring of gill and other body surfaces. However, parasitized Thraulodes sp. nymphs were capable of metamorphosis to adulthood. Dispersion patterns of larvae and pupae across the host population imply intraspecific competition or parasite-induced mortality may limit the parasite's population size. The life stage structure of N. (P.) sp. 2 from this stream suggested the population was not synchronized, but was likely comprised of at least two overlapping generations at the time of collection. Early instars were most abundant on large, late-instar nymphs and on nymphs harboring later midge instars. Late instar larvae of the older cohort tended to be more prevalent on less mature nymphs, suggesting the parasite and/or the host may affect the others' development. Because collections were limited to only one date, the hypotheses presented should be regarded as speculative and tentative until a more extensive study can be performed.
25085830|Nests of the tropical social wasp Polybia accidentalis run a low risk of infestation by the phorid fly Megaselia scalaris. To test the role of the nest envelope in keeping risk low, we compared infestation rates between nests with the lower envelope experimentally removed and intact nests. Nests with experimentally removed envelopes were more likely to be infested with phorids than nests with intact envelopes. More phorids emerged from nests whose envelopes had been experimentally damaged than from nests whose envelopes had been left intact.
25083498|Known host records and plant relationships of Conopidae recorded in the literature are reviewed and new ones added from original observations and from data on determined specimens. Two new phoretic relationships involving meloid and rhipiphorid larvae on conopids are presented.
25084115|The four Antillean species of Neotrachys are distinguished in a key, redescribed, discussed, and figured: N. hoffmani (Puerto Rico), N. dominicanus (Dominica), N. fennahi (Dominica, St. Lucia), and N. guadeloupensis (Guadeloupe). N. fennahi and N. hoffmani have been collected on tree ferns.
25086114|A new species of leafcutting bee, Megachile (Pseudocentron) jerryrozeni is described from Grand Cayman Island and Cayman Brac, West Indies. It is closely related to M. poeyi, from which it can be distinguished by pubescence and integumental color.
25083642|Greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rond.), were observed from 1962 to 1965 under reduced and increased air pressures. Reproduction was normal at the reduced pressure of 0.58 atmospheres. However, at 0.35 atm reproduction was greatly reduced, life span shortened and moulting time increased. They did not survive at 0.20 atm. At 5.0 atm of pressure, the life span was shortened from 39 to 8 days and reproduction from 2.9 progeny per day to 0.7. At 7.0 atm, their life span was 2.3 days with no reproduction, and at 9.4 atm, they lived 10 hours.
25086246|We examined the composition of pollen loads of female alfalfa leafcutting bees (Megachile rotundata) at a location where a variety of flowering plants were available, but where alfalfa (Medicago sativa) provided the vast majority of flowers. All females carried alfalfa pollen. Based on counts of pollen grains, pollen loads were greater than 90% alfalfa on three-quarters of the females collected in July and on nearly two-thirds of those collected in August. A single non-alfalfa pollen made up the majority of the loads on just 6% of females. The most common alternative pollen sources were yellow sweetclover (Melilotus officinalis), and Brassicaceae and Chenopodaceae whose pollens we could not distinguish at the species level. In both July and August, the diversity of pollen types on females was positively correlated with flower diversity within 50 m of shelters. This and other studies indicate that M. rotundata is an opportunist capable of exploiting a variety of plant taxa and flowers of different structure.
25084418|Soybean cultivars "Bonus," "Williams," "Fiskeby V" and "McCall" were infested with Tetranychus urticae at plant growth stages from V2 to R6. Effects of the timed infestations on dry-matter production in the various cultivars and effects of plant age on vertical migration of the mites were determined. Early infestation (V2) produced the largest reduction in dry matter, but late infestation (R5) also significantly reduced dry matter. Williams was able to withstand mite infestation better than were the other cultivars. Plant age influenced vertical migration as shown by a definite movement up the plant to the younger, more nutritious leaves.
40783184|A 5 yr field study evaluated 49 sunflower, Helianthus annum L., accessions, and 5 interspecific crosses for resistance to infestation by naturally occurring populations of the red sunflower seed weevil, Smicronyx fulvus LeConte (Coleoptera: Curculionidae). Germplasm with potential sources of resistance to attack was identified. The accession PI 162453 averaged only 8% damaged seed per head in 3 yr of testing and PI 431545 averaged 8% damaged seed per head in 4 yr of trials. The accessions PI 431542 and PI 650375, which were tested for five years, averaged 5% and 10% damaged seed per head, respectively over the study. PI 431542 averaged less than 6% in all but one year of testing. Additional accessions that appeared promising in two consecutive years of trials included PI 195573, PI 219649, PI 250085, and PI 432516. Hybrid 894 consistently had high seed damage from S. fulvus feeding. Results revealed potential for developing resistant genotypes for decreasing seed feeding injury by the red sunflower seed weevil. Research is in progress to introgress resistance genes from the identified lines into cultivated sunflower through conventional breeding facilitated by the use of markerassisted selection.
25085036|Two new species of Willemia Brner and one new species of Paraxenylla Murphy inhabiting littoral habitats from La Paz, Baja California, are described and their morphological adaptations to interstitial and to aquatic habitats are discussed.
25084682|Nests of Tetralonia lepida from Oklahoma are described. The nests, probably second nests of each female, are similar to those of the Palearctic T. lanuginosa. Nests of only one other North American Tetralonia have been described.
25085519|The solitary vernal bee, Habropoda laboriosa, nests in deep, well-drained sandy soils of the southeastern U.S. Females may nest gregariously or singly beneath hardwood forest litter, in open sand, or in the walls of large earthen holes. Their persistent nesting aggregations serve as encounter sites for non-territorial males seeking emerging virgin females. Except for its multiple-celled nests, the nest architecture of H. laboriosa resembles that of H. pallida. Future nesting management needs are discussed for situations where H. laboriosa is desired as a pollinator of commercial blueberries.
25084668|This paper contains a taxonomic list of the 26 species of army ants (Ecitoninae) in the United States of America, along with keys to the males and workers, 149 figures, distribution maps, a graph of male flight periods, discussion and cited references.
25086022|The predatory capabilities of Phalangium opilio (L.) (Opiliones: Phalangiidae) on Helicoverpa zea (Boddie) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) eggs and first-instar larvae were tested in two types of arenas. In laboratory petri dish trials, eggs and first-instar larvae of H. zea were acceptable prey for fourth- and sixth-instar and adult female P. opilio, but not for second instars. Although fourth-instar, sixth-instar, and adult female P. opilio were able to attack H. zea eggs at relatively high rates in a petri-dish arena, only sixth-instar and adult P. opilio successfully searched for H. zea eggs in a caged soybean-plant arena.
25082733|The development of Myrmex laevicollis (Horn) in asexual generation galls of Disholcaspis cinerosa (Bassett) on twigs of Quercus virginiana Mill., is discussed. Eggs of the weevil are deposited in galls which were formed the previous year and from which the gall-makers have emerged. A generation of weevils requires one year for completion. Weevil larvae feed on the woody tissue of the old galls and pupation takes place within the larval feeding tunnel. The larval and pupal stage of M. laevicollis are described and illustrated. In addition, the life history, hosts and habits of other species of Myrmex and related genera are reviewed.
25084513|The genus Rachicerus is revised for the Nearctic region, and its placement in the family Rachiceridae (Diptera) is discussed.
25083491|Erythroneura bigemina is recognized as a species restricted to mockernut hickory, whereas the twenty new species of the genus described here are found on oaks and elms. A few new terms are used in describing characters of the male terminalia.
25086105|Pollen loads were examined and pollen species identified from 70 females of the unfortunately named Andrena astragali Viereck and Cockerell. Specimens were collected over 60 years and were from four states (CA, ID, UT, WY). At all sites, in all years, Andrena astragali is an oligolege of the putatively toxic death camas (Zigadenus: Liliaceae); species of locoweed (Astragalus: Leguminosae) are visited occasionally, probably for nectar.
25086355|To quantify mortality of Galerucella calmariensis L. preimaginal life stages in wetlands, which influences levels of biological control of purple loosestrife, Lythrum salicaria L., we sampled G. calmariensis for 19 wk during 2004 in two Iowa wetlands. At each site, we randomly collected 15 to 19 L. salicaria stems that were either surrounded by water or not surrounded by water for a total of 30 stems per site on each sample date. At each site, partial life tables were constructed for egg, first instar, and second-third instars. Stem location (surrounded by water and not surrounded by water) did not affect mortality from egg to second-third instar, thus data were pooled to create a partial life table for each site. At Site 1, insect predators (Coccinellidae) were present on 16% of the sampled dates and at Site 2 insect predators (Coccinellidae and Chrysopidae) were present on 11% of the sampled dates. Mortality from egg to second-third instar was over 99% at both sites. Using the same L. salicaria stems collected for the partial life table, we longitudinally sliced the L. salicaria stems, to determine the pupation site of G. calmariensis within L. salicaria stems surrounded by water. Eighty-six pupae were collected within stems of L. salicaria plants surrounded by water from Site 1. No pupae were found within stems of L. salicaria in dry areas or from Site 2. This is the first report of G. calmariensis pupating within L. salicaria stems. In a laboratory study, three soil moisture treatments (0, 30, and 60% soil moisture) were used to determine soil moisture effects on G. calmariensis eclosion. No eclosion was observed from the 60% treatment. Eighty-four percent of adults eclosed from the 30% soil moisture treatment compared to 56% in the 0% treatment. The number of days (4) to eclosion was similar in the 0 and 30% soil moisture treatments. Abiotic and biotic factors affect G. calmariensis mortality and levels of biological control may vary relative to these factors.
25085240|Wheat streak mosaic virus was shown by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and an infectivity assay to be transmitted from wheat to sorghum by the wheat curl mite, Eriophyes tulipae Keifer, in both the field and laboratory under high inoculum pressure. However, based on infectivity assays and symptomology, transmission was sporadic, inefficient, and probably of limited epidemiological significance. Sorghum varies in susceptibility to the wheat curl mite, and some cultivars may serve as interim hosts during periods when wheat is not available.
25084939|In north temperate regions Halictus ligatus has an annual colony cycle as found in almost all other social sweat bees. However, in the extreme south of Florida, this species is continuously brooded and multivoltine (i.e., it has overlapping colony cycles with one complete cycle lasting for a few months) and the matrifilial societies exhibit a markedly reduced reproductive division of labour. Several series of collections were made along the length of Florida to determine where the transition between the annual and continuously brooded colony cycles occurs. An annual colony cycle seems to be retained at least as far south as Tampa; the continuously brooded populations are restricted to the extreme south of Florida.
25085347|I. apicola is the most ubiquitous mite associated with the alkali bee. It is phoretic upon the bee, dropping off into new cells as they are constructed and provisioned. It is a fungivorous commensal capable of completing its life cycle in cells containing diseased or healthy bees. In cells containing healthy bees, foundress mites normally initiate ovogenesis only at the time of larval bee defecation. An undescribed species of Ascosphaera is suggested as being of fundamental importance to I. apicola. This fungus is ingested by the developing bee larva and germinates in the gut, where it develops without harming the bee, and is passed in the feces, stringing the fecal pellets together in characteristic fashion. Its presence probably cues the initiation of ovogenesis in female. I. apicola, and it is also a primary source of mite food. The mite life cycle in the bee cell is discussed, together with observations on mite behavior. Female mites overwinter in the bee cell and attach to emerging bees the following summer. Interactions between the bee, the mite, and the fungus are discussed.
25082552|The egg and 5 nymphal instars of Sinea complexa Caudell are described and illustrated. Egg development in the laboratory took approximately 12.0 days. The average time spent in each of the 5 nymphal stages was 11.1, 7.5, 8.5, 10.7, and 15.1 days, respectively. S. complexa overwinters as adults and has 2 complete generations a year in central Missouri. Notes on the biologies of Fitchia aptera Stl, Sinea diadema (Fab.), and S. spinipes (Herrich-Schaeffer) are included. A tachinid parasite, Xanthomelanodes arcuatus (Say), was reared from a 5th instar of S. spinipes. Parasites obtained from eggs of Arilus cristatus (L.) were: Anastatus reduvii (Howard) and Ooencyrtus clisiocampae (Ashmead). Prey records of A. cristatus included: Apis mellifera L., Euschistus servus (Say), and a salticid spider.
25085001|Six species of Sphegigaster Spinola are recognized from the Nearctic region: S. aurata (Ashmead), S. cracentis, n. sp., S. conchyliatus, n. sp., S. euryepomis, n. sp., S. pallicornis (Spinola), and S. salicinus, n. sp. A key to distinguish these species is presented. The new species are described and a diagnosis, distributional record, and summary of the known biology is given for each species. A table of known hosts and host biologies of the world Sphegigaster species is also presented. Sphegigaster species are internal or external parasitoids of leaf-, stem-, flower-, or fruit-mining larvae of Agromyzidae (Diptera) or larvae of gall-forming Cecidomyiidae (Diptera).
25086079|This fourteen year long study in the Florida scrub on the Lake Wales Ridge demonstrated that visually searching for open burrows of Geolycosa spiders was an effective method for sampling populations in the winter dry season, except one year when abnormally high precipitation during an El Nio event caused many spiders to close their burrows. Not only could the two endemic Geolycosa species be identified by the architecture of their burrow entrances (G. xera archboldi McCrone was aturricolous and G. hubbelli Wallace was turricolous), but the diameter of the burrow opening was highly correlated with the size of the resident spider and the volume of its burrow. The two syntopic Geolycosa species preferred different microhabitats: G. xera archboldi regardless of size was found in barren sand (0-10% litter coverage) whereas G. hubbelli shifted preference as it grew in size (going from 20 to 80% litter coverage). In addition each species exhibited significant habitat preferences: G. xera archboldi was most common in sand pine scrub with rosemary, the most xeric and least common habitat in the scrub; G. hubbelli was most abundant in scrubby flatwoods with sand live oak and in ridge sandhill with scrub hickory, both of which are relatively mesic sites with open canopies.
25086016|Phyllobaenus dubius (Wolcott) larvae and adults are predatory on larvae of the wheat stem sawfly, Cephus cinctus Norton. Some sawfly larvae are killed before host stems are cut. Phyllobaenus dubius larvae fed on sawfly larvae and survived to the adult stage in the laboratory.
25083005|A continuous record of weight changes in the nests of Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson during nest construction, provisioning, and oviposition was obtained with an electronic recording balance. Nesting bees carried mud loads of 13.9% and provision loads of 7.1% of their body weights. An average of 8 mud loads was used for cell partitions in female cells and 6 loads in male cells. Fabre's threshold was constructed in 85% of nests 7.2 mm diameter or larger. Average lengths of cells with and without thresholds were 15.4 mm and 17.9 mm respectively, but average cell volumes were nearly equal at 1.3
25083853|The new genus Mexalictus is proposed for three new species of Halictini from Mexico and Arizona and distinguished from the similarly metallic Dialictus and Halictus (Seladonia). Species of Mexalictus exhibit restricted ranges at elevations above 1700 meters.
25084145|Queens from crowded honey bee colonies which were preparing to swarm contained no less (E)-9-oxodec-2-enoic acid (queen substance) than similar-age queens from uncrowded colonies not preparing to swarm. This finding is not consistent with the hypothesis that the mechanism regulating queen rearing for colony reproduction is a drop in the production of queen substance.
25084803|A neotype and neoallotype female are designated for Brueelia rotundata (Osborn). B. cryptoleucus Ansari, 1957, is synonymized with B. biocellata (Piaget, 1880). New host records are given for B. glandarii perisoreus, B. deficiens, B. biocellata and B. rotundata. A key is provided for the separation of the known Brueelia from North and Central American Corvidae.
25086424|The pollen-collecting behavior of three species of the South American Andean bee genus Brachyglossula is reported. Species studied are B. martinezi Trucco Alemn, B. communis Trucco Alemn, and B. ancasti Roig Alsina and Schlumpberger, new species. The new species, which is comparatively described and illustrated, inhabits the isolated mountain range of Sierra de Ancasti, in the province of Catamarca, Argentina. Observation of the bees in the field, and pollen counts from scopal loads strongly support specialization of these bees on the Cactaceae. Members of both major cactus subfamilies, the Opuntioideae and the Cactoideae, are frequently visited and represented in the pollen loads.
25085718|Pollination systems involving solitary bees and flowers are of particular interest because it is possible to correlate bee foraging behavior directly with reproductive output of both the plant (through seed set) and the bee (through the pollen and nectar in a provision mass). A simple pollination model is presented here as a useful tool for understanding the reproductive output of alfalfa and its solitary bee pollinator, Megachile rotundata (Fabr.) (Megachilidae). In particular, the question is raised whether there is a tradeoff between seed yields and bee yields as the number of introduced female bees increases. This question has implications for the management of the alfalfa seed crop. Such a tradeoff requires a maximum bee yield at some optimum number of introduced females, and an increase in seed yields when introduced females increase above the bee yield optimum. Both of these requirements were met if male nectar visits account for a substantial amount of pollination, and if search time is sufficiently slow when open flowers are scarce. Male nectar visits can interfere with reproductive potential of the bee species, creating a bee yield optimum. Slow search times cause seed yields to increase when the number of introduced females is greater than the bee yield optimum.
25082822|Formica bradleyi belongs to the neogagates species-group. It ranges from southern Alberta and Manitoba to Colorado and Kansas and from 300-2600 m. It has been found nesting only in very sandy soil at the base of pioneer grasses. The observations were made in North Dakota. Colonies were small, ranging from 300-1200 workers. The diet was omnivorous. The average depth of the nest was 75 cm. Nest structure is described. Workers were active on the surface between 7-38 C. The depth of frost penetration was determined by the snow cover; if the frost line was above the hibernacula the queen and most workers survived; if below, most of the workers perished. The principal enemies were tiger beetles (larvae and adults), ant lions, Bufo cognatus and slave-making ants. F. bradleyi was often found as the slave of F. rubicunda; slave raids are described. Mating behavior was observed: alates were released a few at a time on several successive days; massive marriage flights were not observed. The mutualistic behavior of F. bradleyi with cicadellids, membracids and coccids is reported.
25084965|European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis Hbner, host plant resistance studies with maize, Zea mays L., cultivars Mo-2 ECB (resistant), MFA 5802 (susceptible), and WF9  W182E (susceptible) indicate that antibiosis is the most important resistance mechanism in Mo-2 ECB for first and second generation ECB. Mo-2 ECB has nonpreference (to oviposition by ECB) resistance to first generation ECB. For second generation ECB, when Mo-2 ECB was compared to MFA 5802, fewer eggs were deposited on Mo-2 ECB, but Mo-2 ECB was preferred for oviposition when compared to WF9  W182E.
25085106|Honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) are used in field cages to control pollination of sunflowers (Helianthus spp.). A 3 year study was conducted to determine if bees held in confinement (for periods of 12 and 36 hr) would carry viable pollen from outside sources through the hive and into the caged cytoplasmic male sterile sunflowers. Results show there was no significant difference in seed produced or germination percentage of seed between the control treatment (no bees) and the treatments where the bees were held in confinement after foraging. It was determined that minimal contamination (0.13%) occurred, and this method was useful in preserving the genetic integrity of accessions being increased.
25084173|Schinia mitis moths and larvae display exclusive preference for Pyrrhopappus flowering and immature fruiting capitulae as mating and oviposition sites, and food sources. The seasonal cycle and diurnal activity of Schinia mitis coincide with flowering period and anthesis of Pyrrhopappus, respectively. Nectar foraging, mating, and oviposition occur on fully open or closing flowering capitulae. Synchronous mating occurs periodically, possibly resulting from coincident pupal emergence and/or pheromone secretion. Larval development is in synchrony with achene development, thus insuring a constant food supply until larvae mature. Capitular and floral architecture and position of eggs insure emergent larvae will locate Pyrrhopappus achenes. Larvae typically consume all the achenes within a foraged capitulum. After maturing within the capitulum in which they hatch, late instar larvae migrate to other Pyrrhopappus capitulae. Variance in larval infestation rates among P. grandiflorus, P. geiseri and P. carolinianus is not significant, however infestation between and within study sites shows significant variance. Mowed study sites contain moths and eggs, but few larvae. Apparently S. mitis and Pyrrhopappus form a highly coevolved complex.
25082956|A description of a new acarid, Acotyledon formosani sp. n., associated with the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki is presented. Studies on the biology revealed omnivorous feeding habits, facultative parthenogenetic reproduction, a short generation time, high rates of reproduction, and the capacity to produce large number of hypopi. The hypopi appeared to stress a large laboratory colony of C. formosanus by fastening primarily to the termites' heads and mouthparts, thereby impeding normal feeding behavior. Trophic mite stages fed actively on dying and dead termites.
25085249|Male orchid bees of the species Eulaema meriana buzz their wings while stationary at territory perches. During buzzing, wings are first positioned laterally and then moved in a plane parallel to the ground, which probably generates a substantial airflow past the body. Within a perching episode, the ratio of buzz to pause duration decreases nonlinearly. The incidence of wing buzzing increases with ambient temperature and with duration of activity. Bees never defended territories when ambient temperatures exceeded 28.5C. Wing buzzing may be a visual or acoustic display to conspecifics, although the brightly colored abdomen is never obscured by the wings during buzzing, and the sounds of wing buzzing are low in amplitude. The increase in buzzing frequency with increased ambient temperature and the nonlinear decrease in buzz to pause duration during perching suggest that wing buzzing may be a thermoregulatory mechanism.
25085814|Leaf discoloration of greenbug-susceptible sorghum NC+ 159 due to plant cell wall-degrading enzymes and pectin fragments was measured using a hand-held chlorophyll meter (SPAD-502, Minolta Corporation, Ramsey, NJ). Polygalacturonase from biotype E greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), caused local discoloration when the enzyme was micro-injected into the plant leaves. Pectinases from two plant pathogens, Aspergillus niger and Erwinia carotovora subsp. carotovora, caused a weaker leaf discoloration when compared to that of greenbug polygalacturonase. A significant reduction in plant chlorophyll content around the enzyme-treated areas was detected by the chlorophyll meter. Damage symptoms caused by the enzyme treatments were very similar to greenbug feeding damage. Surface treatment of sorghum leaves with pectic fragments caused damage symptoms similar to those induced by pectic enzymes. The results demonstrated the ability of pectinases and pectic fragments to elicit a response similar to that due to greenbug feeding damage in greenbug-susceptible sorghum plants, separate and apart from any feeding greenbugs. The potential roles of greenbug pectinases and pectic fragments in insect-plant interactions are discussed.
25082736|The plant-feeding capability of the 1st instars of Sinea confusa Caudell, S. complexa Caudell, Zelus renardii Kolenati, Z. socius Uhler, and Atrachelus cinereus wygodzinskyi Elkins indicated that some plant feeding increased duration of survival. No development occurred past the first instar.
25082550|Chilothrips occidentalis and C. rotrameli are described as new, both with type localities in California. The male of C. pini, and instar II of the larvae of C. occidentalis and C. pini are described. The genus Chilothrips is compared to Oxythrips and species of the former are keyed.
25082510|Transfer of nectar and other liquids among adults in colonies of highly social bees is well known. It also occurs rarely in Bombus. Such behavior in the Apidae may be derived from food transfer recorded in the xylocopine genera Xylocopa, Exoneura, and Baunsapis. Details of food transfer are described for Braunsapis foveata in artificial nests.
25481789|Exposure to temperatures above 29C has been shown to be detrimental to the development of Monarch Butterfly (Danaus plexippus L.) (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) larvae, while it has been assumed that temperatures above 33 are lethal. However, the details of larval sensitivity to high temperatures are not clearly understood. We examined the effects of different lengths and timing of high-temperature exposure on larval and pupal mortality, development time, and adult mass. The experimental high temperature was 36, while 27 was the moderate temperature at which individuals were kept when not exposed to the high temperature. In three experiments, larvae and pupae were subjected either to constant exposure to 36 initiated at various developmental stages or to fluctuating temperatures (daily high-temperature pulses of 6 or 12 hours) throughout development. In general, we found that increasing lengths of constant exposure resulted in increasingly higher mortality, longer development time, and lighter adult mass, while daily temperature fluctuations resulted in very little mortality and shorter development times. Mortality, development time, and adult size were affected differently by the initiation of high-temperature treatment at the various stages of development. Because faster development is likely to be beneficial to Monarchs, certain high-temperature regimes that allow for shortened time to adulthood may not be as detrimental to larvae and pupae as previously was assumed.
25083437|Three species of the group are oligolectic on willow in the area: albihirta Ashmead (= bebbiana Viereck and perarmata of authors, not of Cockerell), clarkella Kirby, and pyrrhacita Cockerell. Distributional data, subspecific differentiation, and a key for the identification of females are given.
25085413|Sorghum generally had a high level of resistance to Russian wheat aphid (RWA) but the degree of resistance varied among the 28 species tested. One greenbug resistant cultivar (Sarvasi) was relatively susceptible to RWA but this appeared unrelated to its greenbug resistance, because other greenbug resistant lines were resistant to RWA. Three exotic sorghums supported RWA for at least a month, and one (PI 300121) was susceptible. Eliminating susceptible sorghum lines from breeding programs may be advisable, but because most lines are highly resistant, it seems unlikely that RWA will become a sorghum pest.
25082715|Lasioglossum rohweri is a primitively social bee which nests in aggregations in horizontal ground. Nests are established by solitary queens in the spring, workers are produced through the summer, and in late summer gynes for the next year are produced. Usually the founding queen is larger than the workers and lives through the summer; this queen presumably inhibits the workers from developing oocytes large enough to lay. The size of bees produced at the end of the summer is highly variable and only the larger ones overwinter; apparently the smaller ones serve as workers during the last stages of colony life. Gynes do not overwinter in the nest, but aggregation sites are usually occupied for several years. Males exhibit territorial behavior; they constitute a higher percentage of total brood production through the summer than in other species of Lasioglossum.
25085568|Two nymphs of Ixodes marxi, Banks, were collected off vegetation in Noxubee County, Mississippi, in mid-December. A larval Ornithodoros kelleyi, Cooley and Kohls, was collected in Tishomingo County, Mississippi from a bat in June. These collections represent new state records.
25082387|Seven new species of crane flies are described, three from Panama, Gonomyia (Lipophleps) carsiostyla, G. (L.) platyphallus, and G. (L.) spinolateralis; and four from Brazil, Tipula (Eumicrotipula) belemensis, Helius (Helius) destitutus, Gonomyia (Paralipophleps) aitkeni, and G. (Lipophleps) helotos.
25082390|The nesting behavior of an aggregation of Tachytes validus Cresson was studied in central New York. Information on the ecology, burrow construction, prey transport, entry and exit, and final closure was obtained. Twenty-one of the long, deep nests were excavated in order to examine the design of the burrow, orientation of the nest cells, and burrow and cell dimensions. The species, stages, and sexes of the prey, number of prey per cell, weights of the prey individuals, their total weight per cell, positions of the prey, including egg-bearer, egg size, and the site of attachment were studied in detail. Females provisioned their cells with from one to five paralyzed katydids, mostly males of two species of Conocephalus. The relatively large katydids were placed in the cells mostly in tandem, ventral-side-up and head-inward. The egg was attached in a genus-typical position to one of the innermost prey. Trends were evident in many aspects of the provisioning. About one of every five fully provisioned cells containing maggots of the satellite fly, Senotainia trilineata Wulp, which had destroyed the wasp egg or larva. Another 10% of the cells had moldy contents or nematode worms.
25085352|A new species of Cerambycidae, Megacyllene comanchei, from western Texas is described and illustrated.
25083014|Two species of Arrugada, previously described by Osborn, Arrugada rugosa (Osb.) and A. affinis (Osb.) are treated and a new species A. breviceps n. sp. is described.
25481805|Sixteen species of Haliplidae belonging to three genera are recorded from Colorado: *Brychius hornii Crotch, Peltodytes callosus (LeConte), P. edentulus (LeConte), *P. litoralis Matheson, *Haliplus apicalis C.G. Thomson, *H. canadensis Wallis, H. cribrarius LeConte, H. deceptus Matheson, *H. distinctus Wallis, H. fulvus Fabricius, H. immaculicollis Harris, H. leechi Wallis, H. longulus LeConte, *H. stagninus Leech, *H. tortilipenis Brigham and Sanderson, and H. triopsis Say. Seven of these species (*) represent new state records, and H. distinctus is reported from the United States for the first time. Haliplids found in Colorado generally fit one of the following distributional patterns for North America: Western, representing 31% of the species, Northern (31%), Eastern-Midwestern (25%), and Holarctic (13%). Diagnostic characters, habitat information, and both Colorado and North American distributions are discussed for each species. Statewide distributional maps and an identification key are provided for adults recorded from the state. The aedeagus is shown to be the most reliable character for identification of Haliplus males, and a photomicrograph of the aedeagus is provided for each Colorado species. Three species previously reported from Colorado, H. dorsomaculatus, H. salmo and H. robertsi, are unconfirmed, and three additional species, P. dispersus, P. tortulosus, and H. borealis whose known distributions suggest they may occur in Colorado, are discussed.
25085583|The western cherry fruit fly, Rhagoletis indifferens Curran, is a frequent, chronic pest of sour cherry (Prunus cerasus L.) in western North America, whereas the apple maggot fly, R. pomonella (Walsh), uses this host rarely. We compared male territoriality and other aspects of host use by these species on sour cherry in the laboratory. When flies were released singly onto fruits, residence times of both sexes of R. indifferens were longer than those of R. pomonella, and females of R. indifferens attempted to oviposit much more frequently than did R. pomonella females. During conspecific encounters, males of R. indifferens interacted for longer periods of time than did R. pomonella males, were more active per unit time, and were more likely to engage in aggressive behavior (e.g., "pouncing"). One fly was actively driven off the fruit in 17% of trials involving R. indifferens males vs. 4% of trials involving R. pomonella males. In head-to-head encounters between species, R. indifferens males were more likely to be the sole fly remaining on a fruit. Fly size (as determined by maximum head width) did not appear to influence the outcome of conspecific encounters between R. indifferens males. Both phenological and behavioral differences between R. indifferens and R. pomonella appear to account for their different degrees of association with sour cherry in Utah.
25082644|Endemic pathogens of the eastern tent caterpillar, Malacosoma americanum (F.), were recovered from field-collected larvae in Kentucky in 1972. A nuclear polyhedrosis virus and the microsporidans Nosema disstriae (Thomson) and Pleistophora sp. were found. A high incidence (92%) of N. disstriae infected moths, which successfully emerged from a Fayette County sample, prompted a subsequent inspection of 1972-73 egg masses in the field in Fayette and Bourbon counties. Of these, 78% from Fayette County and 56% from Bourbon County were infected with N. disstriae.
25083882|The microdistribution of Allocapnia (Plecoptera: Capniidae) naiads was assessed through late fall and winter of 1970-71 by using leaf pack samplers placed in a pool and on riffle and bedrock substrates in Little Pine Creek, Warren County, Indiana. Over all sampling dates, significantly greater numbers of stonefly naiads were collected in riffle samplers. On a weekly basis, analysis of size of naiads collected from riffle and bedrock samplers revealed no significant differences in their size frequency distributions, however, similar comparisons for riffle and pool samples revealed significant differences on four sampling dates. Generally: (1) the greatest range in size of naiads was found for those collected in riffle samples; (2) species composition in pool, bedrock and riffle samplers was the same; and (3) sex ratios for each species sampled from each substrate each sampling date conformed to the expected 1:1 ratio. It is postulated freezing of the substratum, anchor ice and frazil influences benthos by causing them: (a) to undergo supercooling; (b) to undergo vertical migration; (c) to enter drift; and/or (d) to utilize anchor ice and frazil as a substratum. These considerations are discussed in light of field observations for Allocapnia spp. naiads.
25085985|We determined the presence of metallic wood borers and spittlebugs on pin oak, Quercus palustris L., and followed adult seasonal occurrence and activity patterns in relation to height in tree canopy. During the 1993 and 1994 growing seasons, ten pin oaks in Lexington, Kentucky were monitored weekly for adult metallic wood borers and spittlebugs at two or three height levels. Numbers of individuals captured were large enough to allow examination of seasonal occurrence and revealed significant differences in canopy height preferences.
25084874|Information on the nesting behaviors of four nearctic species in the Tachysphex pompiliformis group, T. punctifrons, T. psammobius, T. texanus, and T. ashmeadii, is presented, with emphasis placed on provisioning behavior, nest structure and dimensions, and cell contents. A new prey record is given for T. yolo. The nesting components of these species are compared with those of other nearctic species in the Pompiliformis group. The species are ordered according to similarities in nesting behavior and prey.
25084786|The antennae and mouthparts of the rice weevil larva possess a number of very interesting sensilla. At least some of these appear similar in external structure to those of wireworms. The antenna has one large sensillum (probably olfactory) and 10 smaller sensilla of 4 distinct types. The maxillary mala has 6 long curved hairs surrounding 2 smaller pegs. The palpus has one large sensillum and 11 smaller pegs on the apex and a digitiform sensillum on the lateral surface. The labium has 4 long hairs between the palpi (probably mechanoreceptors) and on each palpus one large sensillum surrounded by 6 smaller pegs. These sensors are undoubtedly important to the survival of the larva inside the grain kernel and therefore further research is needed.
25085759|The alfalfa leafcutting bee (Megachile rotundata F.) was investigated as an alternative pollinator to the honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) of wild lowbush blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.). Pollinator effectiveness and stocking density were determined by examining the effect of M. rotundata on fruit set in relation to foraging distance from the nesting shelter. A significant relationship existed between distance from individual nesting shelters and percent fruit set for nine of 15 shelters. Megachile rotundata improved fruit set by as much as 30% over background pollination (pollination provided by honey bees and native bees). A recommended stocking density of 49,420 bees/ha was estimated. Fruit set was significantly higher in
25082953|Descriptions, distributions, and drawings of male genitalia of eleven species of Paracymus known from the Ethiopian Faunal Region are presented with a key for their separation. Paracymus ornatus, P. petulans, P. exiguus, P. propius, P. monticola, P. amplus and P. incomptus are described as new.
25084950|Diuraphis noxia (Mordv.) is a new aphid pest in the United States and is a potential threat to small-grain production on the Great Plains. Little information about the effects of temperature on the fecundity of D. noxia is available. Information was needed for rearing purposes and to determine how temperature might affect the geographic spread of this insect. It was also appropriate to compare these data with that of a more familiar and long-established aphid pest of United States small grains, the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). Fecundity tests of S. graminum and D. noxia on 'TAM 105' wheat seedlings were therefore conducted in three growth chambers programmed at a 14:10 (L:D) photoperiod and temperatures of 14-12, 21-19, and 28-26C regime appeared to be most suitable for rearing D. noxia, especially when small grains were used as a host. D. noxia did not produce as many nymphs per female as did biotype E greenbugs, but the duration of the D. noxia reproductive period remained approximately the same over the wide range of temperatures in the test. In contrast, the reproductive period of the greenbug decreased at higher temperatures. Temperature alone should not be a major restriction of the spring and summer migration of D. noxia into many United States small-grain regions.
25082980|Inoculative releases of the tachinid, Lixophaga diatraeae Townsend), in 1974 and 1975 for control of southwestern corn borer (SWCB), Diatraea grandiosella (Dyar) in Mississippi, produced ca. 1% parasitism among collected larvae. The low rate of parasitism in 1974 was attributed primarily to the fact that the releases were made late in the season (September); as a result, all SWCB larvae present in the test field were predisposed to diapause. The low parasitism in 1975 was attributed to the lack of sufficient frass to stimulate larviposition by adult flies in the vicinity of suitable host larvae and the ability of older host larvae to encapsulate parasite maggots. Lixophaga diatraeae maggots were able to complete development in SWCB before they molted to the diapause form and to a lesser degree after they had transformed to that form.
25082942|Frankliniella occidentalis (Pergande) was reared in environmental chambers at 15, 20 and 30C. Developmental time, incubation time and adult female longevity varied indirectly with temperature but differed from those previously published. Preoviposition time was longest at 15C and significantly shorter at 20 and 30C. Reproductive rate was greatest at 20C.
25083704|Comparison of Xylobates and Hemileius is made in a summary and clarification of the taxonomic placement of Xylobates in Oribatulidae. Synonymy of several species is indicated: Scheloribates pacificus (Sellnick, 1959), n. comb. (= Styloribates pacificus Sellnick, 1959), Xylobates pectinatus (Jacot, 1934), n. comb. (= Styloribates pectinatus Jacot, 1934), and Xylobates pembertoni (Jacot, 1934), n. comb. (= Xyloribates pembertoni Jacot, 1934). Xylobates prionata, n. sp., is described and figured.
25084834|Experimental exchanges of clothing showed that Stictia signata females preferred to hunt flies near persons wearing dark rather than light clothes. Experiments with wooden models showed that the wasps preferred to attack short (7 vs. 14 mm) and black (vs. tan) cylinders. Painting a long tan cylinder to roughly mimic the colors of the common tabanid Tabanus occidentalis improved its attractiveness. A short black cylinder was just as attractive as another model of similar color and length that was shaped to mimic the outline of another common tabanid, Lepiselaga crassipes.
23355954|A new fossil rove beetle, Juroglypholoma antiquum n. gen. n. sp., is described and figured based on a well-preserved specimen from the Middle Jurassic Daohugou biota (ca. 165 Ma), Inner Mongolia, northeastern China. It represents the first fossil belonging to one of the smallest and latest recognized staphylinid subfamilies, Glypholomatinae, which is now endemic to the Southern Hemisphere. The new genus is assigned to Glypholomatinae based on its body shape and size, clubbed antennae, relatively long elytra, abdominal intersegmental membranes with brick-wall-like pattern, metacoxae slightly excavate to receive the short metafemora, and paired curved ridges in the anterolateral margins of sternites IVVI. It can be easily separated from the extant genera Glypholoma and Proglypholoma by a combination of shorter elytra with apical four abdominal segments exposed; and antennomeres 1 and 2 normal, not dilated, apical three antennomeres forming a slight club. The first discovery of a new species from the Middle Jurassic of China illustrates the antiquity of Glypholomatinae, and indicates that the Omaliine group of subfamilies had already originated by the Middle Jurassic.
20621964|Ten species of aquatic true bugs are newly reported for Illinois. Nepomorphan faunistic studies in Illinois are reviewed briefly and a checklist of the 54 species of aquatic true bugs occurring in the state is presented.
25078491|Eight mutations were isolated from the progeny of two male and two female Tribolium confusum Jacquelin duVal trapped in an isolated area. One additional mutant was isolated from the wild-type cultures maintained at this laboratory. Five of these mutations [1. fused antennal segments (fas 1); 2. short elytra (se); 3. crumpled elytra (cru); 4. blade elytra (bld); 5. umbilicus (umb)] appeared to be identical to previously described mutants. The other four, stumpy (stu), creased elytra (cr), separated elytra (sep), and red eye (re), were previously unknown and were all autosomal recessive mutants.
25082469|The new species described are A. lateralis, which occurs from southwestern Sonora to Oaxaca; A. subcostata from Michoacan; A. nelsoni from Oaxaca, A. sonorae from Sonora; and A. knulli, which is distributed over much of southeastern California and western Arizona and ranges into southeastern Nevada, northern Baja California and northwestern Sonora. The lectotype of A. barberi (Skinner) is redescribed. A key to all the known species of the genus is presented.
25084202|A new species of leafhopper, Sandersellus panamensis, is described and illustrated. The species represents the first record in Central America (Panama) for the genus Sandersellus.
25086068|Two new genera and species of giant lacewings, Meilingius giganteus and Jurapolystoechotes melanolomus, are described and illustrated from the Middle Jurassic Jiulongshan Formation of eastern Inner Mongolia, China. These constitute the first Chinese fossil records of the family Polystoechotidae. The wing venation of the two new species is compared with those of Recent and fossil polystoechotids.
25086107|The nest architecture, mating behavior and nest provisioning biology of Panurginus polytrichus in central Texas are described. Panurginus polytrichus is a vernal, univoltine, gregarious, polylectic bee. The main nest site studied has been continuously occupied for at least 20 years. Most mating takes place at the nest site. Mating balls are commonly observed at the emergence site and mating pairs often make short flights while in copula. Nests may have multiple entrances but are occupied by a single female. Nests have an unusual, horizontal sand filled vestibule which the female traverses to reach the open, vertical main burrow. Females usually make three or four pollen trips per day and are estimated to provision a male cell in one day and a female cell in two. Holcopasites rozeni n. sp., a probable nest parasite of P. polytrichus is described. It is the first parasitic bee associated with any species of Panurginus and a possible biological link with the Old World ammobatoidine bees.
25086301|A new species of the genus Coladenia, C. neomaeniata is described and illustrated from Weixi County, Yunnan Province, China. The new species is closely allied to C. maeniata Oberthr, but can be distinguished from the latter in the hindwing in which the spot in space
25083907|Impatiens capensis Meerburgh flowers produce nectar that attracts several species of Bombus as pollinators, Vespula maculifrons (Buysson) as a primary nectar robber and numerous other insect species as secondary robbers. Pollinators have longer proboscides and greater thoracic heights than nectar robbers. The 2 groups of visitors are approximately equal in overall density, but their densities vary both within a day and between days. Experimentally produced nectarless flowers suffer no pollination disadvantage as compared to normal flowers either within one season or between seasons. Nectar robbers do not appear to interfere with pollination or seed production and the intensity of robbing is not related to decreased pollination success. Vespula maculifrons and large secondary robbers, Apis mellifera L., also function as pollinators and may actually increase pollinator service.
43288216|A taxonomic study of the genus Coenonica Kraatz in Korea is presented. Four species are recognized, two of which, C. sharpi (Fauvel) and C. zhejiangensis Pace, are newly added to the Korean fauna. The other two species, absurda Pace and C. lewisa (Sharp), are reported from South Korea for the first time. A key to Korean species of Coenonica, redescriptions of those species, habitus photographs, and illustrations of diagnostic characters are provided to facilitate identification.
25085039|Spring wildflowers in the Imperial Valley, Calif., were examined for larvae of five noctuids: Autographa californica (Speyer), Heliothis virescens, (Fabricius), H. zea (Boddie), Spodoptera exigua, and Trichoplusia ni. All five species were encountered on Geraea canescens (Torrey and Gray). Other wild hosts were Lupinus arizonica (Watson) and Melilotus indica for A. californica, Astragalus crotalariae for S. exigua, and Brassica tournefortii Gouan for T. ni. The abundance of G. canescens could be an important factor contributing to spring infestation levels of these noctuids in agricultural crops in the Imperial Valley.
25084154|Antlions have a number of adaptations to avoid the defensive responses of their prey, but they are not immune from the attacks of their most common prey. Fire ants (Solenopsis invicta) and probably other ant species occasionally bite antlions after they have been caught, thus securing their immediate release. Once in a while an ant grasps the antlion's mandible and subsequently dies without releasing its hold. This results in the death of the antlion through starvation, since the antlion is unable to construct a pit with a dead ant attached to its mandible and hence is unable to feed. Defensive attacks by ants on antlions may have a considerable impact on the numbers of antlions feeding in the vicinity of an ant nest.
25086011|A systematic study of the chewing louse genus Tinamotaecola (Phthiraptera: Philopteridae) was undertaken, enabling us to recognize four species in the genus. The single previously recognized species, T. andinae Carriker, is redescribed for specimens from the Puna Tinamou, Tinamotis pentlandii (Tinamiformes: Tinamidae) from Bolivia, Chile, and Peru. One new species is described from the Elegant Crested Tinamou, Eudromia elegans (Tinamiformes: Tinamidae), from Argentina and two new species from the Red-legged Seriema, Cariama cristata (Gruiformes: Cariamidae), from Paraguay and Brazil. The family Heptapsogasteridae is placed as a junior synonym of the family Philopteridae.
25083035|Two new species of Hohorstiella are described and illustrated: Hohorstiella paladinella Hill and Tuff sp. nov. from Zenaidura macroura (L.) and Hohorstiella passerinae Hill and Tuff sp. nov. from Columbigallina passerina (L.) and Scardafella inca Lesson. A key to the species of mallophagan parasites of North American Columbiformes is included along with a brief discussion of each species. A Host-Parasite list is also given.
25082745|Pterocheilus texanus, the only eastern Nearctic member of the genus, was observed during its nesting season from April to June in north central Florida. The nest site was hard-packed, bare sand, in which females constructed one-celled, vertical burrows, 28 to 35 mm deep. Digging took about 1 hour, followed by the laying of an egg. Prey were late instar larvae of Schinia mitis gathered over a 1 to 2 hour period, with the nest open the entire time. A female wasp flipped the larvae (3 to 9 per cell) into its nest without alighting or entering usually until the last provision was made. After provisioning, the female kicked and tamped soil into her burrow, leaving a small depression and a ring of soil about 4 cm across. The larva of P. texanus is described, illustrated, and compared to that of Stenodynerus. The ant Solenopsis geminata preys on eggs of P. texanus and Schinia larvae while the nests are open.
25083895|A simple method for determining sex of adult black walnut curculios, Conotrachelus retentus (Say), is presented. Morphological differences on the last thoracic and 1st abdominal sternites are discussed as useful characters in making sex determinations.
25083863|Paraleptomenes mephitis (Cameron) is a solitary Ceylonese wasp which is unusual among Eumenidae in that it practices progressive provisioning in caring for its larva. The mud tube nest, life history and adult behavior are described. Notes are included on the eight species of Hymenoptera and Diptera which parasitize the brood.
25085304|Fifty-three species of blooming plants were observed during 1983-1985 in northwestern Missouri for attraction to black cutworm moths, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel). These moths were seen feeding on the blossoms of 20 of the observed plant species. The greatest number of black cutworm moths were found on linden (Tilia spp.), and linden blossoms were found to be significantly more attractive as a food source for black cutworm moths than the flowers of the other 19 species.
25082594|The nest architecture, larva and pupa of Oxaea are described for the first time. The larva and pupa are distinctive and corroborate the familial status of Oxaea and Protoxaea. The nest is extremely deep and may be perennial. A vertical gallery leads to horizontal galleries, each of which terminates in a single vertical cell.
25082781|Agallia constricta and Agalliopsis novella produce the same categories of sounds. Males and females produce common, ticking and courtship sounds. In addition, males produce a precopulatory sound. Male common sounds are distinctly structured sounds which are probably species-specific and carry information for species identification. In both species, male common sounds consist of 2 parts. A. constricta males produce a second common sound (CSII) which differs from its first common sound (CSI) only in the much longer part I. Females produce common sounds only in response to male common sounds. The common sound of A. constricta females is similar to part I of the male's CSI; the common sound of A. novella females is similar to part II of the male's common sound. Males and females of both species produce ticking sounds which are intra-and interspecifically similar. Ticking occurs in many different behavioral contexts. Males and females of both species alternate production of sounds during courtship. Courtship sounds are merely shortened versions of common sounds. A. constricta males alternate short phrases similar to phrases of part I, whereas A. novella males produce short phrases similar to phrases of part II of its common sound. Males and females of A. constricta may tick during production of courtship phrases of the opposite sex. Males of both species produce precopulatory sounds which consist of one or more phrases of irregular length and fluctuating amplitude. A. constricta males produce this sound when alongside the female; A. novella males produce the sound while approaching the female. Between precopulatory sounds, A. novella males also produce wing vibrations which are sounds accompanying rapid, lateromedial movements of the wings. Behavior associated with sound production also is described. Sounds and associated behavior are compared with those of other small auchenorrhynchans. Possible functions of sounds are discussed.
25086097|A new species of larentiine geometrid, Xanthorhoe uralensis Choi, is described from Polar Urals in Russia. This new species is a member of Xanthorhoe incursata-group, comprising more than four species in the Holarctic region. Here I provide diagnosis, description and male and female genitalia of the new species by comparing its allied species.
25085396|Pterophylla camellifolia (Fabricius) is recorded from two sites in eastern Colorado. These records represent the westernmost occurrence of this species. These individuals probably are recent man-assisted introductions.
41681233|A checklist of the Euglossini of Nicaragua is provided, expanding the previously documented 16 species to 32. New formal records are provided for the following 16 species, all in Euglossa Latreille: Euglossa (Euglossella) cyanura Cockerell, E. (Euglossa) championi Cheesman, E. (E.) cybelia Moure, E. (E.) despecta Moure, E. (E.) hansoni Moure, E. (E.) heterosticta Moure, E. (E.) igniventris Friese, E. (E.) mixta Friese, E. (E.) tridentata Moure, E. (E.) villosiventris Moure, E. (Glossura) allosticta Moure, E. (G.) asarophora Moure and Sakagami, E. (G.) ignita Smith, E. (G.) imperialis Cockerell, E. bursigera Moure, and E. sapphirina Moure, the last two left as subgenus incertae sedis. This summary doubles the known diversity of orchid bees in Nicaragua. Se presenta una lista faunstica de los Euglossini de Nicaragua, incrementando el nmero de especies documentadas de 16 a 32. Se incluyen datos de nuevos registros formales para las siguientes 16 especies, todas en el gnero Euglossa Latreille: Euglossa (Euglossella) cyanura Cockerell, E. (Euglossa) championi Cheesman, E. (E.) cybelia Moure, E. (E.) despecta Moure, E. (E.) hansoni Moure, E. (E.) heterosticta Moure, E. (E.) igniventris Friese, E. (E.) mixta Friese, E. (E.) tridentata Moure, E. (E.) villosiventris Moure, E. (Glossura) allosticta Moure, E. (G.) asarophora Moure y Sakagami, E. (G.) ignita Smith, E. (G.) imperialis Cockerell, E. bursigera Moure, y (E.) sapphirina Moure, las dos ltimas tratadas como subgnero incertae sedis. El presente trabajo duplica la fauna conocida de abejas de las orquideas para Nicaragua.
25086072|Slam, a semiochemical insecticide bait, was used to control adult western corn rootworms in a rootworm areawide management project located in north central Kansas. Studies were conducted in 1997, 1998 and 1999 to determine the effect of this product on selected beneficial non-target arthropods. Coccinellids, spiders, and Orius insidiosus (Say) were monitored in untreated fields and fields treated with SLAM. SLAM treatments had no significant effect on non-target arthropods sampled.
25083871|Swarm boxes designed to attract feral swarms of Africanized honeybees were placed in the costal savannas of French Guiana, South America. It was found that swarm boxes are effective when used to stock apiaries for research purposes. However, population growth is only imprecisely estimated with this technique and the rate of spread is better determined by other methods. Utilization of a large variety of nest sites and long distance movements by swarms make control programs based in the use of swarm boxes infeasible.
25083573|The genera of Rhaphiocerinae in which the first antennal segment is elongated are discussed, a supplementary partial key presented, and the following new taxa described: Phanerozus rettenmeyeri, new genus and species (Canal Zone, Costa Rica) and Heptozus hansoni, new species (Panama, Canal Zone, Ecuador).
25085172|The calling song of G. major, the largest North American cricket, which survives only in relict tallgrass prairies, consists of prolonged series of brief chirps that can be heard from as far away as 400 m. Carrier frequency is ca. 2 kHz and pulse rate within the 13- to 35-pulse chirps is ca. 90
25085702|Two new Medeus species of mites belonging to the family Acaridae, subfamily Horstiinae, are described. Medeus ithacaensis is described from all ontogenetic stages associated with Anthophora bomboides and its nests in New York. This species shows a strongly neotenous developmental pattern, and feeds on pollen and fungi in host cells in which bees do not develop. Diadasiopus eickworti is described from deutonymphs phoretic on Diadasia opuntiae in California.
25085720|A multitude of organisms, arthropods and vertebrates alike, maintain associations of one sort or another with army ants. Among these symbionts, guests, and associates, the most abundant are mites, a subclass of arthropods that, in terms of diversity, is second only to the insects. Certainly as individuals, their numbers are prodigious. Prominent among the mites are phoretic species that travel about the forests as innocent hitch-hikers, often assisted by specialized holdfast mechanisms, taking nothing more for themselves than a free ride. Other species, however, are not so benign and function as ectoparasites that readily feed on their host's hemolymph. Included in this assemblage of myrmecophilous mites are tactile mimics, so-called Wasmannian mimics, that masquerade as either army ant larvae or as part of the adult ant's anatomy. The natural history of mites remains, for the most part, unknown, and confusion in the higher classification of mites may be an impediment to future studies of mite biology.
25084642|The Nearctic representatives of the leafhopper subfamily Dorycephalinae are assigned to three genera: Neoslossonia Van Duzee, Attenuipyga Oman, and Dorycara Emelyanov. All are sexually dimorphic, with both brachypterous and macropterous individuals known in some species. The body form and genitalic structures of males of Attenuipyga and Dorycara may be markedly altered by parasitization by Strepsiptera. Species concepts are discussed, and biogeographic information summarized. New taxa are described in the genera Attenuipyga and Dorycara.
25083862|The encyrtid genus Echthrodryinus is recharacterized, and the following taxonomic actions are taken: the type-species, E. destructor Perkins is redescribed, E. saccharalis n. sp. is described from material taken in Venezuela, E. mesasiaticus n. sp. is described from material taken from Uzbekistan, E. bucculatricis (Howard), NEW COMBINATION, is redescribed, and E. azureus (Mercet), NEW COMBINATION, is redescribed. Echthrodryinus is placed in the tribe Microteryini Hoffer, 1955, subtribe Syrphophagina Trjapitzin, 1973. Species of Echthrodryinus for which the biology is known are parasites of other Hymenoptera. A key is given to the species.
25084772|The male and female reproductive systems of Cicindela repanda Dejean are described. Male genitalia conform to the trilobed type characteristic for the family, but the aedeagus and endophallus are specialized. Female genitalia also illustrate features typical in the Cicindelidae, but the second gonocoxae and styli are modified. Reproductive structures are discussed in light of recent works on the morphology of the genitalia in the Coleoptera.
25084776|Flight behavior and nocturnal resting sites of female Tabanus abactor Philip were examined in a mark recapture study from June to September 1982 in the Texas Rolling Plains. Five percent (104) of 2046 flies released from valley and hilltop sites were relocated. T. abactor was shown to be generally negatively anemotactic, as most flew with prevailing southerly winds. T. abactor exhibited a topographical preference for sheltered, low-lying valleys and slopes versus open, flat hilltops for nocturnal resting sites. Flies were solitary and inactive at night unless disturbed. They rested at various heights depending upon vegetation in the area and preferred habitats in dense cover.
25085958|Wing movements of courting male medflies, Ceratitis capitata, include previously undescribed twisting movements during continuous wing vibration, and continuous large amplitude dorsal-anteroventral movements during intermittent buzzing. The twisting movements may cause the sexually dimorphic rear portions of the male's wings to waft pheromone toward the female.
25083017|Soybean-leaf consumption studies were conducted with the painted lady, Cynthia cardui (L.), at Ames, Iowa during 1975. Soybean leaf-consumption was measured for treatments of 1, 2, and 3 larvae/container. Larval intensities examined in the study had no effect on larval mortality, development, or leaf consumption. Leaf consumption per larval instar was regressed on the thermal units required for successive instar development to establish a leaf consumption model.
25085774|Behavior was observed on the immature and adult stages of Leucopis ninae and L. gaimarii (Diptera: Chamaemyiidae). The searching and feeding behavior of each larval instar is discussed. The first instars usually attacked aphids that walked over them, while second and third instars more actively searched out prey. Larvae were observed to hunt diurnally, becoming inactive at night. Cannibalism was found to be quite common, even within large aphid populations. The molting and pupariation processes are described, including methods for adhering molting larvae and puparia to their substrata. Courtship behavior was observed, including male wing fluttering, wing extension, and touching, and female responses, such as wing fluttering and pushups in front of the male. Oviposition behavior seemed consistent with published accounts, but we found that females could oviposit directly into the fold of a wheat leaf rolled by feeding of the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Homoptera: Aphididae).
25083492|Twenty-nine species of Collembola were collected from Indiana during the summer of 1964. A new species, Sminthurides hyogramme, is described and a redescription is given for a rarely reported species, Sminthurus trilineatus Banks.
25084076|Two methods for tagging pre-overwintering adults of the American aspen beetle, Gonioctena americana (Schaeffer), with Hg-203 were compared under field conditions. Tagged and released beetles were traced with a portable ratemeter. Dispersal of pre-overwintering adults through the forest litter averaged 1 m from the point of release.
25085294|A survey of raccoons, Procyon lotor, in Lyon, Coffey, and Riley counties, Kansas, revealed 11/27 (41%) to be infested with Ixodes texanus Banks. All specimens of I. texanus were females, except for one nymph. The discovery of this tick in eastern Kansas represents a new state record. Other ticks recovered from raccoons included Dermacentor variabilis (Say), Ixodes cookei Packard, and Amblyomma americanum (L.).
25082717|Subterranean foraging tunnel systems of two colonies of the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren, were excavated in a pasture in southern Mississippi. In the smaller colony, two main foraging tunnels with a total length of 58.6 m left the mound and radiated out under a foraging territory of 53
25082372|In this anatomical and histological study of the sting apparatus glands in four species of Colletidae and three species of Andrenidae, close parallelism was found between the development of the sting and the development of the acid gland. Only the acid gland opens into the sting chamber and produces the venom. The basic gland secretion most probably serves the purpose of water-proofing the inner walls of the cells at the time of nest building.
25082676|The genus Diploperla is reviewed and characters necessary for the recognition of its two included species are figured. Diploperla robusta, sp. nov., is described for the male and female and a holotype male and allotype female designated. Diploperla duplicata (Banks) is redescribed and new illustrations of male genitalia are presented.
25086242|Seven nests of Abispa australiana (Mitchell) from Kakadu National Park, Northern Territory, two nests of A. splendida splendida (Gurin-Mneville) from Magnetic Island National Park, Queensland, and one nest of A. meadewaldoensis Perkins from Kununurra, West Australia constitute the most extensive sample of Abispa nests yet reported. The isolated, cryptic, mud nests had thick walls (up to 16 mm), a downward-pointing, funnel-shaped entrance tube, and an exterior plastered with numerous small mud pellets that matched substrate color. All nests were affixed to firm surfaces in semi-sheltered positions; the nest of A. meadewaldoensis was in a crevice below ground. For A. australiana, the largest nest measured 15.6 cm long  6.9 cm wide  4.5 cm deep, and comprised seven cells; cell dimensions averaged 33.8 mm long  13.9 mm diameter. Females of all species appear to specialize on a few species of small pyralid or gelechiid caterpillars, provisioning cells with up to 79 prey. All 88 prey recovered from three cells of two A. australiana nests proved to be a single species of gelechiid. Provisioning type appears to differ among the three species, with A. s. splendida practicing progressive provisioning and A. meadewaldoensis and A. australiana being mass provisioners. Parasitism levels were low, with only two of 21 cells in the seven active nests attacked by an unidentified chrysidid. Unidentified sarcophagid and bombyliid fly remains were found in three previously emerged old nests; in two of these, the thick mud walls prevented sarcophagids from escaping. Both sexes were present at two A. australiana nests and one A. s. splendida nest, suggesting a wait-at-the-nest mating tactic in addition to scramble competition at water sources and nest trap-lining previously reported for A. ephippium. Another A. australiana nest found with two associated females may have been communal.
41262785|The melittid bees represent an early branch of bee phylogeny. They are therefore of special interest in understanding the early evolution and diversification of bees. Most species have been observed to be oligolectic (i. e., highly specialized in their choice of host-plant species). However, knowledge of host-plant associations is not equivalent across all melittid groups. Dasypodainae and the Melittinae are relatively well-known, while the African Meganomiinae are poorly studied. Preliminary field records seem to indicate that at least some meganomiine species are oligolectic. Here we present the first palynological analysis of pollen loads and pollen preference in Meganomiinae. Our results indicate that M. binghami is clearly a polylectic species. More data are needed to draw conclusions on the foraging behaviour of the other Meganomiinae. Our results show that, while oligolecty is widespread among melittid bees, there are polylectic lineages as well.
25085155|In a natural mixed colony of 12 Eulaema polychroma and three E. cingulata all female bees foraged from first sunlight to dusk and possessed fully developed ovarioles. The hypogeous nest was separated by more than a meter from the entrance and was not discovered, but bees of both species at least shared a common nest entrance and a single long entrance tunnel. From a nest of Eulaema meriana five female mutillids, Hoplomutilla xanthocerata, and three female euglossine cleptoparasites, Exaerete frontalis, emerged from 11 cells. The parasites did not interact aggressively and mutillids did not open cells of Eulaema despite confinement in a nest box for 2 months. Emergence holes of parasites indicated that from 33 cells of E. meriana, 5 Exaerete and 11 Hoplomutilla emerged. No emergence occurred from six cells containing mold, three of them parasitized by Hoplomutilla. This nest and one reported in a previous study had 75-76% parasitism, each in natural forest habitat. High rates of parasitism may promote sociality in euglossines, but the complete lack of relatedness in the mixed colony of Eulaema suggests that tolerance of non-kin discourages kin selection and the evolution of eusociality.
25082763|The bees usually placed in the Chilicolinae should all be transferred to the Xeromelissinae. The genus Chilicola and its subgenus Hylaeosoma are characterized and a new species, C. mexicana, is described from central Mexico. This is the northernmost representative of the subfamily.
25086442|In this study, Shargacucullia gozmanyi Ronkay, G. and Ronkay, L., 1994 is recorded from Turkey for the first time. In addition to other known larval host plants of the species, Verbascum bugulifolium Lam. is given as new. Immature stages of the species and damages to fruit capsules are illustrated. /// Bu almada, Shargacucullia gozmanyi Ronkay & Ponkay, 1994 Trkiye 'den ilk kez kaydedilmitir. Verbascum bugulifolium Lam. bu taksonun larvas iin yeni bir besin bitkisi olarak verilmitir. Trn erikin olmayan safhalar ve meyva kapsllerine verdii zarar resmedilmitir.
25086314|The effects of variation in host plant availability and population densities on reproductive allocation in grasshoppers have received relatively little attention. The effect of increased host plant availability and population density on survival and reproductive allocation were examined in a widely distributed grasshopper, Ageneotettix deorum (Scudder). The experimental treatments consisted of ambient-level and fertilized vegetation with two A. deorum density treatments in a 2  2 factorial design. Both food plant availability and population density played important roles in the observed life history variation. Although the rate of egg pod production was not density-dependent, density-dependence was evident in the number of eggs per pod. Average survival did not respond to food plant availability, but reproduction was limited by host plant availability in the ambient-level treatment. Food limited A. deorum with ambient-level resources produced egg pods more slowly and with fewer eggs per pod. The rate of egg pod production averaged 64% higher with fertilized vegetation than with ambient vegetation. The availability of higher protein host plants may have been the primary limiting factor for egg production. The effects of food availability and grasshopper density acted in an additive manner on reproductive allocation. As a result, the per capita availability of nutrients was likely the limiting factor for reproduction in both resource and density treatments. Variation in host plant availability had a much larger effect on recruitment and population dynamics than would be predicted based on survivorship alone.
25084658|Greenhouse grown corn was infested with 0, 25, 50 and 75 eggs/plant of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera, LeConte. Larval damage as measured by dry weight of corn roots, was correlated (P = 0.05) with the number of adults emerging and female weight. Low root damage (i.e., high root weights) resulted in shorter larval developmental time for both sexes. The sex ratio of adults was 1:1 (:) from treatments with lightly damaged roots but was 1:2.4 (:) in the heavily damaged treatments. Female numbers may have been disproportionately reduced because males complete development sooner, before roots become severely damaged. Thus, if root damage is severe as a result of high larval densities, larval development may be slowed, adult numbers reduced, number of females disproportionately reduced and size of surviving adults reduced.
25085251|Meadowfoam (Limnanthes alba Benth.: Limnanthaceae) is an entomophilous, winter annual oilseed crop with an unstable seed yield history that may be attributed to inadequate honey bee pollination. Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson, a native bee pollinator, may improve meadowfoam pollination. A two-year survival and reproductive efficacy study was undertaken, within caged plots, to evaluate the potential of O. l. propinqua for sustaining future meadowfoam pollination populations. Pollinator density treatments of 10, 35, and 60 female bees per cage were maintained during the 1986 and 1987 meadowfoam bloom periods. Percent survival was negatively correlated with increasing female density, producing ca. a 50% average survival rate from 18 female bees. Nest, male, and total cell production increased linearly with increasing female O. l. propinqua densities. Female progeny production in 1986 and 1987 averaged 2.1, 0.6, and 0.3 females per bee from the 10, 35, and 60 female bee density treatments, respectively. The male: female ratio from 10, 35, and 60 female bees per cage averaged 2.33:1, 2.63:1, and 5.62:1, respectively, indicating resources (i.e., pollen or nectar) may become limited as bee densities increase. While adult female survival and nesting success were density dependent, O. l. propinqua demonstrated the potential to survive and reproduce from resources obtained solely from foraging on Mermaid meadowfoam flowers.
25084940|Relative abundance and seasonal flight activity of Cochylis hospes Walsingham were studied with pheromone traps. Ecology and infestation of cultivated and wild sunflowers also were studied. Pheromone-baited traps caught males at least 3 km from any of the previous year's sunflower fields. Males began appearing in traps on June 25, peaked by the end of July and disappeared by September 4. The number of males caught per trap per night was variable among localities and was not correlated with developmental stages of the sunflower. Sunflower fields which were planted in the middle of May and which bloomed by the middle of July attracted more adults and supported greater C. hospes populations than fields planted in June. C. hospes larvae were found in heads of three wild sunflower species: Helianthus annuus L., H. maximiliani Schrader and H. tuberosus L. Large populations of C. hospes throughout the northcentral sunflower growing area were indicated.
25086334|In this work, a new species of Thamnotettix from Turkey, Thamnotettix lutfi n. sp., is described. A key for the discrimination of T. lutfi and T. exemtus Melichar, 1896 is given. /// Bu ahmada Trkiye'den Thamnotettix' in yeni bir tr olan Thamnotettix lutfi n. sp. tanmlanmtr. T. lutfi n. sp. ve T. exemtus Melichar, 1896 trlerinin ayrm iin bir anahtar verilmitir.
25083398|Life history studies and general biological observations were made on laboratory cultures of Laelaspis vitzthumi (Womersley) reared on freshly killed houseflies. The mite required an average of 8.4 days to go from egg to adult. The average longevity recorded in reproduction studies was 75.5 and 72.5 days for females and males, respectively. Unmated females produced only male progeny, mated females produced both male and female progeny; however, there was no significant difference in the number of progeny produced. Females averaged 11.7 progeny. Adult mites went to temperatures between 22.4 to 24.8 C in temperature preference tests.
25084555|Observations are presented on the nesting and mating behavior of Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) spinosum (Cameron). Females utilized existing burrows in level substrate as nests. Males guarded nests, but also defended territories about the bases of mesquite trees.
25085777|During colony defense, workers of several species of Neotropical swarm-founding wasps hold the distal tip of the abdomen erect in a behavior here termed gaster-flagging. Gaster-flagging can be accompanied by various combinations of wing fanning, waving of the gaster, and extrusion of the sting. Workers flag their gasters while perched either on or near the nest surface, or on the body of an intruder several meters from the nest. In many species that engage in this behavior, the gaster is brightly and contrastingly colored compared to the rest of the body. Gaster-flagging may play a role in communication among nest mates during defense, involving visual and/or chemical signals. Flagging may also serve to enhance visual warning signals of impending defensive stinging behavior to potential predators.
25085778|Pecan weevil, Curculio caryae, (Horn) is a serious pest of pecan and hickory in southern nut producing regions of the United States. Pecan weevil is known to infest almost all hickory species and has been reported on Persian walnut in Canada. Experiments were conducted using a Hardee olfactometer, three species of Carya and one species of Juglans. Data indicated that when given a choice, pecan or bitternut hickory is the preferred host of this insect. Shellbark hickory was less preferred, and black walnut was not attractive to pecan weevil in any of the pairwise comparisons.
25085818|Two encyrtid parasitoids, Rhopus nigroclavatus (Ashmead) and Pseudaphycus sp. were reared from the buffalograss feeding mealybugs, Tridiscus sporoboli (Cockerell) and Trionymus sp. In a rearing study, parasitism of adult female mealybugs by these two parasitoids was 29.64%, with an average emergence of 1.92 parasitoids per mealybug. The identification of these two encyrtid parasitoids provides a valuable first step for the development of a biological control program for managing mealybug infestations.
25085796|We determined heavy metal concentrations (arsenic, cadmium and lead) in arthropods from three trophic levels in an arid ecosystem in the northern Chihuahuan Desert of western Texas. We compared these levels with the levels in the soils and vegetation. The arthropods included the detritivorous beetles, Eleodes spp. (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), the herbivorous ant Pogonomyrmex rugosus Emery (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) and the predaceous scorpion Centruroides vittatus (Say) (Scorpiones: Buthidae). There was no evidence of bioaccumulation in the higher trophic levels in this terrestrial arthropod community. In fact, a reversal occurred with the detritivores having the highest concentrations of all three metals, the carnivores the lowest. Thus, bioaccumulation did not occur in this community as has been reported in many other studies.Our data also showed a pollution gradient with specimens near a smelter having the highest levels of heavy metals.
25086038|A new species Sinella (Coecobrya) magyari is described from Hungary. It is very close to S. (C.) tenebricosa, but distinguishable from the latter and all known species of the subgenus Coecobrya by the chaetotaxy of Abd. III and IV. Two new patterns are named for the body chaetotaxy.
25082815|A new species, Isoperla distincta, from Tennessee is described and illustrated. The holotype male, allotype female, three paratype males and one paratype female are designated.
25084338|Larvae or pupae of stable flies, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), were found in large round hay bales at 9 of 12 sites surveyed in central Missouri during 1981. This is the first report of this important livestock pest associated with this type of forage management. Stable flies were not found in plastic wrapped bales or in bales situated on crushed rock. Collections were generally confined to the bale-substrate interface where moisture had accumulated. This information is important to pest management programs for flies affecting pastured cattle.
25084801|To determine tree preferences of tropical homopterans, the lower trunks of all trees 20 cm dbh or greater were surveyed in 26.72 ha of semideciduous lowland forest in Panama during the wet season. Trees with adult Homoptera or nymphal exuviae were compared with trees available for choice. In the Cicadidae we found 243 adults and 81 exuviae of Fidicina mannifera, and in the Fulgoridae we found 63 Enchophora longirostris, 19 Phrictus quinquepartitus, 2 Diareusa conspersa, and 1 Fulgora. Disproportionate numbers of the cicadas (52%) were on 33 Zanthoxylum belizense (Rutaceae) and another 10% were on Z. panamense. The 81 exuviae were not associated with Zanthoxylum, and instead occurred on a diverse array of trees. Of the Enchophora, 71% were found on 26 Simarouba amara trees (Simaroubaceae). All but three of the 19 Phrictus rested in parallel arrays on two TErminalia oblonga (Combretaceae). The trees listed above are uncommon in the surveyed plot, ranging in rank order of abundance from 15th (1.95% of the trees) to 41st (0.45%). The results indicate, therefore, that Homoptera can be highly selective of tree species even in a diverse forest, where the low probability of encountering a given kind of tree might be thought to select against host tree specialization.
25083062|An association of leaf tying Microlepidoptera which included species of Oecophoridae, Stenomidae and Gelechiidae occurred on Quercus spp. in the forests of central Missouri. The seasonal activity, damage characteristics and distribution on forest hosts are described and illustrated for seven common tier species. The parasitic complex was also observed. All species overwintered in the forest litter. Adult activity periods varied and larvae were active from April to late October. Larvae became established in areas of natural leaf overlap and old roller and curler damage. Leaves were tied together with broad bands of silk and larvae fed as skeletonizers in tunnels of silk and frass or in silk lined pockets. White and Northern Red Oak were the preferred hosts. Understory foliage and intermediate, suppressed and open grown trees appear most susceptible.
25082560|Archiborborus (Procopromyza) mexicanus n. sp., found in a cave in the State of Tamaulipas, Mexico, is the first record for its genus north of Colombia.
25082503|The life cycle of an oribatid mite, Platynothrus peltifer (Koch), is described from observations made in the laboratory. Reproduction is parthenogenetic. The average life cycle from egg deposition to adult emergence is 170 days at 25C.
25083752|Descriptions and figures are presented for Ephemerella altana n. sp. and E. rama n. sp. New records extend the ranges of E. maculata Traver, E. mollitia Seemann, E. inermis Eaton, and E. aurivillii (Bengtsson). Revised keys and new distribution maps are presented for the western North American species.
25083521|The use of two or more families of prey by a species of Tachysphex is uncommon, although T. terminatus rarely provisions a single nest cell with Tettigoniidae in addition to its usual acridid prey. That the use of Tettigoniidae during June 19-21, 1964, by females of this species was possibly related to a scarcity of acridid nymphs of proper size was not borne out by statistical tests. The fact that Tettigoniidae may have been more abundant during June, 1964, should also not be overlooked. Except in a few cases, the female wasps that stored Tettigoniidae did not exhibit signs of unusual behavior.
25083922|Five new species are described: Agallopsis putana n. sp. (Panama), A. pallidipennis n. sp. (Panama), A. imitans n. sp. (Panama), Agallia freytagi n. sp. (Honduras) and A. panamensis n. sp. (Panama). The male and female genitalia of Euragallia nervata (Om.) are illustrated.
25083780|The phoretic relationships of four species of mites [Caloglyphus boharti Cross, Glyphanoetus nomiensis Cross, Imparipes americanus (Banks), and Trochometridium tribulatum Cross] to both immature and adult stages of the alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Cockerell, were investigated during the summers of 1955-1956 and 1965-1966. Degree and incidence of infestation of these mites were analyzed in time, space, and by host sex. Each species occurred in specific location(s) on adult Nomia. Two species, C. boharti and G. nomiensis, located differentially according to bee sex. The same mite species attached in different locations on different bee species. At least two, and probably all, of the species studied were distributed on adult hosts in approximately bilaterally symmetrical fashion. All four of the species used the adult host only for transportation. There was no evidence that phoresy, per se, was responsible for bee mortality. The phoretic population of each species followed a unique pattern in time which was at least partly dependent upon bee sex. In I. americana, both bee sexes appeared to be infested equally at emergence, but new males apparently lost mites much more rapidly than new females. Hypopi of C. boharti infested a higher percentage of, and occurred in greater numbers on, male bees.
25086151|A 3 yr study in a semiarid wheat production region of eastern Washington quantified Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor (Say), populations in cereal production systems using on-farm replicated plots. The systems were as follows: reduced-tillage soft white winter wheat (SWW) (Triticum aestivum L.)-summer fallow rotation, no-till soft white spring wheat (SWS)-chemical fallow rotation, continuous no-till hard red spring wheat (HRS), and no-till HRS-no-till spring barley (SB) (Hordeum vulgare L.) rotation. This study also quantified natural mortality of fly populations in the spring cereal plots, identified hymenopterous parasitoids of the fly, and determined the biotype composition of the fly population at the research site. From 1998 to 2000, tiller infestations in no-till HRS and SWS plots (4.5-13.1%) increased to levels (15.6-47.5%) equivalent to or above the economic injury level of 13-20% for spring-infested tillers. The SB (cultivar Baronesse) in this study was resistant to Hessian fly. Fly infestations were non-existent or low on SWW in 1998 and 1999, but were higher in spring 2000 (27.6% infested tillers). Fly mortality (eggs to larvae) in HRS and SWS plots averaged 88.5 to 91.7% in 1999 and 77.7 to 87.9% in 2000, yet survival was sufficient to account for moderate to high populations in spring wheats. Ten hymenopterous parasitoid adults (seven Homoporus destructor (Say), two Eupelmus alynii French, and one Pediobius epigonus Walker) emerged from field collected puparia in 1999. The biotype composition of the fly population was 58% GP, 17% E, 14% F, 10% G, and 1% N. The high percentage of GP indicates that the currently deployed resistance gene H3 is effective against this population, but its effectiveness will likely diminish over time as frequencies of biotypes E and G, which are virulent to H3, increase in populations.
25085910|The rates of parasitism for field collected alfalfa caterpillars were determined using rearing and dissection methods in 1994 and 1995. Although both methods were similar in accuracy, the dissection method was preferred due to ease of use. The average percent parasitism for rearing and dissection methods were 8.13% and 8.75%, respectively in 1994 and 6.64% and 7.27%, respectively for 1995. Alfalfa caterpillar larvae yielded Cotesia flaviconche, C. medicaginus, and Meteorus autographae as primary parasites.
25086319|Two longleaf pine savanna communities, upland woodlands and wet pine flatwoods, occur in Louisiana. Because these communities differ in soil profiles, hydrology, topography, and floral composition and diversity, the objective of this study was to determine how bee diversity and composition differed between them. We surveyed three upland woodlands and one flatwood site over a four year period. Our results indicated higher richness and abundance of bees in uplands compared to the wet flatwood. Upland sites consistently contained about 10 more species and 2.5 times as many individuals. Rarefaction curves indicated similar to higher rates of species accumulation of upland sites compared to the wet site. Similarity in species composition was higher between upland sites than between uplands and the wet site. Differences in diversity are discussed in relation to differences between savanna types, age and size of preserves, and fire management. Size of the preserve appeared to be less important than floral diversity and soil type. From a management perspective, this study suggested newly restored savannas obtain high bee diversity relatively quickly, and small preserves are capable of serving as significant reservoirs of bees.
25085580|The sea daisy gall midge, Asphondylia borrichiae (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), was used as a model for understanding the selective advantage of galling in insects. This midge is attacked by four species of hymenopteran parasitoids. Parasitoid egg-laying may be inhibited by thick layers of gall tissue, but small galls may have few or small fly larvae. Asphondylia borrichiae was found on Borrichia frutescens (Asteraceae) and Iva frutescens (Asteraceae); it makes smaller, less fleshy galls on the latter plant. If gall size is important in determining parasitoid oviposition success, it follows that there should be different levels of parasitism on the two types of galls. Also, the size of galls on both hosts was evaluated as a source of information for parasitoids about available fly biomass. Parasitism rates were much higher on I. frutescens, but this result may have been due to the large population of A. borrichiae on this host. Gall size is positively correlated with the number of chambers and gall age in B. frutescens and the number of chambers in I. frutescens. However, all correlations were weak.
25085074|Intraspecific variability in hymenopteran parasitoids is a well-documented phenomenon of considerable importance to biological control. It involves a variety of ecological, behavioral, and physiological traits that adapt parasitoids to their physical environment and their hosts. Therefore, biological and genetic characterization of biotypes is fundamental for understanding parasitoid diversification, as well as for placing biological control on a predictive basis. Two biotypes of Edovum puttleri Grissell (from Colombia and Mexico), an egg parasitoid of the Colorado potato beetle (Leptinotarsa decemlineata Say), differ in their responses to a variety of abiotic and biotic factors. Although the developmental responses to temperature are similar for both biotypes and neither endures Temperate Zone winters, the Mexican biotype survives better at low temperatures. Adults of the two biotypes show differential susceptibility to pesticides used in potato management. The incidence of parasitism is inversely related to host age for both biotypes, but the Colombian one oviposits more readily in old eggs. The sex ratio of Colombian progeny emerging from older hosts becomes skewed toward males, whereas that of Mexican progeny remains constant at approximately four females per male. Both the net reproductive rate (
25083892|Dispersal of the 2 populations of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in Nebraska was determined by viability of eggs obtained from cross-matings of Nebraska weevils with weevils from laboratory-reared colonies of Maryland (eastern) and Utah (western) origin. In previous cross-mating studies with the nearly identical eastern and western populations of the weevil, the cross of eastern females and western males produced inviable eggs. Single pair matings were: virgin Maryland females  field-collected Nebraska males and virgin Nebraska females  Utah males. From cross-matings of Nebraska weevils collected in 1975, 1976, and 1977, the indication is that the eastern and western populations overlap in Central Nebraska at least 150 miles (241 kilometers).
25085037|A 15 year study of Microdon piperi Knab shows that it is one of the more common species of Microdon living in the wet forest habitat of the Pacific Northwest. The life cycle of this species is similar to that reported for other northern species, with adult flies emerging from puparia in ant nests during the spring from April to June. Mating occurs shortly after emergence, and the female deposits eggs in or near host ant nests. The larvae develop in the ant nest during the summer and overwinter deep within the nest as mature third instars. The principal host of M. piperi is Camponotus modoc, although it is found with several other species of Camponotus. The larvae mimic ant brood, their sole food source, and the life cycle of the fly is synchronized with the brood cycles of its host. These inquilines have virtually no impact on carpenter ant colonies and are not important population regulators.
25082699|Spindle-shaped eggs are laid in loose batches on the larval food media consisting of decayed vegetable matter. Larvae are gregarious, have a strong affinity for water, and pupate after 4 molts. Pupae, when molested, are capable of defending themselves by vigorous body movements. The mean developmental period from egg to adult is 16 days at 23C. Both sexes of Forcipomyia inornatipennis (Austen) swarm at dawn and at dusk. Mating occurs in air with males actively seeking females. After mating, females alight on decayed vegetable matrix as well as on dung of herbivorous animals for oviposition. The species breeds throughout the year. In capitivity, adults lived 8-16 (mean, 12) days on sugar solution, and after 7 days on this diet ovaries matured and oviposition followed. Pollination experiments have shown that F. inornatipennis is an efficient pollinator of cocoa (Theobroma cacao L.). Means to attract this insect to cocoa plantations, as well as its artificial breeding, are discussed.
25085274|Dysartia and D. latigena, both new, are described from specimens reared from larvae predaceous on grasshopper eggs in Montana and North Dakota.
25084427|The mature nymph of Bolotoperla rossi (Frison) is described from specimens collected from Virginia and West Virginia. Male habitus, male terminal abdominal segments (dorsal and lateral) and female terminal abdominal segments (ventral) are illustrated. Characters separating nymphs from those of similar species are summarized. Ecological notes and associated species of Brachypterinae are also given for this rarely collected stonefly.
25085007|Paraleptophlebia calcarica, n. sp., is described from Magazine Mountain in Logan County, Arkansas. The new species is compared with the morphologically similar Paraleptophlebia sticta and Paraleptophlebia jeanae from which it differs by the presence of slender reflexed spurs on the penis lobes in the males.
25082978|The first record of Symphylus caribbeanus from Texas is reported, having previously been found north of Mexico only in Florida.
25083550|The biology of these two species was observed and data on them collected in the vicinity of Logan, Utah. Biological activities observed included nest establishment; collection of mud; pollen handling in the nest; cell, egg, and sex relationships; and duration of immature stages and egg-laying capacity of female adults.
25081676|An alphabetical list of the recorded host plants of the known species of Cercopidae in North America, North of Mexico is presented. Common names and scientific names for both insects and plants as well as family names are alphabetized. Brief discussions are given of the subterranean feeding habits of certain species and egg deposition of all genera except Aphrophora. For eighteen out of the total fifty-six species no host records of any sort have been recorded.
25082565|Five new species of Erythroneura, subgenus Eratoneura from the United States are described: bicurvata, pitrei, wolcottensis, mariquera, asymmetra.
25085393|Photoperiod and temperature are important environmental regulators of diapause in the banded sunflower moth Cochylis hospes. A 9 hour photophase was diapause inducing and a 15 hour photophase was diapause averting. Photophase influenced the temperature at which diapause was induced. The percentage of fifth instar larvae that diapaused increased from 0 at 28C to 96.6% at 20C with a 15:9 Light: Dark (L:D) cycle. On a 9:15 (L:D) cycle, 100% of the fifth instars diapaused at 20, 22, and 25C and 30.0% diapaused at 28C. A progressive delay in development of the 5th instar to the adult was observed when early instars were exposed to diapause inducing conditions and then moved to diapause averting conditions. The ability to regulate diapause induction by experimental manipulation of light and temperature regimes and the inability of the insect to maintain diapause if transferred from diapause inducing conditions to diapause averting conditions indicated C. hospes had a facultative diapause.
25085899|The efficiency of blacklight, blacklight blue, cool white light, and plant/aquarium light in attracting selected pest insects was tested in field experiments in Central Missouri between 1 May and 31 October 1996. Blacklight and blacklight blue were evenly attractive to June beetles, Phyllophaga sp. (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) and blister beetles, Epicauta sp. (Coleoptera: Meloidae), and were more efficient than cool white light and plant/aquarium light. In contrast, the four kinds of light were not significantly different in attracting green stink bugs (Hemiptera: Pentatomidae). Catches of other species (moths and large beetles that mutilate light trap collections) were substantially reduced in traps with cool white light and plant/aquarium lamps; thus, identification of green stink bugs was more reliable for these light sources.
25083934|Seven new species of the genus Scaphoideus Uhler, subgenus Scaphoideus, S. abitus, S. accumulator, S. anguis, S. flavidus, S. multangulus, S. pars, and subgenus Latenus, S. incognitus, are described from North America. Distribution of each species by state or province is given.
25085886|Surveys of the natural enemy complex associated with pine needle scale, Chionaspis pinifoliae (Fitch) were conducted 1993-1995 in the northern Front Range area of north central Colorado. Four species of endoparasitoids were recovered from pine needle scale in Colorado: Coccophagus flavifrons Howard, Coccobius varicornis (Howard), Prospaltella bella (Gahan) and an Encarsia sp., with C. flavifrons and C. varicornis being most abundant. May surveys of average percent parasitism by all species, at all sites, averaged 14, 18.3, and 28 percent in 1993, 1994, and 1995 respectively. Also recovered from less than one percent of laboratory reared samples was a secondary hyperparasite, Marietta pulchella (Howard). Two species of predatory coccinellids were observed in association with north central Colorado pine needle scale colonies. By far the most abundant was Coccidophilus atronitens (Casey). During May surveys predation of pine needle scale by this species averaged 13.3, 8.7, and 14.7 percent in 1993, 1994, and 1995, respectively. Very rarely, and only in association with very high scale populations, the twicestabbed lady beetle, Chilocorus stigma (Say), was observed. Predaceous mites (Hemisarcoptes sp.) were present at all sites, producing approximately 3 percent mortality of pine needle scale in the 1994 survey.
25084824|A technique is described for marking individual ant workers with fine fibers of polyester thread. The fiber is tied around the ant's body and detected with the aid of a dissecting microscope. This technique is especially suitable for small ants where paint and other alternatives have proven ineffective.
25082878|European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbn.), larvae survived up to 8 months in shelled grain that was stored under outdoor-grain-bin and laboratory-controlled conditions. Larvae lived shorter durations at higher temperatures and none pupated in grain. Twelve live larvae were recovered in 250 kg of grain collected from a combine. None was found in stalk or debris in the grain or in several kg of screenings collected at a commercial elevator.
25085797|Evaluation of damage to maize (Zea mays L.) roots caused by corn rootworm (the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, the northern corn rootworm, D. barberi Smith and Lawrence and the southern corn rootworm, D. undecimpunctata howardi Barber) infestations requires that the main root mass be dislodged from the soil, which can be quite labor intensive. A tractor-pulled implement was fabricated that would loosen the necessary components of the maize root system from the soil. The "root digger" implement did not mechanically detach roots required for corn rootworm damage assessment. In a nonscientific assessment of labor requirements, an average of 28.6 roots/hr per person were removed from the field using heavy-duty garden forks compared to an average of 92.4 roots/hr per person using the "root digger" implement. The system will be useful for small-plot studies in which plant destruction is acceptable.
25082663|Andrena albihirta (Ashmead) is, in the Rocky Mountains of northern Colorado, strongly melanistic at high altitudes where the weather is often cloudy during its flight period, and is not so at low altitudes or at high altitudes where the weather is clear. This is consistent with the hypothesis that melanism functions to lengthen the active period of the insect by absorption of solar heat even in reduced sunlight.
25085193|Colonies of honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) in northeastern Mexico were examined for the presence of the honey bee tracheal mite (Acarapis woodi) between 1984 and 1988. Nearly all apiaries (>90%) contained infested colonies. This is a substantial increase in the number of infested colonies from surveys made in 1983, and probably reflects a rapid rate of spread. On average, about 60% of all colonies were parasitized. The prevalence of colonies having 30% or more of workers infested was about 40%. This level of parasitism is associated with economic damage. The spread of A. woodi is accelerated by various beekeeping activities, especially those involving migratory practices. Perhaps equally important to intra- and interapiary spread of these mites are the normal host behavior of absconding, swarming, drifting, and robbing. We suggest that in the relatively dry mesquite scrub of northeastern Mexico, riparian habitats support the development and dispersal of honey bee swarms. When these swarms are parasitized, the spread of A. woodi is greatly facilitated.
25084835|Three new species of Hydroptilidae (Trichoptera), Hydroptila scheiringi, H. setigera and Ochrotrichia dardeni are described and illustrated. An annotated checklist of the ninety-five species of Hydroptilidae known to occur in Alabama is provided.
25085936|Males and females of the seed bug Scolopostethus affinis used their fore legs with modified femora in intra-sexual aggression. Males were smaller than females, but had larger fore femora. Allometric scaling of the fore femora on body size was similar in both sexes. This argues against hypotheses that the often spiny and enlarged fore legs of seed bugs serve to move seeds or to aid in movement in confined spaces. Instead, they may function primarily in aggression.
25086094|Jerozenia comata Herman, new genus and new species, of the Oxytelinae, is described from The Democratic Republic of the Congo where it was collected from the raiding column of an unspecified species of ant. The genus is distinguished from all other Oxytelinae by the presence of only nine antennomeres and has been assigned to the Oxytelini. A brief summary of changes in the higher classification of the Oxytelinae since the last revision is included.
25084430|A mating pair of Trichadenotecnum alexanderae Sommerman achieve positional stability, in part, by interlocking some of their genitalic structures. In coupling, a male's hypandrial apophyses lock between the anterior and posterior regions of a female's internal plate. The morphology of the hypandrium and internal plate in T. alexanderae is reviewed. The occurrence of an internal plate in the Psocoptera is discussed, and other possible functions of the internal plate are presented.
25084924|Field-collected adults of the northern corn rootworm, Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence, were maintained in the laboratory on various plant tissues that are available to them in the field. When fresh corn silk, corn tassels, young ear tips of corn, sunflower heads, or male squash blossoms were offered to the beetles, mean longevity ranged from 29-46 days and egg production averaged 66-128 per female. In contrast, beetles averaged 9-17 days of life and <4 eggs per female when they were given corn leaves or a mixture of three weed species that are common to South Dakota cornfields. Suitability of an artificial diet was comparable to that of the better plant tissues. In choice tests, beetles preferred ear tips of corn and (in two of three instances) corn silk over pollen-laden squash anthers or flowers of Amaranthus retroflexus.
23355953|Probrachida mergamentula Eldredge n. sp. is described as new from the state of Oklahoma, representing the first record of the genus from North America. A habitus photograph, illustrations of male and female reproductive organs, and an updated key are provided to facilitate future study.
25085675|Three species of Parachrysopiella are described, a key is given, a possible phylogeny is proposed, and geographical distributions are presented.
25084240|Male P. fuscatus were placed into an observation box with two female conspecifics, a sister and an unrelated gyne. In 29 independent, one-hour, blind observations, no significant differences were recorded in either mating or other behavioral interactions of males with sisters and unrelated gynes. Thus, there is no evidence that siblings of the opposite sex recognize each other or preferentially mate.
25085949|The prairie mole cricket (Gryllotalpa major) is the largest of North American crickets and the only one to occupy a grasslands habitat. This rare species produces a loud, long-range sexual advertisement call of chirps, rather than a trilling call like most other species of mole crickets. Otherwise, its calling repertoire is similar to other Orthopteran species. Males change to a soft, non-rhythmic trill when a female is attracted, and they produce a sharp, broad-frequency click in response to any disturbance. These two sounds are described for the first time, along with further analysis of the previously described advertisement call.
25084613|Males of P. maculifrons perch on rocks in open areas of peaktops and ridges in central Arizona, perhaps to pursue females that may come to the hilltops. The same areas are occupied from February to May on different years by different generations of males. Individuals regularly return to the same small perching location on a peaktop over an interval as long as 29 days. As is the case with other hilltopping species, nesting and foraging females of P. maculifrons appear to be scarce and widely scattered. This makes the location of emerging, ovipositing, or feeding females difficult for males and promotes the evolution of a landmark-based mating system.
25082869|Dufourea (Halictoides) monardae (Viereck) is recorded for the first time from Illinois and Michigan on the basis of specimens collected in 1969 at Savanna, Illinois, and in 1973 at the E. S. George Reserve, Livingston County, Michigan.
25085513|Nomenclatural problems in Xenochalepus Weise and Hemichalepus Uhmann are discussed. Because of type-species designations, Hemichalepus is recognized as a synonym of Xenochalepus. Neochalepus (new subgenus) is proposed. A checklist of valid species assigned to Xenochalepus is presented.
25084514|The lethality
25083539|Forty species of native bees were collected on safflower blossoms in South Central Arizona, but populations were not large and native bees could only be considered supplemental to honey bees as pollinating agents.
25084523|A nest of the rare species, Osmia tanneri Sandhouse, found in a drilled wood nest trap is described and compared with nest architectural features of mud nests collected previously under rock slabs. Probable reasons why this bee is not commonly collected are discussed.
25481806|The first species of the scorpionfly genus Panorpodes found in North America and outside the eastern Palearctic is described and illustrated. A key to North American scorpionflies is provided.
25085807|A field study was conducted to determine the effects of multiple concentrations and rates of carbaryl bran bait on grasshopper populations on mixedgrass prairie. Fifty-one, 16.2-ha plots were randomly treated with insecticidal baits at the following concentrations and rates: 2% carbaryl at 0.56, 1.12, 2.24, 5.60, and 11.21 kg/ha; 5% carbaryl at 0.56, 1.12, and 2.24 kg/ha; and 10% carbaryl at 0.56, 1.12, and 2.24 kg/ha. An additional eight plots were used as controls. Densities of total grasshoppers, bran-accepting, and bran-rejecting species were estimated in each plot before treatment and 2, 4, and 7 days after treatments. Bran acceptors and rejectors are those species that will either feed on or not feed on bran, respectively. Results indicated that all treatments, except the 2% carbaryl at 0.56 kg/ha, caused significant reductions of 37-86% in total grasshoppers. Grasshopper populations were affected by the amount of bait applied, but were generally not affected by the concentration of carbaryl on the bait. The highest mean mortalities of total grasshoppers (72-86%) occurred in plots treated with 2% carbaryl at 5.60 and 11.21 kg/ha, 5% carbaryl at 1.12 kg/ha, and 10% carbaryl at 2.24 kg/ha. Applications of 0.56 kg bait per ha were generally ineffective. Mortality of bran-accepting species, which constituted 72% of all grasshoppers, ranged from 45 to 97%. Treatments had no significant effect on populations of bran rejectors.
25084783|Three species of the genus Delia were examined for eight enzyme systems using horizontal starch gel electrophoresis. Delia antiqua and D. platura were more closely related to each other (Nei genetic distance of 0.398) than either was to D. radicum (D between antiqua and radicum = 1.369; between platura and radicum = 0.900). These relationships are congruent with those suggested by morphological and cytogenetic evidence, and provide a framework in which to analyze the evolution of proximate mechanisms governing host-finding and acceptance behaviors.
25082458|The genus Chilenana is brought up to date with the description of three new subgenera, Chilenana, Penaia and Rugosella. One new species is added, C. (R.) obrienorum, and the females of C. (C.) proxima, C. (C.) exilis, and C. (P.) flexa are described.
25083980|Nesting females of a neotropical sand wasp, Bembix multipicta, exhibit both preventive and active defensive behaviors in response to nest predation pressures, especially from ants. Three types of outer nest entrance closures which differ considerably in thickness and extents of compaction and concealment are employed-temporary, overnight, and final. The cost of a more secure closure is realized for the females during the longer periods of exposure to high surface temperatures, predators, and parasites if she opens the nest entrance when bearing prey. Active defensive behaviors directed mainly toward raiding Solenopsis ants are employed when preventive measures fail. The foraging time expenditures of females for tabanid flies around domestic horses is proportional to the relative prey density rather than to the horse's surface area. Vertical elongate dark objects, such as a horse's legs (rewarding) or wooden posts (non-rewarding), proved to be powerful stimuli eliciting local search for prey.
25084988|Significantly fewer (P < 0.01) Bracon hebetor Say developed on paralyzed almond moth larvae, Cadra cautella (Walker), contained on filter paper surfaces previously exposed to the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), than on non-exposed surfaces. Adult B. hebetor were apparently repelled by quinones or other chemicals secreted by T. castaneum on the exposed surfaces and did not oviposit as frequently as they did on the non-exposed surfaces. It is hypothesized that the repellent action serves as a mechanism for avoidance by B. bebetor and subsequent survival since T. castaneum readily preys on immature B. hebetor and their parasitized hosts.
25481787|The nesting biology of Duckeanthidium thielei Michener (Megachilidae: Anthidiini) was studied using trap nests at different locations in a tropical lowland rainforest in Costa Rica. The number of female bees sleeping in the trap nests and the number of nests per month were monitored during a two year period. A modified version of the classic acetolysis is described as an alternative method for pollen analysis under field conditions. The records of females and nests for a two year period showed a seasonal abundance pattern with a peak in July/August and no records from November to February. Larval provisions of 22 different females were analyzed for their pollen composition. Pollen from the genus Bauhinia (Fabaceae: Caesalpinioideae) was present in all samples from completed cells with an average proportion of 94.5% per sample. The total proportion of Caesalpinioideae-pollen was 99.01% when a second unidentified caesalpinioid pollen type was included. This percentage is well above the 95% limit for oligolecty as applied in this study. The presence of the second caesalpinioid pollen type was restricted to only two samples from April and May when Bauhinia flowers may have been scarce. The host plant specialization, as found in the present study, represents an extreme case of oligolecty among bees of the tribe Anthidiini.
25084297|A seed weevil, Smicronyx fulvus LeConte, is a pest of commercial sunflower, Helianthus annuus L., that frequently requires control measures in the northern growing areas. Seed samples taken from 3 areas of sunflower fields (margin, 7 m, and 15 m from margin) indicate that larval damage decreases from the edge inward. Such border effects should be considered by those making adult population counts to provide reliable estimates of weevil populations.
25084177|The eastern yellowjacket, Vespula maculifrons (Buysson), was the most abundant yellowjacket species in northern Georgia, western North Carolina and west central Indiana in all habitats studied from 1974-1977. Nearly every colony was subterranean; only a few were discovered in protected above ground sites. A "typical" colony in our southeastern sites was initiated by early May, grew rapidly during July and August reaching a peak worker population of nearly 3000 in September, and constructed about 8000 cells of which nearly 30% produced queens. Queen cell construction was initiated as early as 18 August and continued through November with adult queens emerging from late September until colony demise in December. For completed nests the mean number of worker cells was 5283 and the mean number of queen cells was 2551, but the ratio of queen to total cells ranged from 17.5 to 42.4%. The largest nest had 14,105 total cells, and the maximum numbers of adult workers in a colony when sampled was 4875. Very few established colonies reached maturity. Of 36 incipient colonies observed in situ in Athens, Georgia, only 2 developed to produce queens. Inundation following spring rain, loss of queen, and undocumented causes accounted for the demise of 31 colonies; 3 colonies were usurped by other Vespula species. Intraspecific usurpation was documented in 13 colonies. The socially parasitic southern yellowjacket, V. squamosa (Drury), was a major mortality factor of early season V. maculifrons colonies; of 240 host colonies established in our southeastern study sites, 96 (40%) eventually were usurped by V. squamosa. Declining colonies characteristically supported larvae of 2 muscid flies, Fannia canicularis (L.) and Dendrophaonia querceti (Bouche), and those in advanced decline often harbored adult female Triphleba lugubris Meigen (Diptera: Phoridae). Numerous mature and declining colonies were destroyed by raccoons and black bear, but most such colonies had already produced large numbers of queens.
20621942|Albertoberotha leuckorum McKellar and Engel, a new genus and species of the neuropteran family Rhachiberothidae is described from Upper Cretaceous (Campanian) amber from the Grassy Lake locality in Alberta, Canada. Rhachiberothidae today consist of 13 species from sub-saharan Africa; but 12 species in amber throughout the Northern Hemisphere indicate that the family was global at least 125-45 mya. Despite the extent of existing studies pertaining to amber-entombed neuropterans, only members of the Berothidae and Chrysopidae have been conclusively reported from Canadian amber to date. We describe the first representative of the Rhachiberothidae to be observed in Campanian amber and draw comparisons with genera in other Cretaceous deposits.
25084092|At the time of the first male emergence leafcutting bee cells were exposed to temperatures of 4.4, 15.6, 18.3, 21.1 and 23.9C for one to 16 consecutive days; to a diurnal cycle of 15.6 and 29.5C for four to 16 consecutive days; and to a series of alternating daily temperatures of 15.6 and 29.5C to determine the effect of low temperatures on mortality. All temperature treatments resulted in a low or non-significant mortality. Development and emergence of pupae and teneral adults can be arrested for at least nine days when held at or below 18.3C without increasing mortality significantly.
25084475|Seedlings of 12 grasses were tested in the greenhouse for susceptibility to chinch bug, Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say). Yellow foxtail and goosegrass were tolerant host plants while giant foxtail was susceptible. Indiangrass (tolerant) and switchgrass (susceptible) served as hosts in the greenhouse but were not observed to be fed on by nymphs in the field. Bromegrass and wild rye were susceptible to injury but poor hosts for chinch bug development. Fall panicum, big bluestem, Kentucky bluegrass, Bermudagrass, and St. Augustinegrass exhibited apparent antibiosis.
25086014|Adult behaviors of the regal fritillary, Speyeria idalia (Drury), were studied in Kansas tallgrass prairie. Our objective was to determine nectar resources, adult emergence patterns, and behaviors throughout the flight period, which extends from early June to early October. Availability of nectar sources changed throughout the adult flight period. Adults exhibited extreme protandry; males emerged in early June (ca. 2 weeks before females) and showed flight patterns suggestive of searching for females, even though none were present. Mating occurred soon after females emerged, and most males were gone by July 10. Females reduced flight activity and remained hidden in clumps of plants from the time they eclosed (mid-June) until late August/early September. Females resumed flight activity a week prior to oviposition.
25082813|Nests of Diadasia afflicta are similar to those of other species of the genus. The following features are unusual or distinctive: shape of the pollen mass, waterproof nature of the cell interior, and shape and waterproof nature of the cell closure. Some prepupae appear to remain inactive through the summer and presumably would emerge in a subsequent year.
25085008|Endomychus biguttatus Say larvae were reared in the laboratory on sporocarps of Schizophyllum commune Fries. Eggs, four larval instars, pupa and larval alimentary canal were studied. Eggs are covered with hyphal fragments. Larval vestiture consists largely of unusual corbisoid setae. Pupae have five functional spiracles and pedunculate urogomphi. Lateral thoracic and abdominal margins of pupae are densely papillate. The larval alimentary canal consists of a tubular, gradually expanding foregut, saccular midgut, and a recurved hindgut with cryptonephridic Malpighian tubules. Reflex bleeding occurs in adults of E. biguttatus. Endomychus spp. feed exclusively on Basidiomycetes.
25085535|A key to the nine Holarctic species of the trichogrammatid genus Aphelinoidea Girault is given. The taxonomic status of A. plutella Girault is discussed. A. turanica S. Trjapitzin, new species, is described and illustrated. This species of egg parasitoid was imported in 1992 from Turkmenistan (central Asia) into California as an agent for biological control of beet leafhopper, Circulifer tenellus (Baker). Quarantine pre-introductory evaluation was followed in 1993 by releases of the insectary-reared parasitoids in Oildale, California. A brief account of the life history traits of A. turanica as well as preliminary data on its establishment at the release site are included.
25082857|The host-parasitoid relationship of the house fly, Musca domestica L., and the protelean parasitoid, Spalangia endius Walker was studied in the laboratory. The daily loss rate under laboratory conditions was 0.3315 and the oviposition rate and the number of progeny per female wasp per day averaged 9.46 and 2.6, respectively.
25083494|Alconeura lyraforma n. sp. and Dikrella (Readionia) avicula n. sp. are described from Colombia. Dikrella mella Ruppel and De Long and Dikrella nigrinota Ruppel and De Long are placed in the subgenus Dikrella (Readionia).
25084193|Females of Philanthus basilaris sometimes prey upon conspecific males, including males on territories. The investigative flights made by territorial males expose them to risk of predation. This is the first reported instance of cannibalism by adult females in the Sphecidae.
25084036|A complete description of the mature larva of Conotrachelus retentus (Say), the black walnut curculio, is presented. Structures of importance are illustrated.
25084836|In 1982-1985, on-farm stored wheat in north central Oklahoma was sampled monthly to determine insect species present and storage practices used. Seasonal grain temperatures in aerated and unaerated grain bins were recorded. Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) was the most prevalent primary insect species found in 29.0, 37.5 and 34.4 percent of on-farm grain bins in 1982-1983, 1983-1984 and 1984-1985 storage years, respectively. Cryptolestes spp., Plodia interpunctella (Hbner), and Tribolium spp. were the most abundant secondary stored grain insect species found in Oklahoma in each storage year. Grain temperatures ranged from 35 to 38C during June, July, and August. During September, October and November, grain temperatures ranged from 24 to 30C, which is optimal for stored grain insect activity, and allowed all populations to reach high levels. Aeration was shown to be a feasible and effective stored grain management tool in Oklahoma. With utilization of aeration, losses from insects were greatly reduced.
25085291|The nesting behavior of over 200 females of Tachysphex tarsatus was studied at 23 localities in the central and eastern United States during 1960-1991. The wasps nested solitarily in friable soil containing sparse to moderately dense amounts of vegetation. There was little or no variation among females in components of burrow excavation, hunting, prey capture, malaxation and nest closure. There was only a moderate amount of geographic and little or no annual variation in nest dimensions. At some localities wasps nesting in spring and early summer dug slightly longer and deeper, one-celled nests than those nesting in late summer. Females preyed upon nymphal or, rarely, adult Acrididae belonging to the subfamilies Gomphocerinae (rarely), Melanoplinae and Oedipodinae. In upstate New York, Dissosteira carolina and Melanoplus sanguinipes were predominant prey species in spring and early summer nests, and M. femurrubrum was the prevalent prey in late summer nests. A gradual decrease in the mean number of prey per cell from spring to late summer accompanied an increase in the mean weight of the prey individuals. Variation in the manner of prey transport and nest entry was related to the different sizes and weights of the acridids. Cells from September contained the largest amount of prey biomass yet produced the smallest wasps in June of the following year. The vast majority of prey and, invariably, the egg-bearing acridid were positioned in the cells head inward and ventral side up. Eggs were laid transversely across the pro- and mesosterna of the prey. Although certain females tended to be left- or right-sided in oviposition site, eggs were fixed about equally to the prey's left or right forecoxal corium. Larger wasps laid larger eggs. Females started and completed as many as three nests a day under optimal environmental conditions.
25085730|The bees so far recognized in the probably early Oligocene to early Miocene Dominican amber are: one colletid (Chilicola gracilis new species), one andrenid (Heterosarus eickworti Rozen), four halictids (Eickwortapis dominicana new genus and species, Oligochlora eickworti Engel and O. micheneri Engel, and an unnamed Neocorynura) and three apids [Proplebeia dominicana (Wille and Chandler) and two unnamed meliponines]. The male of P. dominicana is here described for the first time. While the genera Eickwortapis, Oligochlora, and Proplebeia do not exist in the Recent fauna, all are close relatives of Recent genera. The affinites of the fauna are clearly neotropical. The presence of Colletidae, Andrenidae, and Halictidae in the Dominican amber indicates similarity to the modern fauna and to mid Tertiary deposits in North America and Eurasia, and contrasts with the older (late Eocene) Baltic amber that lacks these three families.
25084551|Nests of Odynerus erythrogaster Bohart and O. cinnabarinus Bohart are described for the first time. Nests were recovered from trap stems placed in southern California and Arizona. Both wasp species provisioned their nests with lepidopterous larvae. Eight kinds of nest associates, mostly predaceous species, were recorded from nests of O. erythrogaster. Nesting sites, nest construction, cocoons, overwintering, emergence, sex ratios, nest supersedure, and mortality factors are discussed.
25084034|Seven additional new species of Thagria from Southeast Asia in the Oriental Region are described and illustrated. These include undulata and capilla from Laos, ampla, serrastyla, thailandensis and paraornata from Thailand, and boulardi from Vietnam. The number of species in the genus is now 146.
25083880|Analysis of the mite fauna associated with live-oak foliage in Texas supports the view that ecological communities are structured as opposed to being a haphazard assemblage of species. The Tydeidae, Oribatei and Phytoseiidae were dominant in samples from a newly established urban site (shopping plaza), a long-established urban site (university campus) and a natural stand. In general, each site supported the same rare species. In the Phytoseiidae, the same four species occurred at each site but in differing proportions; an index of species richness was similar for each site. It is suggested that the phytoseiid guild is in equilibrium and that interspecific competition plays a crucial role in effecting this balance of species.
25084926|Larvae of the geometrid, Pleuroprucha insulsaria (Guene), were observed feeding in the heads of grain sorghum in southwestern Arkansas. In the laboratory the total life cycle (egg to adult) was 22-25 days at 30C, 14 hr L, with larvae reared on artificial diet. Egg and larval developmental times were 2.11  0.04 and 10.3  0.07 days, respectively. Although damage to seeds was observed, the pest status of the insect has yet to be determined.
25082546|This paper is the first in a series of four that will treat the 85 confirmed and 16 probable occurring species of Membracidae in Missouri. A state survey began in June of 1968 and was concluded in June of 1972. The family Membracidae is represented in the Missouri fauna by the four subfamilies, Centrotinae, Hoplophorioninae, Membracinae, and Smiliinae. The first three subfamilies are treated in this first section. Smiliinae will be treated in the three following sections. The species treated in part 1 are Microcentrus caryae (Fitch), M. perditus (Amyot & Serville), Platycotis vittata (Fab.), Tylopelta americana (Goding), Euchenopa binotata (Say), and Campylenchia latipes (Say). Subfamily, generic, and specific keys are provided. Illustrations, a description, distribution, host plant records, and biological notes are given for each species treated.
25084124|A classification scheme for determining larval instars of the range caterpillar, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae), based on spine characteristics, is described. The scheme is tested favorably by plotting head capsule widths against the predicted instar. Head capsule growth approximately followed Dyar's rule, but a second degree polynomial equation (ln Y = -0.424 + 0.477X -
25084323|A small nesting aggregation of the vernal, oligolectic bee Diadasia afflicta was observed for three years in Austin, Texas. This population is weakly bivoltine with the main flight period coinciding well with the peak blooming period of its primary floral host, Callirhoe involucrata (Malvaceae). Studies of marked individuals indicated that female bees live up to 31 days and may construct as many as 10 multiple-celled nests. During the peak Callirhoe bloom, bees commonly provisioned two cells per day. A cell was provisioned by a series of 15-23 consecutive pollen foraging flights with most females foraging approximately 110 m from their nest site. Males are normally found only at Callirhoe flowers. We present here details of the floral biology of Callirhoe involucrata along with descriptions of foraging behavior, nest construction, and cell closure. We also describe an unusual feature of the nest architecture, the adornment of the burrow turret with pellets of Callirhoe pollen, and discuss the various factors that determine the number of cells constructed per nest.
25085694|Examination of specimens of the 15 recognized species of Formicaphagus resulted in 6 new synonymies: F. laemostictus, F. latifrons, and F. peruvianus are junior synonyms of F. picturatus; F. huilae of F. angustifrons; and F. bolivianus and F. thoracicus of F. minutus. Two new species are described from material collected by the junior author in Peru: F. arnoldi (type host Conopophaga ardesiaca) and F. donpetersi (type host Conopophaga peruviana); these are the first louse species described from hosts in the family Conopophagidae, the gnateaters. Keys are provided for the identification of the 11 species and host-parasite relationships are considered.
25085900|Tipula (Tipula) oleracea Linnaeus, a species native to the Old World, is first recorded from Ecuador (South America). The local habitat for adults and immatures is reported. The last instar larva and pupa are described and illustrated. Modes for introduction of this economically important species into the Neotropical Region are discussed. Accidental introduction of larvae in soil associated with horticultural imports from Europe is considered likely.
25084875|Fifteen first-year Indiana cornfields were sampled in 1984 for the presence of wireworms. There were 10 species found with Limonius dubitans being the most abundant species in corn following soybean fields, and Aeolus mellillus the most abundant species in corn following sod fields. More elaterid larvae were found in corn following soybeans than following other crops. Because of variation in the presence of other soil inhabiting insects, the direct impact of wireworms on corn could not be determined in field tests.
25083049|Natural infestations of stored-product insects in bulk quantities of wheat were killed by infrared radiation that increased the temperature of the wheat to 55C. One month later, the temperature of the treated wheat had cooled to an average temperature of 33C. An inverse relationship was observed between the grain temperature and the number of insects in the wheat: as the temperature in the treated bin decreased, the number of adults and immature insects increased. Also, as the temperatures in an untreated bin (control) increased, the total number of adults and the insects emerging from the grain samples decreased.
25085421|A new species of leafhopper, Icaia antera, is reported from Peru. We also report new distribution records for Icaia montana DeLong, which was previously known only from male specimens from Bolivia. We identified three female specimens from La Pampa and three males from La Pampa and Mendoza, Argentina. One female was macropterous, the other specimens were brachypterous.
25083794|Local populations of Cicadulina bipunctella (Matsumura) and C. chinai Ghauri are described from the cereal "ragi" (Eleusine coracana) in Bangalore, India. This is the first record of either species from India.
25083965|The distinctive egg of Zeros flavipes (Cresson) is described. It is hypothesized that a respiratory filament and the reticulation of the chorion make possible aerial respiration when the egg is buried in soil or submerged in water.
25085564|Two species of Australian tachinid flies exhibit distinctly different mate-locating tactics. Males of Microtopesa sinuata Donovan engage in landmark-territoriality with individuals defending small perching areas at local "hilltops" along a ridgeline. Territory ownership is established through ritualized aerial contests. Different populations of males rank perch sites similarly. Some males exhibit strong fidelity to a given site over a period of as much as 2 wk. Differences among males in site fidelity are not related to differences in body size.Males of Rutilia micans Malloch exhibit scramble competition, with individuals flying quickly from one tree to the next, inspecting trunks for perched females. Male aggression and territoriality are absent. The difference between the mate-locating tactics of the two species is possibly related to the greater size and density of the male population in R. micans, which should raise the cost of territorial defense for this tachinid.
25085857|For the short-lived aquatic insects, such as the Chironomidae Family, large isolated lakes act as islands as they sustain "closed" communities. Island Biogeography Theory considers communities in a dynamic equilibrium, where species yearly turnover is an important component. Long term community composition studies are limited because turnover is sensitive to the length of the sample interval. Apparent turnover, that by definition is independent of census interval, instead considers longer intervals and allows studies to trace communities far back in time. In northern Patagonia, an archipelago of post-glacial lakes originated ca. 15,000 yr BP with little human impact and offers unique conditions for long-term ecological studies of aquatic communities. In this study, we used a long-term apparent turnover approach to provide insight into the dynamics of Chironomid communities. Such an approach allows for longer intervals, avoids the bias reported for short term studies, and may be suitable for looking at long term temporal trends in short lived insects. We estimated the apparent turnover for past Chironomid assemblages using data obtained from 11-m long sediment core collected at Lake Mascardi. Samples taken every 10-cm, covered approximately 100-200 yr intervals. Twenty-eight species, belonging to 4 groups (subfamilies Tanypodinae and Orthocladiinae, tribes Tanytarsini and Chironominini) were identified from the fossil record. Maximum number per assemblage did not exceed 14 species. Turnover, mainly due to local extinction events was important during reported pulse disturbances, such as regional vulcanism. Stable assemblages instead, revealed by minimal turnover pattern, may be associated with favorable environmental conditions or when community composition is 0. We conclude that for midges at the studied lake, the community is indeed under a dynamic equilibrium and may not be species saturated. In this sense, the importance of regional physical disturbance should be considered.
25086064|INSECTO is a commercial diatomaceous earth dust registered in the US for grain treatment at 0.5 to 1 g/kg rates. In the laboratory, male and female adults of different specific ages of the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) (Coleoptera, Tenebrionidae), were exposed for 7 days to hard red winter wheat treated with 0.25 g/kg of INSECTO at 30C and 65% RH. The mortality of T. castaneum adults was similar between the sexes, but varied with adult age. Adults that are 0.5 and 2.5-days-old, and those that were 64.5-days old, were about 3 to 6 times more susceptible to INSECTO than 4.5 to 32.5-day-old adults. Mortality of 4.5 to 32.5-day-old adults was similar (4.5 to 5.5%) Therefore, when evaluating the efficacy of diatomaceous earth dusts on T. castaneum, unsexed adults between 4.5 and 32.5 days should be used in bioassays to reduce variation in mortality data attributable to adult age.
25083564|Ephemerella alleni n. sp. is the eighth species in the subgenus Ephemerella, s.s., known from western North America. Descriptions of the mature nymph and characters for distinguishing the species are given.
41681218|The status of wild bees, the major group of pollinators in most biomes, has gained recognition as an important ecological and economic issue. Insufficient baseline data and taxonomic expertise for this understudied group has hindered efforts to assess the conservation status of the majority of wild bee species. To more objectively address their current conservation status, we drew upon museum collections and the expertise of melittologists (biologists studying non-Apis bees) to compile a complete list of bee species for eastern North America, discriminating those which have and have not been detected during the past 20 years. The vast majority (95% of about 770 eastern North American bee species) have been found again, at least once since 1990. The remaining 37 species were rarely collected before 1990 as well. Some may truly be at risk (or lost). Others are undoubtedly data deficient due to inadequate knowledge of their biology or hosts, or the geographic regions and local habitats where they occur. Distributional and ecological patterns among these missing species are discussed. Most were recorded in the region only from peripheral areas or areas known to be undersampled by recent collectors, such as the southeastern United States. Others are characterized by specialized life histories or they cannot be identified routinely in the absence of taxonomic revisions. Clearly, most eastern North American bee species have persisted until recent times, with no evidence of widespread recent extinctions. An absence of welldocumented global extinctions of bee species does not warrant complacency regarding pollinator conservation, as our qualitative method does not lend itself to documenting range contractions, range fragmentation, or declines in abundance and species richness in local bee communities.
25084035|Number and density of overwintering chinch bugs were compared among grass species and sites differing in burn history within an eastern Nebraska prairie. More bugs were found in Andropogon gerardii and Schizachyrium scoparium than Panicum virgatum (P < .05). No significant differences were found among sites differing in burn history. Within a grass species, clumps with higher above-ground biomass had more chinch bugs. The distribution of chinch bugs within a prairie was found to be related to the compactness of the grass species and the amount of vegetation in each clump.
25085186|The male of Neivamyrmex crassiscapus, n. sp. (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ecitoninae) is described from specimens collected in a light trap near Palenque, Chiapas, Mexico. Males of this species have been collected from the following states in Mexico: Campeche, Chiapas, Quintana Roo, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Yucatan. These specimens were incorrectly referred to as Neivamyrmex guerini (Shuckard) in an earlier article. The holotype is deposited in the National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., U.S.A. The worker and queen are unknown.
25082708|An apparent attraction of stingless bees to a predatory assassin bug suggests the possibility of pheromones.
25084229|The 4 nymphal instars of greenbug were differentiated based on number of antennal segments, length of the terminal antennal segment, and shape of the cauda. The developmental threshold for nymphal growth was found to be 5C with an optimal development rate at 30C.
25083508|Plum curculio larvae can develop in plum leaf curl galls and in plum pockets. Adults from these galls readily oviposited in peach and apple and the resulting larvae successfully completed their development in these fruits. Leaf curl galls occur in considerable abundance and are present during years when no fruit occurs on wild plums. These galls may be of considerable importance as a species survival host of plum curculio during years when its fruit hosts are absent.
25084744|Communal oviposition by the spider parasite, Mantispa fuscicornis (Say), was observed on the underside of picnic shelter eaves in southern Texas during June and July 1984. Oviposition on the shelters appeared to be related to spider density. One shelter received 403 mantispid egg clusters and was inhabited by 82 spiders. The second largest number of egg clusters on a different shelter was 13 and was inhabited by only seven spiders. Spiders were collected from both shelters, preserved and examined for mantispid larvae. Larvae were found attached to six species of spiders; Metacyrba undata (DeGeer), Mettazygia wittfeldae (McCook), Metazygia zilloides (Banks), Phidippus audax (Hentz), Scytodes sp., and Tetragnatha guatemalensis O. P.-Cambridge. Five of these spider species, excluding Scytodes sp., all represent new host records for M. fuscicornis. The parasite has previously only been associated with an undescribed species of Scytodes. The communal oviposition behavior by M. fuscicornis is the first reported in North America.
25082999|A new species of uropodid, Uroobovella formosana sp. n., associated with the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki is described. All trophic stages were found. Deutonymphs were attached by anal pedicels to the abdominal dorsa of workers and soldiers. The association between mite and termite was phoretic.
25083819|Light traps in southern Mississippi and southeast Louisiana yielded eight species of Monohelea Kieffer, six of which are new to Mississippi. M. wirthi is described as a new species.
25085195|Transovum transmission efficiencies of the multiply-embedded form of Autographa californica nucleopolyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) and the singly-embedded form of Heliothis zea nucleopolyhedrosis virus (HzSNPV) were comparatively evaluated against the tobacco budworm, Heliothis virescens (F.) using an autodissemination technique. The corrected mean viral-induced mortality for progeny arising from mating pairs in which only the male was surface contaminated with virus was 68.8% for AcMNPV and 53.0% for HzSNPV. AcMNPV, however, induced an
25084040|Small amounts of chemical substances were applied at a sugarwater bait where workers from a colony of Trigona fulviventris fulviventris Gurin were foraging. The bees showed no response to almond extract or anise. When food source and trail marking compounds of competing Trigona species were applied, the bees responded with flight and defensive postures.
25083883|The 5th instar larva and pupa of Smicronyx fulvus LeConte (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) are described and illustrated.
25568940|The potential for rootworm larvae to move between grassy weeds and transgenic maize may be important in resistance management of transgenic rootworm-resistant maize. An experiment was conducted under growth chamber and greenhouse conditions to determine the impact of initial feeding of rootworm larvae on alternate hosts, followed by switching host to transgenic maize, on the development of western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte). Two grassy weed species, rootworm-resistant Cry3Bb1 transgenic maize (MON863, YieldGard Rootworm) and its isoline, were infested with 50 neonate larvae per container four weeks after planting. Large crabgrass (Digitaria sanguinalis (L.) Scop), and giant foxtail, Setaria faberi R. A. W. Herrm both in the Poaceae, were chosen because they were relatively good hosts in previous studies. On the 5th, 10th, and 15th d after infestation, the Tullgren funnel technique was used to facilitate larval movement (host-switching) from the original host plants to the final hosts (MON863 or its isoline). Beetle emergence and fecundity were significantly impacted by the original host, the final host, and their interaction. The original and the final host plant also significantly impacted the sex ratio of the beetles. The host-switching date did not impact any of those three variables. Only the original host had a significant impact on egg viability. Significantly more reproductively fit beetles were produced from larvae that fed on an alternate host before moving to transgenic maize than from larvae fed exclusively on transgenic maize. Interactions with alternate hosts may influence transgenic maize resistance management models.
25085142|Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte eggs from South Dakota collected adults were exposed to two overwintering regimes (field conditions and 8.5C) and two hatch regimes (simulated field conditions and 25C). Thermal units (TU) for each hatch regime were calculated at base temperature of 11C. No significant differences were found among treatments for percent hatch. No significant differences were found in TU except for those that were overwintered in the field and had a hatch regime of 25C. Comparisons between this study and others provided evidence that throughout the midwestern corn-belt, first hatch could be predicted to occur at a TU accumulation of 232  21 (x  SD) and 50% occurrence of hatch could be predicted to occur near a TU accumulation of 292  69.
25085121|We describe ultrastructural features of Dufour's glands and their associated nerves and visceral muscles using light and electron microscopy. The gland is tubular and short with slight curvatures near its distal and proximal ends. Extensive luminal and basal invaginations, and occasional basal protrusions of the secretory cells which interrupt the linear disposition of the investing visceral muscle, are common. Structure-function relationships are suggested and comparisons of ultrastructural features are made, where appropriate, with Dufour's glands of other bees. Cells composing the epithelium of the gland are thick columnar, thin columnar, pentagonal, and trapezoidal in shape. Granules, considered secretory, occur in the secretory cells and microfibrillar endocuticle. Secretory product in luminal invaginations has similar electron density to the predominant of the two types of secretory granules present. Strategic positioning of key organelles (nuclei, mitochondria, free ribosomes, polyribosomes) and tracheoles, and their proximity to both luminal and deep basal invaginations, appear to nullify the need for elaborate elements of endoplasmic reticulum. Well developed microvilli and sparse Golgi bodies occur. Visceral muscle is undeveloped and contains loosely organized myofibrils. H- and I-bands are indistinct. Sarcoplasmic volume is increased about the middle of each sarcomere. Nerve processes are unmyelinated and contain numerous neurofilaments. Neurotubules and mitochondria occur in nerve processes.
25082457|Neopanorpa chillcotti new species is described and illustrated. Himalayan panorpids heretofore assigned to Leptopanorpa are tentatively placed in Neopanorpa.
25085197|Patterns in grasshopper phenology and abundance were determined in eight pastures on a representative shortgrass prairie. Major and minor peaks in abundance occurred during the season as the transition was made among species which overwinter as eggs and nymphs. Although thirty-three species were observed, five species comprised over 70 percent of the assemblage, and two species over 55 percent. Peak abundance varied by as much as four weeks among pastures within a relatively small (6000 ha) area. Also, peak densities of third-instar grasshoppers, which are commonly targeted for control, varied considerably; there was essentially no temporal overlap by third instars of the co-dominant species Opeia obscura (Thomas) and Psoloessa delicatula Scudder. Temporal phenology of the five dominant species is provided.
25083838|Cage choice studies indicated few differences in leaf preference between nymphs and adults; nor in inflorescence and seed preference between nymphs and adults. Preference for the same grass species was not concurrent for leaves and for inflorescence and seeds, particularly as the grass matured. All grasses except Bromus inermis became less acceptable as they matured. Pronounced preferences were shown for the leaves of B. inermis, Festuca arundinacea, and Phleum pratense, and the inflorescence and seeds of F. arundinacea, Elymus junceus, and B. inermis. There was little or no feeding on the leaves of Bouteloua curtipendula, Phalaris arundinacea, Panicum virgatum, and Agropyron elongatum, and on the inflorescence and seeds of B. curtipendula, A. elongatum, and Andropogon gerardi. Clipping of inflorescence and seeds was generally no more than 2% among nymphs, except those of Phoetaliotes nebrascensis. Adult clipping generally ranged from 14 to 19% but was lower with Melanoplus sanguinipes and M. femurrubrumfemurrubrum. Preferences of the various grasshopper species are presented.
25083918|Studies were conducted in 1972 and 1973 to determine some of the effects of exogenous testosterone propionate (TP) on the sebaceous glands of yearling Aberdeen Angus steers as compared with the sebaceous glands of intact Aberdeen Angus bulls and to determine if any relationship between Haematobia irritans (L.), attraction and sebaceous gland measurements was present. There was no treatment effect on the number of sebaceous gland alveoli cross sections per
25082913|Egg to adult development of Urbanus proteus required an average of 38.5 days on dry beans. Sex ratio was approximately 1:1 and adults lived from 7 to 25 days, with 5 females laying an average of 79.2 eggs in an outdoor cage. One egg and two larval parasites were identified. Larval parasitism ranged from 21 to 40% during one year.
25085616|The seasonal occurrence of epizootics caused by the fungus Neozygites adjarica (Tsintsadze & Vartapetov) were studied in populations of Banks grass mites, Oligonychus pratensis (Banks), and twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus urticae Koch, on field corn, Zea mays L. The first evidence of fungal infection was 5 August, but the major epizootics occurred 14 August to 8 September. The fungal epizootics followed periods of 8-10 h per day of ambient relative humidity above 80%. N. adjarica epizootics occurred in the four test fields, but it was not clear whether or not the epizootic was the major agent of spider mite mortality. Predatory arthropods, miticide applications and corn maturity also appeared to be important spider mite mortality factors. N. adjarica epizootics were erratic and occurred too late in the season to prevent spider mite damage in corn. Awareness of conditions likely to foster fungal epizootics in spider mites will help us understand spider mite population dynamics.
25083635|Dermanyssus hirsutus is proposed as a new name for the mite presently named Dermanyssus scutatus Ewing, 1936, a primary junior homonym of Dermanyssus scutatus Kolenati, 1856, applied to a macronyssid mite.
23356031|An experimental insect growth regulator (IGR) termite bait system was placed with the objective of eliminating a persistent aerial termite colony active in the top three floors of a six-story, 100-unit apartment building. Following delineation of their foraging territory, bait matrix containing the active ingredient lufenuron was placed in contact with actively foraging termites within five infested apartments. Termite feeding activity was evaluated monthly. The infestation emanated from one colony of Reticulitermes flavipes. Bait was replaced as needed until all foraging activity ceased and no subsequent swarming occurred. No recurrence of swarming or foraging activity has been observed for seven years following cessation of termite activity within bait stations.
25085879|In a field experiment, the number of leaf cuts per branch by Megachile bees on eastern redbud (Cercis canadensis L.) was at least 17-fold higher than cutting on Mexican redbud (C. canadensis var. mexicana (Rose) M. Hopk.). The apparent preference of bees for eastern redbud may result from its larger leaf area (3 to 4-fold) and comparatively low leaf toughness compared to Mexican redbud (penetrometer readings of 11 vs. 20
25084535|The European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), is the most destructive pest of corn in Delaware. Since its discovery in 1934 it has continued to greatly increase. Peak populations appear to be occurring on a 9-year cycle and the state-wide general equilibrium position since its last peak is ca. 400 borers per 100 corn plants. Lydella thompsoni Herting, once the most important parasitoid of the ECB in Delaware and the U.S., had disappeared but attempts to reintroduce it appear successful. Recoveries of L. thompsoni throughout the state for 4 consecutive years (1979-1982) indicate that it is reestablished.
25085225|We compared monogyne (single queen per nest) and polygyne (multiple functional queens per nest) populations of the tropical fire ant in Mexico. We collected up to 16 queens in nests of the polygyne population. Workers from polygyne nests were considerably smaller and lighter in color than workers from monogyne nests. Nest density was extremely high in the polygyne population (over 2500 occupied nests and over 6000 unoccupied nests per ha). These differences are similar to those found in the monogyne and polygyne populations of the imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta, in the United States. /// Comparamos poblaciones monognicas (una reina por nido) y polignicas (ms de una reina funcional por nido) de la hormiga Solenopsis geminata en Mxico. Los nidos polignicos contienen ms de 16 reinas. Obreras de nidos polignicos son ms pequeas y ms claras en color que obreras de nidos monognicos. La densidad de nidos polignicos es muy alta. Estas diferencias son muy similares a las de las dos poblaciones de la hormiga importada de fuego (Solenopsis invicta) en los Estados Unidos.
25084102|A new genus and species of trombidiid mite, placed in the subfamily Allothrombiinae, is described. The genus Allothrombium is divided into 2 genera on the basis of a normal (Allothrombium) or vestigial (Aphithrombium n.g.) inner claw on the posterior leg of the larva. The type-species was found parasitizing Aphis pomi De Geer in an apple orchard in Missouri.
25083885|The process of host visitation by the hickory bark beetle, Scolytus quadrispinosus Say was studied on 30 black hickories, Carya texana (Buckley). Beetle flight was directed and healthy hosts were visited infrequently. The average process of host visitation lasted 6 weeks (range 3-14 weeks). Ninety-five percent of all beetles were caught in weeks 1-6, and peak numbers were caught in week 3. During the first week of visitation males predominated; females predominated thereafter.
25085884|Levels of infection of monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus, by the neogregarine parasite Ophryocystis elektroscirrha, were studied during the fall migration. Migrants were captured in Kansas and Texas in 1994, and in Kansas in 1995. In both years, the proportion of infected butterflies (3.5%) was very low compared to 53 to 68% incidence found in a previous study of overwintering California monarchs. The potential for transmission of spores between non-mating adults was examined by comparing levels of infection of initially uninfected butterflies housed with infected butterflies of the same sex (experimental), and uninfected butterflies housed together (control). While no spores were found on control butterflies, 64 to 67% of the experimental butterflies contracted spores. These data suggest that passive transmission of spores at dense roosting sites may be an important mode of transmission that enables this parasite to persist in eastern North American monarch populations.
25084837|Archaeodemus woodwardi and Propinquidemus malaisei are described as new genera and species from Australia and Burma, respectively. A discussion is included of their phylogenetic positions within the subfamily. The close relationship with the genus Capodemus from the southwestern Cape Region of South Africa is noted. Both species are montane and are known only in the micropterous condition. Dorsal views are included of both species as well as details of the male and female genitalia of Archaeodemus woodwardi.
25082786|M. americanum egg masses were collected from three adjacent counties, and five individual eggs per mass were examined microscopically to determine the presence or absence of microsporidian infection. After the examination, each egg mass was returned to its original field location. Cylindrical poultry netting cages (12" dia  24" long) covered with fine mesh nylon cloth sleeves were secured over the infested branches. Mortality among infected and uninfected colonies was determined when the larvae were predominantly in the third instar and again at the fifth instar. At the final inspection, the egg masses were again retrieved, and absolute counts of alive and dead larvae were determined per cage. Examination of the egg masses revealed that no significant difference in infertility occurred between Nosema-infected and uninfected egg masses. However, the percentages of hatch and survival among the Nosema-infected colonies were lower than among uninfected colonies. These findings suggest that transovarially Nosema-infected colonies may be more susceptible to other biotic and abiotic mortality factors as evidenced by greater survival among uninfected colonies.
25084286|Thin-layer chromatography was used to visually rate differences in the concentration of 6-methoxybenzoxazolinone (MBOA) in inbred lines of dent corn, Zea mays L. The visual technique is reliable, inexpensive, and can be used effectively to identify inbred lines that have a high concentration of MBOA.
25084879|Two males of Lomamyia longicollis (Walker) were reared from cocoons collected in a pine forest in Clemson, South Carolina. Each cocoon was constructed of dense, white silk and was surrounded by an irregular network of white silk strands. At the time of collection, mid-January 1985 and early January 1986, the immatures were in the prepupal stage. The adults emerged 27 and 28 days, respectively, after collection when maintained at 25C, 80% RH, and a 16:8 (L:D) photoperiod. Adults of this berothid species can be identified by the shape of the wing, wing venation, and banding pattern on the dorsum of the head and thorax. These records constitute the first report of L. longicollis from South Carolina.
25084170|Moving colonies out of cotton fields in Arizona for 1 to 4 days each time insecticides were applied reduced losses of honey bees. These losses were further lowered when the colonies had Wardecker waterers. Confining the bees to ramadas for 24 h also was effective in reducing damage caused by insecticides. Bees confined to ramadas for 48 h fared poorly without waterers, but survived well when provided with waterers. Waterers also increased the value of both shade and covering with burlap in reducing honey bee losses to insecticides. As in previous tests colonies given good protection (covered with burlap, fed pollen cake, provided with Wardecker waterers, kept under ramadas, and placed on Miller bottom boards) produced surplus honey and survived in a strong condition. Only 1 of 10 check colonies survived the 8 insecticide applications and it was almost dead at the end of the spraying season.
25084409|Seeds of Astragalus praelongus were infested more heavily by bruchids than those of either A. lentiginosus or A. wootoni. Astragalus praelongus seeds had extremely high levels of selenium and although Acanthoscelides aureolus, A. mixtus and A. pullus fed in its seeds, only Acanthoscelides aureolus was very successful in them. Of these three bruchid species, only Acanthoscelides aureolus could tolerate high levels of selenium. A. mixtus could reproduce freely in seeds of Astragalus wootoni with much lower, but still toxic, levels of selenium. Brown seeds of Astragalus lentiginosus were preferred by bruchids over black ones. Analysis of these seeds showed that brown and black seeds contained low levels of selenium so that preferences were probably due to other toxins or to texture of seed or seed coat.
25084810|Oilseed sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.), were observed to determine the abundance and visitation patterns of wild and domestic bees. Eighteen species of bees were recorded and of these, five species or species groups accounted for 81.38% of all individuals seen. They were: Bombus pennsylvanicus/nevadensis, Agapostemon virescens, Svastra obliqua, Nomia heteropoda and Melissodes tepanica. Peak activity of bees occurred at 0800 and 0900 hours with greatly reduced numbers during afternoon hours.
25085894|Centroptilum ozarkensum, new species is described from distinctive adult males collected from springs within the Ozark National Scenic Rivers area of southeastern Missouri. The adult male of this species is similar to the widespread species C. album, but is easily distinguished from it by color and morphological characters.
25082740|In Missouri, 23 species of parasites representing 11 families of Hymenoptera and one family of Diptera were reared from the larvae and pupae of Rhyacionia buoliana (Schiffermller), R. frustrana (Comstock), and R. rigidana (Fernald).
25083699|The presence of an A. caryae (Grote) larva in the terminal portion of the petiole apparently prevents the three terminal leaflets from developing normally. Larvae were present in the petioles from early spring until May 29. Four hymenopterous parasites were reared.
25085920|The andrenid bee Alocandrena porteri Michener appears to be restricted to lower elevations (750-2000 m) on the western side of the Andean Mountains in Peru. Collections to date record it from the latitude of Lima northward although the species may range southward as well. The species has been collected during most months of the year and is thought, therefore, to be multivoltine. Females collect pollen from Lycopersicon and in so doing exhibit vibratile foraging behavior. /// Alocandrena porteri Michener es una especie de abeja andrenide que se encuentra restringida a altitudes entre los 750 y 2000 m en el sector poniente de la cordillera de los Andes en Per. Se presentan nuevas colectas en latitudes al norte de Lima. Los ejemplares han sido colectados en casi todos los meses del ao por lo que se trata de una especie multivoltina. Las hembras colectan polen de plantas de Lycopersicon y lo hacen produciendo un vibracion como caracteristica de recoleccin.
25084392|Seeds from Astragalus praelongus, A. lentiginosus and A. wootoni were sorted into size classes according to their maximum diameter to determine the relationship between seed size and percent infestation by the bruchid beetles Acanthoscelides aureolus, A. mixtus and A. pullus. The data suggest that these bruchids prefer large seeds over smaller ones. Germination rates were then determined for seeds belonging to each size class, as was the proportion of seeds of each species belonging to a given size class. Relative fitness of each seed-size class was estimated. Our data suggest that for all three Astragalus species the intermediate seed-size classes were most likely to contribute most to the next generation of plants. Large seeds probably are selected due to increased germination and small seeds by reduced predator pressure.
25085206|A new parasite Braunsapis kaliago from northwest India was found in the nest of B. mixta. It is described and compared with B. breviceps, a parasite of B. hewitti and B. puangensis from Southeast Asia.
25082379|Fourteen grass species were tested in the field as possible hosts of the larvae of the northern corn rootworm, Diabrotica longicornis (Say). The rootworms were able to complete their immature stages on 9 of these species other than corn, although corn was probably the most favorable host for larval development. Viable eggs were laid by beetles reared as larvae on 3 grasses other than corn. This paper extends the known larval host range to total 14 grass species other than corn.
25085427|An emergence trap operated over a small mountain stream in Puerto Rico collected 2561 specimens of Trichoptera in a 12 month period. Sixteen species were collected, with a single species, Cariboptila orophila, comprising 78.2% of the emergence. Females made up 58% of the catch, although this varied somewhat depending on the taxon. There was a pronounced minimum in the emergence pattern in June and July with a secondary drop in November. The average annual rainfall pattern offers no clear correlation with emergence, but the November drop might have been correlated with a sharp peak in rainfall in October of 1990. There does seem to be some seasonality in flight periods of some species, but the more abundant species were present year round.
25084779|DIMBOA (2,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-(2H)-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one) content in leaf tissue at five plant heights (15, 30, 41, 60, 83 cm) and DIMBOA content at two growth stages (anthesis and 3 weeks past anthesis) were determined for three cycle populations (CO, C3I, C3D) of maize, Zea mays L., plus inbred lines of maize CI31A (resistant to leaf feeding by first-generation European corn borers (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), and WF9 (susceptible). CI31A contained more DIMBOA and WF9 contained less DIMBOA than did the cycle populations. The CO population contained less DIMBOA at most plant heights than did the C3I and C3D populations. The C3I population contained more DIMBOA at four of the five plant heights than did the C3D population, but the differences were not significant. Plants 15 cm tall contained more DIMBOA than did plants 83 cm tall. The higher concentrations of DIMBOA found in seedling maize of the two inbred lines plus three cycle populations may explain the resistance of young maize plants to the ECB. Sheath-collar tissue at anthesis and 3 weeks post anthesis contained very little DIMBOA.
25084877|The dry weights of solitary female bees are accurately and readily estimated by a nonlinear, exponential regression equation using the shortest linear distance measured between a female bee's wing tegulae across her thoracic dorsum. The regression equation is y = 0.77(x)0.405, where y is intertegular span and x is dry weight.
25083723|Eight new species are described, Ceuthauxus hirsutipes, Rhysodesmus coriaceus (not illustrated), R. latus, Saussurobolus spinosus, Anelus emarginatus, Aztecolus productus, Hiltonius flavocinctus, Platydesmus melleus. The genus Ceuthauxus is reestablished. Tynomma messicanum Chamberlin is placed as a synonym of Abacion texense (Loomis). A male of Stilbopagus acclivus Loomis is illustrated and the range of several species extended.
25085034|The effects of prey density and the presence of a conspecific on ambush site changes were examined in the predaceous larvae of the water scavenger beetle Tropisternus lateralis, an extreme ambush-type predator. The beetle larvae change ambush sites frequently when prey density is low and less often as density increases in both the single and paired larvae experiments. Prey density had no effect on the number of prey captured or the handling time/prey. The presence of a conspecific had no effect on their response to prey density. The ability of the T. lateralis larvae to respond to changes in prey density increases foraging success and may affect survivorship through the larval period.
25084949|A cooperative study involving five states was conducted to determine the attractiveness of the pheromone of Platynota idaeusalis Walker (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), the tufted apple budmoth, to adult Melanotus in the Midwest and to identify peak periods of Melanotus activity. The predominant species attracted in most states was M. depressus (Melsheimer). In Ohio in 1979, M. similis (Kirby) was the most numerous species captured. Peak activity periods were established for M. depressus and M. similis.
25084670|Growth, development, and survival of a neotropical ectoparasite, Iphiaulax kimballi Kirkland, obtained from Mexico was examined. Fully grown larvae of the south-western corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella, serve as hosts. Parasite larvae grew at a high rate which was most synchronized at 30C. Each of the 5 larval instars was completed in about 12 hours at this temperature. The efficiency with which the parasite converted digested host tissue into body substance increased from 61% to 82% as the number of parasites per host increased from 1 to 8. Free-living adult parasites survived for long periods at 20C and 25C (50% mortality >100 days) when they were provided with honey and water. Adults of the parasite, therefore, appear to overwinter in Mexico, but would be unable to overwinter in Missouri because food is absent, and winter temperatures are too low to permit survival.
25084921|The genus Bolbomyia Loew contains three extant and one fossil species and is Holarctic in distribution. Two new synonyms are proposed. The immature stages of this genus are unknown and little is known of its biology. A key to species, descriptions, and distributional summaries are provided for each species.
25083448|Taxonomic notes are given on the Wulp types of Tephritidae (Diptera) described in "Biologia Centrali-Americana." The following new combinations are established: Trypeta striata (= Spilographa), Trypeta rufata (= Spilographa), Trypeta concolor (= Spilographa), Tetreuaresta crenulata (= Euaresta), Neotephritis rufula (= Euaresta), Tetreuaresta scitula (= Euaresta). The following new specific synonymies are established or confirmed: Rhagoletoides latifrons (= Spilographa obfuscata), Paroxyna conspersa (= Ensina mediana), Paroxyna semifusca (= Tephritis intricata).
25083003|This is the second and concluding portion of a study on the taxonomy of adult click beetles (Coleoptera: Elateridae) in Missouri. Only three subfamilies of the nine known to occur in this state are treated to the species level, the Agrypninae and Pyrophorinae having been dealt with in Part I (J. Kansas Entomol. Soc. 50:436-468, 1977). The remaining subfamily, Melanotinae, with its single genus Melanotus containing 31 species of the 60 species recorded for North America north of Mexico (Arnett, 1962) comprises Part II. Acknowledgments, Literature Cited, and Figures 1-53 were included in Part I (q.v.). Part II includes Figures 54-112 inclusive. At this writing no actual specimens of Melanotus emissus (LeConte), M. hyslopi Van Zwaluwenburg, or M. leonardi (LeConte) have been taken but should occur in the state.
25085358|Males of four Italian polistine wasps typically gather at landmarks in summer and autumn. Site-fidelity is often associated with defense of adjacent territories located on hedges and fences in P. nimpha, on high trees and poles in P. dominulus, and on stones in dry gravel-beds in P. biglumis bimaculatus, a montane species. P. gallicus males form non-territorial swarms at the same trees and poles patrolled by P. dominulus. In this paper we outline the different degrees of male aggregation, ranging from classical leks to dense swarms, and how the choice of species-specific mating sites is related to horizontal, vertical and flat landmarks.
25086267|The discovery of an eclosed egg of the Old World Dioxys cincta (Jurine) attached to the brood cell wall of Osmia (Osmia) cerinthidis Morawitz indicates that the female of the cleptoparasite deposited her egg before the host female closed the cell. This contrasts with previously published information concerning the North American Dioxys pomonae Cockerell, which deposited her eggs in the cells of Osmia (Acanthosmioides) nigrobarbata Cockerell after the host female had oviposited and closed the cell (J.G. Rozen, Jr., and M.S. Favreau. 1967. Journal of the New York Entomological Society 75:197-203). Such a change in the mode of cleptoparasitism within a single evolutionary lineage is an uncommon phenomenon among cleptoparasitic bees and invites biogeographic speculation on the oviposition habits of other Dioxyini. The brood cells of Osmia cerinthidis were constructed in the vacated brood cells of Anthophora (Anthophora) fulvitarsis Brull and A. (Melea) plagiata (Illiger). /// Bir Eski Dnya tr olan Dioxys cincta Jurine'nin yumurtasn, Osmia (Osmia) cerinthidis Morawitz'in yavru hcresinin duvarna tutturduunun bu alma ile ortaya konmas; dii kleptoparazitin yumurtasn, konuku dii hcreyi kapatmadan nce koyduunu gstermektedir. Bu durum, daha once yaymlanm, Kuzey Amerika tr Dioxys pomonae Cockerell'in yumurtasn, Osmia (Acanthosmioides) nigrobarbata Cockerell'in yumurtasn brakp hcreyi kapattktan sonra koyduunun belirtildii bilgilerle ztlk oluturmaktadr (Rozen and Favreau, 1967). Tek bir evrimsel soy ierisinde kleptoparazitik yaam tarzndaki byle bir deiiklik, kleptoparazit arlar arasnda yaygn olmayan bir olgu olup dier Dioxini bireylerinin yumurta koyma davranlarnda biyocorafik speklasyonlarn ortaya kmasna neden olmaktadr. Osmia cerinthidis'in yavru hcreleri, Anthophora (Anthophora) fulvitarsis Brull ve A. (Melea) plagiata (Illiger)'nn terkedilmi yavru hcrelerine ina edilmektedir.
25085601|Eleven maize, Zea mays L., accessions from Peru previously found resistant to leaf feeding by first generation European corn borer (ECB1), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), were evaluated for resistance to stalk boring by second generation European corn borer (ECB2), southwestern corn borer (SWCB), Diatraea grandiosella Dyar, fall armyworm (FAW), Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith), western corn rootworm (WCRW), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, corn earworm (CEW), Helicoverpa zea (Boddie), and sugarcane borer (SCB), Diatraea saccharalis (Fab.). Four accessions were resistant to 2 pests in addition to ECB1: PI 503720 was resistant to WCRW and ECB2, whereas PI 503728, PI 503849, and A-10623 were resistant to CEW and ECB2. Accession PI 503720 also had intermediate resistance to CEW and SCB. Accessions PI 503728 and PI 503849 had intermediate resistance to WCRW and SCB. Accession A-10623 had intermediate resistance to CEW larval weight and days to pupation and to SCB. Multiple pest resistance in maize, such as that detected in this study, would be useful in pest management, especially in sustainable agriculture systems.
25085636|Springs in Illinois are located in the Mississippian, Devonian, and Pennsylvanian limestone and sandstone of the Shawnee Hills and the western border of Illinois. Seven springs in southern Illinois were studied to obtain baseline data on their hydrogeology, water chemistry, and the spatial and temporal distribution of their fauna and flora. These springs were selected because they were located outside areas of intensive agriculture.Hydrogen ion concentrations ranged from 6.9 to 8.0; oxygen levels ranged from 0.5 to 10.8 mg/liter; and total dissolved solids ranged from 139 to 17,167 mg/liter. Nitrate levels were found to be extremely low or below the levels of detection, indicating no contamination from agricultural runoff. Over 85 taxa of animals and two species of plants were collected. Turbellarians and amphipods were the most abundant organisms throughout the year, although the oligochaete worms with 24 taxa proved to be the most diverse group of organisms. Varichaetadrilus angustipenis, a rare species in Illinois, was recorded from six of the seven springs. The collection of Allonais paaguayensis in Old Driver Spring was the most interesting of the taxa collected. Old Driver Spring with 46 taxa displayed the greatest diversity of macroinvertebrates.
25085525|A second species, S. fuliginea, is described in the eucerine genus Syntrichalonia (Hymenoptera: Apidae) and is compared with the type species, S. exquisita (Cresson), for which additional records, principally from Mxico, are recorded. /// Una especie segunda, S. fuliginea, est descrito en el gnero Syntrichalonia (Hymenoptera: Apidae, Eucerini) y est comparado con la especie typica, S. exquisita (Cresson), por que informacin nueva, principalemente de Mxico, esta compendiado.
25084128|Jassus varicolor Spngberg, formerly in the genus Coelidia Germar, is transferred to Conbalia Nielson in the tribe Teruliini. A new species, Conbalia youngi, is also described.
41262787|Two new species, Trypoxylon (Trypoxylon) similichingi and T. (T.) clypeisinuatum from Yunnan, China, are described and illustrated. Four species, T. (T.) bilobatum Tsuneki, 1961, T. (T.) maculipes Tsuneki, 1979, T. (T.) truncatum Tsuneki, 1979 and T. (T.) thaianum Tsuneki, 1961, are first reported from China. A key to the species of Trypoxylon from Southwest China is provided.
25082391|New host records are presented for 7 species of Larrinae, including 5 species of Tachytes. The record for T. pattoni Banks is the first of its kind. The first detailed observations on the nesting behavior of T. obductus Fox are given.
25085261|Counts of pollen grains from the digestive tracts of 23 species of wasps and bees reveal that both solitary and social taxa in the Vespidae in some cases ingest pollen at levels equal to those of some bees. This finding shows, for the first time, that these adult wasps can derive some protein nourishment from pollen.
25082820|Male bumblebee flight paths, used for attracting queens for mating, were studied. A flight path of Bombus pullatus in Costa Rica and one of Bombus mixtus in Washington are compared. Flight paths of the temperate and tropical species differed greatly in the number of males using them, and the flying life of the two species studied differed. A model is presented dealing with the possible evolution of the observed differences.
25084378|Male German cockroaches [Blattella germanica (L.)] were exposed to two frequencies of sonic and five frequencies of ultrasonic sine waves for several days in choice boxes. No significant difference was found in the distribution of German cockroaches in choice boxes after exposure to the sound frequencies tested.
25083582|The lower surfaces of the head of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis bear several rows of long hairs called ammochaetae. The main function of these hairs is to carry sand or soil while excavating nests. Ants were induced to dig in sands of varying particle size to determine the limit at which they stop using the ammochaetae and carry sand by grasping each pebble with the mandibles. The largest particles carried by the gular ammochaetae were 0.9 to 1.0 mm diameter. The ammochaetae were removed from a number of workers and the behavior of these ants observed.
25084873|Local dispersal and mating behavior of individually marked adult milkweed bugs (Lygaeus kalmii) were studied in a host patch of the milkweed Asclepias viridis in the tallgrass prairie of eastern Kansas. Over a 4 week period in July, immigration of bugs into the patch was roughly matched by mortality and/or emigration from the patch. Individual males and females visited similar numbers of plants in passing through the host patch, but females spent less time on each plant and dispersed through the patch more rapidly [median (maximum) number of days elapsing between first and last observations of individual bugs: females 1 (21), males 4 (20)]. The bugs spent much of their time in the patch mating (males: 28% of observations; females 41%). Individuals of both sexes mated multiply; individuals were observed mating with as many as six different partners. Mating success on an individual host induced males to remain there longer. Dispersal of females, however, apparently was uninfluenced by mating success.
25084009|Search and tabulation of the literature show that members of the Alydinae are closely tied to members of the Leguminosae, presumably as food plants. It may be of phylogenetic significance that these bugs and other primitive coreoids are associated with legumes. Several aggregations of mixed species are reported, involving at least two of the following: Alydus eurinus, A. philosulus, and Megalotomus quinquespinosus. Although mating pairs occur frequently, no interspecific matings were observed.
25085439|Variation in two wheat damage characters by seven greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani) (Homoptera: Aphididae), biotypes B, C, E, F, G, H and I was investigated in tests with seven wheat entries with genetically different resistances. The two forms of damage recorded were: feeding lesions (necrotic, chlorotic or no spots on leaves) which appeared during the first week, and plant death by the 18th day after infestation. Combinations of both characters for the seven cultivars allowed us to describe each biotype by a unique damage pattern. Plants were killed only in those cases where greenbugs made necrotic lesions on leaves. In nine of 31 comparisons when greenbugs formed necrotic lesions on leaves, they did not kill the plants, probably because of their low reproductive rates on these cultivars. Greenbugs, which formed only chlorotic spots or no spots at all on wheat leaves, grew slower and did not kill plants. Variation of patterns found in the two greenbug pathogenicity characters indicated that to overcome resistance determined by each of the five greenbug resistance genes in wheat, greenbugs needed to have at least two qualities-one for causing necrotic lesions and another for high reproductive rate.
25083762|Two new species of Trichoptera from Idaho are described: Apatania barri and Lenarchulus salmon. Distributional, biological, and/or taxonomic information is presented for Agapetus montanus Denning, Dolophilodes novusamericanus (Ling), Dolophilodes pallidipes (Banks), Hydropsyche tana Ross, Stactobiella delira (Ross), Apatania chasica (Denning), Limnephilus challisa Denning, Limnephilus fagus Ross, Triaenodes frontalis Banks, Lepidostoma mira Denning, and Brachycentrus occidentalis Banks.
25082597|Information from distribution, foodplant ecology, and morphology suggests recognition of three closely related species within the Plebejus acmon group: Plebejus neurona (Skinner), P. acmon (Westwood & Hewitson), and P. lupini (Boisduval). Three subspecies of P. acmon and two of P. lupini are recognized. Plebejus neurona is distinct from P. acmon in wing pigmentation and distinct from P. lupini in genital morphology. Plebejus acmon and P. lupini are largely sympatric species or semispecies that intergrade in certain areas of their distribution and remain distinct in other areas. Morphological intergradation, geographic variation in melanic pigmentation, and possible character displacement in the P. acmon-P. lupini complex are discussed. Available biological data on generation time, diapause, foodplants utilized, and seasonal and geographic distribution are summarized.
25085051|The ecology and nesting behavior of Tachysphex acutus were studied during a three-year period in upstate New York. Wasps inhabited vegetated loamy soil, often in or at the edges of fields, from June to October. Females dug rudimentary bicellular nests, left the entrance open during hunting and provisioning, captured relatively large, nymphal Melanoplus femurrubrum femurrubrum, M. sanguinipes, or M. sp., transported these prey on the ground, and placed one paralyzed individual per cell. The excavation of rudimentary bicellular nests appears to represent an imperfectly developed stage in the evolution of multicellular nests within the genus. The nesting components of T. acutus are compared with those of other species in the Pompiliformis group, especially T. tarsatus, which nested nearby during the same time of year.
25085266|The seasonal distribution and diel flight activity of Staphylinidae associated with dung were determined in an open and wooded habitat of a cattle pasture in east-central Texas. An automated, underground pitfall trap placed in each habitat and baited with swine feces resulted in the capture of 25,116 staphylinids from March 1979 to December 1980. These beetles represented 21 species in at least 11 genera; all exhibited diurnal flight behavior. The majority of specimens of 14 species were caught in the wooded habitat, where 62.3% and 80.3% of the total number of beetles were captured in 1979 and 1980, respectively. Most species were active during the spring, summer and fall. The seasonal occurrence and flight activity of each species in both habitats are discussed.
25083415|Spanogonicus albofasciatus is one of the most abundant insects in Arizona cotton fields in late June and early July. Laboratory observations indicate that this insect is capable of feeding on a number of insects and mites commonly found in cotton fields. These include spider mite eggs and adults, cotton aphids, bollworm eggs and young larvae, lygus bug eggs, hyaline plant bug eggs, and the eggs, larvae, pupae and adults of the banded whitefly. This wide host range and the extensive feeding upon some of these hosts indicates that Spanogonicus is a potentially important predator in Arizona cotton fields during June and early July.
25086273|Key diagnostic morphological features for identifying Reticulitermes flavipes, R. virginicus, R. tibialis, and R. hageni collected in Oklahoma were identified and compared. Stepwise principle component analysis identified nine features useful for species determination. These features successfully identified 100% of R. tibialis and R. hageni specimens. However, fourteen soldier features for R. flavipes and R. virginicus, including pronotum width, showed interspecific overlap. Among soldiers whose species identification was confirmed with alates, the ratio of soldier head capsule length without mandibles to head capsule width separated these two species. Analysis of multiple features identified five discriminant factors that are useful in separating these two sympatric species, resulting in 88.89% and 82.61% correct identification of R. flavipes and R. virginicus, respectively. Correct species identification based on both soldiers and alates provides the most reliable identifications.
25085729|Heterosarus (Heterosarus) eickworti, new species, is described from amber from the Dominican Republic. Between 23 and 30 million years old, the male specimen is the first fossil to be assigned to the genus, and Heterosarus is only the second panurgine genus to be recognized in the fossil record. The facial color pattern of the specimen appears to be unique for the genus, and the absent outer subantennal sutures are an uncommon feature. However, in other respects, this species, among the smallest Heterosarus, does not differ radically from known extant species. Shape of metasomal sternum 6 and integumental features permit it to be assigned in the nominate subgenus.
25084210|The new species, Suricatoecus fennecus, is described and illustrated from specimens taken off Fennecus zerda (Zimmermann) (Carnivora: Canidae) from Egypt. A key to the 15 recognized species of Suricatoecus and a host list are provided.
20621946|Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera larvae are important components of freshwater benthic communities. However, the environmental factors that determine Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera diversity and distribution in wetland systems of the Neotropical region are not well known. The objectives of this study were to: 1) conduct a diversity survey of mayflies and caddisflies in 140 wetlands in an extensive area of the Neotropical region (220,000 km, southern Brazil), and 2) determine how much variation in mayfly and caddisfly richness and composition is explained by wetland area, altitude, hydroperiod, aquatic vegetation and water conductivity. A total of 5207 individuals distributed among 16 genera of Trichoptera and Ephemeroptera were collected in the studied wetlands. The mayflies were represented by eight genera, and comprised 94.6% of the collected individuals. The richness of Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera was similar between permanent and intermittent wetlands, and it did not differ significantly between aquatic bed and emergent wetlands. However, the density was higher in permanent than in intermittent wetlands, and it was higher in aquatic bed than in emergent wetlands. While the richness and density were negatively associated with altitude and water conductivity, the composition was associated with wetland area and altitude. In terms of the conservation, there is a need to promote conservation of all wetland systems in southern Brazil, regardless of their area and altitude. These arguments are essential to develop conservation and management programs of wetlands in this region. /// As larvas de Ephemeroptera e Trichoptera so importantes componentes das comunidades bentnicas que vivem nos ecossistemas aquticos de gua doce. Enretanto, os fatores ambientais que determinam a diversidade e distribuio de Ephemeroptera e Trichoptera em reas midas da regio Neoropical so pouco conhecidos. Os objetivos desse estudo foram: 1) realizar um inventrio de diversidade de Ephemeroptera e Trichoptera em 140 reas midas em uma extensiva rea da regio Neotropical (220.000 km, Sul do Brasil), e 2) verificar se a riqueza e composio de Ephemeroptera e Trichoptera so explicadas pelo tamanho da rea mida, altitude, hidroperodo, vegetao aqutica e condutividade da gua. Um total de 5.207 indivduos distribudos em 16 gneros de Trichoptera e Ephemeroptera foi encontrado nas reas midas estudadas. Ephemeroptera esteve representada por oito gneros, e correspondeu a 94,6% do total de indivduos coletados. A riqueza de Ephemeroptera e Trichoptera foi similar entre as reas midas herbceas e emergentes. Entretanto, a densidade foi maior nas reas midas permanentes do que nas intermitentes, e tambm foi maior nas reas midas herbceas do que nas emergentes. Enquanto a riqueza e densidade foram negativamente associadas com a altitude e condutividade da gua, a composio com o tamanho da rea mida e altitude. Em termos de conservao, existe a necessidade de promover a conservao de todas as reas umidas do sul do Brasil relacionadas com sua rea e altitude. Esses argumentos so essenciais para desenvolver programas de manejo e conservao de reas midas nessa regio.
25082577|Invertebrate and chemical serial progression in three rock pool communities was observed from 5 to 17 August 1972 at Turner's Falls, Oklahoma. Progressive changes in the water chemistry and mosquito fauna, the developmental rates of the abundant mosquito species, their faunistic associations, and life history notes are included.
25083866|Based upon a study of its morphology, ecology and behavior, Tachysphex pechumani is a unique representative of the genus. The golden antennae of the female are diagnostic, and a combination of wide least interocular distance, distinctive genitalia and all-black coloration serves to distinguish males in the eastern United States. T. pechumani is known from only two geographically isolated populations, in the Pine Barrens of New Jersey and in the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. This distribution may be the result of the effects of Pleistocene glaciation. Females exhibit generic behavioral components in an unusual combination in their nesting behavior. Such a combination includes nesting in bare sand, leveling the removed loads of sand, constructing a one-celled nest, closing the nest entrance during provisioning trips, and transporting on the ground and storing in the cell a single, large acridid.
25084426|The Tallaperla maria (Needham and Smith) complex is reviewed and six species are considered valid. Tallaperla elisa, n. sp., from Tennessee and North Carolina, and T. lobata, n. sp., from Virginia, are described from the male, female and egg. T. cornelia (Needham and Smith) is removed from synonymy of T. maria and both species are redescribed. Redescriptions and new records are also provided for T. anna (Needham and Smith) and T. laurie (Ricker), and males and females for the six members of the genus are keyed.
25085218|Sticky traps are highly useful for the detection of low-level insect populations which are otherwise difficult to detect in processed commodity storages. Even where insect populations may be moderately high, as in the storage of unprocessed agricultural commodities, they are useful for making management decisions on insecticidal treatments and safe storage periods. These traps enable warehousemen to locate infestations and take corrective action while the infestations are still small and before they spread to other commodities. Recently, these traps have been used to demonstrate monitoring of feral populations of stored-product insects in some climatic areas of the world. Feral populations likely serve as reservoirs of insects for infestation of stored commodities, a possibility of much significance for storage management.
25084809|Dufour's glands from inactive and active Osmia cornifrons were studied using light and electron microscopy. These glands are very similar in both classes of bees. Each gland consists of a flattened sac of simple epithelial cells bordering a cuticulated lumen with an underlying subcuticular space. Each epithelial cell contains a single nucleus (with several nucleoli), a few short microvilli, numerous elements of rough surfaced endoplasmic reticulum, many mitochondria, sparse Golgi bodies, a few microtubules, and, rarely, a myelin figure. The basal surface of each cell is covered by a basal lamina composed of two distinct layers. Septate junctions occur between cells. Associated visceral muscle cells contain atypical actin and myosin myofilaments with larger than usual diameters and without conventional filament disposition patterns. These cells also contain a transverse tubule system, A- and I-bands, dyads, and Z-lines. Unmyelinated nerve processes, containing empty and full neurosecretory vesicles, are located adjacent to some of the muscles.
25085135|The previously recognized species of chewing louse, Cummingsia intermedia Werneck (Mallophaga: Trimenoponidae), is redescribed and illustrated. A new species, C. micheneri, is described and illustrated for lice from a Venezuelan mouse-opossum, Marmosa dryas (Marsupialia: Didelphidae); this material had earlier been misidentified as C. intermedia. Additionally, we discuss identification of these two closely related species and indicate characters that are useful in distinguishing them from all other known species of Cummingsia. A key is provided for the 10 recognized species of the genus.
25082400|Xenosiphonaphis folisacculatus n. sp., with two pairs of siphunculi, and two new species sclerodorsi and spinacaudatus of Acyrthosiphon (Aulacorthum) from India are described and illustrated.
25084236|Larvae of Smicronyx fulvus LeConte, a weevil pest of cultivated sunflower seeds, exhibited a contagious (variance 538.9 and mean 15.87) distribution beneath drooping sunflower heads. Larvae of S. fulvus emerge from seeds and drop into the soil to overwinter. Soil samples taken the following spring below the sunflower head showed significantly (P  0.05) higher mean numbers of larvae when compared with larvae collected at 90, 180, and 270 from the drooping sunflower head.
25086082|A new species of Lasioglossum (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) and the previously unknown male of Lasioglossum (Lasioglossum) xyriotropis McGinley are described and figured. Lasioglossum (L.) mystron, new species, is described from two males from two different localities in Mexico, while males of L. xyriotropis are now known from 18 specimens from mountains of central Mexico. Additions to the available key of New World Lasioglossum are provided. /// Una especie nueva de Lasioglossum (Hymenoptera: Halictidae) es descrita e ilustrada, lo mismo que el macho previamente desconocido de Lasioglossum (Lasioglossum) xyriotropis McGinley. Lasioglossum (L.) mystron, especie nueva, es descrita a partir de dos machos provenientes de dos localidades en Mxico, mientras que los machos de L. xyriotropis se conocen ahora a partir de 18 ejemplares provenientes de un rea montaosa del centro de Mxico. Se incluyen adiciones a las claves disponibles para Lasioglossum del Nuevo Mundo.
25084269|Larval behavioral polymorphism has been reported to be an important factor in the population dynamics of tent caterpillars. Laboratory and field studies of Malacosoma americanum, the eastern tent caterpillar, however, indicate that distinct larval types do not occur in this species. Within colonies, individual activity levels are normally distributed, and the range of activity is relatively narrow. Significant differences in activity among siblings were found in only three of eight colonies subjected to repeated testing. Relative activity levels of siblings were not stable from trial to trial. The establishment of new exploratory trails, at least by young colonies, was a group function; no leaders were apparent. Differences in larval development within colonies under field conditions were largely due to parasitism.
25084812|Analysis of 12 adult, three larval, and six pupal characters of the four species of the subgenus Anthonomorphus Dietz of the genus Anthonomus Germar, using PAUP (Phylogenetic Analysis Using Parsimony), specified cladistic relationships of the species. The grandis species group (Anthonomus grandis Boheman and A. hunteri Burke and Cate) was used as the outgroup to determine character state polarity. Host plant and karyotypic data, not used in the analysis, are discussed as evidence of a sister-group relationship of Anthonomorphus and the grandis group. Adult morphological characters used in the analysis are illustrated and a map depicting the geographic distributions of the species is included.
25085097|During courtship displays, males of the giant water bug, Abedus indentatus, perform a "pumping" display primarily at the water surface. Average time per display bout was 18.4 sec. Average display cycle (bout and rest period) was 47 sec. Wave patterns generated by the display averaged between 3 and 4 Hz. Males which displayed longer than opponents in pairwise trials obtained more copulations. Fighting increased the relative difference in display times. Analysis of female movements indicated that females were attracted to the signal source. The latency of female attraction to a mechanical model designed to mimic the surface waves was inversely proportional to female gravidity.
40783249|House flies, Musca domestica L. (Diptera: Muscidae), are of medical and veterinary importance due to their capacity to act as mechanical vectors of microorganisms originating in animal manure and other decaying organic substrates. House flies that disperse from rural to urban areas may also transport antibiotic resistant bacterial strains. To assess the potential of house flies to disperse from rural to urban areas and distribute antibiotic-resistant bacteria, we undertook a two part study: (i) we quantified the dispersal rate of house flies from farms (rural areas) into a city (urban area) using multilocus DNA fingerprinting and (ii) we profiled the antibiotic resistance patterns of enterococci harbored by house flies collected in rural and urban environments. The population genetic analysis indicated that there was considerable dispersal between rural and urban habitats. Although there was a significant difference in allele frequency between the urban and rural samples, genetic divergence was low (mean F ST = 0.07) and migration rate relatively high (N m = 3 individuals per generation). Almost 95% of the genetic diversity occurred within populations, suggesting a nearly panmictic population. Profiling of antibiotic resistance of enterococci isolated from house fly guts showed that house flies collected in all five urban sites carried substantial numbers of antibiotic-resistant enterococci, supporting the results of the population genetic analyses. The results of this study imply that house flies, because of their dispersal behavior and capacity to transport antibiotic-resistant bacteria, pose a serious threat to public health. We suggest that area wide management of house fly populations is therefore likely to be the most effective strategy for minimizing public health risks.
25084844|A description of the nesting site of an aggregation of Lasioglossum kinabaluense Michener on the slopes of Mt. Kinabalu, Sabah (Borneo), Malaysia, is given. The species nested in a vertical clay bank and constructed short horizontal tunnels with only one cell at the end of each tunnel. Branch tunnels, if any, were earth-filled and unrecognizable. The cells were lined with a waxy layer of waterproof material and were more concave on the upper surface than on the lower.
25084515|In feeding preference tests young workers of Apis mellifera were given a choice between two pollen diets: one consisted of pure pollen from Populus fremontii, Prunus dulcis, Larrea tridentata, Cereus gigantea, or Prosopis velutina and the other consisted of a mixture of equal weights of these five pollen species. The pollen mixture was significantly preferred over Populus, Prunus, and Larrea pollens and was about as preferred as the other two. Moreover, the preference for the mixture was significantly greater than the average of the preferences for all five species. These results indicate that A. mellifera exhibits a preference for pollen polyphagy rather than monophagy.
25084669|Spider mites in corn were sampled during summer months from 1981-1983 in the Texas High Plains. Spider mites recovered from surveyed corn fields were the Banks grass mite, Oligonychus pratensis (Banks), and the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch. The Banks grass mite was the first species of spider mite to infest corn fields each growing season. Two-spotted spider mite was usually collected from corn by mid-July. The proportion of Banks grass mite relative to two-spotted spider mite always decreased from June to August. A significant (P  0.05) inverse relationship existed between total summer rainfall and percent composition of Banks grass mite. Spider mites infesting corn should be identified before the application of pesticides since two-spotted spider mite and the Banks grass mite may be differentially resistant.
25083734|A new species of hypopial nymph, Aplodontopus sciuricola, is described from the eastern chipmunk, Tamias striatus Linnaeus. The mites were found living in the hair follicles on the tail of the host which was collected in Charlestown, R.I.
25086120|An account of the present knowledge of the bee fauna of Colombia is given. Although substantial work has been done on the bees of the world as a whole, there are few works on the bees of Colombia, and most of them focus on identification of the species of the few groups (mostly meliponines) for which there are specimens in local collections. Other works include some regional surveys and some ecological or behavior (nesting and foraging) studies. An updated list of the species of bees currently known is presented, along with some suggestions for future studies of Colombian bees. /// Se presenta una descripcin del estado actual de conocimiento de las abejas de Colombia. A pesar del trabajo substancial que se ha hecho en las abejas del mundo como un todo, existen relativamente pocos trabajos en las abejas de Colombia, muchos de los cuales se centran en la identificacin de las especies de ciertos grupos (principalmente meliponinos) para los cuales existen especimenes en las colecciones locales. Otros trabajos incluyen inventarios regionales y algunos estudios ecolgicos o de comportamiento (nidificacin y pecoreo). Se presenta una lista actualizada de las especies de abejas conocidas actualmente, adems de algunas sugerencias para trabajos futuros en el estudio de las abejas colombianas.
25082867|Populations of the alfalfa weevil (Hypera postica (Gyllenhal)) were sampled throughout the summer with a sweep net in a harvested and an unharvested alfalfa field near Gothenburg, Nebraska. Also, soil and litter samples were taken during late summer and early fall. Adult weevils did not seem to leave the unharvested field as they did the harvested fields during that period. This finding supports earlier conclusions that dispersal from fields during the summer occurs because the weevil searches for more sheltered locations.
25085959|An alternative burial behavior observed in Nicrophorus, namely the use of abandoned burrows (holes) for carcass interment, was studied in Colorado. In 1998 and 1999, 50 carcasses of native rodents were placed in meadow habitats known to be preferred by Nicrophorus investigator for carcass burial and rearing young. In 1998, carcasses were placed <20, 50, 100, and >200 cm from holes. In 1999, carcasses were placed either <20 or >100 cm from holes. In 2000, 40 pairs of beetles were provided carcasses in screened containers. Containers were assigned to one of two treatments: smoothed soil or hole. Carcasses were checked daily and carcass movement, burial, and the use of the nearby holes were noted. Broods were collected and weighed 14 days after interment. In the field, adult beetles dragged carcasses to nearby (20 cm) holes in 73% of burials, this percent decreased with increased distance to the hole. Time to interment was less for those carcasses moved to nearby holes. The proportion of successful broods (larvae present in buried carcasses) was significantly higher for those carcasses dragged to holes. For successful broods, no differences in larval size or number were found. The density of burrow openings was 3 holes/
25084724|Egg deposition in five species of the genus Parischnogaster is re-described. It consists of three stages: 1) the wasp collects a patch of viscid abdominal substance in her mouth and 2) uses this to handle the egg as it emerges from the abdomen and to place it in the cell, and 3) collects a second patch of abdominal substance and places it on top of the egg within the cell. Some comments are made on this type of egg deposition in Stenogastrinae.
25082841|The following are described from Shasta County, California: males, females, pupae, fourth-instar larvae, and egg masses of Phaenopsectra (Phaenopsectra) pilicellata, new species; females, pupae, and 4th-instar larvae of Phaenopsectra (Tribelos) sp. Viable larvae of both species were present in the soil of a swale after it had been dry for approximately three months. It is believed that these species regularly aestivate in the dry soil of the swale, which is ordinarily inundated only in the winter by rain and snow water. This appears to be the first report of drought-resistance in North American, aquatic chironomids.
41262795|The Indiana Dunes, and nearby natural areas in northwest Indiana, are floristically rich Midwest U.S. locales with many habitat types. We surveyed bees along a habitat gradient ranging from grasslands to forests in these locales, collecting at least 175 bee species along this gradient plus 29 additional species in other nearby habitats. About 25% of all species were from the genus Lasioglossum and 12% of the species were associated with sandy soils. Several bumblebee (Bombus) species of conservation concern that should occur in this region were not collected during our surveys. Similarity of the northwest Indiana bee fauna to other published U.S. faunas decreased about 1.3% per 100 km distance from northwest Indiana. Thirty percent of bees netted from flowers were males. Males and females differed significantly in their frequency of occurrence on different plant species. For bees collected in bowl traps, the percentage captured in fluorescent yellow traps declined and in fluorescent blue traps increased from spring to late summer. Capture rates for different bee genera varied temporally, with about a quarter of the genera being captured most frequently in late spring and a quarter in late summer. Capture rates for most genera were higher in more open than in more closed canopy habitats. The maximum number of plant species on which a single bee species was captured plateaued at 24, on average. Forty-nine percent of bee species known to occur in Indiana were found at these northwest Indiana sites. Having this relatively high proportion of the total Indiana bee fauna is consistent with Indiana Dunes existing at a biogeographic crossroads where grassland and forest biomes meet in a landscape whose climate and soils are affected by proximity to Lake Michigan. The resulting habitat, plant, edaphic, and climatic diversity likely produces the diverse bee community documented.
25568928|The twelve species of Eleodes (E. acutus (Say), E. c. obsoletus (Say), E. extricatus (Say), E. fusiformis LeConte, E. hispilabris (Say), E. longicollis (LeConte), E. nigrinus LeConte, E. obscurus (Say), E. opacus (Say), E. pimelioides (Mannerheim), E. suturalis (Say), and E. tricostatus (Say)) known to occur on grasslands of eastern Colorado, U.S.A. are reviewed. A key and diagnoses are presented allowing species separation.
25084823|New parasites of Misogada unicolor (Packard), a defoliator of sycamore (Platanus occidentalis L.) growing in bottomland plantations of the Mississippi Delta, include Casinaria limenitidis (Howard) (Ichneumonidae), and Eulophus basalis Say (Eulophidae). C. limenitidis is solitary, spinning its cocoon beside the host. E. basalis is a gregarious internal feeder whose larvae emerge from the last-instar host and quickly pupate. Pediobius crassicornis (Thomson) (Eulophidae) was hyperparasitic on E. basalis pupae. Seasonal occurrence and other biological notes are discussed.
25083932|Nest locations of 80 colonies of stingless bees are described, and the nest architecture, adult and immature bee populations, and colony stores are recorded for 32 nests of 12 species. Methods are given for improving estimates of adult bee populations of colonies, and for estimation of volume of honey and pollen stores and possible egg-adult periods. Adult bee survivorship is discussed. The first descriptions of nests of Trigona williana, T. savannensis and Lestrimelitta guyanensis are given. Colonies of T. clavipes and one of the colonies of T. c. cilipes contained mature larvae that made no cocoons, an unexpected finding since stingless bee larvae ordinarily spin cocoons. Africanized honeybees (Apis mellifera) and a polybiine wasp use nesting cavities similar to those used by stingless bees.
41262856|Nest entrance complexes of the meliponine Pariotrigona klossi Schwarz were studied on a limestone rock face in S Thailand. Unique in several aspects, a complex consisted of several coral-like clumps, all interconnected by roofed conduits. Inside these conduits, which were firmly attached to the substrate, the bees crawled on bare rock. The clumps were composed of dozens of entrance tubelets of up to 10 cm long, 2.5-6 mm wide, ornamented with radially arranged, 1-7 mm long, often branched, strings of crystal-clear beads of resin. Connection to the nest was through a fissure in the rock via a hard resin tube connected to the roofed conduits. Generally only one worker bee occupied an entrance (opening gap 2-3 mm). Such architecture gives protection against ant and bee raiders, and at the same time allows simultaneous multiple landings for bees of populous nests. Pariotrigona klossi was innocuous even when a tubelet was destroyed, but breaking into the roofed conduits near the rock fissure caused a small group of workers to attack the intruder by pinching bites and unpleasant odor. At least 13 species of stingless bees were found to be calcicolous 0.5-20 m above the ground in S, W and N Thailand, limestone hollows being a new nesting location additional to the 10 types already known. Compared to arboricolous nesting, calcicolous habits allow larger and more permanent dwellings safer from falling debris, inclement weather, fire, and bears. Most species were facultative calcicoles already known as arboricoles. Whether in limestone or trees, the nest entrance architecture characteristic for each of the facultative calcicole species was essentially the same. Yet P. klossi and four Lepidotrigona taxa appear to be either obligate calcicoles or, if also arboricoles, to construct different entrances on limestone than on trees. The unusually complex nest entrance elaboration in P. klossi and the extreme length-up to 158 cm-of the alpenhorn-like, pendulous entrance tube of four taxa of Lepidotrigona appear ill-fitted for trees.
25083618|The female of Nearctopsylla martyoungi is described and the head, pronotum, and sternum VII are figured. Additional notes on the male are presented and the head and pronotum are figured.
25082434|Twelve poultry houses in the areas of Columbia and Weldon Spring, Mo., were sampled and mites extracted using a Berlese funnel. Eighteen species of mites representing 13 families of Acarina were recovered, of which at least 4 families and 8 species had not been reported from poultry litter in similar studies made in Arkansas and Delaware. A table of taxa reported for these three states is provided.
25084898|Limnichoderus placidus from Central America and L. seclusus from South America are described and the male genitalia are figured.
25082679|Taeniopteryx starki is described from 24 males and 23 females, collected at the Leon River in Coryell County, Texas. Drawings of the male terminalia (both retracted and protracted), aedeagus, and a ventral view of the female abdomen are given. A holotype male, allotype and 23 male and 22 female paratypes are designated.
25083008|Sixteen new species of Erythroneura (Erythridula) are described. The new species are beckiae, clavatoides, joanneae, floridoides, newtonensis, rhodedendronae, barbarae, lauriphylla, turoides, penetura, shanklandi, pietersi, paramera, loisae, mccomasi and verae.
43288254|The first Oriental species of the water scavenger beetle genus Hemisphaera Pandell, 1876, H. orientalis sp. nov. (Coleoptera: Hydrophilidae: Chaetarthriini), is described and illustrated from Guangxi, China. It is the seventh known species of Hemisphaera and the first record of the genus in the Oriental Region.
25083821|Six new species of Paracymus are described from Mexico and Central America: leechi, spangleri, mexicanus, regularis, corrinae, and indigens. A key separating the known species of Paracymus from this region is also included.
25085452|The taxonomic status of three genera of Deltocephalus-like leafhoppers is reviewed. Male genital structures of Deltella and Mexara are illustrated for the first time. Two new species of Daltonia, blacki and condita, are described. Daltonia nigriloba (Linnavuori) is reinstated in the genus Bolarga.
25085892|A new species of the augochlorine bee genus Chlerogelloides is described and figured as Chlerogelloides simplex sp. nov. The discovery of a second species has led to a slight modification of the generic concept. While several autapomorphic characters for the previously monotypic genus can now be considered as synapomorphies, two characters are here recognized as autapomorphic for the type species, C. femoralis. A new generic diagnosis is provided and key to the species given.
25082485|A total of 1,298 adults of the bruchid beetle Amblycerus robiniae was caught over a 27-week experimental period (May 26 to November 24, 1969) by means of sticky traps hung in honey locust and other (control) trees. Seasonal activity peaks occurred in weeks 6 (last week in June) and 21 (second week in October), or in a nearby area in weeks 7 and 22. There were significant differences (at 0.1% level) in the numbers of bruchids caught in the three types of trees: most were caught in honey locust trees with pods, less in honey locust trees without pods, and only a few in the control trees. Captures in particular compass directions within a tree depended on pod density, proximity and directions of other honey locust trees, and presumably on pod distribution on the ground. Most bruchids were caught in the canopy areas of the trees. The higher density of pods and foliage per cubic meter of canopy in these areas, innate bruchid behavior patterns, or experience probably account for this difference.
25085816|Several compounds isolated from fermented molasses headspace were tested in comparison to heptyl butyrate as potential attractants for social wasps. Significant numbers of females of the golden paper wasp, Polistes aurifer Saussure, were captured in traps baited with a combination of acetic acid and isobutanol. In a comparison of doses of isobutanol, captures of female golden paper wasps were significantly related to dose, with greatest numbers captured in the highest dose tested (one ml). In a comparison of concentrations of 0.125 to 2% acetic acid in water as a trap bait (traps also baited with 1 ml of isobutanol in a polyethylene cap), captures of golden paper wasps were not correlated to acetic acid concentration. This is the first chemical attractant demonstrated for a species of Polistes. It should provide a useful means of trapping golden paper wasps, and possibly other species, as a means of sampling or perhaps for use in population reduction.
25082760|Thirty-five species of Curculionidae were collected from six treatment combinations of bluestem grassland (burned-grazed, unburned-grazed, and unburned-ungrazed) near Manhattan, Kansas, during 1971 and 1972. Each treatment was on 2 different soil types, loamy upland and claypan. Sixteen curculionid species were found associated with 11 plant species. Numbers were highest in the burned-grazed treatment. The greatest diversity of curculionid species was found in the burned-grazed treatment in 1971 and in the unburned-grazed treatment in 1972. In 1971 and 1972, plant-species diversity in burned-grazed and unburned-grazed did not differ significantly but both were significantly more diverse than in the unburned-ungrazed treatment.
25082744|In this study, principal component analysis is used for the ordination of shore fly habitats according to the kinds and relative abundances of the species in each habitat. The purpose was to discover the relationships among the habitats and the reasons for the relationships, in spite of the absence of information on the actual resources utilized by most of the species. This was accomplished by extracting the important resource dimensions of each habitat and then comparing the habitats in terms of these dimensions. Of the 5 major dimensions extracted, 4 were found to be related to the abundance or type of vegetation found in the habitats. The other dimension had to do with the amount of decaying organic material and the abundance of various types of micro-organisms found in the habitats. A comparison of the habitats by means of 3-dimensional ordination shows that 3 loose clusters of habitats are formed: 1) group A habitats-marsh-reed, mud shore, and limnic wrack; 2) group B habitats-rain pool, grass shore, sedge-meadow, and sand shore; and 3) group C habitats-floating algal mat and floating vegetation. Each of the habitats were found to differ in at least one and usually more dimensions and were, therefore, all considered valid.
25082615|Probably the same two anthophorine species, Melitoma ?euglossoides and Ancyloscelis ?armata, reported as making intermingled nests in Mexico by Torchio (1974), were found similarly associated in Colombia. Nests of the Ancyloscelis are described and illustrated.
25084733|Several larval wireworm bait trap designs were evaluated during the summer of 1980. All traps had a 1:1 ratio of corn and wheat as an attractant. The conventional solar enhanced wireworm bait was compared to nine other trap variations at three locations in Missouri. The mean number of wireworm larvae captured in the traps did not differ significantly. However, a container bait combination was judged the best trap design based on low relative variation values, ease of handling, short processing time, and the reduced and standardized amount of substrate used.
25086315|The recent increase in illegal logging of the eastern North American monarch butterfly population's overwintering site in central Mexico has emphasized the need for accurate long-term population monitoring tools, especially for this population. One way to obtain indices of annual population size is to record the numbers of monarchs passing by fixed points along the migration route each year, using standardized censusing methods. This methodology has been employed at several sites in eastern North America; however, long-term trends obtained from these sites have never been compared. From 1997 through 2004, the numbers of migrating monarchs were censused daily at the Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge, VA, and 100 km directly north at Cape May, NJ, each fall using similar methodologies. We compared the daily census counts from these sites to determine if each site recorded similar daily and yearly numbers of monarchs, and if the year-to-year trends obtained from each site reflected the same patterns over the eight year period (1997-2004). From comparisons of 210 days during which both sites were operated simultaneously, we found that consistently more monarchs were counted at the Cape May than at the Chincoteague site. This may indicate a greater preference for Cape May as a stopover site or its proximity to the tip of the peninsula where monarchs accumulate in unfavorable weather. However, the year-to-year trends were the same at both sites, with each site showing fluctuating numbers of monarchs from year to year with the lowest numbers in 2004. These results indicate the strengths of migration monitoring as a population monitoring tool, and suggest that future monitoring sites be widely separated to minimize redundancy in data collection.
25085561|Previous data show that conspecifics are a threat to paper wasp foundresses (Polistinae) by usurping nests and stealing brood to feed to their own young. Such threats may strongly select for pleometrosis (group nest-founding) in wasps. In this paper, observations of nest usurpation and intercolonial cannibalism in the paper wasp Mischocyttarus mexicanus (Polistinae) are provided. Lone females were more commonly usurped and visited by foreign conspecifics. The only occurrence of intercolonial cannibalism also happened to a lone female. These observations are important for two reasons: (1) this is the first report of conspecific attacks in this species, and (2) they support previous reports that lone females are more vulnerable to attack than females in groups.
25086415|In the last two decades, three previously common coccinellids (Adalia bipunctata (L.), Coccinella transversoguttata richardsoni Brown, and Coccinella novemnotata Herbst) have declined in abundance in South Dakota, while two invasive species (Coccinella septempunctata (L.) and Harmonia axyridis (Pallas)) have become established there. The objectives of this study were to survey coccinellids in various habitats in South Dakota to better characterize the current coccinellid fauna, determine the extent of exploitation by invasive coccinellids, and possibly identify refuge habitats of previously common coccinellid species. Overall, 2827 coccinellids, comprising 23 species, were collected on yellow sticky traps in field and woody habitats and during timed visual searches in field crops. Adalia bipunctata was found during additional sampling in Butte County in western South Dakota. However, it was not present in samples from eastern and central parts of the state, which is consistent with previous findings that this species is absent from those areas. Coccinella transversoguttata richardsoni and C. novemnotata were absent at all sites sampled. Scymnus kansanus Casey was collected for the first time in South Dakota among arboreal habitats. Harmonia axyridis (Pallas) expanded its geographic range into central South Dakota by 2002 and western South Dakota by 2004. Invasiveness of H. axyridis and C. septempunctata was evident by their presence in a wide variety of habitats surveyed, dominance of larval coccinellid assemblages, and predation upon non-target species of aphids. Harmonia axyridis was the most abundant larval coccinellid in maize and C. septempunctata was the most abundant larval coccinellid in intercropped wheat-alfalfa. Harmonia axyridis preyed upon Stegophylla quercicola (Monell), Aphis nerii Boyer de Fonscolombe, and Aphis asclepiadis Fitch in the field. Both H. axyridis and C. septempunctata preyed upon Hyalopterus pruni (Geoffroy) in the field.
25082741|A new species of acarid mite, Caloglyphus phyllophagianus, collected on the scarabaeid host, Phyllophaga anxia, is described and illustrated.
25082319|Aegyptocoris coatoni (Rhyparochrominae: Myodochini) and Barberocoris myrmecoides (Oxycareninae), both ant mimics, are described and figured as new species from South Africa. Habitat notes are given for both species together with comments on their phylogenetic relationships. Garamans Dispons is synonymized with Barberocoris Miller. The food plant and life cycle of B. myrmecoides is discussed and the egg and all nymphal instars described.
25084389|In 1979 foliar application of carbofuran to alfalfa at either 0.56 kg AI or 1.12 kg AI/ha resulted in short-term (<15 days), significant reductions in numbers of adult spiders, total spiders, and Tetragnatha laboriosa Hentz in the foliage, and total spiders on the ground surface. Significant population reductions of immature spiders were delayed, occurring between 14 and 29 days post-treatment. In 1980, carbofuran applied at 0.56 kg AI/ha only caused short-term significant reductions of T. laboriosa. Dimethoate and azinphosmethyl, both applied at 0.41 kg AI/ha, caused short-term (<14 days) significant reductions in all categories of the foliage-dwelling spiders examined. Although species richness generally was not affected by insecticide application, a slower rate of increase in species richness was observed in the treated plots than in the controls following application of either dimethoate or azinphosmethyl. Evenness generally increased in the treated plots following application due to heavy mortality of the abundant species.
25085813|We describe the morphology of larvae and eggs of Patricloides montanus (Cresson) and present larval development times and adult life span data. Our data indicate that females of P. montanus can distinguish between previously parasitized and nonparasitized hosts.
25083647|Field tests showed that the northern corn rootworm, Diabrotica longicornis (Say), completed its immature stages on green foxtail [Setaria viridis (L.) Beauv.], yellow foxtail [S. lutescens (Weigel) Hubb.], Minter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), Omugi barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), Oahe intermediate wheatgrass [Agropyron intermedium (Host) Beauv.], and corn (Zea mays L.). Viable eggs were laid by adults when they were reared, as larvae, on yellow foxtail, Minter wheat, and corn.
25085047|The biology of Scaptomyza nigrita on its host plant, a native crucifer (Bittercress) in the Rocky Mountains, is described. Development of each stage in the life history was studied both in the field and in the laboratory. This is the first documentation of a host for S. nigrita. We examined the activity of adult flies in two adjacent habitats, sun and adjacent willow shade. Adult flies were more abundant on bittercress plants in sun-exposed versus in shaded areas, and were most active from mid-day to late afternoon. Female flies were significantly larger than male flies, but there were no differences in size of adults between the two habitats. Larval damage to bittercress is generally much greater on plants in sunny areas than on those in the shade, possibly due to the increased activity of ovipositing flies in sun-exposed areas.
25082544|Miccostruma tigrilla, new species, is the first West African member of the genus to be described. Its striking black-and-yellow color will serve to distinguish it from all other known species of related short-mandibulate higher dacetines. The distinctness of Miccostruma and other short-mandibulate strumigenite genera is threatened by the finding of increasing numbers of species with intermediate characters.
25084967|Lyttomeloe saulcyi (Gurin-Mneville), described originally from the department of Lima, Peru, is recorded from the department of Tacna, Peru, and the provinces of Atacama and Antofagasta, Chile. The adult stage is redescribed, with special attention to variation among apparently disjunct populations. The hindwings are vestigial rather than lacking, as previously supposed. Adults are recorded feeding on plants of the families Aizoaceae, Malvaceae, Nolanaceae, and Portulacaceae. In Tacna L. saulcyi is part of a mimetic complex involving two species of Pseudopyrota. In courtship the male grips the female with the fore- and midtarsi, which are enlarged, compressed, and provided with dense pads ventrally. There is no courtship "display" as such; the male simply rides on the female and tries to present the genitalia continuously. Primarily on the basis of the anatomy of the triungulin larva, Lyttomeloe is assigned to the tribe Meloini. Within that tribe the genus is phenetically, if not cladistically as well, closest to the North American genus Spastonyx.
25085392|An information theory analysis indicates that workers of Melipona favosa performing hive duties, in both control and wax-deprived conditions, are not individually specialized. The low
25083029|Behavior of honeybees (Apis mellifera) cleaning loose pollen from the bodies and appendages of male bumblebees (Bombus pennsylvanicus) at flowers of the tall thistle Cirsium altissimum is described.
25084891|Individuals of Glenostictia satan Gillaspy emerged from a small, sparsely vegetated area in Upper Sonoran desert. Males were considerably more numerous at the site than females and as many as 3000 males patrolled within this area at peak emergence. Males were site-constant, returning daily to restricted ranges within the total emergence area. These ranges were not defended against other males, and no male/male aggression was observed during periods of flying or walking. Numerous males clustered at digging sites, and upon discovering a female, attempted to mount her as she emerged from the ground. Males apparently were damaged in such clusters. One male would invariably succeed in mounting the female. The mounted pair walked away from the cluster, and other males in the cluster eventually dispersed. Dense concentrations of patrolling males are known to occur in some species of aculeate Hymenoptera. Among closely related species of Bembicini (Steniolia, Stictiella, and Glenostictia), G. scitula forms dense nesting aggregations, and while the mating system is not fully known, it may resemble that of G. satan. In some less closely related aculeates (e.g., bees and other Sphecidae) where large nesting aggregations occur, similar mating systems have convergently evolved. G. satan is unusual in that pairs walk in copula, rather than fly, away from mating "balls". The site-constancy of males within the aggregation is known from some other species and may be more widespread than previously thought.
25084914|The antennal segments of the workers of seven species of stingless bees and the male of one species were studied with scanning electron microscopy. The bees have sensilla trichodea, basiconica, placodea, and campaniformia, as well as pit cones. The number of sensilla placodea (olfactory discs, or pore plates) per antenna varied more than three-fold among the species of workers and was highly correlated with body size (
25084570|Parasitism (1 parasitoid/host) and superparasitism (>1 parasitoid/host) of house fly pupae by Spalangia endius Walker were compared for a range of parasitoid/host (p/h) ratios. Percent superparasitized increased and percent not parasitized decreased as p/h increased. Spalangia endius did not attempt to singly parasitize all hosts before superparasitizing hosts; some superparasitism occurred at all ratios. Females laid fewer eggs at the lowest host density. These results indicate that the reproductive effort of individual parasitoids may be reduced by superparasitism where S. endius is being mass released to control fly populations.
25082433|Larval characteristics of Lithacodia muscosula (Guene), L. carneola (Guene), and Neoerastria apicosa (Haworth) are illustrated and described. The mouthparts of Lithacodia carneola are more similar to those of Neoerastria apicosa than of Lithacodia muscosula. The evidence based on the last instar caterpillars of carneola and muscosula indicates that the two species are probably not congeneric.
25082505|The species and developmental stages of insects that a spider, Metaphidippus galathea (Walckenaer) would take as food was determined. The spider generally fed on small insects and rejected larger ones. Females consumed more prey and were more effective predators than males. It reduced the reproduction of the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), on sorghum and prolonged the life of the plants several days in comparison to control plants without spiders.
25086258|Protandrena evansi Ruz and Chiappa n. sp. is described and illustrated. This new species was found at an aggregation of numerous individuals in a nesting site in Farellones, a locality of the Regin Metropolitana in Central Chile, at 2612 m above sea level, visiting Senecio polygaloides Phil. (Asteraceae: Compositae), a plant endemic to the Andes. Some of its morphological features do not fit the diagnostic generic characters. Apical tergal hair bands have not been found before among the species of Protandrena s. l., including such subgenera as Metapsaenythia, Pterosarus, Heterosarus, Parasarus and Austropanurgus. /// Se describe e ilustra Protandrena evansi Ruz y Chiappa n.sp. Esta nueva especie fue encontrada en agregacin de numerosos individuos en un rea de nidificacin en Farellones, una localidad de la Regin Metropolitana en Chile Central, a 2612 m por sobre el nivel del mar, visitando Senecio polygaloides Phil. (Asteraceae: Compositae), una planta endmica de los Andes. Algunos de sus rasgos morfolgicos no se ajustan a los caracteres diagnsticos genricos. Bandas de pelos apicales en los tergos no han sido encontradas antes entre las especies de Protandrena s. l., incluyendo subgneros tales como Metapsaenythia, Pterosarus, Heterosarus, Parasarus y Austropanurgus.
25084639|High densities of periodical cicada eggs (Magicicada spp.) were introduced to scrub oak trees (Quercus ilicifolia) that had previously not supported cicadas. A census taken 2 years after the introduction showed that the introduced cicada densities had been reduced to endemic levels. Feeding on scrub oak roots by cicada nymphs had no effect on 3 consecutive years of acorn production. Similarly, the nymphs did not reduce root densities. An earlier study at this site (Karban, 1980) demonstrated that cicada nymphs reduced radial incremental growth of the oaks by 31%. These results are in contrast to current hypotheses that seed production of stressed plants is affected more than their vegetative growth.
25082842|Cytogenetic variation was examined in several populations of the midge Glyptotendipes barbipes (Staeger) (Diptera: Chironomidae) in the southwestern United States. This species has one of the highest levels of inversion polymorphism in the Chironomidae. In five populations from Texas and New Mexico, nine inversion sequences were found. Of these, six were previously reported and now appear to occur over large areas of the species range. Comparison of these populations from the southwestern United States with previously reported data from Europe, Siberia and Canada showed no significant differences in the frequencies of the
25085855|The population of the mesotrophic chironomid, Sergentia coracina, formerly dominant in the profundal zone of Crooked Lake, was extirpated sometime between 1972 and 1988, presumably because of eutrophication and more severe oxygen depletion. Increases in the goose population and numbers of homes around the lake are suggested as major causes of increased nutrient input to the lake. Weather that produced a longer period of stratification in 1981 also caused more severe oxygen depletion. An associated species, Chironomus atritibia, survives, but has a shallower bathymetric distribution than recorded from previous studies of Crooked Lake.
25085420|Mating flights of Acromyrmex versicolor (Pergande) occur in early morning following substantial summer rains. Males fly from the nest first and form mating aggregations over prominent shrubs. Females mate with multiple males.
25084666|Host plant consumption patterns of three little-known rangeland insect herbivores: range caterpillar, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae); a grasshopper, Paropomala wyomingensis (Thomas) (Orthoptera: Acrididae); and a walkingstick, Diapheromera veli (Walsh) (Orthoptera: Phasmatidae) were determined in field and laboratory studies by crop analysis and choice test techniques. Both approaches to determination of host plant preference demonstrated that H. oliviae and P. wyomingensis were strongly graminivorous, while D. veli was strongly forbivorous. Crop analysis and choice tests provided equivalent information on host selection when host availability was considered, although choice tests were considerably easier to conduct.
25084226|An inbred line of maize (CI.31A) highly resistant to 1st-instar larvae of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), was not resistant to 2nd-, 3rd-, and 4th-instar larvae during the whorl stage. Damage to leaf tissue by 2nd-, 3rd-, and 4th-instar larvae was also more extensive on a susceptible inbred line of maize (WF9) than was damage from an infestation by 1st-instar larvae. Newly hatched black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), become established on winter annual and perennial weeds before migrating to corn; thus, many larvae are at least half grown during the seedling stage of plant growth. It is, therefore, important to locate maize germ plasm that is resistant to 4th-, 5th-, or 6th-instar larvae; these European corn borer data suggest that we may not be successful in selecting for resistance to half grown black cutworm larvae.
25085367|Insect fauna populations in bovine dung reached seasonal peaks in the first week of July at the University of Nebraska Field Laboratory, Mead, Nebraska. A total of 24,145 adult insects were collected at three sites. The highest average number of insects was collected at 72 hr after dung deposition. Coleoptera comprised 83.1% of the total adult insects collected. Four families comprised 93.4% of the Coleoptera. Face fly parasitism averaged only 4.1%.
25086438|Two new genera and species of snakeflies (Raphidioptera) are described and figured from the Jurassic Jiulongshan Formation of eastern Inner Mongolia, China. Ororaphidia megalocephala, new genus and species, and Styporaphidia magia, new genus and species, are both differentiated from other Mesozoic snakefly lineages. These constitute the oldest records of snakeflies from China.
25086104|The potential for the formation of social relationships was explored for the facultatively social halictine bee, Megalopta genalis, using experimental circular arenas. Observing pairs of females from different nests, we examined the initiation of agonistic behavior, and the expression and relative frequency of dominance behavior in terms of phenotypic differences between interacting bees. Within pairs, older females with relatively larger ovaries tended to be dominant over younger females with smaller ovaries, and females with fewer nest-mates tended to initiate agonistic interactions. Bees also modified their behavior over a 24-hour time frame and were more pacific when paired with the same bee in repeated trials. Our observations suggest that these predominantly solitary bees have the capabilities to express cooperative and social dominance behavior typical of the halictines with obligate social behavior.
25082684|Indices to measure species diversity (H'), species richness (s), and species evenness (J') are calculated for 9 habitats containing 68 species of shore flies. These indices are compared by means of correlation coefficients. It is shown that there is a significant positive correlation between richness and diversity and a significant negative correlation between richness and evenness. There is no correlation between evenness and diversity. The implication of these results are discussed.
25082578|Behavior studies, made by observing the reactions of actively nesting Augochlora pura to different kinds of experimental brood cells placed in observation nests, showed that a combination of factors present in freshly made cells prevent the nesting bee from digging into the cells containing brood. These factors include the odor of fresh pollen and the texture and shape of the cell walls. Possibly the cell lining and cuticle of the developing larva adsorb the pollen odor. In older cells the pupae seem to produce their own species-specific odor.
25083766|The postabdomens of both sexes of Cinderella lampra Steyskal and of the unique female of C. aczeli, n. sp. (Mendoza, Argentina) are described. The hitherto unplaced genus should now be referred to a somewhat enlarged concept of the family Heleomyzidae. Additional records for the North American C. lampra are cited, and the egg of C. aczeli is described.
25083408|Studies of the external genitalia, mating behavior, and oviposition of Tribolium confusum Duval were made incident to a study of embryonic development. The external genitalia differ somewhat from that reported for T. castaneum. The tegmen of the male has a single basal piece since a dorsal region of sclerotization connects two heavily sclerotized lateral struts or lobes. The ninth segment of the female is divided longitudinally into the proximal baculi and the distal hemisternites. The hemisternites are folded when retracted. Their probable role in copulation and oviposition is discussed. The male is indiscriminate in choosing objects to mount but the female apparently allows copulation in response to tapping of the male aedeagus on the tip of her abdomen. This behavior may play a role in species isolation. Oviposition was observed with difficulty as the beetles prefer to lay in deep media and in the dark. Adult Tribolium may be sexed by using gentle pressure on the proximal sternites to evert the genitalia while the beetles are immobilized by cold.
25083066|Eight species of Atanus which are known to occur in the United States or Mexico, Atanus rubralineus (DeLong), A. texanus n. sp., A. laminus n. sp., A. gracilis n. sp., A atascasus (Ball), A. perspicillatus (Osborn & Ball), A. tenuis n. sp., and A. mexicanus n. sp. are treated.
25082623|It is not often that mites parasitizing midges are collected and reported. Three new species of TROMBIDIFORMES-pertaining to the genera Atractothrombium and Centrotrombidium, and to the subgenus Feiderium (Parafeiderium) -, are described from several species of Culicoides. /// Les mentions relatives  des acariens parasites de maringouins sont rares. Trois espces de Trombidiformes appartenant aux deux genres Atractothrombium et Centrotrombidium, ainsi qu'au nouveau sous-genre Feiderium (Parafeiderium), sont dcrit  partir d'htes d'espces varies du genre Culicoides.
25084813|Laboratory clones of greenbug (Schizaphis graminum (Rondani)) biotypes B, C, and E and field-collected clones from 13 geographic locations in the central United States and cultures on barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench), Piper sudangrass (S. bicolor var. sudanensis Hitchc.) and Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis L.) were tested for possible isozyme variations in 20 enzyme systems. The enzyme systems were: acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, esterase, glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase, leucine amino peptidase, aldolase, malate dehydrogenase, malic enzyme, sorbitol dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, galactose dehydrogenase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase, octanol dehydrogenase, -glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, phosphoglucose isomerase, tetrazolium oxidase, triosephosphate isomerase, phosphoglucomutase, and hexokinase. The results did not indicate any differences in enzyme patterns among biotypes cultured on the same and different host plants or among fresh field-collected clones from different geographic locations.
25084259|Andrena (Callandrena) haynesi Viereck and Cockerell is reported for the first time from the eastern United States on the basis of two collections made from Helianthus petiolaris in Henderson County, Illinois in August of 1981.
25084412|Potamobates spiculus, n. sp. is described from Peru and compared with Potamobates woytkowskii Hungerford, its closest known cogener.
25085540|The third-stage larva and pupa of Eurysternus mexicanus Burm. and the third-stage larva of Sisyphus submonticolus Howden are described and illustrated. Differences with immatures of E. magnus (Lap.), E. balachowskyi Halffter & Halffter and S. mexicanus Har. are outlined. Some observations on the life cycle of E. mexicanus are also included.
25085812|We examined variation in acridid grasshopper community composition along a 1650 m elevational gradient in southwestern Montana. As elevation increased, the most abrupt change in community composition occurred in the foothills of two mountain ranges (1800-1950 m). Most of the species abundant on the lower elevation sites (1400-1500 m) in this and a previous survey were rare or absent at elevations of 1800-3050 m. Melanoplus oregonensis, which was relatively rare at the lower elevation sites, was the most abundant species at elevations >2000 m. A number of the species characteristic of our high elevation sites have also been identified as high elevation species in other areas of the Rocky Mountains of Colorado and Wyoming. Although grasshopper community composition, species richness, species diversity, and abundance were correlated with elevation, they were not correlated with plant species richness, plant species diversity, or total plant cover, which peaked at mid-elevations. Elevation, through its effect on temperature, may be important because grasshopper developmental rates and minimum developmental threshold temperatures vary among species.
25083813|Descriptions and figures are presented for Leptohyphes spinosus, n. sp., L. hirsutus, n. sp., L. echinatus, n. sp., L. myllonotus, n. sp., and Tricorythodes ocellus, n. sp. A redescription and notes are included for Leptohyphes maculatus Allen, new records are included for L. maculatus, L. setosus Allen, and L. tuberculatus Allen, and new records extend the ranges of L. dolani Allen and L. robacki Allen in North America.
25082467|The importance of using all available data to interpret venation is stressed. Several venational peculiarities of the Paleoptera indicate that many of the vein systems of the Neoptera are in fact compound in nature. "Radius sector" of Comstock and Needham (1898-1899) is designated a separate vein system sector, and their first anal vein is designated the empusal vein; Forbes' (1943) designation of their second branch of cubitus (cubitus posterior of Edmunds and Traver, 1954) as the plical vein is upheld. The media is shown to be basically four-branched.
25084071|Seven species of the Geomydoecus (Thomomydoecus) neocopei complex are described and illustrated: G. (T.) neocopei Price and Emerson from Thomomys umbrinus tolucae Nelson and Goldman; G. (T.) genowaysi Price and Emerson from 6 subspecies of T. umbrinus (type-host: T. u. madrensis Nelson and Goldman); G. (T.) asymmetricus n. sp. from T. u. chihuahuae Nelson and Goldman; G. (T.) greeri n. sp. from T. u. juntae Anderson; G. (T.) jamesbeeri Price and Emerson from T. u. supernus Nelson and Goldman; G. (T.) peregrini n. sp. from T. u. peregrinus Merriam; and G. (T.) potteri n. sp. from T. u. crassidens Nelson and Goldman. A key is given for the identification of the males of the complex.
25086380|Resistance categories (antibiosis and tolerance) of four sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) hybrids to biotype I greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), were determined in environmental growth chamber and field studies. Greenbug weight and fecundity were lower on 'Cargill 607E' compared with 'Cargill 797'. Percentage of leaf damage area was significantly less on two resistant hybrids (Cargill 607E and Cargill 797) after a 14-d greenbug feeding period compared to two susceptible hybrids ('Golden Harvest 510B' and Garst 5715). In growth chamber studies on sorghum seedlings, 'Cargill 607E' and 'Cargill 797' reduced greenbug weight significantly compared with 'Golden Harvest 510B' and 'Garst 5715'. Greenbug weight was 2.9 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Cargill 607E', 3.1 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Cargill 797', 3.9 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Golden Harvest 510B', and 4.8 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Garst 5715'. On field grown sorghum plants, 'Cargill 797' did not reduce greenbug growth compared with 'Golden Harvest 510B'. 'Cargill 607E' had a negative impact on weight of greenbugs. Greenbug weight was 7.9 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Cargill 607E', 9.2 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Cargill 797', and 10.0 mg/25 greenbugs on 'Golden Harvest 510B'. 'Cargill 607E' and 'Cargill 797' were resistant to biotype I greenbugs compared with susceptible 'Golden Harvest 510B' and 'Garst 5715'. Antibiosis was confirmed as the primary category of resistance in 'Cargill 607E.' 'Cargill 797' was primarily tolerant but may have some level of antibiosis, because smaller greenbugs developed in some of the studies.
25082493|Fewer days were required for initial hatch and for 50% hatch of eggs of western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera LeConte, from South Dakota or Minnesota than from Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, or Nebraska. Eggs from a Minnesota population of northern corn rootworm, D. longicornis (Say) hatched in less time than eggs from Kansas, Missouri, Iowa, or Nebraska.
25083910|Adult Diabrotica virgifera LeConte (western corn rootworm) and Diabrotica longicornis (Say) (northern corn rootworm) have been observed in the field in mating position. This study was designed to determine if these two economically important species would interbreed and produce hybrids in the laboratory. Prepupae and pupae of the two rootworm species were field collected in areas where each species was isolated from the other. Following eclosion, adults were mated interspecifically as well as intraspecifically. Fifty-three interspecific crosses yielded six
25082487|Five new genera of the subfamily Gyponinae are described: Folicana (type, F. nota n. sp.), Costanana (type, C. dunda n. sp.), Acuera (type, A. adspersa Stl), Curtara (type, C. samera n. sp.) and Culumana (type, C. torqua n. sp.). A key to all described genera of Gyponinae is presented. During the past nine years the authors have described thirteen new genera of Gyponinae. Five additional genera are described at this time. Publication of a key to all described genera, which is presented here, has been delayed to make the key as complete as possible. Manuscripts of the five new genera, Folicana, Costanana, Culumana, Curtara and Acuera are in manuscript form and will be published soon.
25085810|With the exception of rosaceous tree fruit species, few plant species have been identified as suitable forage for rearing the univoltine megachilid bee, Osmia cornifrons (Radoszkowski). Alternative forage might be useful for supplementing the resources available to the bee during orchard crop pollination. At the North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station, different plant species grown in field cages were investigated for their usefulness as Osmia cornifrons forage. Of the Brassicaceae spp. tested, Brassica napus L. was superior as forage for O. cornifrons. However, B. rapa L. and Sinapis alba L. also were suitable forage for the bee. Coriander sativum L., Cucumis sativus L., and Cucumis memo L. were unsuitable as forage for this bee.
25082762|The order Mecoptera is analysed morphologically to determine what the ancestral condition could have been, this order's relation to other holometabolous orders, and how the various families evolved within this order. Finally, present distributions of each family and their implications are discussed.
25082683|Unusual oviposition sites for the spring cankerworm are noted.
25084022|Odontomachus cornutus, a large neotropical ant known until now only from a description of a single worker, type since destroyed, is redescribed from 7 workers, 2 males and a queen.
25084159|The rediscovery of Pheidole lamia at its type locality is reported, and several aspects of its biology are clarified: 1) P. lamia is not confined to undisturbed woodlands, but is also found in recently disturbed wooded habitat. 2) P. lamia is not rare in Austin, although its inconspicuous nesting sites and foraging habits make it appear so. 3) It is suggested that the size of Austin colonies is probably near 500-1000 minor workers, the same order of magnitude as colonies found in Florida.
25083574|A lizard mite, Hirstiella otophila new species, (type locality Barstow, California) was found on the Banded Gecko, Coleonyx variegatus, in the deserts of southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico. It seems to be closely related to Hirstiella tenuipes (Hirst). The description is based upon the female, male, and larval stages.
25082758|Observations on O. occidentalis in El Dorado County, California, corroborate previous knowledge of the behavior of Orussus in eastern North America. The method of patrolling, and the selection of oviposition site were observed 20 times for the California species and are very similar to those processes in O. sayii. Oviposition occurred on bark-free areas of conifer logs of widely variable ages. The target of oviposition was a frass-packed gallery of a wood-boring insect, at depths of 4-20 mm and 5-15 cm distant from the living occupant. Galleries were those of Siricidae, Cerambycidae, and Buprestidae, and one larva of Orussus was recovered from a burrow of the latter where it was feeding at the caudal end of the beetle larva. Thus, Orussus is likely a general parasitoid of wood-boring insects.
25086230|Machaerothrix tsushimensis Yasumatsu exhibits several previously undescribed characteristics in its behavior. The nest is composed of barrel-shaped cells and an outer covering. Before hunting females recondition old cells for reuse, by scraping dried mud from the nest surface with their mandibles, adding water, and working it into a soft ball, which is then daubed with the dorsal tip of the gaster. They capture salticid spiders and store them in the clay nests. The female amputates part or all of the spider's legs and walks forward, straddling the spider, holding it venter up by the spinnerets. Several females live together on the same nest for some period. They are usually tolerant of one another, though dominance interactions are found among them. The dominant female exhibits a full sequence of nesting behavior, including cell provisioning, but the subordinate tends to spend much time in resting on the nest. There is evidence that some of the subordinates initiate nesting activities on the nest where they have cohabited with the dominant, after the disappearance of the latter, or construct a new nest independently after cohabiting with the dominant. Prey stealing and cooperative nest construction and defence were observed. Nesting and social behaviors of this species are compared with those of other primitively social pompilids and the possible position of this species in the evolution of social behavior is discussed.
25084188|The picnic beetle, Glischrochilus faciatus (Oliv.) was found to be parasitized by the tachinid, Hyalomyodes triangulifer (Loew). This is the first report of this parasite attacking a nitidulid and the first known parasite attacking a member of the genus Glischrochilus. Three (1.3%) of 237 field-collected G. faciatus were parasitized. None of the 221 field-collected G. quadrisignatus were parasitized.
25083613|Laboratory studies of interspecies trail following and trail preference were conducted using workers of Neivamyrmex nigrescens, N. opacithorax, N. pilosus, N. pauxillus, N. wheeleri, Labidus coecus, and queens of the first three species. Ants of all species tested, except N. pilosus, readily followed each other's trails. Workers of all species preferred trails laid by their own species, except N. opacithorax, which did not show a significant preference for their own trails when compared with those of N. nigrescens.
25086343|Insecticide treatments against the silverleaf whitefly, Bemisia argentifolii, has been the most important control method for this pest. In this study, the efficacy of bifenthrin and endosulfan applied alone, alternatively or as a tank mixture was evaluated against the silverleaf whitefly. Adult populations were reduced from 27 to 60% following 10 sprays of bifenthrin alone or the bifenthrin + endosulfan tank mixture. All insecticidal treatments resulted in lower numbers of 2nd and 3rd larval stages and were significantly different from the untreated control. Yield was the lowest in the control where the populations of whitefly adults, eggs, larval stages and pupae were consistently greater than in each insecticidal treatment. Applications of both bifenthrin and endosulfan, alternatively or as a tank mixture, did not increase control of whitefly over each insecticide applied alone. Bifenthrin alone was more effective than endosulfan alone. /// Tratamiento insecticida contra la mosca blanca de la hoja plateada, Bemisia argentifolii, ha sido el mas importante metodo de control para esta plaga. En el presente ensayo, la eficacia de bifenthrin y endosulfan aplicados solos, alternativamente o en mezcla de tanque, fue evaluada contra la mosca blanca de la hoja plateada. Las poblaciones de mosca blanca fueron reducidas de 27 a 60% despus de haber aplicado 10 veces bifenthrin solo o la mezcla de tanque bifenthrin + endosulfan. Todos los tratamientos insecticidas causaron bajos numeros de 2 y 3 estados larvales y fueron significativamente diferentes del testigo sin tratamiento. En el testigo, el rendimiento obtenido fue el mas bajo y las poblaciones de mosca blanca adultos, huevos, estados larvales y pupas, fueron consistentemente mayores que en los tratamientos insecticidas. Las aplicaciones de ambos bifenthrin y endosulfan, alternativamente o en mezcla de tanque, no incrementaron el control de mosca blanca mas que cuando se aplico cada insecticida solo. Bifenthrin solo, fue mas efectivo que endosulfan solo.
25083928|A survey of the cicadellid fauna of 5 mixed tall fescue fields in Missouri was made during the 1976 collecting season. In 1977, the survey was expanded to include 7 mixed tall fescue fields. The leafhoppers identified in this survey included at least 54 species representing 37 genera in 8 subfamilies. Eight species occurred with sufficient regularity and in high enough numbers to be suspected of having economic importance. Those warranting further study include: Agallia constricta Van Duzee, Draeculacephala antica (Walker), Endria inimica (Say), Exitianus exitiosus (Uhler), Forcipata loca DeLong & Caldwell, Latalus sayi (Fitch), Polyamia weedi (Van Duzee), and Psammotettix lividellus (Zetterstedt). Collecting methods are compared and seasonal sampling data of 4 major species are discussed.
25085154|Pogonomyrmex ants have a psammophore or basket of long hairs under their heads which they use for carrying loose soil. The presence of these hairs or ammochaetae improved the carrying ability of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis workers and queens by more than 200% for dry soil but provided no benefit for damp soil. Foragers readily used their psammophores to collect small seeds and particles of cracked wheat from artificial bait piles. Psammophores were profitably used with particles up to 0.8
25086313|The study presents data about the biology of the solitary West Palaearctic ground-nesting bee Melitta leporina (Panzer, 1799). The seasonal activity of adults on the basis of the transect method is shown. The pattern of daily activity, environmental preferences and foraging distance observed on xeric meadow and field of alfalfa are described. Information about floral preferences and nest architecture are presented. An egg, provision and pollen load are described. A new information about life cycle is presented.
25082454|The cocoon stage of Neodiprion taedae linearis Ross was subjected to various temperature levels to determine their effect on the duration of the stage. At 4.4 C, no development of the prepupa took place, while at 18.3 and 26.6 C, development was prolonged. Regardless of treatment preceding, the time required in the cocoon stage at 21.1 C was not materially changed. For the first time, a prolonged period of dispause was observed for this sawfly.
25085648|Greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), have considerable genetic polymorphism, involving life history and host utilization traits. Part of this variation has been described as host utilizing biotypes B, C, E, F, G, H, I, and J. Single clones of each biotype were reared in growth chambers on two wheat entries, Triticum aestivum L., 'Triumph 64' (TR64) and GRS1201, and sorghum entries, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, 'Pioneer 8300' (P8300) and PI 550610. The number of aphids produced per plant, damage ratings, and time to plant death were compared. Greenbug biotypes C and I killed TR64 after 14 days and produced about 200 greenbugs per plant. Biotype B also killed TR64 after two weeks, but produced only 105 aphids per plant. Biotypes E and G produced about 190 aphids per plant, but most peaked on the 15th day and killed the host by the 18th day. Biotypes F, H, and J had maximum counts of 233, 160, and 156 greenbugs respectively, and killed plants only after three weeks or more of infestation. Only biotypes F and H killed GRS1201; only biotypes C, E, and I killed P8300; and only biotype B killed PI 550610. Using the mean maximal number of aphids produced per plant and time of survival on the host as criteria of efficiency in host utilization for aphid population increase, greenbugs of biotypes F, H, and J are considered the most efficient host users. Biotypes C, E, and I have rapid numerical growth and are currently the most frequently recorded greenbugs in wheat and sorghum fields of the United States. They are probably better adapted to the specific environment of agricultural fields, where host plants are abundant, and the time for reproduction may be limited. Biotypes F, H, and J use host plants like K-strategists, while biotypes B, C, and I use hosts like r-strategists.
25082658|Bittacus andinus, new species, from Bolivia and Peru, is described and illustrated. It is similar to the neotropical B. maculosus and B. boraceiensis.
25084841|The relationship between sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] leaf area and greenbug [Schizaphis graminum (Rond.)] density and damage was investigated using four sorghum cultivars ('2d Martin', '3d Martin', '2d Caprock', and '3d Caprock') which have different leaf areas. There was a significant but weak positive relationship between sorghum leaf area and greenbug abundance.
25085415|Despite the occasional importance of the yellow woollybear, Spilosoma virginica (F.), as a pest of soybean, Glycine max, relatively little is known about its biology in the Midwest. The objective of this six-year study was to describe flight activity and ovarian dynamics of the adult yellow woollybear in Iowa. In most years, initial flight activity occurred by mid-April and continued until mid to late October. In all years, ovipositional-class females were the most prevalent females captured. Preovipositional and postovipositional females were not well represented in trap catches. Periods of flight activity were similar among years, consisting of two periods each year. The first activity period occurred between approximately 15 April and 30 June, with reduced activity during late June and early July. The second major flight period began approximately 1 July and ended from 25 September to 26 October, depending on the year. Adult flight activity and ovarian dynamics indicated that at least three generations were produced annually. Two complete generations developed during late spring and summer, and pupae from the third generation overwintered.
25084014|Seasonal patterns of brood rearing, swarming and absconding, nectar and pollen storage, and worker longevity are described for Africanized honey bee colonies in French Guiana, South America. During the wet season, colonies show diminished brood rearing, slightly higher mean worker longevity, no swarming and a higher probability of absconding, and a shift in colony age structure towards older bees. These demographic responses to the dearth season are considerably less pronounced than those known for other races under temperate and subtropical conditions during the winter non-foraging period, and observations suggest that differences between races may be at least partly genetic. These results have important implications for the rate of spread of Africanized honey bees in South America.
25085321|Hitherto unreported sexual differences of glossae in nearly all colletid bees culminate in the better known sexual dimorphism of glossae in certain Australian Hylaeinae. Females of such forms have typical, obtuse colletid glossae but the males have acute glossae like those of Andrena and many other bees. Special features of all female colletid glossae, such as very fine annuli and well developed preapical fringes, are not found in sphecoid wasps or in other families of bees, but are synapomorphic for Colletidae. All such features are less developed or absent in most male colletids. They probably evolved in connection with brood cell construction by females and were progressively assimilated into males, thus converting ancestrally pointed glossae into obtuse colletid-type glossae except in a few of the genera of Hylaeinae.
25083769|An idealized raid of Polyergus lucidus lucidus Mayr and unusual raiding behavior are described and discussed. The method employed by scouts to locate host nests is also reported.
25085850|The karyotype of Chironomus (Lobochironomus) mendax Stor has 3 chromosomes, not-as previously supposed (Ryser et al., 1985)-4 chromosomes. Beside chromosomes and inversion polymorphism, the paper describes or redescribes also larval, pupal and adult characters of this species. The Lobochironomus from Abisko/Sweden is renamed as C.(L.) pseudomendax. The Fennoscandian populations of C.(L.) storai are polymorphic, at least in chromosome arms A and E.
25085353|At a high elevation site (Gothic, Colorado, U.S.A., 3000 msl) only 2% of all larvae in galls produced by the tephritid fly Eutreta diana (Osten Sacken) survived. Sixty percent of the larvae within galls were parasitized by two species of chalcidoid wasp: the ectoparasitoid Torymus citripes (Huber) (Torymidae), and the endoparasitoid Zatropis sp., near capitis (Burks) (Pteromalidae). Comparison with mean-generated Poisson distributions suggests that neither Zatropis sp. nor T. citripes actively avoided superparasitism (oviposition in a conspecifically parasitized gall). Ecological implications for the survivorship of the host are discussed.
25082613|Nesting activities of one female Gorytes canaliculatus during a four day period are described, together with the nest architecture and larval development. Three cells and a portion of a fourth were provisioned prior to intercedence by the observer with nest stocking still in progress. Prey consisted of one species of Idiocerus (Cicadellidae), 60 nymphs and 3 adults. The nest structure is unusual, involving a deep cell, followed by two shallow ones, and then another deep one. Larval development required 76 hours at laboratory temperatures, from egg hatch to completion of the cocoon. Ant eggs and a pupa were accepted along with normal prey by the Gorytes larva. Comparisons with previous studies on this wasp in northern and eastern parts of the United States are made.
25085317|Research on the biology and control of the red sunflower seed weevil, Smicronyx fulvus LeConte, has been hampered by the inability to maintain the insect in the laboratory. After removal from the soil the larvae die, either from desiccation in dry conditions or uptake of water under very moist conditions and from pathogenic micro-organisms. This study was undertaken to describe holding conditions which would allow development of diapausing larvae to the pupal and adult stages. Larvae were held in modified microtiter trays to keep the larvae separated and in contact with a moist cotton substrate, containing 0.5 gm of water per gm of cotton. A 0.075% suspension of the fungicide, Benomyl, was used to control pathogenic fungi. Under these conditions the larvae survived, maintaining their average body weight at 4.1  0.1 mg which is the average weight of larvae at the time of collection from the field. The chamber in which the microtiter trays were held was maintained at 26.0  1.0C on a L:D cycle of 15:9, and a relative humidity of 70-80%. Under these conditions, 60.93  0.97% of the larvae developed into adults. The procedure requires about 25 hours to produce 400 adult insects per week. The results should facilitate research on pupal and adult development and biology of this important pest insect.
25083727|The mature larvae of twelve species of aquatic insects (Trichoptera, Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Odonata) were tested to determine their relative sensitivity to heated waters in the laboratory. The temperature at which 50% died after 96 hours
25083868|The pollen loads of 377 Campus Bees (Calliopsis andreniformis Smith) were studied to determine the floral taxa from which the bees collected pollen to provision their nests. The specimens of bees represented 66 localities east of the Rocky Mountains. The northernmost specimens were from southern Canada and the southern limit was a line from North Carolina to Texas. Photomicrographs are presented of the 22 species of pollen found in the pollen loads. Trifolium or Melilotus pollen was the major pollen of 84% (283) of the bees. Another 20 bees carried 16-40% Trifolium pollen. Bees with Trifolium or Melilotus pollen occurred in 83% (55) of the localities, and 94% (62) of the localities had bees carrying pollen of species of Leguminosae. The Campus Bee uses primarily pollen of the Leguminosae, mostly Trifolium and Melilotus, throughout its range.
25082445|The paranotal theory of wing origin receives support from morphological studies on Thysanura and fossil insects. It is proposed that the first winged insects, the Archaeoptera, had wings that resembled notal lobes in many respects. Studies of recent Paleoptera offer insights into the origin and development of the axillary sclerites and basal plates which permit the articulation of the wing. Six separate sclerites, arranged in two longitudinal rows of three, were probably the basic configuration of these structures. Their subsequent modifications in the Odonata and Neoptera are noted. Wing folding probably evolved from the flexion folds between these rows of sclerites. The erection of two major groups of the neopterous orders, Pliconeoptera and Planoneoptera, is necessitated by the evidence derived from a brief phylogenetic analysis.
25086430|A systematic study of the chewing louse genus Lagopoecus (Phthiraptera: Ischnocera: Philopteridae) was undertaken to identify several species found among the undetermined specimens in the K. C. Emerson Collection at Oklahoma State University. This paper treats the species found on pheasants and their relatives (Galliformes: Phasianidae: Phasianinae). The known species are redescribed and illustrated, the male of L. choui Liu and the female of L. ovatus (Uchida) for the first time. One species (L. colchicus Emerson) is probably a synonym of L. sinensis (Sugimoto).
25084197|The genus Charoxus is redescribed and illustrated. It is transferred from the Zyrasini to the Aleocharini on the basis of the structure of its labial palpi, the antennae, the way the antennae insert, the structure of abdominal segment IX and the shape of the meso- and metanotum. C. fodiens is redescribed. Four new species are described; C. bicolor (Mexico and Jamaica), C. blackwelderi (Paraguay), C. hermani (Mexico), and C. major (Costa Rica). The association of the genus with the receptacles of figs of recorded for the first time.
25085743|Description of three new California species in the tribe Dasytinae of the Coleopteran family Melyridae: Pristocelis schlingeri Howell, Emmenotarsus faulkneri Howell, and Mecomycter majeri Howell. New generic keys are included to Pristocelis and Mecoymcter.
25084569|A key, host plant information, and biological notes are presented for 33 species of Uroleucon collected in Michigan. These comprise three fourths of the eastern North American fauna and include three new species, U. cadens, U. gigantiphagum, and U. olivei.
25082656|The karyotypes of 18 species of stored-product Coleoptera are reported for the first time; chromosome formulas at variance with earlier accounts are reported for 3 species; other species are confirmed; and the widely scattered records of 65 species or subspecies are compiled. The relationship of karyotype to phylogeny is illustrated, and evolutionary implications of the findings are discussed.
25083453|The following new species are described from Mexico, Central America, and Ecuador: Euglossa (Euglossa) dodsoni Moure, hansoni Moure, nigropilosa Moure, Euplusia venusta Moure, macroglossa Moure and simillima Moure and Michener. The last, from the state of Chihuahua, is the northernmost species of the subfamily.
25083811|Lasiopogon polensis is described from Pole Mountain, 7.4 miles southeast of Laramie, Wyoming, elevation 8,200 feet. The type locality has been destroyed.
41681229|The parasitoid complex of white-spotted pinion Cosmia diffinis (Linnaeus, 1767) larvae (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) feeding on Ulmus minor in Edirne was studied during the twoyear period of 2007-2008. The determined parasitoids were Meteorus colon (Haliday, 1835) and Meteorus rufus (DeGeer, 1778) from Braconidae; Gelis areator (Panzer, 1804), Itoplectis clavicornis (Thomson, 1889) and Phobocampe lymantriae Gupta, 1983 from Ichneumonidae; Brachymeria secundaria (Ruschka, 1922) from Chalcididae; Euplectrus lparidis Ferrire, 1941 from Eulophidae and members of Tachinidae. We report here a new host-parasitoid relationship of C. diffinis with M. colon, M. rufus, I. clavicornis, P. lymantriae, and E. liparidis. The hyperparasitism of G areator and B. secundaria on parasitoid Meteorus species of Cosmia diffinis is also reported. In addition, M. colon, I. clavicornis, G. areator, P. lymantriae and E. liparidis were determined as new records for Turkey.
25084140|We describe a forewing stridulitrum and hind-femoral plectrum in both sexes of four related alydine species, Alydus pilosulus (Herrich-Schaeffer), A. eurinus (Say), Megalotomus quinquespinosus (Say), and Tollius sp. (male only). Stridulitra and plectra of both sexes and of all species are very similar in general appearance, although some differences in the spacing of stridulitral ridges and in the plectral nodules' form do occur; the latter may be the result of increased wear. The first three of these species often aggregate on the same host plant, where intraspecific-but never interspecific-mating takes place. The sounds produced by these devices may serve as aggregating and/or as premating isolating mechanisms. These species are part of a complex of genera, all members of which possess apparently similar stridulitra and plectra.
25085633|A continuing six-year drought has verified a model for caddisfly (Trichoptera) species richness and spring permanence in Sierra Nevada, California, cold spring sources. An intensive study of 21 cold springs was conducted from 1982-1987, prior to extended drought, in three second-order stream basins, elevation 1963 m to 2408 m. Invertebrates were sampled with continuous emergence traps, bottom samplers, and hand collecting. Physical/chemical variables were measured as part of the early study and were remeasured in September 1990 and 1992, after four and six years of drought. Species analysis of Trichoptera showed that springs were highly individualistic (average Jaccard similarity = 23%). Species richness ranged from 2 to 18 per spring, 9 species were restricted to constant-temperature spring sources, and 36 caddisfly species were collected overall. Species richness was positively correlated with calcium (
25083000|Cerotoma eborifrons n. sp. (Coleoptera, Chrysomelidae) is described from Bolivia. C. eborifrons is closely related to C. dilatipes Jacoby from the Pacific coastal area of Mexico.
25085253|Data on insects associated with sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) were recorded to note the potential insect pests when crop was planted on different dates. Observations were recorded during a study examining the effect of sunflower planting date on the incidence of sunflower moth, Homoeoma electellum (Hulst) from 1986-1988 at Belleville, Hays, Hesston, Hutchinson, and Manhattan, Kansas. Banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes Walsingham, adults were caught in pheromone traps during August and September in 1987 only at Hays. During 1988 the moths were trapped at Belleville, Hays, Hutchinson, and Manhattan. Significantly more sunflower seed weevil (Smicronyx fulvus LeConte and S. sordidus LeConte) adults/head were found in the first (early June) planting than second (late June) and third (early July) plantings at Belleville, Hesston, and Manhattan. No significant difference in number of adults/head was detected in planting dates at Hutchinson. Both banded sunflower moth and seed weevils may become potential pests in the state because an increase in their population was noted over three years. Other insect pests found were head-clipping weevil, Haplorhynchites aeneus (Boheman); Spilosoma virginica (Fab.); Euphoria sepueralis (Fab.); sunflower midge, Contarinia schulzi Gange; painted lady, Vanessa cardui (L.); carrot beetle, Bothynus gibbosus (De Geer); and sunflower beetle, Zygogramma exclamationis (Fab.) at all the locations in all years.
25084166|Nests of Agapostemon sericeus (=radiatus) (New York), cockerelli (Arizona), texanus (California), angelicus (Arizona), and splendens (Georgia) resemble in architecture those of previously described Agapostemon, differing principally in burrow and lateral length and in soil type. Mature larvae and pupae of the former 4 species closely resemble those of A. virescens and nasutus, differing slightly in thoracic tubercle shape, mandibular apodeme length, and spiracular atrium depth (larvae), and tubercle shape (pupae). Some nests of A. cockerelli, texanus, and possibly angelicus were communally occupied by several females each. Agapostemon cockerelli usurped nests of A. angelicus, and Andrena imitatrix usurped a nest of A. sericeus. The mites Sancassania sp. (Acaridae) and Parapygmephorus sp. (Pygmephoridae) were associated with nests.
25085916|Boreus bomari, new species, from mountainous southeastern Wyoming, is described and compared with similar species in eastern and western North America. Taxonomically useful characters of male and female are illustrated.
25084864|Individuals of the meloid beetle, Lytta magister, seldom stay more than a few days in their mating aggregations. Because each copulation requires 1-2 days, a male can secure at most very few mates while in an aggregation. Perhaps as a result of the time cost of copulation, males appear to favor large, relatively fecund females to whom they transfer a large, cantharidin-containing spermatophore. Females likewise appear to prefer large males as mates because they receive more of the defensive compound cantharidin or because they receive a complete spermatophore relatively quickly from such males. A consequence of a preference by both sexes for large partners would be positive assortative mating by body size. The meloid Tegrodera aloga does not exhibit assortative mating, even though it forms large mating aggregations, individuals vary greatly in size, males donate a large, cantharidin-containing spermatophore to their mates, and body size is correlated with the size of the cantharidin-producing accessory glands. The absence of assortative mating in this species may occur because (1) copulations last only 4 hours, thereby consuming a much smaller proportion of a male's stay in any one aggregation, and (2) the range of variation in body size is less in T. aloga, reducing the chance of extreme (and costly) mismatches in mating pairs.
25083801|The taxonomic position of the three species that comprise the Cyphomyia bicarinata group is clarified. Typical C. bicarinata is strictly a Mexican species as is C. similis. The third species, C. erecta, is described herein, and is the species that erroneously has been referred to C. bicarinata in the Nearctic literature. The possible evolution of the group in the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt is postulated.
25084915|The seasonal pattern of abundance for a naturally occurring greenhouse population of Periplaneta americana (L.) as seen in visual surveys did not agree with estimates obtained through the use of glass jar traps. Visual survey counts for summer and fall were similar, in contrast to trap-catch counts which implied greatly reduced population density in summer. Mark-recapture estimates from the Jolly and Fisher-Ford models were used to resolve this conflict and were found to be consistent with trap-catch trends. A single estimate of population density based on a removal method also agreed with the corresponding mark-recapture estimate. These observations imply that, for this species, glass jar traps are a better measure of seasonal density change than visual counts. Recapture histories of individual cockroaches showed that most cockroaches were consistently recaptured in traps closest to their release points for up to several weeks. This finding suggests that P. americana either exhibits territoriality and or occupies a small "home range."
25086179|Four new species of cheyletoid mites (Acari: Cheyletoidea) are described from birds in canada: Harpyrhynchoides vulgaris sp. nov. (Harpirhynchidae) from Purple Finch, Carpodacus purpureus (Passeriformes: Fringillidae) and American Redstart, Setophaga ruticilla (Passeriformes: Parulidae); Syringophilopsis porzanae sp. nov. (Syringophilidae) from Sora, Porzana carolina (Gruiformes: Rallidae); Syringophilopsis tyrrani sp. nov. from Eastern Kingbird, Tyrranus tyrranus (Passeriformes: Tyrranidae); Niglarobia skorackii sp. nov. (Syringophilidae) from Greater Yellowlegs, Tringa melanoleuca (Charadriiformes: Scolopacidae). Harpyrhynchoides zumpti Fain, 1972 is recorded from Dark-eyed Junco, Junco hyemalis (Passeriformes: Emberizidae), for the first time. A key to species for females of the genus Syringophilopsis and a table of their associated hosts are provided.
25084923|A new species of chironomid midge, Oliveridia hugginsi, n. sp., is described and illustrated from specimens collected in the Chautauqua Hills of southern Kansas. Characters separating adults and pupae from O. tricornis Saether, the only other species in the genus, are summarized and an amended diagnosis for the genus is given. Observations on the emergence, biology and mating behavior of O. hugginsi are included.
25083563|Exoneurula is a new genus of minute ceratinine bees related to Allodapula. Two new species, E. zavattarii and E. ocellata are described.
25082604|An electronic recording balance was constructed to obtain a continuous record of weight changes in nests of Megachile rotundata (Fabr.) during their construction and provisioning. Bees (average weight 35 mg) carried leaf piece loads of 17 percent of their body weight, and provision loads of 23 percent of their body weight. They used an average of 9 leaf pieces in a 4 mm diameter hole, 11 in a 4.8 mm hole and 14 in a 6.2 mm hole. Bees brought in about 80% pollen and 20% nectar in their first load of provisions and gradually increasing amounts of nectar in subsequent loads. The final load or two was entirely nectar. The total provisions consisted of 64% nectar and 36% pollen. Bees collected more nectar from fewer flowers in a shorter time when collecting nectar alone than when collecting both nectar and pollen. Bees usually laid 1 egg a day but 1 bee laid 35 eggs in 19 days, including 2 days when she laid 3 eggs a day. Bees exhibited many individual characteristics of behavior. The bee placed more provisions in large diameter cells than in small cells and more provisions in female cells than in male cells. There was a close association between the weight of provisions and the weight and sex of the resulting progeny.
25481815|In 1999, bees were sampled from several flowering individuals of the leguminous tree, Andira inermis (Papilionoideae), at two sites in northwestern Guanacaste Province of Costa Rica. One site, city outskirts of Liberia, was experiencing steady encroachment of human development, whereas the other was a moderately impacted cattle ranch/wildland area near the small town of Bagaces. A standardized method was employed to sample the bees, which had been used previously in 1996 in the same tree populations at the same two sites (Frankie et al., 1997). Results of the 1999 samples were compared with those taken in 1996 to examine possible changes in bee diversity and abundance. During this three-year period, El Nio and La Nia climatic events had occurred back-to-back, and this combination of weather patterns provided an opportunity to evaluate possible short-term changes in the bee taxa that use A. inermis as one of their preferred host plants. Other bee host plants at both sites were also surveyed for seasonal flowering, the results of which formed a broader context for assessing the A. inermis bee samples. The comparison revealed the follwing. 1) The composition of bees had changed with reductions in large bees from 1996 to 1999; most noticeably some anthophorids and especially Centris and Epicharis. Africanized honey bees and smaller bee taxa remained about the same in composition and overall abundance. 2) During El Nio and La Nia years from mid 1997 through early 1999, the flowering of key resources for large bees, especially Byrsonima crassifolia, was substantially delayed (and sometimes reduced) to the point where building and provisioning of bee nests was likely reduced, which apparently led to declines in large bee taxa. Other possible causes of decline, including increasing agricultural development in the region, are also discussed. 3) Intertree variation in attraction of bees to A. inermis was documented in both 1999 and 1996, but persistence of this variable attraction on the same individual trees could be only partially evaluated in 1999. The flowering pattern(s) of individual A. inermis trees has proved to be highly variable within and between the two study sites.
25086358|The prairie mole cricket (Gryllotalpa major Saussure) is a native of the tallgrass prairie ecosystem of the south central United States. Its populations have dwindled with the reduced availability of suitable grassland habitat. Populations are known to occupy relict prairie sites in Oklahoma, Kansas, Arkansas and Missouri. The Nature Conservancy's Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in north central Oklahoma is the largest continuous tract of tallgrass prairie remaining (about 16,100 ha). The long-term management plan for this property includes the utilization of prescribed burns, bison grazing, cattle grazing and limited mowing to restore a functional tallgrass prairie landscape. Prairie mole cricket populations were surveyed at the site during the years 1993, 1994, 1998, and by our research team in 2005, using the male cricket's acoustic call as a discrete presence indicator. Records from these surveys were integrated with prescribed burn maps to identify spatial distribution patterns of the calling aggregations at the preserve. These data were then analyzed to determine the randomness of spatial distributions with regard to pasture burn regimes. Results revealed a non-random distribution of prairie mole cricket calling sites, with advertising males found in higher numbers on sites that had been more recently burned. Analysis of soil temperature data taken from both burned and unburned prairie patches at White Oak Prairie in Oklahoma revealed no difference between the two treatments. The results of this study indicate that prairie mole cricket lek sites are somewhat transient within a broader prairie mosaic in which fire is a regular disturbance factor and tend to emerge on more recently burned patches. This information is being utilized in constructing habitat models and resource management plans for this preserve as well as other sites harboring Gryllotalpa major populations.
25083745|Studies using
25083627|Three species and one subspecies of Ardeicola are described as new. Records and figures of the nine remaining North American species are included along with a key to the North American species. The Ardeicola species are distributed as follows: A. ajajae Carriker from Ajaia ajaja (Linn.), A. elongata Carriker from Eudocimus albus (Linn.), A. loculator Giebel from Mycteria americana Linn., A. rhaphidius (Nitzsch) from Plegadis falcinellus (Linn.) and Plegadis chihi (Vieillot), and Ardeicola sp.n. from Eudocimus albus Linn. This last species is unusual in that it is the second member of the genus found on the same host species. The remaining species of Ardeicola are found on members of the Ardeidae: A. gaibagla Ansari from Bubulcus ibis Linn., Casmerodius albus Linn., and Florida thula (Molina); A. botauri (Osborn) from Botaurus lentiginosus (Rackett), Ardeicola sp.n. from Ixobrychus exilis (Gmelin), A. cruscula Carriker from Ardea herodias Linn., A. florida Carriker from Florida caerulea (Linn.), A. florida ssp.n. from Dichromanassa rufescens (Gmelin), Hydranassa tricolor (Mller) and Butorides virescens (Linn.); A. goisagi Uchida from Nycticorax nycticorax (Linn.), and Ardeicola sp.n. from Nyctanassa violacea (Linn.).
25086284|A new species, Homidia huashanensis, is described from Shaanxi Province, China. It is similar to the Korean species H. koreana Lee and Lee 1981 in the chaetotaxy of Abd. IV and setae of labial base and similar to H. amethystina (Brner, 1909) Yosii, 1942 in having two unpaired inner teeth on unguis, and in the number of rows of dental spines. It can be distinguished from the former by the larger number of unpaired teeth of the unguis, the coxal macrochaetae, and the chaetotaxy on the first abdominal segment (11-12 macochaetae vs. 9); and from the latter species by the larger number of rows of dental spines (3-5 vs. 1).
25083687|The processes of burrow and cell construction, cell provisioning, oviposition, egg-eating, inspection of brood in closed cells, division of labor and interactions among adult females of the social species Lasioglossum (Dialictus) versatum are described, illustrated, and compared with such behavior in the social L. zephyrum and L. imitatum. Observations of cell and burrow construction and provisioning in Halictus rubicundus, Neocorynura fumipennis and Augochlorella sp. are included, with information on oviposition behavior, brood inspection, and interactions between females of H. rubicundus and N. fumipennis. The processes of cell construction, provisioning, pollen ball formation and oviposition were similar in all species observed. Reproductive females of solitary or weakly social species attacked other females more often than did those of the social species. The bees were maintained in an indoor insectary and nested in narrow, plexiglas-sided observation chambers.
25086446|Male Sphecius speciosus Drury (Hymenoptera: Crabronidae) emerge before females and compete for mating territories in nest colonies. In a large, dense aggregation of S. speciosus at a chemical plant in Channahon, IL, some males appeared to exhibit territorial behavior, but most flew through the nest area in apparent search of females, which are sexually receptive upon emergence. As females emerged, they were quickly surrounded by clusters of several males, all attempting to copulate. We wanted to determine whether the high male density influenced which males would be successful. Previous studies had shown that large male Sphecius have an advantage, because of superior ability to secure and defend territories. However, as territorial males were unable to repel the nearly constant intrusions by other males, we predicted large males would have no advantage. We captured a sample of mating clusters following initiation of copulation, and measured body mass, wing length, and mesoscutal width of successful and unsuccessful males. Though successful males were larger than a haphazard sample of the general male population, they were not significantly larger than unsuccessful males in the clusters. There was also no difference in symmetry, based on relative lengths of wings, between the successful and unsuccessful males. Apparently, small males either avoid or are excluded from mating clusters. However, within clusters the ability of males to compete and/or the possible choice of mates by females, are not influenced by male size and wing symmetry.
25083533|Eucolpocephalum femorale (Piaget) is recorded for the first time in North America. Specimens were examined from four threskiornithid hosts. The monotypic genus Eucolpocephalum appears to be closely related to Plegadiphilus in general form and can be separated from the latter by the absence of fingerlike projections on the ventroposterior margin of the pleurites.
25085129|New records for the previously known species of Pectinapis are listed, together with descriptions of the female of P. auricauda and of a new species, P. salviae. A key to species is also presented.
25085315|During 1989, the European Chrysomelid, Oulema melanopus (L.), was recovered from 22 of 37 (59%) counties surveyed in eastern Missouri and from 31 of 37 (84%) counties surveyed in eastern Iowa. Westward expansion of this pest continued in 1990 with Missouri and Iowa each reporting 13 additional "new county" records. Infestations were first reported in three counties near St. Louis, MO in 1972 and in four northeastern counties of Iowa in 1987. Soft red winter wheat is the dominant host plant of O. melanopus in Missouri whereas spring oats serve as the dominant host in Iowa. The westward expansion of the range of O. melanopus may be due to substantial increases in small grain acreage, lands enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program, and/or changes in tillage and production systems. Although no parasitoids of O. melanopus were found in Missouri collections, the larval parasite, Tetrastichus julis (Walker), was present in collections from Allamakee and Fayette counties in Iowa.
25084572|New York ironweed (Vernonia noveboracensis L.) in central New Jersey supports two species of colonial, ant-tended Homoptera: an aphid, Aphis vernoniae Thomas, and a membracid, Publilia reticulata Van Duzee. Both species were active from mid-May to September in the study area. The aphid produced several generations with a peak of alate forms appearing in early August. The membracid had a single generation per year. Females remained guarding eggs and young nymphs for about 6 days beyond hatch when ants were present. Both the aphid and the treehopper were commonly tended by six species of ants. A summary of host and distribution data indicate that both A. vernoniae and P. reticulata are restricted to a few plants of the family Compositae, primarily in the genus Vernonia. Both species are distributed throughout the eastern and midwestern United States, although the aphid's range extends farther south.
25086081|A checklist of the 54 species of Coccinellidae (Coleoptera) known from North Dakota is presented including five new state records for North Dakota: Brachiacantha tau LeConte, Hyperaspidius wolcotti (Nunenmacher), Hyperaspis lateralis Mulsant, Hyperaspis proba (Say), and Harmonia axyridis (Pallas). Five new state records for Minnesota are also reported: the first two above listed species, with Brachiacantha decempustulata (Melsheimer), Hyperaspis inflexa Casey, and H. brunnescens Dobzhansky. The rapid spread of H. axyridis in North Dakota is noted.
25085313|Burying beetles Nicrophorus orbicollis (Coleoptera: Silphidae) secure and bury small vertebrate carcasses as a food resource for their offspring and themselves. Burial may take place at the point of carcass discovery or at some distance from that site. Burying beetles were tested to determine if they discriminate between different substrates when burying a carcass. Three substrates were presented simultaneously. Substrate one contained soil from typical beetle habitat; substrates two and three contained 2:1 and 5:1 ratios, respectively, of soil and a senescent prairie grass (Panicum virgatum), which added a bulk structural component to the soil. Beetles generally moved and buried the carcass within 24 hours. Results for both paired and individual trials suggest that burying beetles discriminate between substrates, preferring substrates with added bulk over those without.
25085120|Farmers in the midwestern United States considering alternative crops to diversify their agricultural production, include grain amaranth, Amaranthus spp. among them. Little is known of the insect pests that a grower might encounter while producing the crop. Reported herein is a study of several insect pests and their response to feeding on amaranth. Insects tested were the tarnished plant bug (Lygus lineolaris Palisot de Beauvois), fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith)), cabbage looper (Trichoplusia ni (Hbner)), European corn borer (Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner)) corn earworm (Heliothis zea (Boddie)), and the cowpea aphid (Aphis craccavora Koch.). Results indicate that most of the pests, except the European corn borer, will feed differentially on the amaranth lines tested. This knowledge should be useful for breeding insect-resistant cultivars. Plant material was obtained from the amaranth collection held at the North Central Regional Plant Introduction Station, Ames, Iowa.
25086084|Study of the movement of grasshoppers between habitats, such as between rangeland and field crops, is hampered by a lack of methods for monitoring movement and for sampling grasshopper populations under dense crop canopies. This paper examines the use of windowpane traps to detect grasshopper movements and presence within various habitats. Traps were constructed with a vertical pane of glass and troughs of soapy water at the base of both sides of the pane. Transects of the traps were placed within fallow fields and barley crops, and along field margins in-between. There were significant differences between trap catch and samples taken by sweep net in proportions of the five most common species of grasshoppers, with the traps capturing proportionally more Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius), and fewer Chorthippus curtipennis (Harris) than occurred in the sweep samples. The trap data indicated movement of individuals during late summer. Camnula pellucida (Scudder) and Melanoplus sanguinipes congregated along the roadside later in the season. Melanoplus borealis (Fieber) was captured in greater numbers in the barley and along the roadside, than in the fallow fields. The two sides of the trap allowed inference of directionality in movement. Greater numbers of grasshoppers were captured on the downwind side of the traps when wind direction was consistently from one direction. Field assays showed that grasshoppers were attracted to aqueous solutions of dishwashing detergent and grasshopper cadavers. The traps may not be useful for comparison of relative abundances among species, but may be less affected by vegetation type than other methods of sampling, and provide useful information regarding invasion of crops by individual species of grasshoppers.
25084743|At Lake Ontario, New York, Dufourea novaeangliae excavates solitary nests along sandy shores and forages for pollen only on pickerelweed, Pontederia cordata. Nests exhibit a primitive architecture of ovoid, subhorizontal cells placed singly at the ends of long laterals. Provision masses are spherical and coated with a glandular secretion. Larvae are morphologically primitive and spin strong, two-layered cocoons in which they overwinter. Moldy cells are infested by the scutacarid mite Imparipes apicola, which is phoretic on adult bees. Most features of dufoureine nest architecture, larval morphology, and post-embryonic development are primitive for short-tongued bees, and in these the Dufoureinae most resemble the Melittidae and the Panurginae (Andrenidae). There are no synapomorphic behavioral or developmental characters that unite the Dufoureinae with the other subfamilies of Halictidae, the Halictinae and Nomiinae.
25082605|The biology of Stelis chlorocyanea Cockerell, a parasite of Osmia nigrifrons Cresson is analyzed and immature forms described. These are compared with S. lateralis Cresson, the atypical Neotropical species S. bilineolata (Spinola) and several Old World species. Stelis chlorocyanea emerges in early April and has an adult activity period of 25 to 30 days. Female Stelis oviposit in any host cell containing a partially formed or completed pollen nectar mass. Multiple eggs were found in 50% of one group of cells; usually the oldest larva survived to the adult stage. The female Stelis does not attack the host egg or enter the cell after the cell is capped by the female Osmia. Stelis larvae are extremely aggressive. They destroy the host egg or larva within 12 hrs. to as much as six days after eclosion. Larval development in both natural and controlled laboratory conditions is approximately twice as fast as that of Osmia. The rate of parasitism varied from a low of 2.9% in 1969 to a high of 42.8% in 1970. The sex ratio varied from 1:1.5 in 1969 to 1:0.5 in 1971. A parasitic pteromalid, Dibrachys sp., was found parasitizing Stelis in the 1971 and 1972 samples. It parasitized 15.7% and 17.1% of the respective samples. The first instar larva of S. chlorocyanea more closely resembles S. bilineolata in having bidentate mandibles, no apparent body setae and short antennal papillae. The postdefecating larva of S. chlorocyanea differs from both S. bilineolata and S. lateralis in having an anterior sclerotic area on the postmentum, and a pigmented area above the antennae. The pupa is similar to S. bilineolata and differs from other megachilid pupae by lacking spines on the coxae and trochanters, and having three tubercles on the vertex. Chromosome numbers of n = 17 () and 34 () were determined.
25085603|Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko) (Homoptera: Aphididae), populations were assessed for variation in susceptibility to chlorpyrifos, changes in reproduction, and differences in esterase activity. Variation in susceptibility to chlorpyrifos was small but detectable among populations established in 1991 from four areas in Wyoming and Colorado when compared to a laboratory population established in 1988. Resistance ratios ranged from 1.4 to 1.7 at the
25085440|The genus Paradolichurus Williams is reviewed, a new species, boharti, is described and a key to the species is provided.
25084882|The larval susceptibility of six species of Noctuidae Spodoptera exigua (Hbner), Trichoplusia ni (Hbner), Anticarsia gemmatalis Hbner, Pseudoplusia includens Walker, Heliothis zea (Boddie), and Heliothis virescens (F.) to a Thai biotype of Nomuraea rileyi (Farlow) Samson, was determined. The relative ranking of larval susceptibility (high to low susceptibility; ${\rm LC}_{50}$ of $\text{conidia}/{\rm mm}^{2}$), was: S. exigua (12.8); T. ni (14.0); A. gemmatalis (37.8); P. includens (179.0); H. zea (205.0). Larvae of H. virescens were not susceptible even at a dose (3000 $\text{conidia}/{\rm mm}^{2}$) that induced 100% mortality of larvae of S. exigua and T. ni.
25084576|Ten isolates of Bacillus thuringiensis were bioassayed against Malacosoma disstria. The objective of the test was to determine a median lethal concentration value for each isolate. Malacosoma disstria was extremely susceptible to all of the isolates tested. Median lethal concentration values ranged from 0.9 g/ml for HD-120 to 8.6 g/ml for HD-201. Isolates HD-120 and HD-285 had the lowest
25085239|Parasitism among shortgrass prairie grasshopper populations in northeast Colorado was assessed from 1984 to 1986, during a general decline in grasshopper abundance. Parasitism rates varied widely among species, pastures and years, but overall parasitism was only 2 percent in 1986. The tachinid Acemyia tibialis was prevalent early in the season, with the sarcophagids Blaesoxipha opifera, B. reversa, and B. hunteri more prevalent late in the summer. Parasites frequently were melanized; 24 percent of the grasshoppers containing maggots contained melanized individuals, and 64 percent were melanized in Phlibostroma quadrimaculatum. Parasites were recovered principally from adult grasshoppers, and 61 percent of the parasitized individuals were female. Several new host-parasite relationships were established. Seventy-one percent of the parasites were recovered from only four species of grasshoppers. Mean number of parasites per parasitized host was 3.07; the median number of parasites was 1. There generally was not a significant relationship between grasshopper density and parasitism rates.
25085248|Perdita gerhardi nested in sandy soil near its host plant, Monarda punctata, in west central Illinois. Cells occurred at depths of 20 to 48 cm, and were not lined with a waterproof secretion. Females appear capable of provisioning 2 cells per day. Calliopsis coloradensis and Pseudopanurgus rugosus nested in proximity to one another in hard-packed soil along a dirt path in east central Illinois. Cells of C. coloradensis were 6.5 to 10 cm deep and lined with a waterproof coating. The egg was attached to the subspherical provision mass by its posterior end only. Male C. coloradensis at times excavated short burrows in which they spent the night. Cells of P. rugosus were found 7.5 to 18 cm deep and had a waterproof lining. The provision mass was a flattened sphere.
25084885|Scanning electron microscope observations of Scaptotrigona postica workers showed that their eyes have few hairs and that the ommatidia are linked together by a series of fibers. Cavities projecting towards the internal part of the eye and occupying the junction of 3 ommatidia were observed. The hairs of the upper paraocular area are longer than those of the lower paraocular area. Above and behind the ocelli are larger, split and striated hairs. The side portion of ocelli consists of smooth hairless chitin, and their upper region consists of a large number of cavities having hexagonal and pentagonal contours. The clypeus exhibits short, smooth and uniformly-sized hairs. The antennal scape is attached to the head through a rounded structure located in the antennal alveolar cavity and having 2 distinct areas.
25083034|The function of the scent-gland apparatus was studied in nymphs and adults of 3 Alydidae: Megalotomus quinquespinosus (Say), Alydus eurinus (Say), and Alydus pilosulus (Herrich-Schaeffer). In nymphs, the internal scent-gland apparatus consisted of 2 dorsal abdominal gland-reservoirs; in adults, it consisted of a ventral metathoracic reservoir and 2 masses of tubular glands. In nymphs, external structures associated with scent fluid flow and evaporation were located on the dorsum of the abdomen. In adults, the external modified cuticle was located around the ostiole. The primary areas of scent fluid evaporation were the ostiolar furrow which had tooth- and ridge-like cuticle, and the elevated lobe at the end of the furrow which had a shingle-like cuticle. Gland cells of nymphs and adults underwent histolysis with aging, resulting in reduced capability to produce scent fluid. In nymphs, there was complete vacuolation of gland cells before the next ecdysis; in adults, however, there was a reduction in the glandular end apparatus with aging. Scent fluid was released as a droplet in both nymphs and adults. It took 24 to 36 h for a droplet to be produced by adults, both after the 5th ecdysis and after the reservoir had been emptied in response to artificial stimulation. Scent fluid functions as an alarm pheromone in alydids. The alarm behavior was interspecific and present in both nymphs and adults.
25083735|Gelastoblissus n. gen. is described with its type species, G. rugosus n. sp., and Aradacrates n. gen. with its type species, A. cochlear n. sp.
25084712|The immature stages of Trichobaris trinotata (Say) are described and illustrated both as a basis for comparison with those of Trichobaris texana LeConte and Trichobaris bridwelli Barber and for the purpose of identification of this species. The larvae of these species are quite similar morphologically and it is necessary to use several characters to distinguish them. The pupae are relatively easy to identify to species on the basis of arrangement and numbers of setae and the presence or absence of posterolateral processes.
25084008|Anthophora antiope Bingham nested in loess cliffs near the Beas River, Punjab, in January and February. The shallow nests each had 1-4 cells that were lined with a lipidic secretion with a butyric odor. Provisions were obtained from Eruca, Brassica and Ipomoea; Microcerotermes termites destroyed provisions and brood.
25082642|The hydrolysis of indophenyl acetate (IPA) and of acyl esters of thiocholine was effected by a 12,800 g supernatant fraction prepared from homogenates of whole twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus urticae Koch. Cleavage of IPA by the mite preparation proceeded at a markedly faster rate than that of the thiocholine esters. Hydrolysis of IPA was more sensitive to inhibition by diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP) and less sensitive to diethyl S-(2-diethylaminoethyl) phosphorothiolate oxalate salt (Tetram), neostigmine, and eserine than was acetylthiocholine hydrolysis.
25568935|Long-term monitoring of bees in specific sites provides information on changes in species diversity and abundance, especially in areas close to human habitation. Evaluations of this monitoring data combined with relevant measures of anthropogenic activity can aide in interpreting emerging patterns of bee pollinators. In 1972, we sampled bees visiting flowers of a population of the leguminous tree, Andira inermis (W. Wright) DC in a dry forest site adjacent to the town of Liberia, Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica. Slightly more than 800 bees were recorded on the average per tree site, with an overall bee diversity among the trees of approximately 70 species. Standardized bee samples were taken again from the same population of A. inermis in 1996, 1999, and 2004. In each of these years average abundance level per tree was greatly reduced, as was overall species diversity. Andira inermis trees were also observed to have variable attraction for large anthophorid bees versus honey bees. Some trees attracted significantly more anthophorids than honey bees, whereas other trees attracted the opposite. Since 1972 there were many changes in land use that were directly related to a rapidly growing human population in Liberia. These changes, which greatly modified the natural landscape and vegetation, are believed to have caused a major decline in species diversity and abundance of bees to a low but consistent level. Concurrently, increased urban growth has resulted in many more residential neighborhoods that have a wide variety of ornamental flowering plant species, many of which are native to Costa Rica, that attract a wide variety of native bee species. Evidence is offered to suggest that urban residential areas represent a source of bees that continue to visit A. inermis at low levels in and immediately around Liberia.
25082909|To test the hypothesis of an airborne queen pheromone in the yellowjacket Vespula atropilosa (Sladen) a colony was divided to separate half of the workers and brood from the queen. The halves of the comb were placed in a single nest box. They were separated by a double screen to allow air flow between them but to prevent any other interactions. Workers on the queenless half developed functional ovaries and began ovipositing within 8 days. Foraging levels, cell initiation, repair rates, and brood reared were less than on the queen side, which functioned as a control. Ovipositing workers were very aggressive to each other and to other workers, and destroyed each others' eggs. The queen had no detectable influence on the separated half of the colony. Queens under normal conditions probably control worker behavior and reproductive development by behavior or by a pheromone other than a volatile queen pheromone.
23356034|A putative parasitic species: Camponotus (Tanaemyrmex) ruseni n. sp., of the genus Camponotus is described from Turkey. The new species differs from all other Tanaemyrmex species by 5 toothed mandibles, presence of short hairs on the eyes, transversally concave propodeal dorsum that disrupts the convex appearance of the alitrunk and presence of the metanotal groove.
25085056|Laboratory studies were conducted on the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte to determine the effects of three temperature regimes on the survival of unfed larvae, the effects of prior starvation on the subsequent survival of larvae placed on the roots of corn seedlings, and the influence of time of egg hatch on the survival of starved and subsequently fed larvae. Mortality of unfed larvae, for a given period of starvation, was generally significantly (P < 0.05) higher at 27C than at 21C and intermediate at an alternating temperature of 27/16C (16:8 hr). Maximum periods for larval survival without food were 192, 168, and 144 hr (8, 7, and 6 days) at 21, 27/16, and 27C, respectively. Overall, the starvation periods we examined did not statistically affect subsequent larval survival on corn seedlings. However, in one experiment larvae starved for 0-48 hr survived at a significantly higher rate than those starved for 72-120 hr. Larvae that emerged from eggs which hatched during the first 3 days of the hatching period survived significantly longer without food than those that emerged during the last 3 days of the hatching period. Time of egg hatch, however, did not influence the ability of previously starved larvae to burrow into and establish themselves on corn roots. Survival of unfed larvae at a given temperature, subsequent survival of larvae starved for given periods of time and then transferred to corn seedlings, and survival of larvae in relation to the egg hatching period differed significantly among egg sources used for these studies.
25085011|Nests of the exomalopsine bee Lanthanomelissa (Lanthanomelissa) goeldiana (Friese) observed in Castro, Paran, S Brazil are gregarious, each headed by a single female. The nest pattern is similar to that of other exomalopsines, consisting of a main burrow and several cells connected with the former by laterals, which are filled with soil. Cells are vertical, arranged either singly or in series. Pollen loaves are attached to side walls of cells by whole sides.
25086190|Ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) are important generalist predators in a variety of habitats, where they prey on many kinds of pest insects. We used pitfall traps for weekly collections by Master Gardener volunteer researchers for 13 weeks in 1998 and 12 weeks in 1999 to assess species composition and temporal patterns of ground beetles in plots of potatoes in home gardens in Illinois and Indiana. Potato plots were either mulched with straw or were left unmulched, having bare soil between plant rows. A total of 82 individuals of 9 species was found in 1998 in mulched plots, versus 79 individuals of 10 species found in unmulched plots. In 1999, 639 individuals of 23 species were collected in mulched plots, versus 380 individuals of 31 species in unmulched plots. Significantly more Cyclotrachelus sodalis (LeConte) were found in mulched plots than in unmulched plots in 1999, whereas there were no significant differences between mulched and unmulched plots in numbers of Cyclotrachelus convivus (LeConte), Harpalus pensylvanicus DeGeer, Pterostichus permundus (Say) or Scarites subterraneus F. Species diversity, as measured by the Shannon Diversity Index, was significantly greater in unmulched plots than in mulched plots in 1999. Fourteen species collected in unmulched plots in 1999 were not found in mulched plots, whereas 6 species found in mulched plots were not found in unmulched plots. Although ground beetle assemblages differed as a function of habitat manipulation, exact diets of carabids need to be understood to know the potential to impact pest management in home gardens.
25085867|Larvae of Paraboreochlus stahli were collected from two streams, Esopus Creek and Coxing Kill, during a study of hyporheic invertebrates in the Lower Hudson River Basin in southeastern New York. All were collected from hyporheic zones of exposed lateral gravel bars using the Karaman-Chappuis method. Only two larvae of P. stahli were collected in October from Esopus Creek. By contrast, larvae were present through most of the year at Coxing Kill, but were more abundant in fall and spring samples, and consisted of a mixture of second, third and mature fourth instars. It is concluded that larvae inhabit and grow to maturity in lateral hypotheic zones, which may account for their absence in standard benthic samples from streams.
25083946|The diet of Pheidole bicarinata longula Emery includes the seeds of various plants. Seed bait stations were established in a corn field on 4 different dates during the summer of 1977 in McPherson County, Nebraska. Of the 9 seed species utilized, the smaller seeds, by weight, were selected more often than larger seeds.
25085272|We studied mite dispersal as a possible causative factor in the within-plant distribution of Banks grass mite (BGM), Oligonychus pratensis (Banks), on corn, Zea mays. Dispersal was measured by the redistribution of adult females among leaves along the vertical axis of corn plants. Groups of adult BGM females were placed on leaves at different heights on the plants and mite distributions were observed after 3 days. Initial position of infestation, mite density, and plant growth stage were evaluated for their influence on mite redistribution. On average, adult female BGM moved up the plant slightly when placed on leaves 1 and 2 (lowest green leaves), moved down the plant when placed on leaves 5-9, and remained on leaves 3 and 4 when placed on those leaves. Growth stage of the corn did not change the pattern of BGM redistribution. Initial density did not affect redistribution but it did affect the number of BGM found after 3 days; however, percentage recovery was relatively low regardless of the leaf on which mites were started. Recovery percentages at the 25 and 50 density levels were significantly lower than at the 100 level in 1986 and 1987. No density effects were found in 1988 when density levels were 50, 100, and 200. Overall, the results suggest that site selection by adult female mites colonizing a plant establishes the pattern of distribution. Mite distribution may be related to differences in leaf age, microclimate, or chemistry at different heights on the plant.
25085545|Incidence and latency of initiation of aerial dispersal behavior in the twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae), varied greatly from test to test even when tested under standardized laboratory conditions. We were able to attribute 20-30% of the variation in the behavior to genetic variation among individuals, but sources of the remaining variation were unknown. We hypothesized that barometric pressure was a possible environmental source of variation because pressure is associated with weather changes which may affect the success of dispersing mites. Over 30 days we examined initiation of aerial dispersal in mites from a population whose aerial dispersal behavior was well known to us. We recorded 3 weather-related variables at the start and end of each daily test: barometric pressure, relative humidity, and temperature. Relative humidity varied very little (21-35%) and did not affect either incidence or latency of aerial dispersal behavior. The temperature range was also limited (26.5-29C), but temperature alone explained about 25% of the daily variation in the proportion showing the behavior. The range of barometric pressure during the experiment (953-984 mb) was similar to that which occurs in nature when mites are active (ca. 960-990 mb). However, barometric pressure alone accounted for only 17% of daily variation in incidence. Furthermore, a model of barometric pressure and temperature explained only 5% more variation than one using temperature alone. Neither temperature nor barometric pressure per se affected latency, but changes in barometric pressure did; short latency (i.e., early dispersal) was associated with rising barometric pressure. Rising barometric pressure is often associated with local upward air movement and clearing weather. We suggest that twospotted spider mites initiate aerial dispersal in response to cues that signal weather favorable for dispersal from deteriorating habitats.
25083615|Amblyonychus Hermann (1921), a subgenus of Promachus, has priority over Promachina Bromley (1934). The syntypes of three Mexican species of Promachus in the subgenus Amblyonychus are described. A new Mexican species, Promachus (Amblyonychus) ovata Martin is described.
25086312|Experiments were conducted to determine distance between sample points to obtain independent samples of corn rootworm eggs and larvae. Spatial patterns and spatial dependence of egg and larval distributions were investigated using geostatistics at two different spatial scales: field scale with sampling distance of 20-25 m and plot scale with 0.2-m sampling distance. Field-scale egg distribution showed no spatial dependence, indicating a random distribution. In the plot-scale study, egg distributions of two plots were random but one plot exhibited spatial dependence that explained 89% of the spatial variability. Larval distribution showed spatial dependence at both field and plot scales and 49.7-99.7% of spatial variability was explained by spatial dependence. This study reported that the distance to obtain independent samples of egg densities would be >25 m for field-scale egg sampling and >0.4 m for plot-scale egg sampling. Independent larval estimates would be produced by spacing samples >46 m apart for field-scale larval sampling, and >1.0 m apart for plot-scale larval sampling.
25084220|Five hundred and fifty-two specimens of so-called Africanized honey bees from two areas of Brazil were analyzed for malate dehydrogenase (MDH) activity. Over 90% of these bees had MDH allozymes identical to those from 460 specimens collected from two sites in South Africa. This evidence indicates that the MDH gene pool of honey bees in Brazil has shifted strongly toward the African genotype.
25085753|Two coleopterous parasitoids, Aleochara bimaculata Gravenhorst and A. lacertina Sharp, were recovered from stable fly and house fly pupae in Kansas. Among a total of 56, 662 fly pupae collected over a 5-year period from beef cattle feedlots, the rate of parasitoidizing by the beetles was 0.4%. "Presence-absence" analysis showed that the beetles were collected more frequently during drier weather (less than 300 mm rainfall during the sampling period). Seasonal abundance fits a time-delayed density dependence pattern.
25084084|Two chitin inhibiting compounds were tested against several species of stored product insects. N-[((5-(4-Bromophenyl)-6-methyl-2-pyrazinyl)amino)carbonyl]-2-chlorobenzamide (LY-127063) was effective in preventing development of the lesser grain borer Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), confused flour beetle, Tribolium confusum Jacquelin du Val, sawtoothed grain beetle, Oryzaephilus surinamensis (L.), Indian meal moth, Plodia interpunctella (Hbner), rice weevel, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), almond moth, Ephestia cautella (Walker), and Angoumois grain moth, Sitotroga cerealella (Olivier) at 0.2-13.5 ppm in wheat. 2,6-Dimethoxy-N-[5-(4-(2,2,3,3,3,-pentafluorethoxy)phenyl)-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl]benzamide (LY-131215) was only about one-fifth as effective.
25084345|Ten new species of Iassinae are described: Penestragania (Abidistragania) hetera and P. (Penestragania) incila from Bolivia; Comanopa hamiltoni from Jamaica; Baldriga galida, B. nielsoni, and Momoria catopa from Mexico; and Donleva paronyma, Garlica margina, Grunchia pilusa, and Pachyopsis nomanus from Panama. New distributional records are reported for Momoria divisa (Stal) from Santa Cruz, Bolivia; Momoria misella (Stal) from Chiriqui, Panama; and Penestragania charila Blocker, from Mexico, D.F.
25084782|The adult male and female of Tipula (Platytipula) hugginsi are described and illustrated, with characters given to separate them from adults of other species in the subgenus. The aquatic habitat of the larva is briefly noted.
25085205|The naturally-occurring host range and recorded distribution of Entomophaga grylli (Fresenius) Batko, a fungal pathogen of grasshoppers, are reported for North Dakota. Sixteen grasshopper species were found susceptible to the disease, including most economically important grasshopper species. The disease was widely distributed throughout the state. The E. grylli host range in North America is summarized. E. grylli pathotypes appear to be correlated with the major North American subfamilies of Acrididae.
41353874|A new Miocene fossil crane fly is described and figured from a single male preserved in fine paper shale from Stewart Valley, Nevada. Tipula nevadensis. new species, is distinguished from other similar Tertiary crane flies in western North America.
25082638|The authors' first supplement on ant larvae of the subfamily Dorylinae was published in 1964. This supplement contains new or revised descriptions of 5 species in Aenictus, Eciton and Labidus. The characterizations of genera, tribes and subfamily are revised and some earlier illustrations are redrawn.
25085076|Adults of three Nearctic coccinellid species, Coleomegilla maculata, Cycloneda munda, and Hippodamia convergens, and one Palearctic species, Coccinella septempunctata, were suitable hosts for the braconid parasitoid Dinocampus coccinellae. Mean parasitoid developmental times at 22C ranged from 30 to 33.3 days, and the percent successful parasitization varied between 30 and 57%. Only 1.5% of D. coccinellae emerged from Propylea quatuordecimpunctata, a second Palearctic species found in North America since 1968; developmental times were significantly longer (x = 37 days) compared with those for suitable hosts. No D. coccinellae successfully completed development in Hippodamia variegata, an exotic species recently discovered in Canada. These comparative studies provide a basis for examining the potential D. coccinellae-mediated interactions among invading and indigenous coccinellid species.
25082945|Adult cedar beetles appeared above ground between September 20 and October 30 during a 6-year study with flight, primarily by males, on sunny afternoons when temperatures exceeded 15C. Eggs were oviposited in large masses in suspected Tibicen pruinosa (Say) oviposition sites but most were washed to the ground by the next rain. The first instar is a triungulin larva and it is described.
25085349|The genus Nothotrichocera Alexander, previously known from Tasmania and the subantarctic islands of New Zealand, is recorded from South America for the first time. A new species, N. chiloe, is described and illustrated from specimens collected from Isla Chiloe, Chile. Comparison is made between this species and other members of Nothotrichocera.
25084287|A new insect growth regulator was effective as a progeny suppressant of several stored product insects when it was applied to diet at 50 ppm or less. CGA-28772 [5-[(4-phenoxy-phenoxy)-methyl]-1,3-benzodioxole] prevented development of
25086116|Vibration accelerations and displacements were measured in Bombus spp., Xylocopa spp., Apis mellifera L., and Eristalis tenax (L.) (a syrphid flower fly) including the first measurements of thoracic displacements during untethered free flight, and floral sonication by Bombus terrestris (L.). For all except A. mellifera the thoracic displacement during sonication is less than during flight but the frequency is greater. Thus, thoracic acceleration during sonication is greater than during flight for this bee species. However, the sonication frequency of A. mellifera, the honey bee, did not differ significantly from flight frequencies. Its accelerations were lower than required to eject pollen from sonication-pollinated flower anthers having poricidal dehiscence (e.g., Solanum spp.). The vibration mode shape of X. californica arizonensis Cresson, a large carpenter bee, was determined, demonstrating that sonication was produced by the same mechanism as flight. However, for Xylocopa, the sonication frequency stimulated resonant frequencies of both head and abdomen, enhancing acceleration forces transmitted during sonication of flowers. Sonication vibration of the thorax occurred at the second harmonic frequency of the fundamental flight frequency, but the natural frequency of the thorax with the wings decoupled could not explain the higher sonication frequency. It is proposed that the higher frequency is produced by the second harmonic of the indirect flight muscle stretch activation response. The power requirements for sonication by bees is presumably less than during flight such that muscular displacements at the second harmonic frequency of the stretch activation response is adequate to drive this highly evolved morphological, physiological and behavioral system of pollen harvesting. Our results explain the observation that Apis mellifera, the common honey bee, does not use floral sonication in its pollen foraging behavioral repertoire.
25082932|A test was conducted to determine the effect of combining 2 parasitic wasps, Nemeritis canescens (Gravenhorst) and Bracon hebetor Say, with a major pest of stored products, Ephestia cautella (Walker). When all 3 species were present, N. canescens was suppressed by B. hebetor, but B. hebetor was unaffected by N. canescens.
25086073|Acetylcholinesterase activity (AChE) was used as a bioindicator to determine possible secondary intoxication in the scavenging carabid, Harplus pennsylvanicus DeGeer (Coleoptera: Carabidae) that were fed western corn rootworm (WCR, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte) adults killed by a cucurbitacin-carbaryl bait Slam. In most cases, AChE levels in the carabids that consumed WCR adults killed by Slam did not significantly differ from those that consumed the WCR adults killed by freezing. Results suggest that the use of SLAM to manage WCR is unlikely to pose a significant risk to carabids that are likely to consume intoxicated rootworm adults in sprayed cornfields.
25084927|The sphecid wasp, Prionyx viduatus (Christ), is reported as a predator on the shorthorned grasshopper, Aiolopus thalassinus tamulus (Fabricius). This is the first report of both species from Vietnam and the first report of the wasp using this grasshopper as prey.
25085935|Hylaeus (Orohylaeus) benoisti, new subgenus and species, is described from the Ecuadorian Andes. It does not show special relationships to any other subgenus of Hylaeus; major characters are italicized in the subgeneric description below. Orohylaeus is an addition to the growing list of bees endemic to the Andes from Peru to Venezuela.
25082576|The incubation period of Tyora tessmanni Aulmann takes from 2 to 3 weeks. Nymphs undergo 5 developmental stages each of which is marked by a definite number of antennal segments. It was discovered that waxy threads secreted by the nymphs served, among other things, for aerial migration and pollination of cocoa flowers (Theobroma cacao Lin.). Sexual maturity of adults is accompanied by a color change, and mating is performed by both sexes sitting side by side on the same plane. There are 7-8 generations of this insect a year. Habitat of the nymphs includes terminal buds, young leaves, flower cushions and small pods. The nymphs concentration in any of these structures depends on the time of the year. Population pressure and microclimatic conditions cause the nymphs, after reaching the 2nd instar, to migrate by crawling and by wind. The overall population of T. tessmanni seems to change little throughout the year.
25085950|Species composition and relative abundance of adult Coccinellidae were monitored in field corn (Zea mays L.), grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L. Moench.), winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) in south central Nebraska during 1992-1995. Two native coccinellids, Hippodamia convergens Gurin-Mneville and Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer), were the most common species during all years and in all crops, comprising >77% of the individuals observed. Averaged over all years, H. convergens was the most common species in alfalfa and sorghum, and C. maculata was the most common species in corn and wheat. Other species collected included Coccinella septempunctata (L.), Hippodamia parenthesis (Say), Hippodamia tredecimpunctata tibialis (Say) and Cycloneda munda (Say). Although there was variation in species composition by crop and year there were no significant differences in species diversity as measured by the Berger-Parker species dominance index (d) and the Shannon-Weaver function (H). This information will help target future studies in conservation, augmentation and classical biological control involving coccinellids.
25085365|The feeding behavior of biotype E greenbugs, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), on susceptible and resistant wheat leaves was electronically monitored. Four waveforms which were correlated with salivation, phloem contact, phloem ingestion and non-phloem ingestion are described. Commitment to phloem ingestion occurred more readily and the duration of such ingestion was longer on susceptible than resistant plants. When fed on the resistant wheat, the aphid exhibited more brief separate stylet probes and longer periods of salivation and non-phloem ingestion. Stylet position or stylet tracks in the plant tissues which occurred during the feeding period were studied microscopically. The waveforms corresponding with stylet positions on resistant and susceptible wheat lines were similar and agreed with earlier studies using other aphid/host plant combinations.
25085719|The reproductive success of solitary bees and wasps depends in part on their ability to locate suitable nesting sites. Ceratina bees (Apidae) and some Pemphredon wasps (Sphecidae) have independently evolved the habit of excavating a nest burrow in the pith of dead twigs. In 1993 and 1994 I tested the nest-substrate preferences of Ceratina acantha, C. nanula and Pemphredon lethifer in Fremont, California, by offering them a choice of pre-cut twigs. Twigs of three plant species (Foeniculum vulgare, Brassica nigra and Sambucus mexicana) in a range of diameters (4-17 mm) were presented in a stratified random array in several plots in a disturbed grassland. Pemphredon lethifer preferred large-diameter twigs of Sambucus; Ceratina nanula preferred Sambucus twigs but did not show any diameter preferences, whereas C. acantha showed no preference in either category. Ceratina and Pemphredon construct their nests differently, and behavioral observations suggest that they also differ in how they evaluate twigs as potential nest sites; these differences may in part account for the preferences shown.
25084962|Four new species of Lonatura are described from Mexico: L. dilata, latilipa, centra, and puncta. Only one species, L. ventralis Van Duzee, was reported from Mexico by Kramer (1967).
25084224|A tansy (Tanacetum vulgare L.) extract was made by grinding fresh tansy leaves in distilled water. The extract, when "painted" on broccoli leaf discs, was found to deter feeding of two of three lepidopterous larvae studied. When the tansy extract was "painted" on the entire body surfaces of the larvae of three lepidopterous species, no deleterious reactions were observed.
25082714|From 1971-1973, 61 Vespula pensylvanica (Saussure) and 39 V. atropilosa (Sladen) nests were excavated and examined for the occurrence and possible adverse effects of nest associates. Five species of nest associates were commonly encountered in nest cavities or nests. Three associates were common to colonies of both yellowjacket species, but did not appear to influence colony development or decline: Dendrophaonia querceti (Bouche) (Diptera: Muscidae); Fannia spp. (Diptera: Muscidae); and Cryptophagus pilosus (Gyllenhof) (Coleoptera: Cryptophagidae). Sphecophaga vesparum burra (Cresson) (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), a pupal parasitoid in over 80% of V. atropilosa nests, appeared to adversely affect development of incipient colonies. Triphleba lugubris (Meigen) (Diptera: Phoridae), common in V. pensylvanica nests in late September and October, appeared to influence colony decline by destroying developing queen pupae thereby lowering colony productivity.
25083861|The biology of Myrmosula parvula is very similar to that of Pseudomethoca frigida in eastern Kansas, and both mutillid species utilize the same host, Lasioglossum zephyrum. Females of M. parvula feed on pupae or prepupae of the host. They reseal host cells after laying eggs on defaecated immatures. There are five larval instars and the duration from eclosion to final consumption of the host is approximately 95 hours. Spinning of the cocoon takes about 60 hours. The cocoon is complex with an outer network, tough end-plate and inner, flimsy cocoon proper. The larval faeces penetrate the cocoon and cement its posterior end to the wall of the host cell. After a brief courtship, mating takes only about 14 to 28 seconds; the male does not grasp the female with his mandibles. The egg is simple. Each larval instar has 13 postcephalic segments and 10 pairs of spiracles, the second pair being much reduced as is the last pair in the first instar. The prepupa differs from that of P. frigida mainly in the form of the dorsal and lateral tubercles, the antennae and the cuticular spines. The pupae have well developed processes on the head, mesonotum, hind tibiae and metasomal pleural regions. The sting of the female pupa is not much exserted and does not curve dorsally over the metasoma. The placement of Myrmosinae in the Mutillidae is briefly discussed with reference to these observations.
25084678|Males of a new species of Amblyomma tick from the Galapagos Islands possess a 2n chromosome number of 21. Meiotic divisions reveal 10 autosomal bivalents and 1 long sex univalent. Another Galapagos tick, Amblyomma darwini Hirst and Hirst, from the sea iguana Amblyrhynchus meriensi Eibl-Eibesfeldt has a chromosome number of 20 consisting of 9 autosomal bivalents and 1 sex bivalent. The X chromosome is the longest of the complement and the length of the Y chromosome is uncertain. Anaphase I is reductional and anaphase II equational for both species.
25082713|The life history and larval feeding habits of Stenopa vulnerata (Loew) were studied in northeastern Ohio. Adults emerge in mid-July and initiate courtship in early August. Pre-mating behavior involves bubble-blowing, production of froth masses, and stylized wing movements by the males. Females oviposit into buds or young shoots of swamp ragwort, Senecio aureus L. (Compositae), during August and early September. Larvae overwinter within the plant tissues and form small stem galls the following spring. Pupation within galls occurs during June, and adults emerge about 25 days later. A key to adults of the 2 Nearctic species of Stenopa is included. The eggs, second and third-instar larvae, and puparia of S. vulnerata are described and illustrated.
25084649|Slugs, most probably the gray garden slug, Agriolimax reticulatus (Muller), were a minor, but widespread problem on soybeans within Ohio during 1983. The majority of the infested fields were planted no-tillage or minimum tillage into corn residue remaining from the previous year. A search of pertinent literature associated with soybean insects showed no mention of slugs, even as minor or secondary pests. This article discusses the problem in 1983 and speculates on the future, both as to the potential of the problem and research needs.
25083693|Myrmecophiles belonging to the Staphylinidae, Histeridae, Phoridae, Limulodidae, Thysanura, and Diplopoda were tested for ability to follow laboratory trails of army ants. Nearly all guests follow the trails and may be more sensitive than the ants in detecting species differences in trail pheromones.
25084902|Six insecticides were tested in field studies to determine the residual effectiveness of each for controlling chinch bugs, Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say), confined to treated leaf surfaces. Although all treatments (carbaryl, carbofuran, fenvalerate, parathion, endrin, and chlorpyrifos applied at 1.66, 0.56, 0.22, 0.84, 0.56 and 1.12 kg (AI)/ha, respectively) provided acceptable kill (at least 90% population reductions) within the first 24 h after their application, only carbaryl and carbofuran continued to suppress chinch bugs through 48 h. Residual capabilities of carbaryl and carbofuran over all other treatments were further demonstrated by statistical comparisons of elapsed times for decreased chemical effectiveness. The average time for respective reductions to 80 and 50% effectiveness were 66.0 and 70.5 h for carbaryl and 59.2 and 70.4 h for carbofuran.
25086159|Forty-three species of ground beetles are newly reported for North Dakota. Records are derived from routine collecting and examination of carabid material retained in the North Dakota State Insect Reference Collection and the Quaternary Entomology Laboratory, North Dakota State University. Species records are presented, along with a brief review of carabid beetle faunistics in North Dakota.
25086133|At six locations in Montana, Isodontia mexicana (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae) nested either in trap nests or in commercial "bee boards" used for alfalfa leafcutting bees. Partitions and plugs in the nests were constructed from fragments of grass stems gathered by females, who provisioned nests containing 1-6 cells with either tree crickets (Gryllidae: Oecanthinae, Oecanthus) or katydids (Tettigoniidae: Conocephalinae, Conocephalus). The number of prey per cell, but not cell length or cell volume, was a significant predictor of offspring size. Isodontia mexicana displayed differences between the sexes typical of Sphecidae, having larger females that received more investment from their mothers, that occupied cells deeper within nests, and that emerged as adults later in the season on average than males. Finally, by taking unequal numbers of male and female prey, I. mexicana may impose sex-biased selection pressure on their prey populations.
25084601|Cassida atripes LeConte, 1859, is identified through examination of the type specimen, redescribed and accepted as type-species of Strongylocassis Hincks, 1950, a monotypic genus of the tortoise beetle tribe Cassidini. Strongylocassis is diagnosed, redescribed and reinstated as a valid genus. Metriona lodingi Schaeffer, 1925, and Metriona creola Sanderson and King, 1951, are placed as synonyms of S. atripes. Coptocycla bisignata Boheman, 1855, is identified through examination of the type specimen, redescribed and Coptocycla pinicola Schaeffer, 1925, is placed in its synonymy. The generic placement of C. bisignata is discussed.
25086049|A new fossil earwig (Dermaptera) from the Lower Cretaceous of southern Korea is described and figured. The specimen is one of the first fossil insects discovered on the Korean Peninsula and among the oldest of definitive Forficulina. The fossil can be definitively placed in the suborder Forficulina and is likely a pygidicranoid, the most primitive superfamily of earwigs. Owing to incomplete preservation a more conclusive systematic identification is not possible.
25084972|The Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko), first appeared in the United States in 1986. It infested wheat in 12 states in 1987 and may be a threat to most wheat producing areas of the United States. Since its ability to overwinter may be related to its potential to damage wheat in Kansas, this study was conducted to compare the relative cold tolerance of the Russian wheat aphid to the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). The Russian wheat aphid survived the 1986-1987 winter (1.9C above normal), which was fatal to the greenbug. It also survived better than the greenbug in the laboratory at 0C, -10C, and -20C. It appears that the Russian wheat aphid is better adapted than the greenbug to overwinter in Kansas and that its resistance to cold temperatures will increase the importance of its pest status.
25083682|External and internal structure of two triplicated appendages on a male dobsonfly were studied. Injury, resulting in incompletely severed appendages with subsequent production of two wound surfaces, is the probable explanation for the anomalies.
25082661|The genus Typhoctoides is described to include Typhoctes aphelonyx Brothers, from Chile and Argentina. Its relationships to other members of the Typhoctinae (including Eotillini) are briefly discussed. Eotilla superba, sp. nov., is described from Argentina, from males only.
25083855|Andrena (Callandrena) micheneriana is described and its mouthparts illustrated. The species is unusual in being a short-tongued bee with elongate mouthparts.
25085705|A prosternal sensory organ in muscoid flies consists of paired fields of mech-anoreceptive hairs located on the presternum. These hairs provide proprioceptive information about the posture of the fly's head relative to the thorax. Scanning electron microscopy of the prosternal region of the wood gnat Sylvicola punctatus (Fab.) (Diptera: Anisopodidae) has revealed an unpaired midline structure that shares many of the morphological characteristics of the paired prosternal organ found in the Brachycera. Thus, this unpaired prosternal organ of Sylvicola likely represents a homologous structure found for the first time in the Nematocera.
25086414|In mid 2003 a diverse floral resource was planted in a small urban residential plot at the University of California, Berkeley Oxford Tract with the goal of attracting local native California bee species to assess emerging patterns of diversity and seasonality. A standard procedure was then used in 2004 to sample the bees and monitor their host flowers. Pollen and nectar resources were abundant and consistently available during spring, summer, and early fall months of that year. Thirty-two bee species representing 17 genera, and five families used these resources through the 2004 season. Urban bees were categorized into three seasonalities: early season, late season, and full season represented by seven, eight, and 17 species respectively. Results of this study indicate that newly-planted urban gardens, which are designed for bees, have the potential to attract diverse seasonal bee taxa if diverse floral resources are provided throughout the growing season. Implications of these finding are discussed in terms of managing and conserving local bees in new and more developed urban gardens. Long-term monitoring continues at this site.
25084058|The introduced European hornet, Vespa crabro germana Christ produces four probable pheromones: an aggregation pheromone from female feces, a defensive pheromone in venom, a cephalic male territory marking pheromone, and a contact pheromone on thoraces of attractive queens that elicits copulatory behavior in males. Details of mating behavior, associates and damage to trees and shrubs are included, with suggestions for use of attractant pheromone in traps for hornet control.
25082351|Franciscoloa waar Eichler and Mimemamenopon zumpti Carriker, both from South African parrots, are discussed and illustrated. A new genus Afrimenopon is erected to contain F. waar.
25082377|A new species, Nebria desolata, is described from southcentral Utah. It is compared particularly with N. diversa LeConte. Illustrations of pronota, male genitalia, and styli of female ovipositors are provided for both species. A key to the species of the mannerheimi group is presented.
43288217|Facultative social parasitism has been recorded in several taxa of social insects. Most recently, this phenomenon has been recorded in colonies of the neotropical social wasp Mischocyttarus cerberus (parasitized by Mischocyttarus consimilis). This is the first case of interspecific parasitism described for the genus Mischocyttarus. How social parasites are able to remain in the host colony has been one of the central subjects of studies on this theme. Chemical signals are used by social insects to recognize their nestmates, which suggests that female parasites use a chemical strategy to hide their identity and become accepted as a member in host colonies. This study investigated the dynamics of cuticular hydrocarbons (CHs) of workers of M. consimilis and M. cerberus in both control and host colonies. Fourier Transform Infrared-Photoacoustic Spectroscopy (FTIR-PAS) was used to read the CHs; this technique is somewhat unusual but is quite reliable for this type of study. A stepwise canonical discrimination analysis detected significant differences between the mid-infrared spectra of the two species. This analysis provided a dispersion diagram of the results in order to differentiate the species, in which the first axis explained 61% of the results. These results demonstrated a clear difference in the CHs profile between non-conspecific workers from the control colonies. However, non-conspecific workers from the host colonies underwent a significant modification of CHs in comparison to the workers from the control colonies, and this modification was similar in all the host colonies non-conspecific workers. These data suggest that females of parasitic-specie modify the chemical profile of the host-specie females, and also alter their own profiles in order to be recognized as "nestmates" and to achieve success in parasitism.
25085896|A study was made to identify flowering landscape plants that are adapted to culture along the northern Front Range of Colorado and that are visited by arthropods important in biological control of plant pests. Periodic surveys were made of regional botanic gardens during 1993 and 1994, during which time over 150 plant species/cultivars in 37 families were assessed for intensity of visitation by various natural enemies of insect pests (Coccinellidae, Chrysopidae, Syrphidae, Braconidae, Sphecidae, Tachinidae). Among the plants found to be visited most frequently were Achillea spp., Anthemis tinctoria 'Kelwayi', Aster alpinus, and Solidago virgaurea 'Peter Pan' (Asteraceae); Anethum graveolens, Astrantia major 'Margery Fish', Coriandrum sativum and Foeniculum vulgare (Apiaceae); Lobularia maritima and Aurinia saxatilis (Brassicaceae); Linaria vulgaris, Penstemon strictus, Veronica spicata 'Blue Fox' and 'Red Fox' (Scrophulariaceae); Ajuga reptans 'Bronze Beauty', Lavandula angustifolia, Mentha  piperita, and Stachys officinalis (Lamiaceae); Sedum album, S. kamtschaticum, and S. spurium 'Dragon's Blood' (Crassulaceae). It s suggested that these plants may be particularly appropriate selections to be used to increase presence and enhance efficacy of natural enemies in regional gardens and landscape plantings by serving as alternate food sources for adult stages.
25082483|More than 200 host records are given for 8 Nearctic species of Pepsini in the genera Priocnemis, Calicurgus, and Dipogon. Most of these records are based upon specimens collected at Erie (Wintergreen Gorge) or Presque Isle State Park, both Erie County, Pennsylvania. Twenty-five new host species are listed for 6 of the wasp species. New host families are presented for Priocnemis minorata, P. germana, P. scitula relicta, and Dipogon pulchripennis. Host selection among the species, size relationships of the wasps and spiders, the stages and sexes of the prey, and the significance of amputating the spider's legs are discussed.
25083500|Tachytes mergus and T. minutus dig beneath the surface of the ground to capture pygmy mole-crickets. The prey is seemingly hunted either olfactorily or tactilely or both as the wasp vibrates her antennae continuously. The pygmy mole-cricket is unearthed by an irregular series of digging, thrusting the head and thorax into the hole, pausing, backing out, circling, reentering, and digging in rapid succession. The prey is stung above ground and carried to the wasp's nest in flight. T. mergus must remove a temporary closure of sand from its nest entrance, whereas T. minutus often enters its open entrance directly with the prey. Nests of both species are rather deep and are uni- or multicellular. T. minutus apparently does not oviposit until the full complement of prey is inside the nest, presumably temporarily storing the pygmy mole-crickets in small chambers off the main burrow. The prey of both species consists primarily of nymphal and adult Tridactylus apicalis. Certain structural features of the clypeus and mandibles of T. mergus are perhaps connected with its unique digging behavior.
25082782|Anthidium florentinum Latreille and Pithitis smaragdula (F.) were efficient pollinators of caged alfalfa. Anthidium florentinum may be considered for management by alfalfa seed growers in the southwest, and P. smaragdula may be a useful pollinator of various crops in subtropical areas or in greenhouses. The pollination behavior of these species, and of Nomia melanderi Cockerell and Megachile rotundata (F.) was analyzed.
25083994|Acroneuria and six other genera of carnivorous stoneflies (Plecoptera: Perlidae) which have been recently elevated from subgenera of Acroneuria are composed of 21 species which inhabit North America. This paper reviews their general morphology, distribution, ecology and evolution. Distribution maps are presented.
25084327|The 68 taxa of Nearctic Gyponana (s.s.) are reviewed, and 22 new synonyms are established based on previously unplaced species and analyses of variation. The 49 recognized species and subspecies are pictorially keyed, including G. attenuens n. sp. (northern Mexico), G. toxotes n. sp. (Florida) and G. hasta sonora n. subsp. (Texas-Mexico). Lectotypes are selected for G. flavilineata Fitch and G. geminata Osborn. The subgenus Clovana DeLong and Freytag is synonymized with Gyponana s.s.
25082374|The optimum and limiting temperatures for nymphal feeding, longevity of adults, number of eggs produced, and success of adult emergence were determined for the stonefly Pteronarcys dorsata Newman (Pteronarcidae, Plecoptera). The highest feeding rate occurred at 20 C. No feeding occurred at 1 C or 35 C. The adults that emerged at 10 C lived twice as long as those that emerged at 20 C. None emerged at 5 C or 25 C. The best egg production occurred at 15 C. The average adult life span was 17.5 days from nymphs reared at 20 C, 31 days from nymphs held at 15 C, and 36 days from larvae reared at 10 C.
25083544|Nycteridocaulus, n. g. (type species, N. tyranni), and six new species are described. The species with their type hosts are: N. bilobatus from Sayornis nigricans (Tyrannidae), Mxico; N. foliatus from Empidonax difficilis (Tyrannidae), Mxico; N. lamellus from Myiarchus crinitus (Tyrannidae), Texas; N. laticlunis from Schiffornis turdinus (Pipridae), Mxico; N. pectinatus from Tolmomyias flaviventris (Tyrannidae), West Indies; N. tyranni from Contopus pertinax (Tyrannidae), Mxico.
25082718|Nymphs and workers of the fungus-growing termite Odontotermes obesus (Rambur) were observed eating spherules of its mutualistic fungus, Termitomyces albuminosa (Berk.) Heim. These viable spherules were also transferred among individual termites and were transported from an exposed portion of the fungus-comb substrate to a more sheltered area. This behavior pattern resembled some aspects of the method of culturing mutualistic fungi used by the fungus-growing attine ants.
25085674|From 22 May to 1 June 1993, we studied an aggregation of nests of the solitary ground-nesting bee, Crawfordapis luctuosa (Hymenoptera: Colletidae), at the Monteverde Cloud Forest Preserve, Puntarenas Province, Costa Rica. Data collected for adult bee natural history include daily time budgets of female bees, foraging trip type made by female bees, nest phenology and architecture, orientation behavior of female bees, male behavior at the aggregation, mating behavior, and female-female interactions. Pollen trips by provisioning females took longer than non-pollen trips, and, within each day, provisioning bees tended to start with non-pollen trips, and then switch to pollen trips. Provisioning bees tended to enter only the nests they were provisioning, whereas non-provisioning bees displayed a nest-searching behavior, termed floating. Floaters were as likely to visit nests that were being provisioned as they were to visit nests that were not being provisioned. However, floaters only took up residency in nests that had been abandoned by provisioning bees.
25085063|European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), reared for 10 consecutive generations on a meridic diet caused severe leaf-feeding damage to dent maize, Zea mays L., inbred line WF9, during 4 of 5 years of evaluation. ECB larvae reared 17 to 21 generations on WF9 plants and 128 to 160 generations on a meridic diet (one generation each year on maize plants and eight generations each year on a meridic diet) also caused severe leaf-feeding damage on maize plants. When these larvae were no longer reared one generation each year on maize plants but were continuously reared on a meridic diet they rapidly lost their ability to damage maize plants. However, larvae regained their virulence once rearing on maize plants was resumed.
25083764|Movements of Pseudomyrmex nigrocincta were traced and compared on green-house plants of Acacia collinsii. Differences were noted among four ants in respect to total activity, area traveled, response to alarm, foraging, and frequency of encounters with other ants. Ant traffic was recorded over an 18-hour period past three points on the acacia trunk and found to vary in rate with time of day. Changes in ant density were recorded in one area over the same period.
25085929|It is shown that close relationships exist among various aspects of body size in bees (total dry mass, intertegular span, forewing length, total wing area and wing loading), such that intertegular span (ITS), which is easily measured in field or museum, can be used as a single index of size in taxonomically broad studies. Appropriate calibration is needed, as shown by the differences in the ITS-forewing length parameters between a local fauna of more than 220 species and particular genera, parasites, and another fauna. Geometric similarity is shown for the mass-ITS relation, in contrast to an earlier report, but not for forewing length-total wing area which suggests that wing shape changes with size. Sexual dimorphism in ITS is frequent but also size-dependent.
25086371|Pitfall trap sampling and light trapping for Mutillidae were conducted in Cache County, Utah. Males of the nocturnal mutillid species Dilophotopsis concolor crassa (Cresson), Odontophotopsis erebus (Melander), and Odontophotopsis melicausa (Blake) were collected. The females of these species are unknown. Sphaeropthalma nanula Dalla Torre and two unknown female morphospecies of nocturnal mutillids also were collected at the study site. By comparison of species-specific genetic loci, the females were matched to the males collected from the same locality. The female of D. concolor crassa is S. nanula; the latter has priority and represents a new combination in Dilophotopsis. The female of D. concolor nanula is redescribed. The females of the remaining two species also are described and all three are compared to other known nocturnal females.
25083472|The eggplant tortoise beetle commonly infests Solanum carolinense and is a minor pest of eggplant. There are two, complete, overlapping generations annually in the Ozark region, and the immature stages are present from mid-May until mid-September. The beetle is moderately fecund, depositing about 200 eggs, but mortality of the immature stages is quite high due to predation on all immature stages, parasitization of the egg and pupa, and destruction of the wild host by herbicides and clipping.
25085295|Survival of immatures of the parasite Venturia canescens (Gravenhorst) was adversely affected by temperatures of 0, 5, and 10C but were only minimally affected at 15C. At 0C the decline in V. canescens emergence over time was rapid and by 96 hr emergence had virtually stopped. At 5 and 10C the decline in emergence was more gradual, with emergence essentially stopped by 216 hr. Parasite fecundity was unaffected by larval exposure at 5C.
25085437|We determined honey bee (Apis mellifera L.) responses to five phenolic-rich aqueous solutions presented in an artificial flower feeder. Low concentrations of caffeic acid and genistic acid in 30% sucrose were preferred over a sucrose control. High concentrations of the acids inhibited imbibition. Phenolic-rich solutions made from aloe (Aloe littoralis) nectar, almond (Prunus dulcis) honey, or salt cedar (Tamarix pentrandra) honey deterred collection. Our results suggest that phenolics may affect honey bee imbibition behavior by functioning as a strong repellent or deterrent.
25084285|Four species of aquatic insects (Hesperoperla pacifica, Rhyacophila acropedes/R. vao, Drunella doddsi and Rhithrogena robusta) were subjected to suspended ash concentration of ca. 2000 mg/l in laboratory streams for 48 hr. Macro- and microscopic examination revealed substantial ash accumulation on the exoskeleton; however, acute toxicity was not noted. Ash-impacted aquatic insects placed in a clean water environment voided appreciable amounts of ash within 24 hr. We conclude that the four species studied had high short-term exposure tolerances to ash and that behavioral attributes allowed for the removal of exoskeletal ash deposits once the perturbation ceased.
25083570|Systropha punjabensis (subfamily Dufoureinae), an exceptionally small species, is morphologically unlike either Systropha s. str. or Systrophidia. A nest had 4 oval cells, 2 of them at the ends of lateral burrows, arranged along a nearly vertical main burrow. Cells did not have a glossy waterproof lining. The larva, morphologically similar to that of Rhophites, probably makes a cocoon.
25085131|The ontogeny of necrophagy and necrophily in rangeland grasshoppers was determined using videotaped observations of attraction to cadavers and determinations of gut contents in second instars through late season adults. Attraction to cadavers began in the third instar and increased through early season adults. Utilization of grasshopper cadavers by other scavengers (primarily ants) lagged about 2 weeks behind grasshopper necrophily. Necrophagy in grasshoppers began as early as the third instar and increased with development, until September. From 0 to 15% of adult grasshoppers were found to have chitin in their gut contents, depending on subfamily. Melanoplinae had the greatest frequency of necrophagy, followed by Oedipodinae, Gomphocerinae and Romaleinae. Based on these findings, the current timing of application of Nosema locustae Canning (a microsporidian parasite of rangeland grasshoppers, transmitted by cannibalism) during the third instar appears to be appropriate.
25086316|The Colletes fasciatus-group is endemic to the winter rainfall area of western South Africa and comprises about 35 species with 11 of them having reduced female scopae. These species very probably carry pollen for nest provision in their crop. Two stages of scopa reduction can be distinguished possibly representing consecutive steps towards a total loss of specialized hairs on the hind legs. Microscopical analysis of pollen collected by females of species with developed scope and a review of published data revealed a strong preference for Aizoaceae that have small to very small pollen grains. A hypothetical scenario for the evolution of scopa reduction is discussed based on flower preferences and considering the harsh environmental conditions during the flowering season in winter and early spring.
25084741|Osmia (Osmia) ribifloris Cockerell, a megachilid bee, nests in existing holes and constructs nests with cells in a linear series. Cell partitions and nest plugs were formed of masticated plant materials. Pollen-nectar masses were lopsidal cylinders composed of 100% Berberis repens Lindles (Berberidaceae) pollen. Eggs were placed on the anterior, dorsal surface of provisions and development time from egg to adult was 68 to 84 days for laboratory reared individuals. Adults overwinter inside of cocoons. Biologies of 9 other Osmia (Osmia) are compared and contrasted with O. ribifloris; most species are remarkedly similar in their nesting biologies.
25084503|The influence of 4 types of trap-stem differing in tunnel diameter, length and position of entrance hole (drilled in end or side of stem) on mortality, sex ratio and body size of progeny of Hoplitis fulgida was studied at 3 sites in Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming. Nesting females exhibited a significant preference for end holes of the widest diameter and deepest bore. Predators and parasites were the primary cause of immature mortality: the most important were species of Stelis (Megachilidae), Aritranis (Ichneumonidae), Tricrania (Meloidae), and Trichodes (Cleridae). The fauna attacking H. fulgida varied considerably both among sites and among nest types. The sex ratio of progeny was strongly biased towards females, particularly in end holes. Hoplitis fulgida placed male progeny in outer cells and female progeny in inner cells of the nest. Nests in the preferred end holes had significantly more cells, a higher percentage of surviving progeny, a significantly greater percentage of female progeny, and significantly larger progeny of both sexes, than did other nests. Thus, there appear to be excellent biological reasons for the preference of these nest sites by nesting females.
25085508|Specimens of Pelocoris femoratus Palisot de Beauvois (Hemiptera: Naucoridae) were obtained from the field, brought into the laboratory, and kept in glass bowls to observe behavior. Approximately 71 hours of direct visual observation were logged; 22 repeated behavior patterns were observed. These patterns are categorized as general activity, feeding, or mating and are described. Courtship was not observed and mating behavior of P. femoratus does not exhibit any major differences from that reported for Ambrysus occidentalis La Rivers or Ilyocoris cimicoides (Linnaeus). Further comparisons with the behavior of A. occidentalis are discussed.
25084460|An Ac-Ds mutable system was evaluated for inducing resistance to leaf feeding by first-generation European corn borers, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), in two susceptible inbred lines (Oh28 and WF9) of dent maize, Zea mays L. No mutants were found among 40,000 plants evaluated. We believe that the Ac-Ds mutable system is not a practical tool for maize breeders because the maize genotype being improved may be obsolete before a mutant can be found.
25083988|The genus Exaerete contains five distinctive species. It belongs to the tribe Euglossini in the family Apidae. All of the species in this genus are parasitic on the euglossine genera Euplusia or Eulaema and are found only in the neotropics. The biology and systematics of Exaerete are reviewed, including an illustrated key to the species and descriptions of male genitalia. The theory of a polyphyletic origin for this group is discussed.
25086398|Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Kurdjumov), was introduced into North America in Mexico during 1980 and by 1988 had spread north across the Western US into Southern Canada. South Africa has been suspected as the source of the introduction. Russian wheat aphid is the major insect pest of wheat and barley in the southern and central plains states. Resistant wheat with the Dn4 gene was the primary management tactic from 1996 to 2003. During 2003, a biotype able to injure Dn4 wheat (designated RWA2) appeared in Colorado. The source of the biotype is unclear, that is whether it represents a new introduction from another country or if it arose from the extant population in the US. We examined a 332 bp portion of the cytochrome oxidase subunit I gene (COI) in the mtDNA of Russian wheat aphid collected in the US from 1986 through 2006. Also included were specimens from Mexico and South Africa. Except for two nucleotides in two individual aphids, no COI sequence variation was found in US populations over a 20 yr period. US populations had COI sequences which were identical to those found in Mexico, Turkey, France, and one aphid from South Africa. A second aphid from South Africa differed by only two bp. The lack of COI nucleotide variation suggested that biotype RWA2 did not represent a second introduction of a genetically distinct population from another country. The data are consistent with a single introduction from South Africa and no other introductions of virulent biotypes into the US occurred since 1986.
41681216|The roach genus Archimesoblatta Vransk (Mesoblattinidae), known from the Cretaceous of Asia but otherwise absent from Jurassic deposits, is recorded from the Middle Jurassic of India. Archimesoblatta shiva, new species, is described and figured from a forewing tegmen preserved in the Middle Jurassic Kota Formation of the State of Andhra Pradesh, India. The species is distinguished from its congeners, including a key to the species of Archimesoblatta, and brief comments made on the Jurassic roach fauna.
25084565|The general behavior of the adult and larval stages of the tenthredinid sawfly, Caliroa quercuscoccineae (Dyar), is highlighted. Measurements of C. quercuscoccineae development were obtained for its principal life stages. Egg incubation took 109 day degrees (DD) using a base temperature of 10C. During the larval stage, the male progressed through 5 feeding instars while the female had 6 feeding instars. Based upon rearing at variable temperature regimes ranging from 7 to 35C, C. quercuscoccineae feeding instars had a calculated developmental threshold temperature of 10C and required 220 DD to complete development. The feeding larval stage was followed by a nonfeeding instar with distinctive physical and morphological changes. The prepupal and pupal stages lasted 10.4  1.7 and 7.8  1.3 days, respectively, at 24C. Diapause occurred in field-collected prepupae in central Kentucky after early August which corresponded to a critical photoperiod near 14 hr light: 10 hr dark.
25084171|Behavioral modification of larval temperature enhances the seasonal colonizing ability of migratory monarch butterflies (Danaus plexippus) in temperate North America. Generation time was shortened by larval behavior which raised body temperatures 3 to 8C above ambient and reduced larval duration 10 to 50%. Caterpillars spent 63.5% of the daylight period in direct sun, 43.7% inactive, and 53.3% feeding. Almost 90% of the inactive period was in direct sun, with orientations most frequently broadside to solar radiation producing maximal body temperature elevations. The ability of monarch caterpillars to remain exposed is a function of their distastefulness advertised by warning coloration. This exposure shortens larval duration thereby reducing mortality by shortening the total time caterpillars are exposed to parasitoids, predators, or disease. Reducing larval duration reduces generation time, increases rates of population growth, and allows rapid seasonal expansion of populations into temperate regions where the larval hostplant is abundant. Thermal behavior of larvae provides a large pool of migrant individuals at the end of the season in areas where adult overwintering is not possible.
25083751|Collembola were collected with pitfall traps on pond shores from November 20, 1965, to March 2, 1967. Two new species, Pseudobourletiella chandleri and Bourletiella millsi, are described, and a redescription of Salina banksii MacGillivray is presented.
25085556|From newly and previously collected specimens of Ephemeroptera from Iowa, 62 species were determined. Of these, 39 are new state records. With the addition of another six species based only on literature records, the known Iowa fauna numbers 68 species. The mayfly fauna in Iowa is similar to, but apparently less diverse than, other Midwestern states east of the Mississippi River. Partially because of sampling bias, known mayfly diversity is greatest in central Iowa. Records of Camelobaetidius waltzi, Fallceon quilleri, Baetis longipalpus, and Caenis youngi in Iowa are important for interpreting the distribution patterns of these taxa.
25084619|Mesothoracic glands are described for the blister beetle Epicauta segmenta (Say). No significant differences were observed between glands in males and females in regards to structure and form. Females of forty-one other species were also checked for the presence of glands, thirty-seven of which showed glands, two species showed orifices but no glands, and two species showed no evidence of either. The occurrence of mesothoracic glands, peculiar to the Meloidae is a generalized character.
25084256|Two alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) varieties ('Buffalo', aphid susceptible and 'Dawson', aphid resistant) were compared in the greenhouse under normal and drought stress conditions. Leaf water status and free amino acid levels confirmed the existence and condition of stress in the plants. Spotted alfalfa aphid (Therioaphis maculata (Buckton)) survival and reproduction were not influenced by the stress condition when aphids were caged on plants of either alfalfa variety. There were no significant differences in the amino acid concentrations of Dawson and Buffalo, thus, amino acids do not appear to be responsible for resistance.
25086249|Dasymutilla nigra and D. imperialis, two new species of Dasymutilla Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Mutillidae), are described from males only from Texas and California, respectively. The males of both species have the integument and the pubescence entirely black, unlike any previously described species of Dasymutilla. They are easily distinguished from one another by the specific characters. Descriptions are given, including figures of the male genitalia.
25082788|Competition between Efferia varipes (Williston) and other species of asilids, which occurred in the short- to mid-grass plains, was reduced because of differences in seasonal occurrence, predator and prey length, and prey type. Efferia varipes foraged both from the ground and vegetation. Prey were usually captured in flight and immobilized prior to the asilid landing to feed. The method used by this species to manipulate prey depended upon the prey's size and shape. Orthoptera and Hymenoptera were most frequently taken as prey. Mating occurred in the male over female position. All observed ovipositions occurred between the sheath and stem of needleandthread or western wheatgrass.
25084329|Four atypical queen nests were initiated in the laboratory by yellowjacket foundresses; 2 by queens of Vespula vulgaris, and 1 each by queens of V. maculifrons and V. consobrina. These nests all lacked the well-defined, narrow pedicel typical of vespine queen nests. In this respect they resemble a hypothetical ancestral vespid nest, as do nests of some Stenogastrinae.
25084482|Larvae of Euxoa auxiliaris (Grot) and Peridroma saucia (Hbner) were collected from alfalfa fields throughout Oklahoma in spring during 1979, 1980, and 1981. The larvae were reared on artificial diet in the laboratory for retrieval and identification of parasites. A total of 11.7% of the E. auxiliaris and 19.5% of P. saucia were parasitized over the 3 year study period. Euxoa auxiliaris was parasitized primarily by hymenopterous species including Meteorus leviventris (Wesmael) (2.8% parasitization) and Apanteles griffini Viereck (1.1%). The most common parasites of P. saucia were Peleteria texensis Curran (4.1%) and Archytas apicifer (Walker) (1.9%) of the family Tachinidae.
25083850|Some of the principal factors influencing the diurnal time element in flower visitation by bees are discussed, including limitations imposed by the plant through times of flower opening and closing, anthesis and nectar secretion, some responses of bees to these limitations, competition by bees for pollen and nectar and some effects of physical factors on temporal patterns of activity at flowers. Examples are largely drawn from studies made in the southwestern United States. It is concluded that many of the bee-flower interactions relating to time of flower visitation must be learned each season by each individual making up the populations of solitary bees.
25083058|The genus Dialysis (Diptera: Rhagionidae) is revised for the Nearctic Region. Two new species are described and two species are relegated to synonymy. The relationships among the nine Nearctic species are discussed. Keys, descriptions, and distributions of each species are provided.
25084309|A new genus Corilidia and the type-species, C. lenta, from Peru are described and illustrated. A revised key to the 4 known genera of the tribe Tinobregmini is also presented. The placement of Corilidia in Tinobregmini broadens the taxonomic concept of the tribe which now includes Tinobregmus Van Duzee, Chilelana DeLong, Tantulidia Nielson and Corilidia, new genus.
25083825|Two new genera containing three species are described: the monotypic Chilelana, containing C. artigasi; and the genus Boliviela, containing B. inflata (type species) and B. ortha.
25082685|A survey of 95 sites in Connecticut revealed 31 containing Neoplea striola (Fieber). Parameters measured at each of these sites are used to characterize the habitat preference of this species. It is found that N. striola prefers thin stemmed emergent vegetation in shallow, clear, static and permanent waters. The five instars are described and illustrated.
25084360|In lowland moist forest of French Guiana, colonies of Melipona favosa and M. fulva showed conservative trends in brood production and foraging behavior. When colony reserves of honey and pollen declined to near nothing, at the end of the wet season, average worker life spans were near 50 days. When floral resources and colony stores were more abundant, worker lifetimes were half this length. During periods of general food shortage young larvae and their provisions were eaten and brood production nearly ceased. Adaptive significance of the intracolony trends of Melipona are discussed and hypotheses are offered for future research.
25085185|In the laboratory, cache materials from eastern woodrat nests were inoculated with lesser grain borer (Rhyzopertha dominica) adults and incubated for 3 months to observe survival and reproduction. Adults survived for more than 1 month on fruits of sandhill plum (Prunus angustifolia), chinkapin oak (Quercus muehlenbergii), hackberry (Celtis occidentalis), buckbrush (Symphoricarpus orbiculatus), and black walnut (Juglans nigra). Progency were produced on acorns (husk damaged) and hackberry and buckbrush fruits. Wild populations of lesser grain borer were not observed emerging from any of the cache materials.
25078464|The North American species of spotted Epicauta (Epicauta) are found to be a heterogeneous group of blister beetles. Adults of E. bispinosa Werner, E. punctipennis Werner (herein synonymized with E. pallidilabra Dillon) and E. cazieri Dillon are very similar to those of E. maculata (Say) and relatives (Maculata Group), but studies of first instar larvae and courtship behavior suggest convergence. E. bispinosa and E. punctipennis are parapatric in distribution and are considered sister species. They are tentatively placed near E. atrata (Fab.) and relatives, a group of non-maculate species. The placement of E. cazieri is not clear at this time. Its first instar larva indicates a closer tie to the Maculata Group than to E. bispinosa and E. punctipennis, yet its courtship behavior is almost identical to that of E. bispinosa. Keys for separating E. bispinosa, E. punctipennis and E. cazieri from one another and from the Maculata Group are provided. Distributional data and host plant records for these three species are also included.
25085555|Tritrophic associations between spider wasps, spiders, and grasshoppers were studied at 28 mixedgrass prairie sites in northwestern South Dakota. The multivariate ordination technique, detrended correspondence analysis (DCA), and correlation analysis were used to assess spatial change in the community structure of spider wasps collected with malaise traps and to define underlying ecological gradients associated with community change. Results indicated that community composition of spider wasps changed along gradients defined partly by activity of the ground-dwelling lycosid, Schizocosa mccooki (Montgomery), and percentage of sand in soils. Distinct habitat segregation was found for two of the three dominant species of spider wasps, Cryptocheilus attenuatum Banks and C. terminatum (Say). Factor analysis of species at three trophic levels indicated associations between numbers of the spider wasp Pompilus apicatus Provancher, S. mccooki, and the obligate grass-feeding grasshopper Trachyrhachys kiowa (Thomas). All three species were abundant in habitats with high grass coverage.
25084428|The nymph of Somatochlora ensigera Martin is described from the exuviae of a reared male and female and a single nymph. The nymph of this species is morphologically similar to that of S. filosa but can be distinguished from that species by either the number of palpal setae or the shape of the cerci. The nymphs of S. ensigera are apparently stream inhabitants. All known adults have been collected from the vicinity of streams.
25084707|Female golden digger wasps provision their nests with prey from three families of Orthoptera (Tettigoniidae, Gryllidae, Gryllacrididae). In a 5-year study at three sites (in MI, NH, MN) prey included adults and juveniles, males and females and individuals of tan and green color phases. These prey come from diverse habitats and show very different behavior. Changes in prey availability over the season are mirrored in wasp provisioning behavior. Prey searching, capture and carrying were observed. Prey retrieval was found to be a particularly versatile behavior and depended on circumstances at the nest.
25084260|Laboratory cultures of the parasitic wasp Spalangia cameroni Perkins were established from wild specimens collected in feedlots in eastern Nebraska. When reared on pupae of the stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), the reproductive success of S. cameroni was not greatly influenced by host age. Daily survival of females was near 1.0 at temperatures between 10 and 28C, but decreased to zero at an upper lethal temperature of 37.5C. Daily reproduction peaked at 11 progeny/female at 31.7C; the upper limiting temperature was 36.4C. S. cameroni produced ca 20 female progeny over a life span of 11.4 days; sex ratio and developmental time of progeny were independent of maternal age.
25085606|Chiltana, a new monotypic genus, is described from Pakistan. A key to the genera of Dictyopharidae recorded from Pakistan incorporates this new genus.
25085866|Published records of Chironomidae serving as hosts for Trichomycete fungi are summarized and citations to original literature provided. Fifty-one species of Trichomycetes from the order Harpellales are reported to occur in 32 genera within the subfamilies Orthocladiinae (12 genera), Chironominae (10), Diamesinae (7), and Tanypodinae (3). Thirty of the Trichomycete species are known only from hosts within a single subfamily or tribe, and no species occur in hosts from all four subfamilies. Orthocladiinae serve as hosts for 29 Trichomycete species, Chironominae hosts 21 species, Diamesinae 13 species, Tanytarsini 11 species, Tanypodinae 4 species, and Pseudochironomini hosts one Trichomycetes species. Orthocladiinae also has the greatest number of Trichomycete species that occur only in species of this subfamily with 14. Chironomini and Tanytarsini show the greatest overlap in Trichomycete infestations, followed by Diamesinae and Orthocladiinae. Fifteen additional species of Trichomycetes are recorded in the literature from chironomids but no host genera are listed, bringing the total to 66 species of Trichomycetes associated with Chironomidae. The fungal genus Smittium has the greatest number of species associated with Chironomidae hosts, with 43 Smittium species infesting chironomid larvae compared to Stachylina (16), Austrosmittium (4), Furculomyces (2) and Trichozygospora (1). Twenty three new, but incomplete, records included in this publication are not included in the totals given above.
25084597|The foraging movements of 2 polyphagous bee species, Halictus ligatus (Halictidae) and Ceratina calcarata (Anthophoridae), were studied on artificial arrays of regularly spaced flowers in northern Long Island, New York. In both species, most moves were to nearest-neighbor flower stalks, as has been reported for other bee species. There was no difference between nectar- and pollen-foraging C. calcarata in distances flown between flower stalks (the H. ligatus foragers were all pollen collectors). Halictus ligatus displayed pronounced directionality in its foraging on Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (Asteraceae), the most common move being straight ahead from flower to flower. This tendency was more pronounced at the edge of the array than on inner flowers, thus H. ligatus tended to forage along the edge of the flower patch. The shape of a flower patch can, therefore, influence apparent patterns of bee movement. Directional movement of C. calcarata on Erigeron annuus (Asteraceae) was statistically significant, but was less pronounced than for H. ligatus on C. leucanthemum. Wind direction did not influence the direction of bee flight. Both species flew to flower stalks with many inflorescences more often than to stalks with few, suggesting that these bees can assess the number of inflorescences on a flower stalk and use this information in decisions on subsequent moves.
25084780|The worker and queen of Neivamyrmex chamelensis, n. sp. (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Ecitoninae) are described from ants collected from the Chamela Biological Station, Jalisco, Mexico. The species appears to be most closely related to N. californicus (Mayr) and N. opacithorax (Emery). The holotype worker is deposited in the National Museum of Natural History, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
25084135|Studies conducted in central Wyoming with three hybrid varieties of oilseed sunflowers, Helianthus annuus L., unbagged (open) heads had significantly more developed seeds and higher total seed weight than bagged heads. However, there were no quantitative differences in the oil content of developed seeds. Varietal differences were observed with #894 producing a significantly greater total weight of all seeds than the cougar variety; however, no statistical differences were noted between varieties in oil content or the number of undeveloped seeds in the bagged heads. Honey bees, Apis mellifera L., entered the field and visited blossoms between 7 and 8 a.m. (about 65F), and most had left by 6 p.m. peak numbers of honey bees, about 1 bee per 3 or 4 sunflower heads, were observed each day at about 1 p.m. and again at 5 p.m. Although bees visited blossoms when 10% of the heads were open, bee activity was highest during 90% bloom. Honey bees accounted for about 80% of individuals working on sunflower heads with several other species of insects making up the balance of the pollinators.
25082564|The acarid, Caloglyphus berlesei (Michael), was cultured xenically in an agar based diet and basic biological measurements were made for a life table. Maturity was reached in 8.07 days and the sex ratio was found to be ca 1:1. This mite does not reproduce parthenogenetically and postoviposition period was an avg of 9.1 days. The avg oviposition period was 12.5 days with an avg of 47 eggs/day/female. The survival rate of immature stages was 70.5%. The fecundity rate increased sharply from 0.06 females hatched on the 1st day to 33.53 on the 5th day of adult life. The net reproduction rate, the intrinsic rate of natural increase and finite ratio of natural increase are quite high, showing that C. berlesei cultured on this artificial diet grows and reproduces rapidly. A comparison of population dynamics statistics of various mites having diverse food requirements is also presented.
43288218|Novalyda cretacica, new genus and new species ("Symphyta": Pamphilioidea: Xyelydidae), is described based on a unique male from the Early Cretaceous, Yixian Formation of northeastern China. The new species differs from others in the family by its relatively thick antenna, narrow costal cell, short first abscissa of Rs, sclerotization of the pterostigma. The species is the youngest occurrence of the family and extends the lineage into the Cretaceous period.
40783244|Recognizable type material of Trigona laeviceps Smith, 1857, has not been found. A neotype from the correct type locality, Singapore, is here designated. It is a specimen of the smaller form commonly included in T. laeviceps, and is the same species as the false holotype previously recognized. Trigona fuscobalteata Cameron, 1908, is not a synonym of T. laeviceps as has been proposed. The name T. valdezi Cockerell, 1918, or possibly T. testaceitarsis Cameron, 1901, may be appropriate for a larger form commonly included in T. laeviceps. A lectotype and two paralectotypes are designated for T. testaceitarsis.
25085715|Three new species of the rarely collected genus Protodufourea are described: P. eickworti from the Sonoran Desert of Arizona and California, P. koso from the Death Valley region of eastern California and adjacent Nevada, and P. zavortinki from the Temblor Range in the southern part of the Coast Range of California. New records for P. parca expand the range of the genus into Mexico (Baja California). A key to the five species is presented. Floral records suggest Protodufourea is oligolectic on Phacelia and Emmenanthe (Hydrophyllaceae).
25085344|This study assessed the effect of feeding by the greenbug (GB), Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), and English grain aphid (EGA), Sitobion avenae (F.) on spring oat, Avena sativa L. Seedlings of Ogle and Hytest cultivars were infested at the one-leaf growth stage with GB, EGA, or left aphid free. After 10 days, the aphids were destroyed, and root and shoot dry weights and lengths were measured on one-half of the plants of each treatment. The remaining plants were grown to ripening, when data were collected on plant height, tiller number, spikelet number, average seed weight, and seed yield. The experiment was then repeated. Data were analyzed by ANOVA for individual and combined experiments. No significant interactions were detected for cultivars and aphid treatments for any of the traits. Combined over experiments, mean root and shoot dry weights were reduced to 56 and 70% of the control by feeding of GB. Feeding by EGA reduced root dry weight to 78% of the control. Seed yield was significantly reduced by feeding of GB (P = 0.01) and EGA (P = 0.10) to 79 and 88% of the control, respectively. In both cases, spikelets per plant was the yield component most affected by aphid feeding.
25085930|Suitability of different ages of the rice weevil Sitophilus oryzae (L.) in wheat for the development of the parasitoid wasp Anisopteromalus calandrae (Howard) was examined. Infested wheat kernels were isolated using x-ray techniques. Groups of five infested kernels of wheat were exposed to individual A. calandrae females 16-18, 18-20, or 20-22 days following rice weevil oviposition, and kernels were dissected at 2-day intervals during the next 4-14 days. The oldest of these 3 rice weevil age groups was predominantly teneral pupae, and there was a significant difference in the tunnel widths between the younger 2 larval age groups. In this no-choice test, older rice weevils were paralyzed and parasitized more often than younger ones. All A. calandrae paralyzed and parasitized at least some hosts, suggesting that variation in behavior among females was not the primary factor in the difference between the rate at which these three age groups were parasitized. Some previous studies have found that A. calandrae parasitized larvae more often than pupae. These observations suggest that the most frequently parasitized stage in a continuous population at low density is not necessarily the optimum stage for supporting parasitoid production in high density infestations.
25085300|Males of Xylocopa californica arizonensis Cresson defend hovering stations located next to some (but not all) active nests. Males often pursue and occasionally contact females, particularly those not carrying pollen loads, as the females enter or leave the defended nests. Mating presumably occurs after a male locates a partner near the nest, making this bee a representative of those insects that employ a female-defense mating system. Territory-defenders are generally highly site-tenacious, returning repeatedly to the same hovering station for daily bouts of nest guarding that can total over 8 hr. Some males, however, have two territories that they shift between while still others appear to engage in nonterritorial "traplining" among many sites. The ecological approach to mating-system diversity proposes that the distribution of potential mates determines the evolution of male competitive tactics. The variation in mating tactics within and across species of Xylocopa poses a challenge to this approach.
25084665|In the first year of this two-year study, a large population of Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson bees was emerged from natal nests in nest blocks distributed throughout an isolated orchard in Logan, Utah. In the second year, a smaller population of this pollinator species was introduced into the same orchard with some bees allowed to emerge from natal nest within nest blocks and a larger number of bees released en masse. Results obtained in the first year's experiment demonstrated that a shortage of pollennectar resources occurred in the orchard due to the large number of bees released in this isolated environment. As a consequence, nesting females required extensive periods of time to construct cells, immature mortality increased, and the male-biased sex ratio of progeny rose. These factors were, together, responsible for limiting the increase of population size to +72%. Nesting behavior and nesting patterns established by bees released during the second year of this study were similar to those observed during the first year. The reduced number of bees released, however, lowered competitive pressures on pollen-nectar resources and, as a result, the net population size increased by 333%. Seed counts/fruit and yield data were also taken prior to this study (when honey bees were used as pollinators in this orchard) and during this study (when O. l. propinqua was the only pollinator used). Both sets of results are parallel because they show that yield (especially 'Red Delicious') was increased during the O. l. propinqua pollinating years as was the number of seeds/fruit/cultivar.
25084811|Larvae of the Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor (Say), cause severe cytological changes in spring wheat, Triticum aestivum L.; tissues nearest the larva are most affected with progressively fewer alterations as the distance from the insect increases. Distinctive features of affected cells were disruption of cellular membranes and plastids. Systemically affected wheat leaves appeared healthy except for islands of moderately degenerated cells. Crown rot microorganisms contribute to plant tissue damage by causing necrosis and cell wall breakdown.
25083816|Two new Mexican species of orthotyline mirids belonging to the genus Lopidella are described, these being knighti and oaxacensis. A key to the known species of the genus is presented. Certain male genital structures of the new species and a previously unfigured species are illustrated.
25085679|Crematogaster cf. victima is a common inhabitant in the sheet web nests of the social spider Anelosimus eximius in the central Amazon basin near Manaus. A number of other ant species were found foraging on the non-sticky webs of A. eximius, but none of these reached the web occupation frequency found in C. cf. victima, nor, with the exception of an unidentified species of Pheidole, did they form satellite nests in the web, as did this species. Many prey which escaped the knock-down threads of the sheet web of A. eximius colonies were captured by ants in the lower web portions which they dominated. Furthermore, prey which were rejected by A. eximius, especially large, heavily sclerotized beetles, were also consumed by this ant. Repeated observations and experiments suggest that C. cf. victima is able to deter A. eximius activity through aerial venom release. Resources lost by A. eximius colonies to ants, especially C. cf. victima, in colonial web area and prey, may pose significant costs and may reduce colony growth.
25083534|A small sample of Saldidae in the Snow Entomological Museum at the University of Kansas comprises six species. Saldula waltoni n. sp. and Saldula montana n. sp. are described, and Saldula insignis (Distant) is synonymized with Saldula niveo-limbata (Reuter). Additional discussion is based on the material from the Snow Museum and other available specimens and treats several species: Saldula africana Drake, Saldula capicola Drake, Saldula jihafana Brown, Saldula niveo-limbata (Reuter), Saldula ornatula (Reuter), and Saldula ripa Drake.
25481782|Duckeanthidium, a genus of large anthidiine bees hitherto known only from the Amazon valley, is here reported from Costa Rica and French Guiana. Atropium, supposedly an African genus, is neotropical and a junior synonym of Duckeanthidium; its type species, A. atropos (Smith), is a new combination in Duckeanthidium and a senior synonym of D. megachiliforme (Ducke), the type species of Duckeanthidium. A new species, D. thielei, is described from Costa Rica and compared with D. atropos.
25086148|Nestmate recognition bioassays are useful in detecting the dispersion of eusocial insect colonies. They also allow investigators to draw inferences concerning the degree of genetic similarity among nestmates and between worker eusocial insects from neighboring colonies. The objectives of this review are to: 1) establish the reliability of nestmate recognition bioassays, as used in ecological studies, 2) provide guidance for investigators who wish to design nestmate recognition bioassays, and 3) suggest future applications of nestmate recognition bioassays in ecological studies of eusocial insects. While investigators have utilized nestmate recognition bioassays in some ecological studies, these assays still have great potential for giving additional insights to our understanding of colony dispersion and of competitive interactions among eusocial insect colonies.
25082529|Five previously described species, Costanana dunda DeLong & Freytag (the type species), C. nana (Fowler), C. flavicosta (Stal), C. praecellens (Stal) and C. minuta (Spangberg) are placed in this genus. Five species, C. helvacosta n. sp., C. cella n. sp., C. flavina n. sp., C. asymmetrica n. sp. and C. costata n. sp. are described as new. A key for the identification of the species is presented and the genital structures of the known males and females are illustrated.
25084465|Social interactions of the forest yellowjacket, Vespula acadica (Sladen), were investigated in one incipient and 5 mature colonies. Colony behavior of the castes closely corresponded to that observed in colonies of other species of the V. rufa group. The queen depended upon larval secretions as her prime food source prior to colony decline; thereafter the aging foundress more frequently solicited workers for liquid nourishment. Workers were not attracted to the queen nor did they actively avoid her. Only a few queen/worker interactions occurred; however, the queen sometimes physically displaced workers trimming cap remnants from newly-vacated cells. Foundresses actively trimmed caps from these potential oviposition sites. In one colony, the queen mauled a worker attempting to oviposit, but worker ovipositions were uncommon and usually occurred during colony decline. Worker ovarian development was considered insignificant in 99% of the sampled work force of 9 mature, queen-right colonies. Queen control in V. acadica probably depends more upon guarding potential oviposition sites, and monopolizing cap trimming, than on mauling ovipositing workers. These behavioral means may work in conjunction with queen pheromones that suppress worker oogenesis. A study of division of labor among workers revealed that workers were most often inactive. Foraging activities ranked below trophallaxis and nurse activities. A history of these marked workers showed a flexible polyethism as well as some specialization in certain tasks. The only distinctly different worker behavior observed was a hovering flight during colony defense and a brief immobile stance in response to vibrations of the substrate.
25085385|Tetraonyx cuyana Selander and Selander, new species, is described from La Roja and Mendoza, Argentina. Tetraonyx dohrni and T. zonata are newly recorded from Argentina. Distributional data for T. brevis, T. brunnescens, T. kirschi, T. lampyroides, T. maudhuyi, T. propinqua, T. septemguttata, and T. sexguttata, all previously known from Argentina, are presented, including new provincial and new food plant records.
25084330|Workers of the carpenter ant, Camponotus pennsylvanicus, aggregate on blotter paper previously exposed to laying queens. Fewer workers aggregate on blotter paper exposed to preswarming, virgin alate queens. These patterns of aggregation are similar to those found around queens and preswarming virgin alates in laboratory nests, and suggest that a pheromone is responsible for the formation of worker entourages. The attractiveness of these secretions declined exponentially over time.
25085520|In the Illinois River, the burrowing mayfly Ephoron album (Say) had a univoltine life cycle with approximately an eight month egg diapause. Nymphs were first collected on 14 April, and the adults on 23 July, with peak emergence occurring between 27 July and 9 August. Linear regression analysis showed a significant relationship between head capsule width and dry weight. Annual production estimates ranged from 5.92 to 6.70
25084031|Wing pigmentation variation was studied in field-collected and laboratory-reared Saldula fernaldi Drake from the Oregon coast. In the field, wings varied from palest in mid-summer to darkest in late fall and winter. This variation is related to differences in temperatures affecting the insects during their nymphal development, especially during the 3rd and 4th stadia. Insects developing in cooler temperatures are darker. Substrate darkness during development also appears to effect adult wing darkness. In some cases, females are paler than males but reproductive condition and age are not related to pigmentation levels.
25084507|Nest structure and nesting behavior of Diadasia opuntiae were studied at four locations in Arizona during May and June 1977. The nests occurred singly, as clusters, or in large aggregations. Each had a vertical burrow 11 to 21 cm long which slanted for an additional 5 to 9 cm and ended in a cell-like cavity. Up to five linear series of subhorizontal cells extended from the end of the angle-burrow to a maximum depth of 27 cm, each series containing two to seven cells or up to 15 cells when bifurcations occurred. The cells were oriented in the ground at various angles but were rarely vertical. A turret extended 10 to 55 mm along the ground and was usually surrounded by a tumulus. Broken or displaced turrets were replaced up to three times. The main burrow of completed nests was usually filled with pieces of turret, soil, and debris from around the entrance. Nesting activities took place from the end of April through May and coincided with the blooming period of the cactus genus Opuntia from which adult bees foraged pollen and nectar. Nest construction and provisioning activities are described. Development from egg to full grown larva was completed within 20 days, the prepupal stage continuing at least through the end of June and probably to the next spring. Parasites associated with D. opuntiae, although not reared from the nests, included Dasymutilla foxi, Paravilla flavipilosa and immature rhipiphorids.
25085480|Populations of insecticide resistant biotype I greenbugs from Gray County, Texas, and Haskell and Seward Counties, Kansas, were identified. Although present in low numbers, the presence of these populations will make greenbug management more difficult.
25084079|Four new species of Thagria are described and illustrated from New Guinea and adjacent eastern islands in the Australian Region. These are bilateralis and paraloae from Northeast New Guinea, paraexilis from the Bismarck Islands, and samuelsoni from the Solomon Islands. Thagria sumbawensis (Jacobi) is a new synonym of Thagria luzonensis (Baker).
25083649|Twenty-seven instances of parasitism were recorded among 1,679 spiders kept in the laboratory for various periods of time over a three-year study. Five species of Ogcodes, one Acrocera, one Gelis, one Acoloides, and one Idris, many of them new records, were found as parasites of several species of lycosids or of Oxyopes salticus (Hentz). The total incidence of parasitism was 1.6%. Aspects of behavior and the life cycle are given for four species of Ogcodes and for Idris and Gelis. A reference list and bibliography of parasitism in spiders is included.
25085478|The adult male reproductive system of the lesser mealworm consists of paired testes (each with six follicles), vas efferens, vas deferens, two pairs of accessory glands (bean-shaped and tubular), ejaculatory duct, and aedeagus. The accessory glands closely resemble those of Tenebrio molitor L. and are thought to play a role in spermatophore formation. Seven days after adult emergence the follicles of the testes contained motile sperm. Males had completely tanned by five days and initiated mating with females seven days after emergence.
25084194|Nest and cell structure and nest-digging behavior are described for the sand-dwelling leafcutter bee Megachile (Xeromegachile) rubi in Georgia. Soil nests of M. (Litomegachile) texana in New York are briefly described. The meloid beetle Lytta (Pomphopoea) sp. is a parasite of M. rubi. Excavation of nests in soil occurs in nine nearctic megachilid genera and in eight nearctic subgenera of Megachile. We suggest that nesting in pre-existing cavities is a derived trait that has repeatedly evolved in Megachile and other megachilid genera. We further hypothesize that the ancestor to the Megachilinae dug soil nests with unlined cells, and that the Megachilinae evolved the behavior of using foreign materials as an alternative to using glandular secretions to waterproof cells in the soil.
41353892|A new species of the genus Aphelopus Dalman (Hymenoptera: Dryinidae) from Yunnan Province, China is described and illustrated. Existing keys to species are revised to incorporate A. alebroides, new species. The new species is a parasitoid of an unidentified species of Alebroides Matsumura (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae: Typhlocybinae) feeding on Zanthoxylum bungeanum Maximowicz (Rutaceae) (Chinese prickly-ash; Sichuan pepper tree).
25082425|Mating behavior of Surattha indentella Kearfott was observed in south-central Kansas during late August and early September in 1968 and 1969. During crepuscular flights, males locate newly emerged females by specific sex pheromones. Courtship is soon followed by precopulatory movements that terminate in horizontal tail-to-tail mating position. Mating occurs shortly before dusk or in the evening. Duration of observed copulation is longer in early evening. Sex pheromone extracts (0.5 moth equivalents) in the field failed to attract males. Significant male response was elicited by caged, live, virgin females.
25084496|Karyotypes are newly reported for three species of halictid bees. Haploid numbers seen or deduced from diploids are: Dialictus zephyrus, 13 metacentric to submetacentric; D. lineatulus, 12 metacentric to submetacentric; Agapostemon virescens, 17 mostly acrocentric to subacrocentric, with one or more possibly submetacentric.
25084605|Three methods of measuring parasitism in muscoid fly pupae by pteromalid wasps were compared. Levels of parasitism when determined by the first method where all puparia in the sample are included (including puparia with parasite emergence holes and eclosed puparia at the time of sampling) were similar to those obtained by the second method which included only the intact puparia in the sample. However, levels of parasitism by these two methods were only half those obtained when using the third method which included only puparia in the sample that produced either emerged parasites or adult flies. The latter method resulted in overestimates because it failed to compensate for the accumulation of parasitized hosts in the population. All three methods fail to compensate for removal of potential hosts from the environment but a method to correct for this error is proposed.
25481792|Male Palaeosepsis dentatiformis (Duda) (Diptera: Sepsidae) fought near dung pats that were used as feeding and mating sites by males and females. Males stilted and displayed their sexually dimorphic wing spots during stereotyped threat displays; they fought using rapid pulling and slamming movements of their front legs, and head butting. Males performed several apparent courtship movements during copulation, including tapping the female with their sternal brushes and genitalic squeezing. Allometric slopes of body parts used in aggression (wing spots) were steeper than control values, as is typical of weapons in other species. The slope of sternal brush length was lower, as in the genitalia of this and many other species.
25082398|Eight North American species of Culicoides comprising the Palmerae Group are described and illustrated, including the following new species: calexicanus, davisi, hawsi, and oregonensis. A diagnosis for the group and a key to males are given. The nearest relatives are apparently in the Holarctic Odibilis Group. One species, utahensis Fox, has specially modified female-like antennae and palpi that are associated with special mating habits; the species mates deep in the ears of the host animals where the females take their blood meals.
41681235|Investigation of predator-prey relationships that involve aquatic insects has received little attention, and aspects including feeding rates and prey selection of many predators are poorly understood. Adult giant water-bugs, Lethocerus americanus, and larval giant water scavenger beetles, Hydrophilis triangularis, are large predatory aquatic insects that typically inhabit pools or ponds with little to no flow. Both insect predators are known to prey on a variety of aquatic organisms including invertebrates and vertebrates. Laboratory trials were conducted to determine feeding rates and prey selection of fish by adult giant water-bugs and larval giant water scavenger beetles. Six western mosquitofish, Gambusia affinis, of two size classes, juvenile (<20 mm) and adult (>20 mm), were placed in aquaria with a single predator. Once per 24 hour period, predator survival was recorded along with the quantity and size of fish consumed. Each of the insect predators consumed a significantly greater number of mosquitofish from the adult size class with giant water-bugs consuming 0.13 fish per day and water scavenger beetles consuming 0.46 fish per day. Insect prdation of small fish species could be substantial and because size selective pressures exist, population structure of fish populations may be affected.
25085834|Tarphiota densus (Moore) is transferred from the genus Salinamexus Moore and Legner to Tarphiota Casey. T. densus is redescribed and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented. A key to the species of the genus Tarphiota is provided.
25083919|Factors influencing the size and sex ratio of the alfalfa leaf-cutter bee, Megachile rotundata, were studied. Bees of both sexes tended to emerge in the typical reverse sequence, the latest cells constructed being the first to produce adult bees, even though cells were removed from the tunnels and incubated separately. Bee size was related to emergence day, but since it was also associated with cell position, it may be influenced by several factors such as temperature, oxygen tension, and parental manipulation. Tunnel diameter did not significantly effect the observed sex ratios, but this may be a result of using nest tunnels approximately 12 cm long.
25082795|Pupae of Cadra cautella (Walker) were irradiated with dosages of 0, 10, 20, or 30 krad when they were 2, 4, 6, and 8 days old. Treated 2-day-old pupae were the most susceptible (no adults emerged) followed by 4-day-old pupae. Mean % of adults that emerged from pupae exposed when 6 or 8 days old to 10 or 20 krad was not affected but exposure to 30 krad significantly reduced emergence from 6-day-old pupae. An increase from 20 to 30 krad increased deformed adults emerging from 6-day-old pupae but did not affect adults emerging from pupae treated when 8 days old. The effects on fecundity of ovipositing females also indicated interaction of age and dosage. Treated females mated with untreated males laid fewer eggs than untreated females mated with males irradiated at the same dosage. Fecundity of adults emerging from pupae treated when 6 days old was less than that of adults emerging from irradiated 8-day-old pupae. Twenty krad was considered the dosage that induced sterility in adults emerging from 6-day-old pupae; 30 krad the dosage required to induce the same level of sterility in adults from 8-day-old pupae.
25083958|The population growth rates of cultures starting with 10 individuals of Folsomia candida (Willem) were measured. Using these growth rates we estimated the intrinsic rate of natural increase (r) by the regression of the natural logarithm of density on time. Estimations of r varied slightly with replicate and the weighted mean value for r was
25082500|Coleosoma floridanum Banks, a small theridiid spider, builds a web utilizing the prey capture methods of both aerial type webs, and webs for crawling prey. Prey is usually wrapped before it is bitten. Of several orders of insects tested, the Homoptera were the most vulnerable to predation by this spider. The hard cuticle of beetles was an important factor in reducing their vulnerability to predation by Coleosoma. Aphid cornicle secretions had only an immediate effect on the spiders, and did not influence the eventual capture of the aphid. Mating was observed, and corresponded to the type 1 position of Gerhardt. Out of 53 eggs observed in sacs, 82% resulted in free spiderlings.
25082827|Saldula palustris inhabits estuarine salt marshes along the Oregon coast. There are three generations per year. Adults migrate from the intertidal zone and overwinter. Reproductive diapause during the winter is facultative. Adult insects return to the intertidal site in January and nymphs are present from April until October. The insects are aggressive predators and cannibalism is common. They tolerate daily tidal submergence periods of up to 9 hrs duration. They do not retreat before the incoming tide and remain quiescent when submerged. S. palustris is considered a transitional form with behavioral but as yet limited structural adaptations to aquatic life.
25084996|The tiger beetle, Cicindela unipunctata Fabricius, was found to be very abundant in hardwood forests in Clarke Co., Georgia. Although not often collected by other means, pitfall traps take large numbers of this beetle.
25084042|When Spalangia endius Walker was released at a beef farm over a period of 2 1/2 months for the control of house flies (Musca domestica L.) and stable flies (Stomoxys calcitrans [L.]), they reduced the fly population 84.3%. Although 100% parasitism was obtained during this same time interval when similar releases were made at a swine farm, the house fly reduction was limited to 37.5% due to fly immigration from adjacent agricultural installations.
25083637|The genus Pseudoperiboeum Linsley is added to the United States cerambycid fauna. Formerly monotypic, this genus now includes P. subarmatum Linsley and P. lengi (Schaeffer). Conosphaerion pullum Knull from Arizona is synonymyzed with P. lengi. A key is presented to the two species of Conosphaerion Linsley. Conosphaerion piceum Linsley is considered a subspecies of C. concolor Linsley. New taxa are Conosphaerion concolor bicolor from Sonora, Mexico, and C. spinipenne from Panama.
25083610|Nests of Hoplitis cylindrica (Cresson) were obtained in sumac traps in Ashland, Bayfield, Polk and Waukesha counties. In addition, 3 "natural" nests were collected in dead sumac stems in Iron Co. The typical nest architecture consisted of a linear series of pollen-provisioned cells separated by partitions of triturated plant material 1-6 mm thick, an empty vestibule, and an orifice plug. The typical number of cells in a 150 mm long burrow was six. The majority of nests were collected in the fall, at which time the cells contained cocoons with fully grown larvae. The species had a one-generation life cycle, overwintering as a prepupa in diapause. Nests were parasitized by Stelis labiata Provancher, S. lateralis Cresson, and Chelynia foederalis (Smith).
25083480|Characteristics are given for separating male and female first instar nymphs of eight species of cockroaches. Features of the caudal margin of the 9th sternite are most useful in distinguishing the sexes. Greater width in terminal abdominal segments of the female, differences in shape of the lateral margins of the 9th sternite, and variations in the caudal margin of the 8th sternite also are useful.
25084401|Paralimnichus Delve is reported in the Western Hemisphere for the first time, and a new species, P. panamensis, is described from Panama.
25086217|Female Porcellio laevis (Isopoda: Oniscidea) brood eggs and young in ventral marsupial pouches, a reproductive strategy with pronounced physical and presumed fitness costs. This study examines the effect of physical stress on reproductive behavior. To induce excessive physical stress, gravid female P. laevis were subjected to five minutes of continuous locomotion daily throughout the brooding period. Stressed females exhibited significantly shorter brooding periods than controls. Although stressed and control groups did not differ in average body size, there was a strong trend of reduced fecundity in stressed females. These results indicate that female isopods modify critical elements of reproductive investment under conditions of physical stress.
25083490|The field ant Aphaenogaster treatae has unusual flights in that they take place at high temperatures (78 to 88F) but only if light is reduced either by continuous gray skies or more frequently by moving clouds. Most flights take place when temperatures have been too high for workers to forage until clouds come by. A flight may be completed under a cloud which lasts only seven minutes. During the yearly flight period (from late June to early August) alates are constantly alert for these brief clouds and may emerge within a minute after the sun is shaded, and they can all disappear within one-half minute after it shines again.
25085791|Loss of habitat is one of the primary reasons for loss of species and for overall reduction in biodiversity, including the recent decline of pollinating insect populations. Comparison of systematic samples of bees attracted to a mass flowering tree, Andira inermis (Fam. Fabaceae), in 1972 and 1996 at Liberia, a site in the seasonal dry forest of Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica, indicated a significant reduction of bee pollinators due to habitat loss over the 24 year period. In 1972, about 70 bee species were collected from trees of A. inermis at Liberia. In 1996, only 28 species were collected, and their frequencies were substantially lower. Overall the 1996 sample represented a reduction of 90% in total bees collected. Samples collected during the same season at a second less disturbed site, Monteverde, were both higher in numbers of species (37) and in numbers of bees than the Liberia collections. Loss of habitat due to agricultural development and other human-disturbances such as fire are discussed as the primary reasons for the loss of bee species richness and abundance at the two study sites.Andira inermis trees varied in their relative attractiveness to bees. At one extreme, some trees attracted a wide variety of species in large numbers; at the opposite end were trees attractive to very few individuals. In between were trees attractive to large anthophorid bees such as Centris and Epicharis and to a much lesser extent to honey bees (most or all of which were Africanized); other trees were attractive to primarily honey bees and to a much lesser extent to large bees. Several possible explanations for differential attraction of bee taxa to A. inermis and a brief assessment of the potential impact of Africanized honey bees on native bees in our study areas are offered.
25084847|The relationship between successful foragers and the vibration dance of the honeybee was investigated. Worker bees having experienced successful foraging were significantly more likely to perform vibration dances within 10-15 min of observation than were non-foraging controls. On a given day during the period of foraging activity, foragers accounted for 20-30% of all vibrating bees observed in the test colonies. Vibrating foragers performed the dance repeatedly while roaming throughout the area of the lower two combs, where the majority of foraging-age workers were congregated. Since the vibration dance appears to promote recruitment, the distribution of vibration dances throughout the lower two combs may help regulate the behavior of much of the potential foraging force.
41681221|Those family-group names for snakeflies (Neuropterida: Raphidioptera) are catalogued. The type genus and combining stem are identified for 22 family-group names, including the new subtribes Mongoloraphidiina and Ohmellina. The higher classification of the order is briefly summarized.
25085038|Adults (n = 343) from seven post-emergence colonies and one large nesting aggregation of the red paper wasp, Polistes perplexus Cresson, were examined for ovarian development. Four classes of females were designated based on egg development and the presence of sperm in the spermatheca: undeveloped workers; minimally developed workers; developed workers; and inseminated, developed queens. More than one queen was found in five of the seven colonies and in the nesting aggregation. Developed workers were present in all queenright colonies except one. The occurrence of polygyny in this species appears to be an exception to the rule of monogyny in temperate zone post-emergence Polistes colonies. Hypotheses for the development of multiple queens are presented.
25083640|A stream classification system for the Gunnison River drainage, Colorado is given. The stonefly fauna has been placed into appropriate stream types. In order to correlate the occurrence of a given species with any other species, an association diagram has been constructed. The stream type classification of stoneflies indicates the association of stoneflies according to stream types; the stonefly association diagram reveals the local association of stoneflies.
25084264|The clumping patterns of laboratory overwintering Polistes exclamans gynes were altered by manipulating their relatedness. Gynes hibernating in boxes containing only former nestmates formed a few, large clumps. In boxes containing equal numbers of nestmates from two unrelated colonies, gynes formed many small to medium sized clumps. The numbers of clumps in these 'sisters' and 'mixed-sisters' treatments were significantly different (P < .01). The clumping patterns of 'sisters' and 'mixed-sisters' remained distinct throughout the 31 day study suggesting that unrelated gynes were not habituating to each other with reference to their clumping behavior.
25084077|The effects of cycloheximide-induced protein synthesis inhibition on the negative phototactic behavior of Tenebrio molitor larvae and Popilius disjunctus adults were studied. Cycloheximide was administered within the head capsule region dorsal to the cerebral ganglion, and its effects on the burrowing response of Tenebrio and the runway speed of Popilius were determined. Neural protein synthesis inhibition resulted in a significant deterioration of the normal negative phototactic response of these species. The implications for the role of protein synthesis in the manifestation of behavior are discussed.
25084661|Laboratory investigations were conducted to study the effects of the pyrethroids, permethrin and cypermethrin, on the behavior and feeding of the Mexican bean beetle, Epilachna varivestis Mulsant, on soybeans. A wash-off resistant carbaryl formulation, Sevin XLR, was included for comparison. Response threshold curves as a function of insecticide dose were established for the two pyrethroids. All insecticides caused significant mortality 3-4 weeks into the experiment, thus preventing any insect defoliation. Subsequently, the pyrethroids lost their ability to cause mortality, with insect survivorship equal to that of the control. However, during this period, the pyrethroids did prevent leaf consumption. The amount of feeding in these treatments was not significantly different from that of the carbaryl-treated plants on which insect mortality was high. Adults on the pyrethroid-treated plants were observed to be off leaves, usually on the cage screening or plant stems. Response threshold studies revealed (1) dosages of the pyrethroids where the insect stops feeding but is not dead and (2) the higher doses where significant mortality occurs. These studies suggest that the pyrethroids offer plant protection capabilities other than through insect mortality.
25085407|The effects of surface-mine drainage on the insect communities of leaf litter were studied in three first-order streams in Alabama. All three streams were similar in size, flow rate, and geology. However, one stream had an active surface mine just above the study site. Another stream drained a reclaimed surface mine, while the third stream, which was unaffected by mine drainage, was used as a control. Leaf litter processing rates and insect colonization were determined by placing 24 5-g alder (Alnus serrulata (Aiton)) leaf packs in the riffle areas of each study stream and retrieving them after 48 hours, one week, three weeks, and every four weeks thereafter. The leaves in the control stream had a processing rate (k = 0.0074) about twice as fast as the leaves in the stream draining the active surface-mine (k = 0.004). Leaf packs in the control stream had an abundant and diverse insect fauna whereas the leaf packs of the active surface mine stream had very low insect abundance and diversity. Most significantly, no shredders or collectors were found in the active mine stream. The stream draining the reclaimed mine was intermediate to the other two with respect to processing rate and abundance and diversity of insects in the leaf packs. The effects of surface-mine drainage on leaf litter processing rates and insect colonization were probably caused by low pH, high quantities of iron, magnesium, and sulfate, and large amounts of sediment trapped in the leaf packs.
25082895|Four new species of Curtara, C. scapa, C. adunca, C. nisa and C. exesa are described.
25082766|Male Euglossine bees (Euglossa spp.) maintain high thoracic temperatures (means &gt; 40 C) while foraging for terpenes normally collected from orchids. The recorded temperatures are higher than most body temperatures reported for temperate zone bees foraging for nectar and/or pollen.
25085902|Female pheromone extracts of the southern masked chafer, Cyclocephala lurida Bland, or the northern masked chafer, Cyclocephala borealis Arrow, previously were shown to attract males of both species. A hexane extract of C. lurida was used in traps at a garden center to test its possible attractiveness to C. pasadenae and C. longula, two other sympatric species. Neither of the other species was attracted to the lurida pheromone.
25082548|Flights of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis Cresson reproductives occurred during late June to late July when soil was moist 1 to 9 days after  12 mm of precipitation. Swarms occurred when air temperature and saturation deficit were significantly higher than on nonswarm days during the same period. A time of great mortality for queens, the colonization period is the weak link in the life cycle of Pogonomyrmex. Numerous queens are produced each year by most large nests. We photographed at least 150 males and 100 females on an average sized mound in Kansas. Such a large number of queens per nest, coupled with colony longevity of more than 5 years for the few surviving colonies, should result in high populations if even a minute percentage of the new nests survive. Mating aggregations occurred at the top of high landmarks, probably selected partly because of their distinctly pointed apices. Aggregations and synchronized swarming promoted extranidal mating, but prevailing winds decreased the amount of gene flow predicted from other areas. Mated queens flew from the mating aggregation in the direction with the wind. Several males mated with each queen, and some males mated several times. A ratio of 4.4 males to one queen arrived at the mating site. Copulation was observed between male P. occidentalis and 4 female P. barbatus barbatus F. Smith. No hybrid was reared from those matings. Queens landed on areas having little or no vegetation but high light reflectance. The only selection of microhabitat shown by field queens and queens placed in 45 soil choice boxes was for digging into cracks and soil high in silt and clay. Western harvester ant queens did not loose their wings as soon as queens of most species do. The queen apparently can utilize the wing muscle tissue without losing the wings, because winged queens produced almost as many eggs as did wingless queens and lived almost as long. The queen apparently lives entirely off her own internal food reserves until the new workers are able to forage. Even when food was supplied, none of the queens in vials was seen eating anything during 3 months. Entrances to queen burrows in the field were filled with soil as soon as rainfall occurred, and there was no evidence that queens opened the burrow or foraged for food since the entrance was filled. At 11 days after the swarm, a mean of 27.5 eggs had been laid by each of 281 laboratory queens. Usually only 2 or 3 pupae matured, the other eggs being used as food for larvae. When disturbed or when the substrate was wet, queens commonly carried eggs in the psammophores. Of 111 queens that dug into soil, none survived to the next year.
25084162|Several rates of heptachlor insecticide were utilized to obtain a gradation of larval densities of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in nonirrigated 'Kanza' variety alfalfa. A highly significant (P < 0.001) linear relationship existed between peak larval densities up to 9/stem and yields of alfalfa forage at 1st and 2nd harvests. Weevil infestations caused extensive defoliation and decreased growth and rate of maturity in the 1st crop. Decreased growth and stand density
25083887|In sphecoid wasps and short-tongued bees as well as the Megachilidae the hind tibial spurs arise from the apical tibial corium, although in some taxa the bases of the spurs are partially isolated by sclerotic processes. In many of the Anthophoridae and Apidae the bases of the spurs are partially or wholly isolated from the corium by processes or bridges, so that the spurs may arise from an isolated but common membrane or from separated membranous areas. The tibio-basitarsal articulation proper has been modified in orientation and morphology, and recessed proximally into the tibia, in some of the higher bees. The functional, taxonomic, and phylogenetic implications of these characters are discussed.
25083744|New and additional records on three species of Hoplopleura and four species of Polyplax are reported
25084505|A hybrid swarm of Andrena (scurra group of the sub-genus Scaphandrena) was characterized by Ribble (1973, 1974) as a trihybrid cross between 3 species: A. scurra, A. arabis and A. capricornis, one of them, A. arabis, being at present far distant from the hybrids. New data from 20 population samples including over 600 specimens makes possible a hypothesis that two species resident in the Rocky Mountain area, A. scurra and A. ellisiae, are responsible for the hybrid swarm. A spectrum of hybrid populations has been identified that range from primary
25082583|A new key to males of Group B (Van Duzee, Cole, and Aldrich, 1921) of the North American species of Dolichopus is presented. Detailed examination of the cercus, flange, and posterior clasping appendages of the postabdominal capsule of species related to D. gratus Loew yielded excellent discriminatory characters (figured). This led to the removal of D. mercieri Parent from synonymy and the recognition of D. gaigei, n. sp. (Washington, New Brunswick) and D. gratiolus, n. sp. (New Hampshire to South Carolina). Type-species are designated for taxa proposed by Frey in 1915 as subgenera: Eudolichopus (Musca plumipes Scopoli); Leucodolichopus (Dolichopus remipes Wahlberg); Melanodolichopus (Dolichopus stenhammari Zetterstedt). A truly subgeneric division of Dolichopus is, however, considered premature.
25084534|Live house fly pupae at all ages except the first 24 hours (at 26C) were suitable as hosts for the pteromalid Muscidifurax zaraptor. Freeze-killed house fly pupae were suitable as hosts at all ages tested (24, 48, 72, 96, 120 and 144 hours). Levels of parasitism for freeze-killed pupae were similar to those for live pupae at corresponding ages and parasite-host ratios. Freeze-killed house fly pupae remained suitable as hosts of M. zaraptor for at least 216 hours at 26C. Levels of parasitism declined gradually in hosts held longer than 96 hours. Observations suggested that the reduced suitability of older pupae may have been due to desiccation rather than putrifaction of the dead host.
25083996|Four new species of Celina are described from North America. C. imitatrix n. sp. is abundant in Florida, but ranges north as far as Indiana and New Jersey and also occurs in Cuba. C. hubelli n. sp. is close to C. angustata Aub, and seems to replace that species inland from the coastal areas. C. occidentalis n. sp. occurs on the West Coast in California and Mexico. C. palustris n. sp. is so far known only from North Carolina and Alabama. A key is given to distinguish the Nearctic species.
25084787|The discovery of a third species of Folsomia exhibiting the phenomenon of ecomorphosis, F. elongata, from West Virginia, U.S.A., has allowed the authors to describe the ecomorphic (B) form and to give some biological and ecological data for this species.
25084641|Biological notes on species in 7 megachilid genera and some inquilines are presented. Included are a description of a single cell potter nest by Anthidiellum notatum notatum (Latreille), data suggesting that Megachile (Litomegachile) mendica Cresson may pass through more than four larval instars, and observations of multiple oviposition by Coelioxys (Boreocoelioxys) octodentata Say and Coelioxys (Boreocoelioxys) Sayi Robertson in megachilid host cells. Larval descriptions are given for Osmia (Osmia) lignaria lignaria Say, Hoplitis (Andronicus) cylindrica Cresson, Coelioxys (Cyrtocoelioxys) modesta Smith, Megachile (Megachile) montivaga Cresson, M. mendica, Chalicodoma (Chelostomoides) campanulae campanulae (Robertson), Eumegachile (Sayapis) policaris (Say), and of the inquilines Sphaeropthalma (Sphaeropthalma) pensylvanica (Lepeletier) and Monodontomerus obscurus Westwood. Pupal descriptions are given for Anthidiellum perplexum (Smith), Coelioxys sayi, Megachile mendica, Eumegachile policaris, Mondontomerus obscurus and Leucospis affinis affinis Say. The pupal exuviae of Anthrax irroratus irroratus Say are figured.
25084354|Colias philodice and C. eurytheme interbreed in Arizona alfalfa fields producing viable hybrids. Complete introgression is prevented by a female preference for conspecific mates. Males adjust their courtship persistence accordingly, spending more time courting conspecific than interspecific females. Males change the ratio of search/courtship time over the course of the day and spend less time in courtship early in the day when receptive, virgin females are emerging and more time in courtship later when females are ovipositing and vary in their receptivity. In addition, male C. philodice-eurytheme make intraspecific discriminations, preferring large rather than small females as mates.
25085986|The main chemical involved in leaf-feeding resistance to European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), in Midwest-adapted maize (Zea mays L.) cultivars has been linked to 2,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-1,4-benzoxazin-3-one (DIMBOA). But, 11 accessions of Peruvian maize have been identified as having non-DIMBOA resistance to European corn borer leaf feeding. Methanol extracts of leaf material from the 11 accessions of maize were evaluated in laboratory bioassays to measure differences in mortality, larval or pupal weight, and developmental times. Larvae reared on diets with leaf extracts from accessions PI 503720, PI 503725, PI 503728, and PI 503731 were significantly smaller than larvae reared on controls. These data suggest that a biochemical product responsible for resistance can be extracted from some of the maize accessions.
25083975|The dose-mortality response of Hyphantria cunea to its cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus was quantitated. Larval mortality in all assays increased with increased dosage. The median lethal dose
25085263|A microtechnique was developed to evaluate small samples (0-100 mg dry weight) of corn, Zea mays L., silks from an individual ear, for resistance to the corn earworm, Helicoverpa zea (Boddie). Dry silks were placed into a detached bulb of a 5 ml disposable pipet in which 2 cc of diluted diet (7:3 pinto bean
25084139|Populations of Orius insidiosus (Say) increased significantly in both May- and June-planted soybeans during their respective periods of flowering (R1-R2). Increases in O. insidiosus densities were followed by decreases in the thrips populations; however, a direct effect could not be established. Late-season populations of O. insidiosus were significantly greater in June-planted soybeans than in May-planted soybeans. During the phenological period of silking and pollen-shed in corn, populations of O. insidiosus increased significantly, attaining a seasonal peak during this interval.
25084234|Triungulin (T) larvae of the North American meloid Epicauta atrata (Fabricius) could not be induced to develop on the eggs of the acridid grasshoppers Melanoplus differentialis (Thomas) and M. femurrubrum (DeGeer), eggs of the gryllid Acheta domestica (Linnaeus), or pollen taken from honey bees. However, they readily accepted eggs of Epicauta pennsylvanica (DeGeer) as food and developed rapidly to the coarctate larval phase on a pure diet of them. Larval feeding behavior is described. Eggs of the Melanoplus species were unattractive to first grub (FG) larvae and proved to be toxic if eaten. Eggs of E. pennsylvanica reaching the eye-spot stage of development were unattractive to both T and young FG larvae of E. atrata but were eaten by older FG larvae. The amount of food required by a larva of E. atrata and the rate of larval growth are both appropriate for utilization of the egg masses of other species of Epicauta as food. Some aspects of the ecology and larval anatomy of E. atrata are discussed in relation to meloid egg predation. It is hypothesized that other meloids besides E. atrata, including species of Epicauta, Pleuropompha, and perhaps Mylabris, are larval predators of meloid eggs.
25084364|The Tenuicostatis Group is proposed for four mutually allopatric species of Pyrota Dejean: P. hirticollis Champion, from western Mexico; P. mariarum Champion, from Las Tres Maras archipelago off the coast of Nayarit, Mexico; P. tenuicostatis (Dugs), from southern Texas, eastern Mexico, and Costa Rica; and P. nigra, new species, from Venezuela. The group is perhaps most closely related to the Nobilis Group. Pyrota mariarum is evidently derived from P. hirticollis and P. nigra from P. tenuicostatis or an ancestor very similar to it. Degree of melanism of the labrum, head, pronotum, and elytra in P. tenuicostatis, analyzed in detail, is highly variable both within populations and geographically. Correlations between body regions in this character are low or non-existent. Eye size, analyzed in three species, varies appreciably among them. In addition, within species, mean eye size is greater in males than in females. The species are keyed and described on the basis of the adults. Complete synonymies are given and distributional data are summarized. Food plants include mesquite (Prosopis juliflora), guayacn (presumably Caesalpinia melanocarpa), and alfalfa (Medicago sativa).
25084680|A new species of megachilid bee, Ashmeadiella chumashae, is described from the California Channel Islands. Characters separating it from other members of the Cubiceps Group are given.
25085690|The adult carabid fauna in soybean fields was studied by pitfall trapping in 1992 and 1993. Of 45 species present, 5 were dominant and each exhibited different temporal activity patterns. Pterostichus chalcites Say, Anisodactylus sanctaecrucis F., Scarites substriatus Haldeman, and Agonum punctiforme (Say) were most common in the early season, while Pterostichus stygicus Say was most abundant in the late season. Seasonal weather conditions, such as temperature and precipitation, appear to be the major factors influencing carabid activity and carabid species composition and abundance from year to year. The activity peak of one or more dominant carabid species coincide with the development of soil dwelling pests such the larvae of the 1st and 2nd generations of the bean leaf beetle in soybean ecosystems which indicates potential predation. However, it should be noted that the species composition and seasonal abundance of carabids may change from year to year as influenced by the weather conditions.
25084262|Rates of population growth of Sitophilus zeamais Mots. and Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) on whole and processed forms of pearl millet, and loss in dry weight of the millet were determined. The forms were whole grain; 10% cracked, 90% whole grain; cracked grain; and millet flour. The population of S. zeamais increased rapidly in the whole and 10% cracked grain treatments, causing a mean loss in dry weight of 8.2 and 7.2%, respectively, in 76 days. Few progeny were produced in the cracked treatment, and in millet flour all adult weevils died within 2-3 weeks. The population of T. castaneum increased slowly in the whole and cracked grain treatments, causing only a 1.38% dry matter loss in the whole grain during the 78-day incubation period. The population increased significantly more in the cracked treatment than in the whole and 10% cracked grain, while large numbers were produced in the millet flour.
25084825|Eggs of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, were subjected to -5 and -7.5C for 24 hr periods at 24 and 48 hr intervals to determine if intermittent low temperatures affected egg viability. Results indicated a significant reduction in hatch of eggs subjected to intermittent low temperatures when compared to the controls.
25082450|New cave locality records are: Rhagidia weyerensis (Packard), El Stano de la Tinaja, San Luis Potos, Mexico; Old Spanish Cave, Stone Co., Mo., U.S.A.; Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico, U.S.A. R. trisetatus n. sp., El Stano de la Tinaja, San Luis Potos, Mexico. R. longisensilla Shiba, Diamond Cave, Newton Co., Arkansas, U.S.A.
25085843|The adult male and larva of Orthocladius vaillanti Langton and Cranston are described based upon specimens from Georgia and North Carolina, USA, including a reared male. Diagnoses are presented for the adult male, pupa, and larva to allow separation from congeneric species; O. vaillanti is quite similar to O. frigidus (Zetterstedt) in the adult male and larval stages. The description of the pupa is emended, including further details of the structure of the pupal thoracic horn. Placement of O. vaillanti in previous identification keys is discussed, and information is provided on larval habitat and distribution.
25084312|Eight new species of leafhoppers in the genus Tharra are described and illustrated. Seven species from the Australian region are lanceolata, ciliata, angusta, hammeri, epidentata, hamata and trispinata, and one from the Oriental region is sarawakensis, bringing the total to 101 known species and subspecies in this large oceanic genus.
25084539|The secondary growth tree Senna fructicosa in the mid-elevation to lowland tropical rain forest region of northeastern Costa Rica maximizes both flowering and fruit production during the lengthy rainy season. An individual tree produces flowers and pods each year. One species of pentatomid bug, Pellaea sticta (Dallas), regularly exploits the full-sized green pods both for feeding and breeding, although nymphs can also survive on vegetative parts (leaves and stems) of this species as well as a few other tested legumes (Inga sp. and "peanuts," Arachis hypogaea L.). Occasionally other pentatomids, such as Loxa viridis (Palisot de Beauvois) and L. virescens Amyot & Serville, are found on pods and leaves, but are not as numerous or consistent as P. sticta. P. sticta is an opportunistic "pod associate" of S. fructicosa, namely, an insect that exploits the pod wall tissue as a food source and pods as breeding sites during the rainy season when pods are numerous; during the dry season bugs are entirely absent from the trees. Thus the behavior of P. sticta follows the reproductive behavior of S. fructicosa, but the bug probably has many other host plants, and its association with S. fructicosa is not considered as a predator-prey interaction in the evolutionary context noted for seed-eating bruchids on Cassia seeds.
25085127|The species composition and seasonal abundance of predators and parasites associated with the southwestern corn borer (SWCB), Diatraea grandiosella Dyar, were studied during 1985 and 1986 in corn in the Texas High Plains. Three species of Trichogramma and one of Telenomous were recovered from SWCB eggs but egg parasitism was generally <5%. With one exception, parasites did not emerge from the 5329 SWCB larvae or 2033 SWCB pupae collected during the study. Orius insidiosus (Say) (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae), Hippodamia spp. (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae), Misumenops celer (Hentz) (Araneida: Thomisidae), and Linyphiidae (Araneida) were the most common predators on corn plants and all readily attacked and consumed small SWCB larvae in laboratory feeding trials. Peak predator densities did not coincide with peak densities of small SWCB larvae. Maximum predator densities occurred during silking and pollination, whereas small SWCB larvae were most abundant during the early whorl and ear maturation stage.
25083891|The following new Halictinae, all from Colombia, are described: Habralictus bimaculatus, Caenohalictus eberhardorum, Lasioglossum (Dialictus) breedi, Microsphecodes truncaticaudus (a parasite of H. bimaculatus), and M. trichommus (a parasite of L. breedi). Comments are also included on Lasioglossum (Dialictus) seabrai and Microsphecodes kathleenae. The genera Habralictus and Caenohalictus are discussed and included species are listed. Because L. breedi is almost entirely nonmetallic, it could be included in Evylaeus; it is related, however, to metallic species included in Dialictus. The name Dialictus has priority over Evylaeus and the oldest generic or subgeneric name applied to a species of the group is Hemihalictus.
25083009|The previously undescribed nymph of Enallagma divagans Selys is morphologically similar to the known nymphs of Walker's (1953) Enallagma Group II. It is most similar to Enallagma antennatum (Say) and Enallagma traviatum Selys, but can be distinguished from these species by either the number of palpal setae (4 in divagans and traviatum, 5 in antennatum) or its distinctive caudal lamellae color pattern. The nymphs of E. divagans are predominantly stream inhabitants, but occasionally are found in lentic waters.
25083814|Flies, Phaenicia sericata, attached to a turnabout so that the support component of flight was not needed had a higher flight speed and lower rate of sucrose utilization than unsupported flies at 20C but not at 30C. There was no difference in wingbeat frequency between the two groups of flies. The increase in flight speed without a change in wingbeat frequency suggests that the wing path is changed to increase speed in supported flies. The reduction in sucrose utilization could result from reflex adjustments of the wing path controlled by the Johnston's organ. The insignificant differences in fuel utilization and flight speed of supported flies at 30C is probably related to the lesser proportion of energy needed to keep the insect airborne at higher speeds.
25085885|Females of several sepsid flies usually mate at oviposition sites only after having emptied their ovaries of eggs, leaving unexplained how the first batch of eggs is fertilized. Repeated mating attempts at a feeding site of female Sepsis neocynipsea suggest that copulations also occur at such sites, where sepsid behavior has seldom been observed.
25082662|Karyotype data are reported for five species of eumenid wasps. The following haploid chromosome numbers were found: n = 6, Ancistrocerus adiabatus and A. spilogaster; n = 7, A. simulator; n = 10, A. tuberculiceps; n = 8, Euodynerus foraminatus. The four species of Ancistrocerus are compared on the basis of karyotype similarity. A discussion of phylogenetic relationships of species within the genus Ancistrocerus as evidenced by karyological, morphological, and behavioral data is given. The possible use of chromosomes as taxonomic characters in the family Eumenidae is discussed.
25084133|The relative efficiencies of native bees and honey bees in pollinating sunflower were compared with male sterile and male fertile lines. Wild bees as a group and some oligolectic females were more effective in pollinating florets than were the apids (honey bees and bumble bees). In comparisons of the fidelity of bee visitation to either sterile or pollen varieties, apids preferred male sterile rows, some wild bee species were evenly distributed between sterile and pollen rows, and other wild bees preferred pollen rows. In comparisons of the amount of pollen carried on a bee body, oligolectic sunflower bees carried more pollen than did other kinds of bees.
25086122|Pollination is one of the most important processes in terrestrial ecosystems, leading to reproductive success within many plant communities. Pollination, for most angiosperms, is animal mediated, insects being the most important pollinators. Bees (Hymenoptera: Apoidea) are the most highly adapted of all anthophiles (flower visitors), possessing many anatomical and behavioral adaptations suiting a lifestyle completely dependant on floral resources. This dependence makes bees the most important of all pollinators, and as such, they are keystone components of almost all terrestrial ecosystems. Although there is historic knowledge of the importance of bees in agricultural plant communities, only recently has there been an appreciation of the fragility of many plant-pollinator relationships. Therefore, understanding the complex interactions of plants, pollinators and the ecosystems surrounding these relationships is crucial, especially when considering conservation of the species or their respective habitats. A key step in understanding these relationships is knowing which organisms are involved. This paper provides an annotated checklist of bee species in Nova Scotia, Canada, and includes summaries of their bionomics and floral relations. To date, 157 indigenous bees and two recently introduced species, representing 26 genera from six families, have been reported for Nova Scotia. New additions to the bee faunal record of Nova Scotia (based on the literature examined) include Agapostemon (Agapostemon) virescens (Fabricius), 1775; Andrena (Melandrena) dunningi Cockerell, 1898; Anthophora (Clisodon) furcata terminalis Cresson, 1869; Bombus (Pyrobombus) impatiens Cresson, 1863; Calliopsis (Calliopsis) andreniformis Smith, 1853; Colletes validus Cresson, 1868; Hoplitis (Alcidamea) producta producta (Cresson), 1864; Hylaeus (Prosopis) modestus modestus Say, 1837; Megachile (Megachile) relativa Cresson, 1878; Osmia (Nothosmia) tersula Cockerell, 1912; Perdita (Perdita) octomaculata octomaculata (Say), 1824; Protandrena (Pterosarus) nebrascensis nebrascensis (Crawford), 1903; Stelis (Stelis) foederalis (Smith), 1854; and Stelis (Stelis) subemarginata (Cresson), 1878.
25085565|Two new Mexican Paleonura are described and illustrated, one from soil and litter at the Biological Station of Chamela, Jalisco, and the other from one cave in Colima State, Mxico.
25082721|Bulk quantities of wheat infested with rice weevils, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), and lesser grain borers, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.), were exposed to infrared radiation that raised the temperature of the wheat to a maximum of 48.6C. After 24 hr, 93 and 99% of the lesser grain borers and rice weevils, respectively, had been killed.
25085839|Cricotopus (Isocladius) subletteorum n. sp. (Diptera, Chironomidae, Orthocladiinae) is described from male and female adults, pupae and larvae collected in California and New Mexico, USA. Several features expanding the previous generic and subgeneric definitions are presented and discussed in terms of their systematic implications. The known distribution and ecology of the species are given, and its potential as a "nuisance" chironomid is evaluated.
25086347|The first Mesozoic and currently oldest fossil of the wasp family Pompilidae (Aculeata: Euaculeata: Vespoidea) is described and figured from a female preserved in mid-Cretaceous (Albian) amber from Myanmar (Burma). Bryopompilus interfector, new genus and species, is distinguished from other fossil and living spider wasps and placed in the new tribe Bryopompilini. The sparse geological record of spider wasps is briefly reviewed and the current classification of the family outlined, with the spelling of three family-group names corrected-Cordyloscelidini, Eidopompilini, and Deuterageniini.
25086009|Opistharsostethus parvus sp. nov. (Hemiptera: Cercopidae) is described and illustrated from Laos and southwest China (Yunnan and Guangxi). This represents the first records of the genus Opistharsostethus Schmidt from Laos and China. Scanning electron micrographs of the antennal sensilla, rostral apex, pretarsus of hind legs and egg of the new species are provided for the first time.
25084270|A diagnosis of Alathetus Dallas is given and Alathetus haitiensis, new species, described.
25083742|New species of Pseudoplisus related to phaleratus are: guadalajarae and notopilis from Mexico, oraclensis and werneri from Arizona, and tritospilus from El Salvador, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Mexico.
25085617|Two new species of Americanura, one from Chiapas, Mexico, and another from Izabal, Guatemala, are described and illustrated. A key for the 15 species known of the genus is given. /// Deux nouveaux espces de Americanura sont dcrits et designs, une de Chiapas, Mexique, et une autre de Izabal, Guatemala. Une cl de identification pour les 15 espces connues est inclu.
25082704|Five new species of Erythroneura of the Eratoneura subgenus are described: vulgaris, sorota, brucensis, whitcombi and doeringae.
25085171|A faunal list of the weevils of North Dakota of the families Attelabidae, Rhynchitidae, Apionidae, and Curculionidae is comprised of 240 species, 105 of which are new state records. Zones of collection in the state are given, as well as seasonal distributions.
25085952|A common pest of native sunflowers (Helianthus spp.) was found to cause mortality in seedling trees of newly planted windbreaks. Isophrictis similiella (Chambers) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) tunnels into the main stem of recently planted trees, causing top dieback and often mortality. Rocky Mountain juniper (Juniperus scopulorum Sarg.) and eastern redcedar (J. virginiana L.) are commonly attacked. The insect has also been found in cotoneaster (Cotoneaster sp.) and potentially may attack a number of species of seedling trees and shrubs. I. similiella larvae normally inhabit the stems and heads of sunflower, but if disturbed, as from tree planting operations, the larvae may seek out alternative shelter. Newly planted seedlings are often the only vegetation available.
25083974|Six species of Picicola from the Passeriformes but excluding the family Pittidae are discussed and a key is provided. One new species is described from Basileuterus coronatus regulus; P. rubina is synonymized and the lectotype for P. bimaculatus is designated.
25082675|Species which occur in the area centered around Ohio, in the order of apparent abundance, include the following: Coelotanypus scapularis, previously unknown in the larval and pupal stages, Clinotanypus pinguis, widely distributed and variable in coloration, Coelotanypus concinnus, also widely distributed and generally known, and Coelotanypus tricolor, rare and poorly known in the North. Larvae of C. scapularis are basically similar to those of C. concinnus but can be recognized from the shorter mandibular tip, the relatively longer ventrolongitudinal spur, and other details. Pupae of C. scapularis are easily separated from those of C. concinnus by the rounded and only slightly overlapping lobes of the anal fin. Larvae of the various species have been found in a wide range of aquatic habitats; distribution does not seem to correlate with depth.
25082761|The genus Grunchia is reviewed. Grunchia dolosa and krameri are described as new species, and grossa (Linnavuori) is re-examined. A key to all species is included.
25085898|Western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, feeding damage to corn roots resulting from different combinations of rootworm strains, infestation times, and infestation levels was evaluated in two factorial experiments. Each experiment was set up in a randomized complete block design with four replications and was repeated over three Missouri environments (one environment included both experiments). The combination of the two factorial experiments evaluated three sources of the western corn rootworm eggs (a nondiapausing lab strain, a diapausing lab strain, and a field strain), three infestation times (planting, 2-leaf stage, and 5-leaf stage), and two infestation levels (600 and 1200 eggs/30.5 cm) in a total of five environments which spanned three different years. The damage caused by the diapausing strain was not significantly different from damage caused by the field strain in any of the environments or the combined analysis. The nondiapausing strain caused significantly more damage than the diapausing strain or the field strain in the 1995 environment, but caused significantly less damage than the field strain in the 1996 Hinkson Valley environment. The infestation of 1200 viable eggs/30.5 cm caused significantly more damage than the infestation of 600 viable eggs/30.5 cm in one experiment, but not in the other. The planting-time infestation caused significantly more damage than infestation at the 2-leaf stage, and infestation at the 2-leaf stage caused significantly more damage than infestation at the 5-leaf stage.
25086136|The females of Diaphanes niveus Jeng and Sat and D. lampyroides (Olivier) are described and a supplementary note on the females of D. cheni Jeng is provided. A new key to females of Taiwanese Diaphanes species replacing that of Jeng et al. (2001, Japanese Journal of Systematic Entomology 7:211) is provided. The distribution data are updated for some species.
25085005|Artificial diet mixtures containing callus tissue or corn tissue from resistant and susceptible genotypes were compared for their ability to impart resistance to larval feeding by the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J. E. Smith), and the corn earworm, Helothis zea (Boddie). Callus-diet mixtures failed to confer the degree of resistance that foliage-diet mixtures did. When the resistance mechanism was present in the silk and not the foliage, the callus-diet mixtures failed to exhibit any evidence of resistance.
25086261|The recent completion and publication of a revision of the Old World Fideliini (Megachilidae: Fideliinae) has provided new taxa and information for this little known tribe of bees. In this light, the data matrix for fideliine relationships is revised to include the newly described species as well as some corrections. Analysis of the data matrix for all fideliine species results in a single set of relationships, congruent with the previous hypothesis. An updated classification of the fideliines is provided, incorporating the new species. Fideliopsis is returned to generic rank, resulting in the following new combinations: Fideliopsis hessei (Whitehead and Eardley), F. fasciata (Whitehead and Eardley), and F. borearipa (Whitehead and Eardley). Keys are provided for the identification of all supraspecific taxa in Fideliini (with two new subtribes: Fideliina, new status, and Neofideliina, new subtribe) and a catalog of the species included. The expanded phylogeny and new floral information is used to provide a revised picture of fideliine-plant associations.
25085496|Polistes mandarinus makes a nest usually on twigs or under leaves of broad-leaf trees, in which comb color is mainly light grayish-yellow and cocoon caps are bright yellow. When the foundresses made nests on twigs of Japanese cedars, wasps used a cedar needle leaf as a core of the pedicel, which might result in reduced amount of oral secretion used in pedicel enlargement. Plant fibers applied to the yellow cocoon caps covered them up, which appeared to make nests less conspicuous in cedar trees.
25086193|Ten species of the heptagenine mayfly genus Cinygmula are recognized in North America. Two of these species were originally described from Colorado, C. mimus (Eaton) and C. ramaleyi (Dodds). Additionally, C. par (Eaton) and C. tarda (McDunnough) have been reported from the state. The purpose of this paper is to provide comparable descriptions of the adult males of the four species known from Colorado, providing illustrations of the male penes.
25085223|A key is provided to the alate viviparae of 26 aphid species reported on the foliage and roots of small grains in North America. Illustrations and morphometric measurements are included to characterize the distinguishing features given in the key.
25083077|Volatile secretions from the Dufour's gland in 8 species of Andrena bees occurring in central North America have been analyzed by combined capillary gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. In one species, Andrena mandibularis, geranyl octanoate was found to be the main component, whereas in the other 7 species all-trans-farnesyl hexanoate dominated the secretion. The chemical analyses, 14 in all, were done on individual preparations. In addition to the main compounds, some other isoprenoids and some straight chain, saturated hydrocarbons were present in smaller amounts. The analytical results agree well with earlier analyses of 19 species of European Andrena. The dispersal of the genus Andrena between Europe and North America is discussed.
25084109|Two new species of Telenomus (Hymenoptera: Scelionidae) are described from the Neotropical region. The unique cephalic structures of taurus and the previously unknown color pattern of xanthosoma substantially expand the concept of the genus.
25086317|Experiments and observations were conducted to investigate some of the physical and behavioral adaptations of larvae and pupae of the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, for living in flooded conditions, with the ultimate goal of improving methods for rearing this insect in the laboratory. Larvae have hydrophobic exocuticles and well-developed tracheal systems which are adapted for breathing in air. When larvae were placed in water, the hydrophobic properties of the exocuticle resulted in a very thin layer of air between the surface of larval body and water. Survival rates of larvae placed individually in water in test tubes open to air suggest that larvae can obtain oxygen from this air bubble by means of the tracheal system. Survival rates of larvae were lower in test tubes in which oxygen exchange was prevented by plugging tubes at the water line. Larvae could also secure an adequate supply of oxygen directly from air, as indicated by survival rates of larvae placed individually in test tubes without water but under conditions of high relative humidity. A detailed description of the larval tracheal system is presented. Larvae possess modified, hook-like spiracles that allow them to penetrate rice roots. Larvae were observed to make for themselves small chambers near or attached to roots and to use these modified spiracles to pierce rice roots in order to gain access to air found in the dense aerenchyma of rice roots. Similarly, before the pupal molt, larvae make a hole in a root and build their cocoons at the base of the hole, thus connecting the cocoons with aerenchyma.
25086368|We addressed the importance of third dimension and color contrast as cues used in close range nest localization by Osmia lignaria Say and Megachile rotundata (F.) females. By manipulating the surface of the nesting site, we compared 3-dimensional configurations of three different depths (1 cm, 2 cm, and 6 cm) and three different color contrasts (black-black, black-gray, and black-blue). We also tested the relative importance of third dimension and color contrast by manipulating both variables. Both species respond to changes in depth as well as in color contrast by increasing searching time and by displaying behaviors consistent with disorientation. Increasing the depth of the 3-dimensional configuration as well as the amount of color contrast led to an increase in the level of confusion.
25084453|A key and distribution records are given for 5 species of Pithitis in Djibouti, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, South Yemen, eastern Sudan, and Yemen. Pithitis arabiae, sp. n., is described from the Arabian Peninsula.
25085141|The occurrence and parasitization rates of leafhoppers and planthoppers by dryinid wasps were studied in 'Coastal' bermudagrass, Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers. Dryinids parasitized nymphs and adults of Endria inimica (Say), Exitianus exitiosus (Uhler), Graminella nigrifrons (Forbes), Graminella sonora (Ball), Planicephalus flavocostatus (Van Duzee), Polyamia obtecta (Osborn & Ball), Polyamia weedi (Van Duzee), and Psammotettix lividellus (Zetterstedt). Gonatopus ashmeadi Kieffer was reared from E. exitiosus and G. nigrifrons, and Tetrodontochelys peculiaris (Brues) was reared from E. exitiosus. Seasonal parasitization rates of all leafhopper taxa were <5.0% for nymphs and <3.6% for adults. Parasitization rates of nymphs generally were greater than for adults of the same species. No leafhoppers of the subfamily Cicadellinae were parasitized by dryinids. Adults of the planthoppers Delphacodes propinqua (Fieber), Liburniella ornata (Stl), and Sogatella kolophon (Kirkaldy) were parasitized by dryinids, but seasonal parasitization rates of all species were <1.5%. Planthopper nymphs rarely were parasitized. These results suggest that dryinids have minimal impact on leafhopper and planthopper populations in forage-type bermudagrass.
25083765|A preliminary study of the phytoseiid fauna of Missouri from June 1965 to June 1967 revealed 35 species of which seven species are new. Collection data for the 35 species are given and Amblyseiulus amotus, A. reventus, A. versutus, Amblyseius opertus, Galendromus superstus, Neoseiulus saltus, and N. swartii are described and illustrated.
25085682|Six characteristics of Siphonaptera in addition to those mentioned by other authors indicate that they have more in common with nematocerous Diptera than with Mecoptera.
25086070|Fourteen species of black flies are recorded from Kansas, including new state records for Ectemnia taeniatifrons (Enderlein), Simulium argus Williston, S. jacumbae Dyar and Shannon, and S. johannseni Hart. All species known from Kansas are widespread in North America. The major simuliid pests in Kansas are S. meridionale Riley and the S. vittatum Zetterstedt complex, with S. johannseni playing a minor role. This paper documents examples of black fly annoyance to humans and livestock in Kansas as well as economic losses to farm-flock poultry producers and owners of exotic birds. The death in Kansas of a double yellowhead Amazon parrot from attacks by S. meridionale represents the first record of North American black flies causing economic loss to owners of exotic birds other than ratites.
25086348|Five new species of Myrsidea are described from Babblers (Passeriformes: Timaliidae). The new species and their type hosts are: Myrsidea cheni ex Alcippe morrisonia from China; M. macronoi ex Macronous gularis from Sarawak and Thailand; M. argentauris ex Leiothrix argentauris from China and Thailand; M. dukguni ex Stachyris striolata from China; and M. falcatae ex Ptilocichla falcata from the Philippines.
25084862|Tests were done to determine whether male and female Glypta fumiferanae (Viereck) and female Apanteles fumiferanae Viereck fed on wildflowers that occurred on the floor of jack pine stands or honeydew produced by an aphid (Cinara sp.) that was common on jack pine foliage. Both sexes of G. fumiferanae were observed feeding on honeydew but not on wildflowers. Female A. fumiferanae were also observed feeding on honeydew but not flowers. However, because the A. fumiferanae used in the tests were infrequently observed feeding the lack of response to wildflowers may have been an artifact of the general lack of response by A. fumiferanae to the food sources. The provision of honeydew did not increase the longevity of individuals of G. fumiferanae or A. fumiferanae over those provided with no food.
25085957|Body size in animals influences survival, fecundity, and mating opportunity. For bees, parental provisioning behavior largely controls offspring body size. Because larger offspring of many bee species have fitness advantages, selection on body size should act through selection on parental provisioning behavior and restrict body size variation of each species. Many bee species show great variability in body size, however, which may indicate that adult females are often constrained in their ability to consistently produce large offspring. We compared body size variation within bee species for two life history traits that could influence offspring body size: dietary breadth (specialist or generalist) and nesting habit (ground-nesting or cavity-nesting). We determined the head width (a reliable correlate of body size) of 2276 bees belonging to 31 bee species from five families and calculated the body size variation for each species. Body size variation, measured as the coefficient of variation in head size, did not differ between pollen specialists (oligoleges) and pollen generalists (polyleges) across 13 pairs of closely-related, sympatric bee species of similar body size. Cavity-nesting species showed significantly greater variation in body size than ground-nesting species, which suggests that the choice of nest cavities utilized may be a more important predictor of offspring body size than parental body size. The cleptoparasite Coelioxys sayi had similar body size variation to one of its hosts, Megachile brevis. The European honey bee, Apis mellifera, showed the least body size variation of any species measured.
25085861|Environmental deterioration resulting from the impact of bauxite tailings on the distribution of benthic macrofauna was studied in the Igarap gua Fria, a side channel semi-isolated from the Rio Trombetas, near Porto Trombetas, Oriximin, Par, Brazil. The objective of this study was to relate the occurrence and seasonal distribution of the benthic macrofauna, especially larvae of Chironomidae (Insecta: Diptera) to the activities of a bauxite mine during the rainy season (May-June) and the dry season (October-November) in 1994 and 1995, at three sampling stations (comparing a reference site to polluted sites). Over the four collecting periods, we found low generic richness and low densities of Chironomidae. The chironomids Chironomus, Goeldichironomus, and Polypedilum predominated in the study area. The fine-grained bauxite tailings, dispersed by local currents, have covered much of the river bottom with drastic consequences for the benthic macrofauna.
41353879|Tecoma stans (L.) Juss. ex Kunth (Bignoniaceae) is a ubiquitous showy plant species that occurs naturally throughout much of the tropics and is commonly used as an ornamental in urban landscapes. The natural distribution and abundance of this floral resource in northwestern Costa Rica presents the opportunity for a comparative study of urban bees across repeated samples and in multiple cities, filling an important data gap in urban bee ecology. Community composition and daily foraging patterns of bees visiting flowering urban T. stans resources were outlined and compared over a 21-month period from July 2007 to March 2009. A total of 27 species were identified as foragers, accounting for over 10% of the known diversity from nearby wildlands. These bees were in the families Apidae and Halictidae and represented diverse feeding and nesting habits, as well as social and solitary life histories. Centris eurypatana Snelling, Ancyloscelis sp. 1, and Nannotriogna perilampoides (Cresson) were the dominant species collected and accounted for nearly 75% of all records. Clear daily phenology was evident, with peak visitation occurring before 1300h. Common visitors can be sorted into early morning or full day foragers represented by Xylocopa and Halictus species, respectively. Community similarity and relative taxon dominance in each city appears to be related to the surrounding peri-urban landscapes, however further study is needed to verify this trend. The potential of T. stans to serve as an in-situ monitoring resource for urban bee communities is discussed as the natural distribution and attractiveness present opportunities across a broad geographic range.
25085309|During a four month study of male territoriality males of the euglossine bee Eulaema meriana exhibited the two alternative behavior patterns of territoriality and transiency. Territorial males patrolled an area adjacent to a tree upon which they perched. Territorial males utilized the same territory for up to 49 days, though often not on consecutive days, and appeared to non-violently relinquish territories to new males. Transients did not defend territories but flew from one territory to another and flew with the territorial male around the territory, rarely bumping, and never grappling. Transient males left the territory soon after the territorial male flew back and forth in front of the perch tree in a zig-zag flight. The alternative behaviors were correlated with wing wear such that males with little wing wear defended territories and males with considerable wing wear pursued a transient strategy. Behavior patterns were not correlated with head width. Comparison of territory trees with the territory trees of a closely related species indicate that each species utilized trees of a certain diameter class for perching. In addition, analysis of hemispherical canopy photographs indicates that males appeared to prefer territories that received a maximum of diffuse sunlight but a minimum of direct sunlight. Both territorial and transient males consistently returned to specific territories over their lifetime but appeared to travel long distances to forage for fragrances. Territorial and transient males visited fragrance baits with equal frequency suggesting that non-territorial, as well as territorial, males required fragrances.
25568925|For a revision of the subgenera Patellapis (s. str.), P. (Chaetalictus) and P. (Lomatalictus) of the bee genus Patellapis Friese about 3000 specimens of more than 70 species were studied. We found that the original diagnoses of the subgenera based on a relatively small number of specimens and species are insufficient and need to be revised. The existence of intermediate species showing a mixture of characters and the morphological diversity within, as well between, the subgenera Patellapis (s. str.), P. (Chaetalictus) and P. (Lomatalictus) made an unequivocal definition of subgenera problematic. Based on material of various museum collections and our collecting activities in western South Africa the subgeneric limitations of Patellapis (s. str.), P. (Lomatalictus), and P. (Chaetalictus) were redefined. A set of characters and character combinations and a revised key to facilitate identification is presented. The study is a first step towards a better understanding of the subgeneric structure of Patellapis.
25082756|The western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera Le Conte, was first officially recorded in southwestern Michigan in 1971, but the apparent rapidity of its buildup indicates that it entered the state several years prior to its discovery. Dispersal was probably facilitated by prevailing winds and was at the rate of about 50 miles north, 38 miles northeast, and 25 miles east per year. The pest was known to occur in counties where 97% of Michigan's corn is grown by 1974.
25085340|The structure of ovarian tissues associated with production of the eggshell adhesive and with mechanical deposition of the eggs of the Cottonwood Leaf Beetle, Chrysomela scripta Fabr., was investigated with techniques of light as well as scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Extracellular microtubule-like structures are reported from the lumen of the ovarian passages in the regions of the pedicel and calyx. Microvilli line the pedicel and calyx while the lateral and common oviducts are lined with cuticular cteniform spines. The eggshell coating is composed of two distinct layers.
25085101|Conventionally tilled plots and the north and south slopes in no-till ridge tillage were infested with eggs of the western corn rootworm in the fall of 1986. The following spring, the plots were planted with maize. From the time the mean daily soil temperatures were above the WCR egg threshold for development, 14 April, until the maize emerged, 5 May, the south slope of the ridge accumulated 70 DD versus 55 for the north slope and 56 for conventional tillage. From 14 April until 5 June, the south slope accumulated 287 DD and the north slope and conventional tillage 254 and 253, respectively. There was not a significant difference in the time to 50% adult emergence among the three treatments. Significantly greater damage to roots from the south slope of the ridge infestation was caused by greater survival of immature rootworms. All three infested treatments had significantly less yield than the checks, but were not different among themselves.
25083535|The seasonal distribution of thirty-four species of adult mayflies in Northwestern Arkansas is given. All thirty-four species may be seasonally restricted at the study site; however, data indicate that the emergence of five species may be rhythmic. A review of the literature on the seasonal distribution of adult mayflies in North America is included. Twenty-three species are listed as new to the state.
25082949|Proctacanthus hinei Bromley is reported for the first time from Illinois on the basis of four collections made by the authors in 1973 and 1976 at Sand Ridge State Forest in Mason County, Illinois. Bombus griseicollis (DeGeer) and B. pennsylvanicus (DeGeer) are recorded as prey of female P. hinei.
25085278|Densities of soil-dwelling Sternorrhyncha (Aphidoidea + Coccoidea) in tallgrass prairie significantly increased in response to application of a foliar insecticide (carbaryl). Densities of these soil homopterans also increased in response to mowing of vegetation. Spring burning of vegetation to enhance grass production did not have a strong affect on total populations. Resource abundance of cool season grasses, as mediated by competition from other herbivores, best explain these patterns.
25084298|The formulation,
25083661|The types and specimens of 43 Nearctic species of Chironomidae identified by O. A. Johannsen are reviewed. Seven new generic combinations are given: Hydrobaenus (Chaetocladius) stamfordi Johannsen [= Trissocladius stamfordi (Johannsen)], Trichocladius lacteipennis Johannsen [= Rheocricotopus lacteipennis (Johannsen)], Metriocnemus hamatus Johannsen [= Paraphaenocladius hamatus (Johannsen)], Metriocnemus exagitans Johannsen [= Paraphaenocladius exagitans (Johannsen)], Psectrocladius aureus Johannsen [= Pseudochironomus aureus (Johannsen)], Chironomus (Stenochironomus) furcata Johannsen [= Insulanus furcatus (Johannsen)] and Chironomus lugubris Williston [= Tribelos lugubris (Williston)]. One nomen dubium is given: Orthocladius sordens Johannsen. Three new species are described: Orthocladius (s.s.) johannseni, Cricotopus ithacanensis and Cricotopus pedatus. One new genus, Insulanus, is described and the genus Trichocladius Kieffer, Brundin, is emended with Symbiocladius (Acletius) Roback given as a new synonym of the latter. Chironomus willistoni Johannsen is given as a new synonym of Insulanus furcatus (Williston).
25082996|The life cycle, host plant, and behavior of the neotropical butterfly Aeria eurimedea agna (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Ithomiinae) are reported for northeastern Costa Rica. Owing to the presumed primitive phyletic status of Aeria in the Ithomiinae, studies of life stages and behavior of the genus provide useful comparisons with other ithomiines and also with a closely related subfamily, the Danainae. The larval host plant is Prestonia sp. (Apocynaceae) a small understory tree of mature forest. Oviposition is single but a female deposits several eggs on different plants, in a small area. The developmental time, egg to adult, is almost 28 days. The striped danaid-like caterpillar constructs a tent-like shelter by careful cutting and bending of a leaf. This structure may provide protection from rain and various predators. A brief comparison of life stages and behavior with Oleria reveals several differences. The apocynaceous-feeding habit and larval morphology of Aeria are discussed briefly in terms of a relationship between ithomiines and danaines.
25084196|Formica neoclara Emery preys upon lepidopterous larvae but attends bean aphids, Aphis fabae Scopoli. In a sugarbeet field at Ft. Collins, Colo., abundance of bean aphid was highly correlated with abundance of ants and ant nest entrances. Ladybird abundance was correlated with bean aphid abundance and ant numbers. We suggest that survival of bean aphids, or perhaps growth and reproduction, is enhanced by association with F. neoclara. Ant activity was influenced by thermal conditions. Ant activity at nest entrances that were exposed to incident sunlight decreased in response to high soil temperatures, while activity at shaded entrances remained relatively constant. There were significantly higher levels of activity at shaded entrances during mid-day but more activity at unshaded entrances in early evening. Overall ant activity on the soil surface was higher in early evening as compared to morning and mid-day. The level of ant activity on aphid-infested plants also decreased at mid-day.
25083639|A review of behavior exhibited by digger wasps of the genus Nitelopterus reveals basic nesting habits similar to those of the related genus Miscophus. These small wasps tend to confine their activities to the ground, as though they were weak fliers; even flower visitation records are for prostrate plants. A short, simple burrow is constructed and provisioned with small adult or immature spiders. During hunting, Nitelopterus females continually investigate under objects on the ground, in holes, cracks, etc. and various types of free-living and web-spinning spiders which occupy these situations are taken by the genus. When a full complement of prey for one cell has accumulated, an egg is deposited on one of the last spiders, laterally near the juncture of the abdomen and cephalothorax. Upon completion of a burrow, sand is raked in from all sides, until the tunnel is nearly entirely blocked with loosely packed fill and the surface carefully smoothed for several centimeters around.
25082603|Behavior of Adranes taylori is similar to the behavior of the European Claviger testaceus. Beetles possess trichomes, or golden hairs attractive to ants, on the abdomen, elytral apices, and on the venter. These trichomes are highly attractive to larval ants, less so to workers. Adranes are fed by the larvae through trophallaxis and obtain other nutrients by feeding on dead larvae and workers. A scanning electron microscope study showed the nature and arrangement of the trichomes, antennae, and greatly modified mouth parts.
25085122|Nine species of Euparagia are treated. Distributions of this North American endemic are summarized. Keys and illustrations are included, along with descriptions of two new species: siccata from California and yuma from Arizona.
25085468|The eastern Nebraska salt marsh community was surveyed in 1991 and 1992 to determine the distribution and abundance of the endemic tiger beetle, Cicindela nevadica lincolniana Casey. Adults were counted beginning in early June when the beetles emerged and concluded in August when numbers diminished. Counts were made visually during the day at each site on a weekly basis, weather permitting. Only 229 beetles in 1991 and 114 in 1992 were counted during peak adult density. An attempt at mark-release-recapture also was made at several sites during peak adult density, using UV (blacklight), but was not successful because of problems in marking and weather. Surveys indicate that C. n. lincolniana is rare, and protection of the remaining habitat should be of highest priority. C. n. lincolniana has been proposed for both state and federal endangered species listing, and a common name, the Salt Creek tiger beetle, has been proposed.
25084629|The female reproductive tract of Tabanus abactor Philip is described. Each ovary is comprised of an average of 107 ovarioles. Ovaries are positioned in segments four through six of the abdomen and are joined by lateral oviducts to the large, saclike common oviduct. Ovarioles tend to be rather short with a maximum of two distinguishable follicles (primary and secondary) developing at any time. Ovarioles are of the polytrophic type with eight nurse cells accompanying the ovum in each follicle. The common oviduct extends posteriorly and somewhat ventrally as it joins the genital chamber in the seventh abdominal segment. This chamber is adjacent to the ventral wall of the abdomen. Three spermathecae are made up of terminal capsules, ducts, and sclerotized sleeves, and enter the dorsal side of the genital chamber via a common duct between the forked projections of the genital armature. Paired accessory glands arise from adjacent ducts off the genital chamber posteriad to spermathecal ducts.
25084600|A population of the European bee, Osmia cornuta Latr., was successfully transported to the U.S. from Spain and managed through the winter in temperature cabinets. Incubation of these bees during late April of the following year was also successful and resulted in their introduction in Utah to an isolated apple (Malus sylvestris Mill.) orchard supplied with nest shelters filled with various types of man-made nest materials. A smaller population of a related pollinator species, Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson (native to North America) was also mass-released in the same orchard for comparative purposes. Nests of both Osmia species were recovered from all nest materials supplied and the same pollen species (predominantly apple) was collected from all cell provisions. Other biological and behavioral comparisons between these two Osmia species (nest architecture, egg deposition, development of immatures, prenesting dispersal patterns, expressed preferences for establishing nests in particular materials, courtship and mating habits) were also remarkably similar. Dispersal by prenesting O. cornuta females was, however, greater than that of O. l. propinqua. As a consequence, proportionately fewer O. cornuta established nests in the orchard and, as a result, the nesting population of O. cornuta decreased whereas the nesting population of O. l. propinqua increased.
25086209|Reproduction in the leaf-cutting bee Megachile (Chrysosarus) pseudanthidioides Moure was studied by trap nesting in secondary Atlantic rain forests on Santa Catarina Island, southern Brazil. Nests were built in borings of hardwood blocks, in small wooden boxes and bamboo canes. The brood cells consisted of an outer layer of overlapping small leaves or pieces of leaves cut oval. They covered a chamber formed of clay. Pieces of flower petals served as the innermost lining of the cells. Nests were constructed October through February. Emergence pattern indicates a bivoltine life cycle with a spring generation emerging December and early January and a second (summer) generation diapausing as prepupae from fall through winter. Metamorphosis then takes place in late winter and imagines emerge only in the following spring, September and October. A cleptoparasitic megachilid, Coelioxys (Acrocoelioxys) tepaneca (Cresson), was found to attack nests of Megachile (C.) pseudanthidioides. This host-parasite relationship was previously unknown.
25085557|We investigated volatile emission from horticultural dwarf bush bean leaves in response to either mechanical wounding or feeding by adult twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus urticae Koch. After treatment (mechanical wounding or mite feeding) leaflets were incubated in glass vials. Air samples from the vials were then analyzed by gas chromatography. The principal volatiles detected with our system were
25085178|Two transects of clustered, pulp-pot style bait-hives were established in early 1988 to document, in advance of the northward dispersal of the Africanized honey bee, swarming activity and other characteristics of existing Apis mellifera populations in the northeastern Mexican state of Tamaulipas (63 monitoring sites; 252 traps) and in the Rio Grande Valley of southern Texas (36 sites; 144 traps). This represents the first such long-term study of subtropical European honey bee swarming dynamics in the Americas. Swarming activity has been present during all months of the ongoing study (March to October) and has been bimodal with highest swarming levels from March to May and September to October. Slightly earlier swarming was observed on the Mexican transect. During the first 8 months of study reported here we captured a total of 277 swarms from the Mexican and 164 from the Texas transect. Swarming intensities during the peak swarming season were high enough to saturate trap clusters at many monitoring sites. Clusters of bait hives thus may be warranted during peak swarming seasons. Swarming activity on the physiographically variable Mexican transect showed strong negative altitudinal/vegetational associations not seen on the more homogeneous Texas transect. It is suggested that such strong habitat-related correlations may prove important in bait-hive monitoring or control programs over wide geographic areas.
25084717|The relative abundance, phenology, and host relationships of parasites associated with the native holly leafminer, Phytomyza ilicicola Loew were studied on American holly (Ilex opaca Aiton) in central Kentucky. Two parasite species, Opius striativentris Gahan (Braconidae) and Sphegigaster sp. (Pteromalidae) were reared from leafminer puparia. O. striativentris, the predominant parasite, emerged in the field in late April and May, and females oviposited in newly-hatched leafminers. First instars were present within host larvae when leafmines first appeared in June, but further development was delayed until the host pupated the following spring. Parasitism by O. striativentris did not significantly affect the leaf area mined by P. ilicicola larvae. Sphegigaster sp. parasitized late pupae of P. ilicicola or fed as a facultative hyperparasite on the pupa of O. striativentris.
25085192|Extraction and analysis of the hydrocarbons from European honey bee queens indicates the presence of unsaturated compounds not exhibited by worker bees. Queen-specific hydrocarbons consist of a homologous series of long-chain alkenes sharing the common feature of being unsaturated 15 carbons from the end of the molecule (N-15 olefins) and two series of alkadienes. Extraction of specific body parts shows the queen-specific hydrocarbons to be localized on the abdomen and concentrated on the dorsal surface, while the worker compounds are evenly distributed over the insect. Comparison of the average queen olefin abundance profile with the average profile for workers suggests that queens display additional biosynthetic paths which are masked in workers, and unmasked at some point in the process of queen determination.
25083016|When the utilization of sperm of Tribolium confusum Jacquelin duVal was investigated by using a semidominant black-body color mutant as a marker, sperm from a second sire took partial precedence in fertilization over sperm already in the spermatheca. However, there was some mixing of the two types of sperm in the spermatheca because both types of progeny were produced after the second mating.
25085706|Pompilid and sphecid wasps differ significantly in the dynamics of their predatory behavior and their attack strategies on colonial orb-web building spiders (Araneidae: Metepeira incrassata). In response to wasp attacks, the most common antipredator defense of the spiders is to drop from their webs attached to a dragline. This mode of escape is successful against many wasps, but is exploited by one species. The general attack strategy of pompilid wasps is to attack a large number of spiders per predatory bout, follow large spiders which drop from their webs to the ground, and hunt throughout the large three-dimensional spider colonies. One pompilid, Poecilopompilus mixtus, exploits the escape behavior of the spiders and actively induces spiders to jump from their webs, as it is able to track the spiders as they drop and most successfully captures spiders on the ground. In contrast, sphecid wasps attack relatively few spiders per predatory bout, attempt to sting spiders before they drop from their webs as they never follow the spiders to the ground, and hunt only on the periphery of colonies. Differences in the predatory behavior may be due to multiple versus single prey provisioning of nests by the wasps.
25084774|The neotropical genus Cleptidea is reviewed, giving new generic synonymy, additional information on previously described species, a revised key to species, and descriptions of 8 new species: balboana, janzeni, mima, napoana, panamensis, pedicelaris, propodealis, and xantha. Finally, the genus Godfrinia is given as a junior synonym of Cleptidea.
25085742|The single previously-described species of Dennyus (Ctenodennyus), D. (C.) spiniger Ewing (type host-Cypseloides niger), is redescribed. Two new species of this subgenus are also described and illustrated: D. (C.) southwoodi (type host-Aerodramus francicus; other hosts-A. brevirostris, A. fuciphagus, A. maximus, A. spodiopygius, A. whiteheadi) and D. (C.) elbeli (type host-Collocalia esculenta; other host-C. linchi).
25082924|Four species of Meromenopon are recognized, described, and keyed. These include M. marshalli, a new species from Merops leschenaulti from Thailand and Burma. M. concii Tendeiro is placed in synonymy with M. meropis Clay and Meinertzhagen.
25085598|Horn fly field populations were bioassayed for pyrethroid and OP resistance during 1990 and 1991. Most fly populations had some degree of resistance to a pyrethroid, fenvalerate, and were susceptible to an OP, diazinon. The possible involvement of esterases in horn fly resistance to pyrethroids was evaluated by quantifying the relative staining intensities of esterases resolved by electrophoresis. Two major zones of esterase activity were found; Est-1 was common in all populations and had the highest staining intensity. Est-2 had greater staining intensity in insecticide-exposed populations than in an unexposed population. However, no significant difference occurred in Est-2 intensity between highly resistant populations (resistance ratio, RR > 150) and populations with lower resistance (RR < 150). Staining intensity of this enzyme did differ slightly among populations with resistance less than 150-fold. No difference in staining intensity was found among adults of different ages in a susceptible population. Females had higher Est-2 staining intensity than males. This study shows that esterases are not a major source of pyrethroid resistance in horn flies and the technique may provide a method for screening populations for potential esterase-mediated OP resistance.
25085829|Experimental removal of the sexually dimorphic supra-fronto-orbital bristles from male Ceratitis capitata lowered the chances that courting males would succeed in mounting females. Bristle removal did not affect male courtship behavior, and females often did not contact male bristles, so the male bristles probably function as visual display devices, despite the surprising fact that neither placement of the bristles nor courtship behavior are appropriate to display either the bristles' exaggerated length or the expansions at their tips to full effect. Indirect evidence suggests that male eye colors are also important in courtship, but that bristle asymmetry is not.
25083454|This is a review of the South American panurgine bee genus Acamptopoeum. The genus is characterized, a key to the nine species is given, and a new species, A. colombiensis, the northernmost known, is described from Colombia.
25085504|Oocyte development, potential fecundity and relationship to body size were evaluated in Psithyrus species, social bee parasites of the ancestral Bombus. Oocyte size in female Psithyrus from southern Alberta increased linearly with time from emergence since hibernation in the spring and was not synchronous with the finding of a suitable host nest. None of the Psithyrus females collected from host nests in the autumn had any ovariole development. Significant differences between years in body size occurred for P. insularis (Smith) and P. suckleyi (Greene), but not for P. fernaldae (Franklin), and the number of ovarioles and oocytes differed yearly for P. insularis, but not P. fernaldae and P. suckleyi. The number of ovarioles per ovary varied within females and species and among species. The number of ovarioles in P. fernaldae (12.3  2.1), P. insularis (15.7  2.2), and P. suckleyi (21.3  3.0) was more than in Bombus species (8). As body size of Psithyrus females increased, there was a significant increase in the number of ovarioles when all specimens over years and species were considered. Significant differences in body size and potential fecundity within and between species suggest considerable plasticity in physiology, morphology, and behaviour and differences in reproductive strategies within the genus Psithyrus.
25085341|The distribution of Beauveria bassiana in chinch bug, Blissus leucopterus leucopterus, habitats was determined during 1985 and 1986 when population densities of chinch bug were extremely low. Clumps of little bluestem, Andropogon scoparius, and soil and crop plants from wheat and sorghum fields were sampled. Over 60% of A. scoparius samples contained B. bassiana, and mean concentrations were the highest of any substrate sampled. The proportion of soil samples from wheat and sorghum fields that contained B. bassiana was positively related to a crop history that included wheat the previous year. Within wheat fields, the presence of B. bassiana on leaf sheaths indicated that the fungus may be vectored onto plants by contaminated hosts. Among overwintering adult chinch bugs isolated from A. scoparius clumps, the prevalence of B. bassiana infection was 43.6% in 1985 and 7.2% in 1986. Infection among chinch bugs collected from wheat fields ranged from 18.8 to 28.8% for overwintered adults in early spring and from 9.4 to 13.0% for first-generation nymphs in late spring. Infection of second-generation nymphs in sorghum occurred only where B. bassiana was present in the soil.
25568941|Three morphologically similar Bahamian scoliid wasps are traditionally described as two species, Campsomeris bahamensis and C. trifasciata, the latter of which is divided into two subspecies: C. trifasciata and C. t. nassauensis. We examined these taxonomic groups by comparing the genetic diversity of different Campsomeris populations collected at various locations on several islands. DNA was extracted from individual male and female specimens and preferentially amplified by the polymerase chain reaction, using a unique random primer for each analysis. The DNA products were compared by electrophoresis. Results indicate overlapping genetic profiles between these three taxonomic groups. The genetic variation between these three taxa is similar to the variation found within one taxon collected from different islands.
25082818|The monotypic genus Stylantheus Bridwell and its type-species S. macrocerus (Horn) are redescribed and their synonymies given. S. macrocerus is similar in some characters to several species of Acanthoscelides Schilsky and the relationships between S. macrocerus and these species are discussed. Stylosanthes biflora (L.) B.S.P. (Leguminosae) is the only known host plant for S. macrocerus.
25082407|The head capsule of the 1st larval instar of Coelioxys octodentata and Coelioxys sayi is delicate, whereas the head capsules of the 2nd and 3rd instars are heavily sclerotized with huge mandibles. Brevity of the 1st stadium and delicacy of 1st instar exuvia probably caused the 1st instar to have been overlooked by previous workers. In the 3rd instar, males of C. sayi have mandibles that are significantly shorter than those of both C. sayi and C. octodentata females and significantly longer than those of C. octodentata males. The 4th and 5th instars are progressively more similar to those of related bees such as Megachile. Females in the 4th instar have a more pronounced shoulder on the outer surface of the mandible than do 4th instar males. Sexes are separable in the 4th and 5th instars by a transverse slit on the 12th sternite of the male.
25083867|Xenohesma Michener is raised to generic status. Xanthesma micheneri n. sp. from Western Australia is described.
43288253|A new monobasic leafhopper genus and species of the tribe Agallini (Hemiptera: Auchenorrhyncha, Cicadellidae: Megophthalminae), Multinervis guangxiensis Li and Li, new genus and new species, is described and illustrated from Guangxi in Southern China. Multinervis appears to be closely related to three Southeast Asian genera, Dryodurgades Zakhvatkin 1946, Paulagallia Viraktamath, 2011 in reticular venation on forewings and Sangeeta Viraktamath, 2011 in upper striations at face, but can be distinguished mainly by the unique characters of the male genitalia and the structure of external morphology.
25085170|Effect of an induced resistance in soybean on the susceptibility of twospotted spider mites (Tetranychus urticae Koch) to two acaricides was studied under greenhouse conditions. Expression of induced resistance was strongest in reducing spider mite fecundity and this observation was consistent with previous workers. As a consequence, significant differences and trends were detected only with egg populations. The interaction was elucidated via probit regression analysis. The results indicated that, while the egg reduction achieved by the combination of inducible resistance and acaricide was maximum at ca. 10 ppm, the interaction peaked at ca. 75 ppm. These maxima were the same for both acaricides. More statistically significant differences were detected with dicofol than with dimethoate. While the actual differences detected were slight, they have implications with respect to a reduction of pesticide usage for spider mite control.
25085332|Nest and prey of the beetle predator Cerceris lutzi are described from Costa Rica.
25084268|Populations of 200  and 200  Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson bees were mass-released into each of six Utah apple orchards supplied with styrofoam nest materials. The total number of cells recovered was greater than the number of bees released, but the populations of live bees were reduced by an average of 10% due to high egg and larval mortality. Dispersal of bees prior to nest establishment was demonstrated by the ready acceptance by bees of nest traps placed at various distances from release sites. The distance and/or direction of drift traps from release sites had no significant effect on rates of bee acceptance to these nests. Pollen analyses of sampled cell provisions indicated that bees restricted pollen collections to three plant species (Ribes aureum Pursh, Malus sylvestris Mill, and Taraxacum officinale Weber) of which Malus (apple) was the primary host (86.6% pollen by vol./cell av.).
20621956|This study uses morphological and natural history data, along with molecular data derived from the internal transcribed spacers 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2), to investigate the status of species that are morphologically similar to Dasymutilla quadriguttata. Genetic distances, UPGMA cluster analyses, and maximum parsimony analyses were performed. In addition to those species that are morphologically similar to Dasymutilla quadriguttata, for our analysis we chose other species from the D. quadriguttata species-group that differ sufficiently in morphology as outgroups, as well as species from the D. bioculata and D. nigripes species-groups. These species include D. californica, D. chattahoochei, D. lepeletierii, D. nigripes, and D. wileyae. Conclusions from the analyses are that D. alesia, D. allardi, D. atrifimbriata, D. biguttata, D. castor, D. cypris, D. electra, D. hersilia, D. hora, D. interrupta, D. mediatoria, D. miamensis, D. mutata, D. nigridia, D. nitidula, D. permista, and D. rubricosa are indistinguishable from and junior synonyms of D. quadriguttata. With this knowledge and with past sex associations, the D. castor, D. monticola, and D. quadriguttata species-groups are updated and an addendum to Mickel's (1936) Dasymutilla key is provided.
25083506|The present paper on the solitary halictid Augochlora pura is based upon field investigations made in northeastern Kansas and upon observations in a bee room in which the species was colonized and induced to nest in observation boxes. Augochlora nests in rotting logs and stumps situated within deciduous woods; foraging, feeding and mating take place in the same habitat and also in the adjacent brush and pasture land. The species is polylectic. The flight season lasts from the middle of April through early September. Active nests are found only from early May to the beginning of August. There are at least two, probably three generations. Females, emerging in August and September, mate during their flower visits and spend the winter in a state of ovarian diapause in hibernacula in the bottom portions of logs lying upon moist ground. Nesting females exhibit a pronounced daily activity rhythm. Cells are constructed only at night and one at a time. Foraging takes place mainly during the morning hours; formation of the ball of provisions, oviposition, and capping the cell, mainly during the afternoon hours. Using abandoned insect burrows as starting points, the species makes its nests in a variety of architectural patterns in decaying phloem or xylem. According to the degree of cell dispersal which is determined by the availability of workable substrate, cluster nests, planiform nests, and tunnel nests can be distinguished. Cluster nests resemble combs consisting of several superimposed horizontal layers of two to three cells. Planiform nests, found usually in the phloem, have all their cells or cell groups arranged in one plane. Tunnel nests, which occur mainly in abandoned insect galleries in harder wood, possess cells which are arranged singly or in chainlike rows. Many intermediate types of nests exist. The cells are dependent or independent in the sense of Malyshev. The dependent type as made by many other soil nesting halictid bees, e.g., Lasioglossum zephyrum, was found in few nests in the field; independent cells were the commonly encountered type. As observed in observation boxes, these cells are built in that with the support of the floor, sometimes the ceiling, and at least one, but sometimes also two or three vertical walls (often the sides of finished cells) in the nest, a rough cell is formed of comminuted wood particles. This primary cell wall serves as a frame onto which the secondary cell wall, corresponding to the worked substrate used to line dependent cells, is applied. This layer is finally coated with a film of waxlike material. After or during the finishing of the cell, the bee digs, in planiform or cluster nests, tunnels around the cell, excising it to a large extent from the substrate. The most noteworthy feature of Augochlora nests is their plasticity and the obvious economy of labor, as expressed, for example, in the variability of the cell arrangement and the ability to omit phases of the cell construction, e.g., construction of primary cell walls when dependent cells are formed in appropriate cavities such as old cells. The possibility is discussed that ability to omit parts of the behavior is important in the evolution of parasitic and social habits among halictids.
25086110|The small panurgine bee, Perdita (Alloperdita) floridensis Timberlake, nests in sand during mid-April to mid-May in south-central Florida. This species is solitary, but often nests gregariously in dense aggregations. It is univoltine, with some larvae delaying emergence by a year, and is oligolectic, primarily foraging on gallberry, Ilex glabra (L.) Gray. Details of nest construction, foraging, pollen transport and provisions, activity periods, and male behaviors are described. Mating is presumed to occur within nests and was never observed on host plants. Bees over-wintered as post-defecated larvae (prepupae) in a semi-diapause. The biology and behaviors associated with a prolonged period (five to six months) underwater for some prepupae are detailed, and the possible oxygenating role of algae in their survival is discussed. Predators and parasites associated with P. floridensis include: the cleptoparasitic bee, Sphecodes brachycephalus Mitchell; two mutillids, Pseudomethoca torrida Krombein and Dasymutilla archboldi Schmidt and Mickel; an undetermined species of mite; the asilid fly, Mallophorina clausicella (Macquart); and the harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex badius (Latreille). In addition, an undetermined nematode species, and mosquitofish, Gambusia holbrooki Girard were associated with P. floridensis nest sites.
25084936|Fuscozetes cuauhtemoctzini, n. sp. is described, figured and differentiated from other species. It appears to prefer pine forests in central Mxico.
25085802|A cool moist summer, hailstorms, and a warm winter in northcentral Washington created a favorable set of environmental conditions to produce the first outbreak of wheat curl mites (Aceria tosichella Keifer) and Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus (WSMV) in this area similar to those reported in the Midwest, Montana, Idaho, and Alberta. Results of this study included the following. During the vegetative stage of development the largest concentration of mites was always found in the youngest leaf of a wheat or barley tiller. Within a leaf, mites were concentrated at the base of the leaf near the collar and ligule. Mites continued to move to the succeeding terminal leafs on each tiller as they developed and then into the wheat head as it emerged from the flag leaf. In club winter wheat mite populations stabilized while in common (awned) winter and spring wheat and barley, mite density increased quickly as the heads emerged from the flag leaf. Mites dispersed to spring wheat and barley wile the plants were tillering, well after the seedling stage when the plants are most susceptible to damage from mite feeding and infection by Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus.
25085054|Simulated insect-defoliation studies on soybeans on crop growth stage V1 (fully developed leaves at the unifoliate node) were conducted to understand possible yield reductions from early season feeding by insect and non-insect pests (viz., slugs). To assess potential differences in defoliation methodology, two leaf removal techniques were used: (1) cutting off portions of the unifoliate leaves and (2) removing leaf material by punching holes with a paper punch. There were no significant impacts using either defoliation technique on reducing soybean yield, with only minor effects on crop characteristics such as plant height and number of pods. With these latter growth parameters, no consistent results were obtained from year-to-year or among the various leaf removal techniques. It was concluded that early season defoliation by insect or non-insect pests will not, in all likelihood, cause yield reductions in soybeans, and should not normally be a reason for grower concern.
25082532|A technique for controlled mating in the social bee Melipona quadrifasciata is described. Three queens were mated in 10  10  7 cm boxes, each with one male 8 to 12 days old. Mating lasted about two seconds.
25082770|A distributional study of the Elmidae and Dryopidae (Coleoptera) of Indiana is presented and 24 species in the following genera recorded: Ancyronyx, Dubiraphia, Helichus, Macronychus, Microcylloepus, Optioservus, Pelonomus, and Stenelmis. New state records include A. variegata, D. bivittata, H. basalis, M. pusillus, P. obscurus, O. fastiditus, O. trivittatus, S. crenata, S. markelii, S. musgravei, S. sandersoni, and S. vittipennis.
25084420|Nigronia serricornis (Say) is reported for the first time in Mississippi and new distributional data are presented for five additional species of Chauliodinae occurring in the state. Neohermes concolor (Davis) appears to be restricted to northern areas of the state, while Neohermes matheri Flint, Nigronia fasciatus (Walker), Nigronia serricornis (Say), Chauliodes pectinicornis (Linnaeus) and C. rastricornis Rambur are more generally distributed. Keys to adults and larvae are given and genitalic structures are illustrated.
25481784|Mecoptera collected on Taiwan in recent years include eight species previously recorded there and three new species. Locality and date information is provided. Panorpa nudiramus, Panorpa tecta and Neopanorpa similis are described and taxonomically useful details are illustrated.
25082489|Feeding on wheat kernels by lesser grain borer larvae and adults resulted in grain shrinkage during storage. Weight loss of wheat from 20 days of larval feeding averaged 9.5%. Weight losses from adult feeding were 19.4, 12.0 9.5, and 6.5% per kernel during the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th weeks, respectively, after adult emergence.
25084222|Eight species of Aciurina (Diptera: Tephritidae) are gall-formers on rabbitbrush (Compositae: Chrysothamnus spp.) in Idaho. Two are believed to be new species and the taxonomic status of two others as separate species is questionable. Each species is ecologically isolated from the others by virtue of: 1) specificity to different host plant species and subspecies, 2) exploitation of different parts of the host plant for gall-formation, and 3) variable seasonal occurrence among the life stages. The life histories and habits of each are discussed with emphasis on the patterns of gall-formation and the ecological relationships among the gall-formers, their host plant(s), and other gall inhabitants.
25085644|Ptilothrix plumata Smith is a solitary multivoltine South American anthophorid bee that, at Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, scattered its nests in hard-packed soil, preferentially near grasses on trails and in sand banks in direct sunlight. Nests were vertical one-celled burrows with a small vertical turret that was usually used for closure of nests. Females laid a cylindrical egg on the bottom of the cell before molding the pollen provision into a compact pollen ball. Then they plugged the cell with a cap that is smoothed on the outside but its spiral construction is visible on the inside. Eggs from the same egg-batch varied in egg-adult time of development from 30 to 120 and 300 to 390 days. This wide variability, recorded for the first time for a tropical soil-digger bee, was achieved by prepupal dormancy. Despite heavy predation on immatures, probably by soil-nesting ants and termites, dormancy links inter-annual generations and obliterates negative effects of seasonality, mainly effects of rain on provisioned hygroscopic pollen in founded nests and immature survival in completed nests. Another common cause of immature mortality was fungus in completed nests. Parasitism by Anthrax sp. (Bombyliidae) and Leucospis genalis Boucek (Leucospidae) was less common.
25082354|Bittacus vexilliferus, Panorpa issikiana, and P. gressitti are described as new species. Bittacus zoensis Cheng is placed in synonymy of B. cirratus Tjeder, and Neopanorpa pilosa Carpenter in the synonymy of N. brisi Navs. The holotypes of Bittacus appendiculatus Esben-Petersen and Neopanorpa cavaleriei (Navs) are briefly redescribed.
25085435|Two species of large-bodied native bees (Bombus sonorus and Xylocopa californica) were found to be attracted to honey bee colonies placed in the native bees' local environment. The bumble bees and carpenter bees were attacked en masse by the honey bees and killed. A total of 147 worker bumble bees and 5 female carpenter bees were collected in dead bee traps attached to the front of the honey bee colonies. Thus the presence of honey bee colonies can negatively impact native bee populations by weakening colonies to a vulnerable point or by eliminating potential reproductives.
25083901|Investigations in Texas of the biology and behavior of a gregarious ectoparasite of Polistes wasps, Elasmus polistis Burks, showed the parasite primarily attacked Polistes exclamans Viereck. Apparently Polistes brood are attacked after cocoon formation in the cell. Parasite larvae use meconial pellets to build a black partition about midway in the Polistes cell. In the laboratory, larval growth was completed after 5 days of feeding and the entire life cycle lasted 17-20 days. The parasites overwinter as pupae in the Polistes nest and emerge the following spring. Adult parasites are present when P. exclamans nests are initiated in the spring (March) until colony decline in late fall (Oct.). However, heaviest parasitism occurred in declining colonies.
25084425|The effects of season and status (rank in the dominance hierarchy) on the activity of seven exocrine glands were evaluated in natural and laboratory populations of Polistes fuscatus females. Relative size of gland cells and reservoirs was used as a measure of gland activity. Dufour's gland became most active in females involved in aggressive interactions. Changes in the fifth and sixth sternal glands were similar to one another, with cell size increasing in pre- (worker) emergence nesting populations and exhibiting little development in non-nesting laboratory populations. During post-emergence, the dominant females had significantly larger glands than did their workers. Dominant wasps, however, had much larger fifth sternal gland cells than subordinates, suggesting a possible role in communication of dominance. Thus both Dufour's and the fifth sternal glands appear to be involved in dominance interactions. The results of this investigation support the conclusions of past behavioral studies that the secretion of the sixth sternal gland is involved in nest defense. Both the thoracic and mesal mandibular glands exhibited cell enlargement only in nesting populations at the height of nest construction and thus appear to be involved in various aspects of nest construction. The hypopharyngeal gland did not vary at all in cell size or color and may have no social function. Results of the study of the ectal mandibular gland were inconclusive.
25085688|We collected 27,214 rove beetles, using pitfall traps and flight intercept traps, in a raspberry plantation and adjacent sites in Qubec, from early May through late October, in 1987, 1988 and 1989. Generally, the activity of staphylinids occurred from May through October, particularly in May and in October at the ground surface, whereas their flight activity was maximal in May and decreased thereafter. Aleocharinae, Xantholininae and Tachyporinae were the more active subfamilies at the ground surface in May-June and in October. In addition, the epigeal activity of Omaliinae may be important in October. Aleocharinae were generally among the most active staphylinids collected by flight traps every month in 1987-1989. We present also the phenology of the 37 most abundant species (excluding Aleocharinae). These species appeared all univoltine. Twenty-four species belonging to seven subfamilies were spring breeders with summer larvae. Four forest species, Eusphalerum pothos (Omaliinae), Lordithon fungicola (Tachyporinae), Philonthus blandus and P. cyanipennis (Staphylininae), flew mainly in summer, probably during their breeding period. Five Omaliinae species and the Tachyporinae Tachinus corticinus were autumn breeders with winter larvae and imaginal aestivation. The dispersal of several species in raspberry plantations, often by flight, occurred generally in May-June, before the reproduction period; but the dispersal by walking appeared more important for three dominant staphylinid taxa from these crop fields. These agroecosystems may also be good over-wintering sites for many staphylinids; although some species may shift towards neighbouring open sites for overwintering.
25086192|A new species of the neotropical bee genus Andinaugochlora (Halictinae: Augochlorini) is described and figured. Andinaugochlora centralpina, new species, is the first species of the genus discovered outside of northern South America. The new species was discovered at altitudes ranging from 1250-1510 m in central Costa Rica. /// Una nueva especie del gnero de abejas neotropicales Andinaugochlora (Halictinae: Augochlorini) es descrita junto con algunas ilustraciones. Andinaugochlora centralpina es la primera especie del gnero descubierta ms alla del norte de Amrica del Sur. La especie fue descubierta en altitudes entre los 1250-1510 msnm en el centro de Costa Rica.
25082754|Heliothis larvae were collected from soybean fields up to 130 mi. from Stoneville, Mississippi, during the 1969, 1970, and 1971 growing seasons. Larvae were reared to adults for identification with Heliothis zea moths totaling 483 as compared with 7 H. virescens during the 3 year period.
25083666|Three new species of tetranychoid mites from Missouri are described: Beerella petiolaris (Tetranychidae) from Helianthus petiolaris Nutt.; Brevipalpus columbiensis (Tenuipalpidae) from Platanus occidentalis L.; and B. ennsi (Tenuipalpidae) from Antennaria plantaginifolia (L.) Hook and Vernonia sp.
25084852|This paper describes the in vitro maintenance of ovaries and ovarian cells from the red imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren. Whole ovaries were viable in Hink's TNM-FH medium (pH 6.1 or 7.0) for at least 8 months with refeeding every 2 months. Some outgrowth of cells from tissue fragments was observed. Cells dissociated after overnight refrigeration (4C) of ovaries in collagenase solution attached to the matrix and were viable for up to 2 weeks; however, there was no evidence of cell division. The survival characteristics of both the cell and organ systems indicate potential usefulness for biochemical and virological studies.
25085748|Thirty-one additional county records are provided for the blowflies of Colorado. Paralucilia wheeleri (Hough) is cited as a junior synonym of Compsomyiops callipes (Bigot), a correction from an earlier paper. Chrysomya rufifacies (Macquart) is confirmed in Colorado and a discussion of the circumstances of collection of larval specimens from Otero County (ex. badger, 16 September 1994) and larval specimens from the City and County of Denver (ex. fox, 26 July 1996) is presented.
25083665|A new Mexican species of an orthotyline mirid belonging to the genus Heterocordylus is described and Heterocordylus acaciae Knight is redescribed. A key to the three North American species is presented and the male claspers of these species are illustrated.
25085448|The genus Henrardia Goetghebuer with the single included species H. quadrispinosa Goetghebuer, 1936 is redescribed in both sexes. Except for the presence of 4-5 spurs on midtibial combs and the presence of pseudospurs, the genus is similar to and shown to be closely related to or possibly a senior synonym of Tribelos Townes. Dicrotendipes multispinosus (Freeman, 1957) is redescribed in both sexes. The species possesses 4-5 spurs on the tibial combs, but is unrelated to Henrardia. The margin of the wing apex shows scale-like setae, also found in several other Chironominae and in Buchonomyia burmanica Brundin & Sther.
25083057|Four of the Galgupha aterrima paratypes are reidentified as G. loboprostethia.
25082312|In their choice of prey, both males and females of Cyrtopogon auratus Cole and C. glarealis Melander show a decided preference for Diptera, followed by Hymenoptera. Courtship displays by males of both species are performed on a solid substrate, that of auratus being more elaborate than that of glarealis.
25082405|The larvae of Molanna tryphena Betten and M. blenda Sibley are described. A key to the larval stages of the southeastern species of Molanna is given. M. uniophila Vorhies is found in lakes, while M. tryphena and M. blenda primarily inhabit spring seeps and spring-fed streams.
25084165|Water loss of soybean leaf area remaining was measured on artificially and insect-defoliated leaves to define possible differences in water loss between defoliation methods. Water losses of punched defoliated leaves (inflicted with a paper punch) were significantly greater than those of picked defoliated leaves (inflicted by excising leaflets) at comparable percentages of defoliation. Similarities in water loss and trends of water loss through time between punch-defoliated and insect-defoliated leaves suggested that punching leaves more accurately simulated damage from insects than did picking leaves.
25084907|Control of overwintering stable fly larvae with an insecticide requires a product toxic at temperatures below 27C. Seventeen insecticides were evaluated for larvicidal effect on stable flies with larval media maintained at 10, 15.5, 21 and 27C. Only six of the 17 insecticides (permethrin, coumaphos, Orthene, diazinon, micro-encapsulated diazinon and chlorpyrifos) were determined to be effective at temperatures of 21C or lower.
25082902|Releases of the predaceous bug Xylocoris flavipes (Reuter) curtailed the increase of small populations of the almond moth, Cadra cautella (Walker), saw-toothed grain beetle, Oryzaephilus surinamensis (L.), and red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst), in small quantities of rolled oats in 55-gal (ca. 208-liter) metal. drums or in a room (ca. 28.2
25085267|Of six female and five male morphological measurements, head width and intertegular width were the best estimators of either wet or dry weight in both male and female Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson.
25082724|During the course of a comparative study of yellowjacket biology and behavior in the Pacific Northwest, 40 Vespula atropilosa (Sladen) and 4 V. acadica (Sladen) nests were excavated and examined. Thirty-six V. atropilosa nests were subterranean; of these, over 72% were associated with rodent burrows. Two V. acadica nests were subterranean, and 2 were located in decaying logs. Nest structure of both yellowjacket species is discussed in relation to size, envelope paper, and suspensoria.
25082959|Description and figure are presented for Tricorythodes curvatus Allen, n. sp., and the nymphs of the North and Central American Tricorythodes are placed in two species groups, the albilineatus-group and the curvatus-group.
25086131|Sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) (Asteraceae) is native to North America, which allows for the movement of pests that have evolved on wild sunflowers into commercial plantings. The sunflower beetle, Zygogramma exclamationis (Fitch) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), is the most important defoliating pest of cultivated sunflower. The objectives of this study were to investigate native species of sunflower in North Dakota and Minnesota to determine sunflower beetle incidence and the larval parasitoid fauna. Six species of native sunflowers were sampled at 16 locations in eastern North Dakota, in early August 1995, and 25 sites in both eastern North Dakota and western Minnesota, in late July to early August 1996. Larvae were dissected in the laboratory to determine parasitoid species and parasitization rates. Results showed that sunflower beetle occurred on all Helianthus species. The incidence of beetle larvae in 1995 was over 60% and in 1996 was 100% in the collection sites. Although limited to one collection, only one beetle larva was recovered from plants of H. pauciflorus. Dissection of beetle larvae from the different collection sites yielded no new records of larval parasitoids. The only species recovered was, Myiopharus macellus (Reinhard) (Diptera: Tachinidae), which, at some of the sites sampled, parasitized up to 100% of the sunflower beetle larvae collected. This parasitic fly attacked beetle larvae in all species of native sunflowers except H. pauciflorus. Rates of parasitization of sunflower beetle larvae from the different sunflower species were generally equal to or higher than that found in cultivated H. annuus fields in North Dakota or Minnesota. Subsequent collections to include other species of Helianthus, and to expand the sampling into other states and locations in the northern and central Plains, may result in additional natural enemies to augment the biological control of the sunflower beetle in cultivated sunflower.
25082919|The hosts and parasitoids were determined for 25 species of midges collected in the Rolling Plains of Texas from 1971 to 1975. Cecidomyiid genera discussed are: Anarete, Asphondylia, Contarinia, Dasineura, Lestodiplosis, Neolasioptera, Porricondyla, and Rhopalomyia.
25082875|A new anthonomine genus and a new species are described from southern and southwestern Texas and northeastern Mexico. This weevil develops within fruit of the euphorbiaceous plants Bernardia myricaefolia and B. obovata. The larval and pupal stages are described and illustrated. In addition, notes are presented on the life history, habits and abundance of the weevil.
25084549|When given a choice between actively pollinating corn (120-day) and small grain stubble/flowering weeds subplots, the NCR, Diabrotica longicornis barberi, oviposited a highly significant greater number of eggs in the corn subplots. The same ovipositional response was elicited when the choice was between a 95-day corn, which had completed pollination, and small grain stubble/flowering weeds, indicating that under the test conditions, the oviposition substrate in the corn subplots was more attractive regardless of the maturation stage of the corn. In 1980 and 1981, 87.1 and 81.8%, respectively, of the eggs were oviposited in corn.
25083827|Information associated with the nesting behaviors of the Nearctic Nitelopterus californicus, N. evansi, N. laticeps, N. slossonae, and N. texanus (?) is reviewed, along with notes on several exotic species of Miscophus. Observations on the nesting behaviors of the Nearctic Miscophus americanus, Nitelopterus kansensis, and N. slossonae, made in New York, Kansas, and Florida, are presented. All three species nest in sandy soil, build shallow, one-celled nests, and store the nest cells with many, tiny, paralyzed spiders. Particular attention is paid to burrow construction, orientation and hunting activities, prey transport, final closing, and form, dimensions, and contents of nest. An attempt is made in the discussion to categorize and analyze similarities and differences in the species-specific components of the behavior patterns, and to correlate differences with pertinent morphological characters.
25083567|This paper consists of a circuit diagram and explanation of a photoelectric apparatus being used to study the behavior of bees with a short discussion of future applications of the device.
25084699|Developments during organogeny in the external morphology of the embryo of the stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans (L.), as studied by scanning electron microscopy are described. The clypeolabrum and the appendicular portions of the mandibular and labial segments involute to form the dorsal, lateral and ventral walls of the larval mouth, respectively. Lateral, frontal and anterodorsal walls of the cephalic lobes form from joined outgrowths of the appendicular portions of the maxillary and antennal segments. The dorsal sac forms as the dorsal fold and outgrowths of the maxillary and antennal primordia extend over involuting cephalic segments, carrying the optic lobes inwards. The non-appendicular portion of the labial segment enlarges greatly while a multi-tiered tufted collar develops along the ventral and lateral anterior margin of the prothorax, with both structures aiding and protecting the protrusion and dorsoflexion of the larval head. Two of five paired placodes of segmentally derived cephalic sense organs, the labral and mandibular placodes, involute with parent segments while the antennal, maxillary and labial placodes differentiate into multi-sensillar structures externally. Paired sense organs also differentiate on the three thoracic and tenth abdominal segments. The tracheal system becomes amphipneustic with openings on the prothoracic and eighth abdominal segments. The terminal abdominal segment differentiates into characteristic anal pads ventroterminally. Organogeny takes approximately 14 hr at 30C from the onset of germ band retraction to hatching of the first-stage larva.
25084332|More than 200 adult specimens of a new pest of corn in the state of Jalisco, Mexico, have been conclusively identified as Colaspis chapalensis Blake via comparison with the holotype and 5 paratype specimens. New characters are discussed which aid in the separation of C. chapalensis from C. zanthophaia Blake. These two species can be confused because of variability in their degree of "metallic luster." In addition, C. planicostata Blake is confirmed as specifically distinct from C. chapalensis and C. zanthophaia.
25084557|Two new species of Physemus LeConte, P. levis and P. mirus, are described from South America. The male genitalia are illustrated and characters are given to interpolate the two species into the recent key to species of the genus.
25083536|The seasonal history of a white grub, Phyllophaga anxia (LeC.), was investigated in the sandhills area of Nebraska in 1962, 1963, and 1964. Larval populations occurred in the soil of subirrigated hay meadows and sometimes damaged the hay crop. Grubs were most abundant where soil moisture ranged from 20 to 40 per cent and did not occur in dry sandy uplands. Flight of the adults occurred in May and June. Natural enemies appeared to be of minor importance in most instances, and included skunks, a fungus disease, Metarrhizium anisopliae, and two insect parasites, Microphthalma michiganensis, and Tiphia sp.
25085630|Hydrogeological setting has a controlling influence on the ambient conditions of springs (the flow rate, water quality and temperature), and the governing hydrogeological processes are reasonably well understood. Springs are points of concentrated discharge from groundwater flow systems. The stability of the flow of a spring depends mostly on the extent and storage capacity of the flow systems that feed it. Spring water is always a mixture of water that infiltrated at different times and in different places. This mixing property of springs can lead to complex patterns of variability in flow, quality and temperature. With regard to biodiversity of spring fauna the filtration capacity of the geological formations especially as it relates to the movement of small and large living organisms is likely to be important, and thus it is useful to distinguish between springs fed from porous formations and from cavernous formations. Nutrient concentrations in the discharging groundwater are also likely to be important.
25082917|Leg segment proportions of backswimmers (Notonectidae) and pigmy backswimmers (Pleidae) are discussed in terms of their adaptive advantages. Long appendages with low leverage coefficients are most effective for capture of fast moving, small prey. Buenoa have such appendages, capable of fast but weak movement, and eat small, mobile prey. Martarega and Notonecta eat relatively large prey stranded on the water surface, and have fore-legs with relatively high leverage coefficients, capable of generating slow but powerful movement well adapted for restraining large struggling prey. Neoplea capture prey that are large relative to their body size and are appropriately equipped by having the shortest tarsi, presumably capable of the strongest movement. Development of these proportions is studied by an allometric analysis. Most interspecific differences studied exist at hatching and are only augmented by subsequent allometric growth.
25085692|The alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal) is the key insect pest of alfalfa in Colorado. Hypera postica reportedly has two distinct strains in the state, the eastern strain and western strain. However, during the period of this study in Northcentral Colorado, only the western strain was found. Also, one generation of the alfalfa weevil was detected, as a spring generation with an extended summer period of larvae activity. We evaluated the hymenopterous parasitoids of the alfalfa weevil larvae in fields with and without insecticide treatments. We recovered three larval parasitoids during this study: Bathyplectes curculionis (Thomson), B. stenostigma (Thomson), and B. anurus (Thomson). Average within-field parasitism percentage by all three species ranged between 2.9-7.1%. Highest combined parasitism by Bathyplectes spp. was 13.1%, with B. curculionis the most abundant species causing up to 5.0% mortality of alfalfa weevil larvae in some fields. Bathyplectes curculionis showed two distinct peaks of parasitism closely following H. postica larval activity in the spring and summer.Parasitism caused by B. stenostigma and B. anurus was 2.1 and <1.0%, respectively. There was a significant higher rate of parasitism by Bathyplectes spp. in fields that had been treated with insecticides compared to untreated fields.
25085961|Two new genera and two new species of Chrysopini (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) are described from Brazil. The main characteristics of Cryptochrysa chloros are: a sheath of long setae in the oral cavity; slender forewing; triangular intramedian cell; antennal scape longer than wide; and lines of strong setae ventral to the arcessus. Characteristics of Furcochrysa allata are: large gonocornua; presence of a pseudopenis; arcessus absent; and basal marginal vein of forewing forked.
25084107|The effect of selected temperature-photoperiod regimes on the initiation of oviposition in Sitona hispidulus was determined in growth chambers. The initiation of oviposition in non-ovipositing, oversummering female S. hispidulus was dependent upon a reduction in temperature and was slightly affected by reduced photoperiod.
40961677|Sweep net sampling of canola (Brassica napus L.) was conducted in 2002 and 2003 to determine Lygus (Heteroptera: Miridae) species composition and parasitism levels in four regions of Montana. Regardless of region or seasonal change, Lygus elisus (Van Duzee) was the dominant species in all canola fields sampled, averaging 60-99% of the total adult populations. Lygus borealis (Kelton), Lygus keltoni (Schwartz) and Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) were detected at much lower levels. Total lygus population density was greatest in the southwest and central regions. The northeast and southwest regions had the greatest lygus species diversity. The proportion of L. elisus increased from early to late crop maturity stages in the southwest and central regions while there was no change in northeast and southwest canola production regions. Nymphal stages III-V were dissected to detect parasitism in 2003 only. Parasitism was found to be negligible in the dissection of 1.230 nymphs. Lygus population densities in canola indicate the potential for economic impact on Montana canola, especially in years when moisture is limited.
25083027|The 28 described species of Baetodes are discussed. Synonymies and other pertinent data are presented for the 15 North and Central American species with an illustrated key to the nymphs, known distributional limits, and nymphal diagnosis or description. Baetodes bellus Mayo, B. furvus Mayo, and B. veracrusensis Mayo are synonymized with B. deficiens Cohen & Allen, B. fuscipes Cohen & Allen and B. caritus Cohen & Allen, respectively. Baetodes velmae is described from nymphs collected in Panama.
25086271|Late instar larvae of Cafius histrio (Sharp), C. mimulus (Sharp) and C. rufescens Sharp are described for the first time in Korea. Partial cytochrome oxidase II gene sequences (396 bp) of adults and larvae for each species were compared to confirm the conspecificity of the larvae and adults of each individual species. Diagnostic characters are provided for separation of the known species of Cafius Curtis in Korea and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented.
43288245|The diversity of bethylid wasps from Early Cretaceous (Albian) amber from Moraza (lava amber, Spain) is presented. A total of eight specimens have been recorded from this outcrop and are assigned to the following taxa: Lancepyris alavaensis, new species; Liztor pilosus, new genus and species; and Cretepyris martini, new genus and species. Together this brings the total known fossil species of Bethylidae to 48. Unsurprisingly, given the antiquity of the taxa involved, placement in a living subfamily is difficult, especially for Cretepyris. The initial decision for its placement was doubtful between Bethylinae, for its more complete venation, and Epyrinae for the lack of clypeal mid-longitudinal carina or insertion, lack of propodeal anterior constriction, and lack of posterolateral spines (highlighting the doubts about the validity of Epyrinae as currently defined). However, the fossil subfamily Lancepyrinae was recently described from Lebanese amber, and the specimens from Spanish amber match almost perfectly that group, albeit mostly on plesiomorphies, suggesting that erection of this subfamily may have limited value. Se presenta la diversidad de avispas betlidas en mbar del Cretcico Inferior (Albiense) de Moraza (mbar de lava, Espaa). Se han registrado un total de ocho especmenes en ste yacimiento y se asignan a los siguientes taxones: Lancepyris alavaensis, nueva especie; Liztor pilosus, nuevos gnero y especie; y Cretepyris martini, nuevos gnero y especie. Esto eleva a 48 el total de especies fsiles conocidas de betlidos. No sorprende, dada la antigedad de los taxones que se tratan, que su asignacin a una familia actual sea complicada, especialmente para Cretepyris. Inicialmente, la decisin para su asignacin fue muy dudosa entre Bethylinae, por su venacin ms completa, y Epyrinae por la ausencia de insercin o carena longitudinal-media del clipeo, ausencia de constriccin propodeal anterior, y ausencia de espinas postero-laterales (resaltando las dudas sobre la validez de Epyrinae tal como se define hoy en da). Por otra parte, la subfamilia fsil Lancepyrinae fue descrita recientemente en el mbar libanes, y los especmenes del mbar espaol encajan casi perfectamente en ese grupo, aunque mayormente en plesiomorfas, sugiriendo que el erguimiento de esta subfamilia puede tener un valor limitado.
25084527|A total of 2133 carrion beetles representing 7 species was collected near St. Louis between 22 June and 30 August 1982. Nicrophorus orbicollis was the most abundant species, accounting for about 35% of all silphids. Necrophila americana and Necrodes surinamensis were also abundant, each accounting for about 20% of the family. A comparison of these results with 4 recent papers indicates that the 7 species of this study are widespread throughout eastern North America. Although Anderson (1982) listed 5 additional species in his Canadian study, this study and studies conducted in Maryland and New Jersey (about 39-40 north latitude) were concerned with these same 7 species. Various specific peripheral boundaries are suggested for these species.
25084542|Zygochelifer, n. gen., is described and assigned to the Avenzoariidae, Bonnetellinae; the type-species is Bdellorhynchus psalidurus Trouessart, 1887 from Alopochen aegyptiaca, Africa. New species and their anatid hosts are: Z. beeri from Aythya collaris (Donovan), United States; Z. edentulus from Sarkidiornis melanotos (Pennant), Africa and Dendrocygna viduata (L.), Africa; Z. flammeus from Netta erythrophthalma (Wied), South America, Aythya collaris (Donovan), United States, A. nyroca (Gldenstdt), India, A. australis (Eyton), Indonesia, Tadorna tadorna (L.), U.S.S.R., Sardinia; Z. longior from Tadorna radjah (Lesson), Indonesia; Z. plectropteri from Plectropterus gambensis (L.), Africa; and Z. unguiculatus from Pteronetta hartlaubii (Cassin), Africa.
25084718|Features of the foretarsi of female Trimeria buyssoni facilitating collection of pollen from the included anthers of small flowers of species in the Verbenaceae and Boraginaceae are described and figured.
25085998|We determined which genera of leafhoppers were present on pin oaks, Quercus palustris L., and followed adult seasonal occurrence and activity patterns in relation to height in tree canopy. Ten to 14 pin oaks in Lexington, Kentucky were monitored weekly for adult leafhoppers at two or three height levels during the 1992, 1993 and 1994 growing seasons. Forty-one genera or subgenera were identified during this study including Agallia Curtis, Agalliopsis Kirkaidy, Alebra Fieber, Amblysellus Sleesman, Cicadula Zetterstedt, Colladonus Ball, Dikraneura Hardy, Draeculacephala Ball, Empoasca Walsh, Endria Oman, Erythroneura Fitch, Forcipata DeLong & Caldwell, Graminella DeLong, Graphocephala Van Duzee, Gyponana Ball, Hymetta McAtee, Japananus Ball, Jikradia Nielson, Macropsis Lewis, Macrosteles Fieber, Norvellina Ball, Oncometopia Stl, Orientus DeLong, Osbornellus Ball, Ossiannilssonola Christian, Paraphlepsius Baker, Paraulacizes Young, Pediopsoides (Nanopsis) Freytag, Penestragania Beamer & Lawson, Planicephalus Linnavouri, Ponana Ball, Ribautiana Zachratkin, Rugosana DeLong, Scaphoideus Uhler, Scaphytopius (Cloanthanus) Ball, Stirellus Osborn & Ball, Tropicanus DeLong, Tylozygus Fieber, Typhlocyba (Empoa) Fitch, Typhlocyba (Typhlocyba) Germar and Xestocephalus Van Duzee. The Typhlocybine genera were the most abundant. In four Typhlocybine and one Cicadelliine genera the numbers of individuals captured were large enough to allow examination of seasonal occurrence and canopy height preferences. Canopy preferences were quite variable except in young pin oaks where adult leafhoppers showed a greater preference for the top portion of canopies.
25083721|Preliminary designations are made for the characters of the family Liacaridae. The genus Liacarus is characterized principally by a barbed, spindleform sensillus; the synonymy of the generic name is explained. European and North American species within the genus as delineated are listed and geographic distributional data added for North American forms. New names include Liacarus mihelcici, nom. nov., (= L. ovatus Mihelcic, 1954, nom. preocc. Koch, 1840, Berlese, 1916), L. chroniosus, nom. nov., (= L. robustus Mihelcic, 1954, nom. preocc. Ewing, 1918), L. schweitzeri, nom. nov., (= L. latus Schweitzer, 1956, nom. preocc. Ewing, 1909). Liacarus spiniger Jacot, 1937, is redescribed and figured, as no figures accompanied Jacot's brief description. Two new species are described and figured, L. detosus, n. sp., from South Carolina and L. cidarus, n. sp., from California, Colorado, Utah and Wyoming.
25078486|Eight species of bats were examined from nine counties, seven in Missouri and two in Oklahoma. Fifteen bat caves and roosts were visited to secure the arthropod specimens. Records of specimens collected prior to this study and now residing in the University of Missouri, Entomology Museum are also included. Nine species of ectoparasites and eleven non-parasitic groups were collected.
25083923|Annual results gained from a field study of Sapyga pumila Cresson initiated in 1970 and completed in 1977 are presented. Three control techniques developed during the study are described and compared, and the results of field-testing each control method are presented. Biological factors affecting variation in population densities of S. pumila between native and introduced host species are also discussed.
25082808|A new genus, Meloemorpha, is proposed to accommodate the Bates' species, aliena and anomala. A key is provided to separate the species of Neoleptura Thomson with N. auripennis, N. minutipunctis, and N. alpina described as new.
25083993|This study evaluates the impact of ten botanical parameters upon grassland invertebrate faunal diversity, density and biomass where plants and invertebrates were collected from the same
25083609|The temperature for optimum greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rond.), reproduction is 23 C. Life span and reproduction were greatly lowered at a constant temperature of 35 C. Under constant temperatures of 37 C and above, reproduction ceased. At alternating temperatures of 40 C for 16 hours then 23 C for 8 hours, greenbug reproduction almost stopped. When the maximum temperatures were reduced to 38 C for 8 hours and the minimum remained at 23 C for 16 hours, reproduction increased slightly. There was no reproduction under alternating temperatures of 23 C for either 8 or 16 hours followed by 43 C for 8 or 16 hours. In field studies, temperatures should be recorded at the greenbug habitat, at ground level, and not from a weather station.
25082504|The 51 species of Thomisidae known from North Dakota are listed, with collection localities for each species within the state. Also included for certain species are comments related to taxonomic status, habitat preference and type of collecting method utilized.
25084110|Schistocerca americana adults are capable of learning in a shock-avoidance paradigm. Cycloheximide-induced protein synthesis inhibition results in a significant decrease in learning capability. Avoidance learning is associated with a significant increase in the levels of RNA and protein synthesis and a decrease in the level of cholinesterase activity in the brain of this species. Increased RNA activity associated with learning occurs in the corpora pedunculata, protocerebral bridge and central body of the protocerebrum.
25082772|Air-borne spiders caught on sticky traps were identified and counted daily. A total of 568 specimens were caught, representing 15 species and 8 families. Stepwise multiple regression analyses were conducted to determine possible relationships between several physical environmental factors and daily ballooning activity. Difference between maximum and minimum daily temperature appeared to be the most important factor influencing aerial dispersal.
25083601|Among the species described herein, 5 are neotropical and 11 nearctic, of which only Neophyto refossa n. sp. belongs to the family Sarcophagidae and the remainder to Tachinidae. Seven new genera, based upon the following new species listed are described: Trismegistus pumilis, Chessipus notialis, Elassomyia defecta, Telemus trossulus, Tarpessita fulgens, Eurylochus dissitus, and Solieriopsis boreotis. Eight new species assigned to established genera are characterized under the following combinations: Paradmontia picticornis, Mauromyia finitina, Punaclista fidelis, Blondelia leucophaeata, B. cinefacta, Elfia viridis, Houghia nigripalpis and Zizyphomyia arguta.
25084635|Mature overwintering larvae of Leguminivora glycinivorella are freezing susceptible. Their supercooling points are at about -22 to -24C in spontaneous freezing but only about -3 to -4C by inoculative freezing. Cocoons are ineffective in insulating the larvae from temperature decrease but can prevent ice inoculation from the outside due to their low water permeability. Consequently, larvae in cocoons lying 1-3 cm below the soil surface are fairly safe from severe drops in ambient temperature, which usually does not exceed -20C even in the coldest areas in Japan. Larvae in submerged cocoons can survive at least for five weeks. Thus, cocoons of this species effectively protect the inhabitants from both low temperature in mid winter and flooding in early spring. The survival rate of larvae after overwintering ranges from 67% to 85%.
25084700|The distribution of the 15 species of Athysanella from Canada and Alaska is recorded. Three of the species are new and are described: A. (Amphipyga) macleani from Alaska and Yukon Territory, A. (Amphipyga) secunda from Saskatchewan and A. (Amphipyga) resusca from Northwest Territories and Yukon Territory.
25084028|Nymphs of the nine Nearctic Taeniopteryx species were reared and studied during 1976-1978. Nymphal associations of the 839 specimens examined corresponded with the two established adult groupings, Taeniopterys burksi-maura, and T. lita-lonicera-starki complexes. A key separating seven of the nine species, based primarily upon pigment patterns and abdominal setal arrangements was constructed. Taeniopteryx lita and T. starki were indistinguishable; T. burksi can be separated from T. maura when no developing femoral spur is present. Mouthparts were not species-diagnostic. Detailed habitus illustrations were made for six species. SEM study revealed that eggs of three species were 1.2-1.4 mm in diameter, with a highly sculptured chorion, generally resembling a Maclura fruit; micropyles were scattered. Taeniopteryx lita, lonicera, starki and ugola nymphs were reared and described for the first time. Previously unreported nymphal and adult distribution records are included.
25086437|Two new species of the genus Gonatopus Ljungh from Argentina are described: G. saltensis new species, from Salta, El Quebrachal, and G. hermosensis new species, from Buenos Aires, Monte Hermoso.
25084863|Three species of Phaedon Megerle von Mhlfeld from the West Indies, described by D. H. Blake, are transferred to the genus Plagiodera Chevrolat, subgenus Linamorpha Motschulsky, viz. P. barberi, P. cubensis, and P. zayasi. The former two are redescribed and their aedeagi illustrated. Phaedon multipunctatus Jacoby, from Mexico, is redescribed and transferred to Plagiodera, subgenus Plagiomorpha Motschulsky. Plagiomorpha Motschulsky is resurrected from synonymy with Plagiodera within which the former is now a valid subgenus. Characters are given which separate Phaedon and Plagiodera and the subgenera of the latter. Plagiodera seenoi, n. sp. is described and classified along with P. multipunctata, P. californica Rogers, P. arizonae Crotch and P. scabricula Stl in the subgenus Plagiomorpha.
25085010|Heteranthidium Cockerell, a subgenus of Trachusa Panzer, is restricted to the United States and Mxico. Two new Mexican species, T. (H.) pectinata and T. (H.) catinula are described. Diagnostic characters of most species are illustrated. A key is provided to all species.
25084348|Two new species of Polana (Bulbusana) are described, papillata and insulana. In addition, Gypona (Obtusana) nigromarginata (Metcalf and Bruner) is recorded from Dominica for the first time and additional Dominican records for Polana (Bulbusana) inclinata DeLong and Freytag are included with a description of the female.
25083651|The rates of predation on little house fly eggs by adult female and male Fuscuropoda vegetans (De Geer) was compared to predation by adult female Macrocheles muscaedomesticae (Scopoli). In closed vial tests, with no alternate food present, adult female and male F. vegetans consumed 7.0 and 6.4 eggs in 11 and 9 days respectively; the average consumption for adult female M. muscaedomesticae was 14.2 in 5 days.
25083911|Mobil 9087 (1-(1, 1-dimethylethyl)-4-[1-(4-ethoxyphenyl)-2-nitrobutyl] benzene) was tested for activity against eight species of stored product insects. The compound was relatively ineffective in wheat toward adult stages of all species. It was effective in suppressing progeny of Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) (
25086036|The egg and five instars of the harpactorinae Zelus leucogrammus (Perty) are described and illustrated. Descriptions include morphological and morphometric characters of specimens reared in the laboratory. /// En el presente trabajo se describen e ilustran los huevos y los estadios ninfales de la Harpactorinae Zelus leucogrammus (Perty). Las descripciones incluyen caracteres morfolgicos y morfomtricos de especimenes criados en laboratorio.
25085438|A modified formulation of carbaryl insecticide was aerially applied to contiguous 65-ha plots of rangeland in South Dakota in 1989. The application rate contained 25% less active ingredient than the standard formulation used in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) rangeland grasshopper program. The experimental plan was a four-replicate randomized block design with the experimental plots grouped by pretreatment grasshopper densities. Reduced rates of application resulted in control statistically equal to the standard carbaryl rate. Within 7 days of treatment, grasshopper populations were reduced by 95% or more for each of the treatments. The four dominant grasshopper species, comprising 81.5% of the overall population, were each significantly reduced by all of the treatments after one week.
25084069|The glossal morphology of the Colletidae is examined with light and electron microscopy. Colletids (excluding the Stenotritinae) are apparently monophyletic. Recognition of the Stenotritidae is proposed.
25084820|Cyaneolytta coerulea (Pfaff) is shown to be a senior synonym of C. acteon (Castelnau) [new synonymy] rather than of C. violacea (Brandt and Ratzeburg), which is a valid species [new status].
25086180|A new species of Dentaphila Kistner 1997, D. australis n. sp. (type locality, Wallacha Falls, Northern Queensland, Australia) is described, and habitus and line drawing illustrations are provided for its recognition. The systematic placement of D. australis is discussed, and a detailed comparative discussion outlines similarities and differences between D. australis, D. malaysiensis, the type species of Dentaphila, and D. mirabilis from Hong Kong. This represents the second known record of Dentaphila, and the first occurrence of the genus in Australia.
25085050|Successful development of the maize weevil (Sitophilus zeamais Motsch.) was studied on resistant (CAJ-208, SMTI-057) and susceptible (ANC-585, AREQ-077, Pioneer 3377) maize. Under natural infestation, the weevils had significantly longer developmental periods in resistant-flint types than in susceptible-floury types. Under artificial infestation, these significant differences were lost. Adult progeny from the resistant-flint types were significantly heavier than those emerged from the susceptible-floury types with both methods of infestation. No significant differences were observed in the developmental period of weevils whose larvae began feeding either in the germ, interface, or endosperm when the females located the oviposition site. When first instar larvae were deliberately placed in different kernel areas, significantly higher immature mortality occurred in the germ than in the interface or endosperm.
25083064|Two species of fruit flies of the genus Valentibulla are reponsible for gall formation on rabbitbrush (Chrysothamnus spp.) in Idaho: V. californica (Coquillett) and V. steyskali Foote. The host plants include C. parryi (Gray) Greene and two subspecies of C. nauseosus (Pall.) Britt. Valentibulla spp. adults emerge in late spring and early summer. Following characteristic courtship and mating displays, females oviposit beneath the epidermis of young stems and first instar larvae appear in late summer. Gall growth coincides with early larval feeding and galls attain full size by fall at which time the third and final instar larva is also reached. Galls are usually polythalamous and contain 2-6 larvae or pupae. The species of Valentibulla cannot be ascertained on the basis of gall anatomy or characteristics of the immature stages. The third instar larva is the overwintering stage and pupation occurs in the spring. The third instar larva and pupa is described for the genus as represented by V. californica and V. steyskali. The effect on the plant appears to be confined to local injury. Five additional species of insects were identified as associates within the galls.
25084945|The blue alfalfa aphid (BAA), Acyrthosiphon kondoi Shinji, was first found in Nebraska in 1977. It has since been found in 64 counties, mainly in the eastern, southern and central areas of the state, where its host plants, Medicago sativa L. (alfalfa), Trifolium pratense L. (red clover), Melilotus officinalis (L.) Lam. (yellow sweetclover), and M. alba Desr. (white sweetclover) are most abundant. A map illustrating the known distribution and the year of first collection of BAA in Nebraska, by counties, is included. BAA probably migrates into Nebraska from the south each year. It was detected only in the spring and fall in 1983 when summer sampling was not conducted, but was detected throughout the growing season in 1984. BAA was not abundant (<2 per sweep) during these observations. In Nebraska no damage to alfalfa by BAA has been observed. Three aphid parasitoids, Aphelinus semiflavus Howard, Aphidius ervi Haliday and Praon pequodorum Viereck, were found to attack BAA and complete development in the laboratory. In alfalfa fields, only A. ervi was found parasitizing BAA, however, Praon pequodorum was found parasitizing suspected, but unconfirmed, BAA on yellow sweetclover.
25084982|The influence of different tillage systems on fall and spring egg populations of western and northern corn rootworms, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera virgifera LeConte (WCR) and D. barberi Smith and Lawrence (NCR), respectively, was examined in 1983 through 1985. Ovipositional depth preferences were evaluated for each species in each tillage system in 1985. Fall and spring WCR and NCR egg populations were compared for two overwintering periods. No ovipositional preference for a tillage system was evident for either species. The preferred depth of oviposition for the NCR was the top 20 cm of soil with only 15% of the egg population sampled from 20 to 30 cm deep. One-third of WCR eggs in 1985 were found at depths of 20 to 30 cm, indicating that sampling for this species should be done to a depth of at least 30 cm. Egg populations of both the WCR and NCR declined significantly from the fall of 1983 to the spring of 1984 in the Paraplow and moldboard-plow systems. No significant reductions in egg populations occurred in the no-till and chisel-plow treatments. Egg populations of the WCR and NCR were not significantly reduced from fall to spring in any tillage system during the second overwintering period (1984-1985).
25084540|Tipula fultonensis Alexander and its respective synonyms are placed in synonymy with T. platymera Walker. Intraspecific variation in this species is discussed. The mature larva and pupa are described and discussed.
25085584|Pitfall trapping, blacklighting, and examination of institutional collections produced records for 13 species of Silphidae in Kansas: Necrodes surinamensis (Fabricius), Necrophila americana (Linnaeus), Nicrophorus americanus Olivier, Ni. carolinus (Linnaeus), Ni. marginatus Fabricius, Ni. mexicanus Matthews, Ni. orbicollis (Say), Ni. pustulatus Herschel, Ni. tomentosus Weber, Oiceoptoma inaequale (Fabricius), O. noveboracense (Forster), Thanatophilus lapponicus (Herbst), and T. truncatus (Say). No current populations of the federally endangered silphid, Ni. americanus or Ni. mexicanus were documented in Kansas, and records for both species are more than 50 years old. Data based on 2007 specimens resulting from 1709 pitfall trapnights in 23 Kansas counties are standardized and used in an assessment of habitat preferences and seasonality among the encountered taxa. Four species (Ni. carolinus, Ni. marginatus, T. lapponicus, and T. truncatus) are nearly restricted to open prairies with sandy soil, 2 species (Ne. americana and O. noveboracense) are dominant in woodlands, and 3 species (Ni. orbicollis, Ni. pustulatus, and O. inaequale) occur in both wooded and open habitats. Necrodes surinamensis and Ni. pustulatus have bimodal peaks of activity in Kansas. Adults of O. inaequale and O. noveboracense were not captured in Kansas after mid-summer. Necrophila americana, Ni. marginatus, Ni. orbicollis, and Ni. tomentosus occur in Kansas from spring to late summer.
25085182|X. varipuncta males chose locations for their mating territories that were higher in elevation than the surrounding area. Over an entire mating season, 46 of 47 territories were located on a small hill or in two tall trees and the two most frequently used sites through the season were plants growing on the hilltop. The significance of this behavior may be related to the effective transmission of a pheromone originating in the thoracic gland. Two other characteristics of these territories were that 1) males appeared to be selective in the plants used and 2) males positioned themselves relative to foliage, seemingly avoiding exposure to the sun. We propose that thoracic gland pheromones are the long-range stimulus for mate encounter and that males may compete among themselves for positions from which they can best advertise their presence.
25082542|Single nests of Augochlora (Augochlora) hallinani in a dead root, of A. (A.) sidaefoliae in a rotting log, and of A. (A.) smaragdina in a fence post are described from Costa Rica. Except for the choice of nesting place, they resemble nests of Augochlora pura from North America. The three nests were maintained by solitary females. The mature larva of A. hallinani and the male pupae of A. hallinani and A. sidaefoliae are described in comparison with those of Augochlora nominata.
25085409|Adult flies of Rhagoletis pomonella, the apple maggot fly, have been reared from the fruits of eight species of hawthorns (Crataegus) collected in Texas. The apple maggot fly is widely distributed in the eastern half of the state, occurring as far west as the central Edwards Plateau. Although the apple maggot fly is usually active in late summer and fall, a spring population occurs on mayhaw (C. opaca) in eastern Texas, demonstrating the capacity of the fly to adapt to different phenological conditions.
25084325|Male sweat bees were allowed to pounce on black spots which consisted of closely-woven cloth covering the ends of tubes containing two live females. When given a choice between nestmate and non-nestmate females, the males showed a slight initial preference for the odor of nestmate females. However, when given daily choices between the same nestmate females and different non-nestmate females, or if the males were initially given one hour to pounce on nestmate female odor alone, there was a subsequent preference shown for the odor of non-nestmate females. Habituation to female odor appears to be the most important factor in the long-term responses of the males.
25082411|Coxsackie A-12 virus was fed to the cockroach Periplaneta americana; penetration of stomach and gastric caeca was rapid. Clusters of replicating virus were found in the stomach 1/2 hour, 2 hours, and 48 hours after the virus meal. Similar clusters were in the gastric caeca 2 hours and 48 hours after the meal. Clusters did not occur in cells of any part of the stomodeum or proctodeum.
25083650|Head capsule structures are illustrated and compared, permitting a separation of the larvae of S. granarius, S. oryzae, and S. zeamais.
25084394|The genus Antiteuchus Dallas (Pentatomidae: Discocephalinae) is reviewed in part. Eight new species are described: schuhi in the subgenus Neodine; innocens, minor, and subgibbus in the parallela group of the nominate subgenus; and geometricus, graziae, ratcliffei, and supinatus in the incurvaria group of the nominate subgenus. The males of variegatus Dallas and variolosus (Westwood) are described, as these species had previously been known only from the female. Keys are provided for the subgenus Neodine Kirkaldy and the parallela group of species in the nominate subgenus.
25084288|The life history, seed destruction, and population density of the three predispersal seed predators, Paracantha culta (Wiedemann), Orellia occidentalis (Snow) (both Diptera: Tephritidae), and Homoeosoma stypticellum Grote (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) of the native Platte thistle, Cirsium canescens Nutt., were studied from 1977 through 1979. Each species oviposited during a different developmental stage of the seed head, so the larvae fed at primarily different times. Egg and larval distributions of O. occidentalis were negatively correlated with the larval distribution of P. culta at one site. P. culta larvae destroyed the greatest number of seeds per larva, whereas O. occidentalis larvae destroyed the least. The seed predators attacked an average of 97% of the Platte thistle seed heads at a site, although the predominant insect species varied among sites.
25083048|Polistes metricus and P. fuscatus both forage for prey in low vegetation as well as in bushes and trees. The mean length of flights of P. metricus is more than twice that for P. fuscatus at a nesting site in an area of herbaceous vegetation with trees 50 to over 200 m away in different directions. Long flights seemed to be directed preferentially toward trees. At our site colonies of P. metricus probably have larger average foraging areas and get more prey from trees than do those of P. fuscatus.
25084172|Immature stages of the crane fly Tipula (Platytipula) ultima Alexander are described, with special reference to the external anatomy of the last instar larva and pupa.
41262784|Odonate larvae play an important role in wetland systems, providing food for many fish species and birds. Besides, they are important predators in these ecosystems.However, studies of factors that determine odonate species richness and distribution in wetlands are scarce in the Neotropical region. The objectives of this study were to: 1) conduct a survey of the diversity of odonate larvae in southern Brazil wetlands, and 2) determine how much variation in odonate richness, abundance and composition is explained by wetland area, altitude, water conductivity and nitrate, hydroperiod, and dominant aquatic vegetation in 140 wetlands in an extensive area of the Neotropical region (280,000 km, southern Brazil). A total of 4,039 individuals distributed among five families and 28 genera were collected.Libellulidae, Coenagrionidae and Aeshnidae were the families that showed the greatest richness. Erythrodiplax was observed in more than 70% of the sampled wetlands, and comprised 61% of individuals collected. Richness was negatively associated with wetland area and nitrate concentration. Odonate abundance was negatively associated with water conductivity and nitrate, and it was higher in aquatic beds than in emergent wetlands.Richness and abundance were higher in permanent than in intermittent wetlands. Variation in odonate composition was correlated with wetland altitude, area and water conductivity.Hydroperiod and dominant aquatic vegetation also influenced composition. Our results showed that southern Brazil wetlands are important habitats for 28 odonate genera, and that richness, abundance and composition are influenced mainly by hydroperiod, nitrate, and aquatic vegetation type. These results should be seen as important to determine the environmental factors that shape and maintain odonate diversity in southern Brazil wetlands. As larvas de Odonata desempenham um importante papel ecolgico nas reas midas, constituindo alimento para muitas espcies de peixes e aves. Alm disso, esses organismos so importantes predadores nesses ecossistemas. Entretanto, os fatores ambientais que determinam a riqueza e a distribuio de Odonata em reas midas da regio Neotropical so pouco conhecidos. Os objetivos desse estudo foram: 1) realizar um inventrio da diversidade de larvas de Odonata em reas midas no Sul do Brasil, e 2) verificar se a riqueza, abundncia e composio de Odonata so explicadas pelo tamanho da rea mida, altitude, condutividade e nitrato da gua, hidroperodo, e vegetao aqutica dominante em 140 reas midas em uma extensa rea da regio Neotropical (~280.000 km, Sul do Brasil). Um total de 4.039 indivduos distribudos em cinco famlias e 28 gneros foi amostrado nas reas midas. Libellulidae, Coenagrionidae e Aeshnidae foram as famlias que apresentaram a maior riqueza. O gnero Erythrodiplax foi encontrado em mais de 70% das reas midas, e correspondeu a 61% do total de indivduos coletados. A riqueza esteve negativamente associada com o tamanho da rea mida e com o nitrato da gua. A abundncia esteve negativamente associada com a condutividade e nitrato da gua, sendo maior nas reas midas herbceas do que nas emergentes. A riqueza e a abundncia foram maiores nas reas midas permanentes do que nas intermitentes. A composio teve relao com a altitude, tamanho da rea mida e condutividade da gua. O hidroperodo e a vegetao aqutica tambm influenciaram a composio de larvas de Odonata. As reas midas no Sul do Brasil so habitats importantes para 28 gneros de Odonata, sendo que a riqueza, a abundncia e a composio foram influenciadas principalmente pelo hidroperodo, nitrato da gua e vegetao aqutica. Esses resultados contribuem para o conhecimento dos fatores ambientais que influenciam a diversidade de Odonata em reas midas no Sul do Brasil.
25085689|Seeding date of winter wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) impacts the severity of barley yellow dwarf and wheat streak mosaic virus diseases, but quantitative data in sparse. Seeding date is also known to affect fall Russian wheat aphid (Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko)) infestations. Experiments were conducted at the Fruita Research Center in 1992 and 1993 to determine the effect of planting dates on the incidence of virus diseases and Russian wheat aphids in the irrigated valleys of western Colorado. Wheat was planted on five dates from early September until late October at two week intervals. Within each planting date four insecticide management treatments (fall control, spring control, fall and spring control, and untreated) were applied to control aphids and mites. Planting date affected grain yield, test weight, virus rating and aphid numbers significantly in both years. The highest yields occurred in the third planting date, and the lowest yields were in the first and last planting dates. Virus diseases were most severe in the earliest planting date, in plots in which fall insecticides were not applied. Spring insecticide application resulted in a significant increase in yield in the earliest planting date in 1993, but not 1992. A delay in planting of only 12 d from the first planting date was sufficient to control virus diseases and result in an increased grain yield.
41681230|During a two-year survey on a wildflower seed farm in southcentral Montana, we collected  50 species of bees from 18 genera in sweep samples on cultivated wildflowers and weeds. The two cultivated plant species most intensively sampled attracted different assemblages of bee visitors. Slender white prairie clover (Dalea candida) attracted 27 species, 94% of visitors being Apis mellifera (73%), Lasioglossum spp., Colletes phaceliae, and Bombus spp. Prairie coneflower (Ratibida columnifera) attracted 20 species, the majority being Halictus rubicundus and three Melissodes species; only 3% of visitors to this plant were A. mellifera, despite the fact that the coneflower field was closer to an apiary than were the prairie clover fields. Other apparently non-random plant-bee associations included A. mellifera on Onobrychis viciaefolia, Bombus spp. on Astragalus cicer, and Halictus ligatus and a Melissodes sp. on Symphyotrichum chilensis. Analysis of pollen loads suggests high flower constancy for A. mellifera, Bombus spp., and many of the native solitary bee species foraging on cultivated plants. The low numbers of honey bees on certain plants suggest that native, non-managed bees of such genera as Bombus, Melissodes, Halictus, and Lasioglossum may be critical for plant species for which honey bees show relatively low preference (especially when highlypreferred species such as D. candida are abundant).
25082865|The subspecies Cicindela politula barbaraannae n. ssp. is described and illustrated. A key to the known subspecies of C. politula LeConte is given, as is a character analysis to distinguish C. politula from C. cazieri Vogt.
25084708|Reared and syntopically collected exuviae of Gomphus (Gomphurus) ozarkensis Westfall from Kansas, Missouri and Arkansas are described and illustrated. Two similar Gomphurus nymphs (G. crassus and G. vastus) are differentiated from G. ozarkensis. The nymphs of G. ozarkensis and G. crassus are very similar and the use of character sets is necessary to reliably separate these species.
25085927|Honey bees (Apis mellifera adansonii) in a Gabonese forest were marked at feeding stations having odor beacons (vanilla extract), offering 4 oz. of 20-50% scented sugar solution. Experiments were conducted for 28 days while 7380 total bees were marked at stations along a 2 km forest trail. Stations each 300 m were used to score honey bee movement to new sites. During 706 station observations, 57% included bees that had shifted feeding sites by up to 1.6 km, with negative logarithmic distribution away from the marking site. Site shifts within a single day showed a similar range, minimum times of 14-18 min for 300-600 m, and a linear relationship between distance and time elapsed since marking (P = 0.001,
25084849|Abundances of new and abandoned nests, comb sizes, and other aspects of natural history for the primitively social paper wasp Polistes erythrocephalus Latreille were studied intermittently over four successive years in the Atlantic watershed region of Costa Rica. There was considerable variation in the numbers of new nests, comb sizes, and abundances of pupae among the widely scattered census dates, although no definitive pattern of seasonal reproduction could be ascertained. New combs were invariably constructed very close to old, abandoned nests. Wasps frequently tore off the apical portions of comb on abandoned nests, and used this paper in building new nests. Although wasps frequently perched on old nests, in-between old and new nests, and on new nests during the daytime, wasps invariably moved onto new nests at night.
41681237|A second species of ibaliid wasp (Cynipoidea: Ibaliidae) from Baltic amber is described and figured and represents the first record of the genus Ibalia Latreille from the Eocene. Ibalia (Ibalia) electra Engel and Liu, new species is described on the basis of a single individual preserved in middle Eocene (Lutetian) Baltic amber and exhibits typical features and synapomorphies of the genus Ibalia, subgenus Ibalia. The species is distinguished from its congeners.
25085330|Data collected from 11 individually recognizable forager honey bees performing 545 waggle dance runs and intervening turns in an observation hive showed that they did not perform the strict alternation of clockwise and counterclockwise turns typical of the bees that have been previously observed. Approximately 17% of the turns within bouts of waggle dancing did not alternate with a preceding turn in the opposite direction, so that waggle dances looked less reliably like "figure-eights" than has previously been reported. Slightly more than 1/4 of the dancing bees displayed statistically significant individual handedness in initiating their bouts of dancing with either clockwise or counterclockwise turns.
25082331|A new gyponine genus, Acuponana (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), is described from Central and South America, with ten new species: A. consensa (type species), A. fera, A. enera, A. erusa, A. fona, A. gema, A. horella, A. elosa, A. huera and A. grella.
25085664|Larvae of the red sunflower seed weevil and gray sunflower seed weevil, Smicronyx fulvus LeConte and Smicronyx sordidus LeConte, respectively, have very similar morphological characteristics and cannot be easily distinguished visually. The purpose of this study was to compare the larvae of the two species for differences in biochemical composition. Fatty acid composition was chosen for this investigation. The results demonstrated that the larvae of the two species had important differences in lipid metabolism, primarily in the fatty acid composition of triacylglycerols, which was the major storage lipid class. The storage triacylglycerols of S. fulvus were derived both by de novo synthesis from acetate and by modification of dietary lipids, whereas storage triacylglycerols of S. sordidus arose primarily by de novo synthesis from acetate. In S. sordidus larvae, the concentration of palmitoleic acid was consistently higher than 5% (n = 33) and always exceeded the linoleic acid content, which was usually less than 4%. In contrast, the palmitoleic acid content of S. fulvus was usually much lower than 5% and never exceeded linoleic acid. The amount of linoleic acid in the triacylglycerol of S. fulvus larvae was usually high, and correlated well with the linoleic acid content of the diet. In contrast, the linoleic acid content of S. sordidus was low, indicating that mature sunflower seed kernels, which are normally high in linoleic acid, were not the major source of nutrient for S. sordidus. In both weevil species, dietary triacylglycerols were not deposited intact into the fat bodies, but instead were processed by lipases to release the fatty acids, which in turn were reesterified to glycerol to form new triacylglycerol molecular species. There was no evidence that dietary fatty acids were catabolized to acetate for resynthesis into new fatty acids. The larvae of both species are able to synthesize myristic, palmitic, palmitoleic, stearic, and oleic acids in vivo from
25084231|The intrinsic rate of natural increase (r) for Willowsia nigromaculata (Lubbock) was estimated by the population growth rate of cultures started with 10 individuals. Estimations of r varied among replicates and the mean value of r was 0.0781
25085388|In a trap-nesting study in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, Anthrax irroratus irroratus Say was reared from 3-7% of Megachile relativa Cresson nests and 10-11% of Megachile inermis Provancher nests. Anthrax pluto pluto Wiedemann was reared from 0.5% of M. relativa nests and 1-3% of M. inermis nests. In addition A. p. pluto was reared from one Coelioxys (probably C. funeraria Smith) cell in a nest of M. inermis. No Anthrax were reared from cells of Eumegachile pugnata pugnata (Say). Possible explanations for the differences in rates of parasitism between different bee species are considered.
25082316|Four new hystrichopsyllid fleas belonging to the genus Ctenophthalmus and collected from Turkey, Lebanon, and Israel are described: C. (Ctenophthalmus) lydiae, C. (Medioctenophthalmus) costai, subsp. C. (M.) c. libanensis, and subsp. C. (Euctenophthalmus) levanticus israelicus. One species seems to be an ectoparasite of murine rodents in western Turkey, one is of questionable host affinities because of lack of material, and two are associated with the mole rat, Spalax ehrenbergi.
25084842|Variability, specificity, and the impact of enzyme-substrate incubation period on sensitivity of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for Amblyospora spore homogenate were investigated. Increasing enzyme-substrate incubation period increases sensitivity slightly but also increases variability. Variability is inherently high due to variation among the plastic assay plates. Therefore standard curves should be run with all assays and large assays should be run across several plates. The assay detects Nosema and Vairimorpha material but only in quantities at least a hundred times higher than it does Amblyospora.
25481807|One new species of Palmanura from Chiapas is described and illustrated. A key for the 12 species known in the genus is given. /// Une nouvelle espce de Palmanura de Chiapas est dcrit et illustre. Une cl d'identification pour les 12 espce connues est incluse.
25086425|The study was conducted to determine the effects of queen body weight at emergence on the mating ratio, acceptance of the mated queens by the queenless colonies, onset of oviposition, diameter of spermathecae, the number of spermatozoa in the spermathecae, and the egg-laying rate of the queens. The queens were categorized in three groups; Heavy (207.63  0.95 mg), Medium (193.47  0.96 mg) and Light (175.00  0. 62 mg) according to weight at the emergence. Acceptance rates in heavy, medium and light queen groups were 93.33%, 86.66% and 66.66%; average mating ratios were 93.3%, 90.0% and 83.3%; and the onset of oviposition was 8.5, 8.8 and 9.8 days after emergence, respectively. The diameters of spermathecae and the numbers of spermatozoa in the spermathecae were 1.25, 1.06, 0.86 mm; and 5.2, 4.8 and 4.2 million respectively. The amounts of brood area, 30 days after the onset of oviposition were 6605.2  63.6, 5571.3  90.3 and 4520.2  58.3
25084589|Two new species (achena and carsia) and one new subspecies (emarginata sobrina) are described in the subgenus Gladionura Osborn, genus Athysanella Baker from Mexico. Five taxa now have been reported from Mexico.
25084522|Workers of the honey ant, Myrmecocystus mexicanus Wesmael are monophasically allometric with a broad, unimodal distribution of workers in a colony. Repletes are some of the largest workers in the colony. When all repletes were removed from a laboratory colony, they were rapidly replaced by the next largest individuals in the colony. This suggests a colony-wide ability to detect and act upon information about the current distribution of worker sizes as well as need for additional repletes.
25085173|The occurrence of Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuillemin attacking southwestern corn borer (SWCB), Diatraea grandiosella Dyar, was measured during three years in corn fields of the Texas High Plains. B. bassiana infection was present in SWCB populations in all six fields and epizootics occurred in three of those populations. Epizootics occurred in late August through September and were associated with periods of rainfall. Although epizootics occurred too late to prevent crop injury by SWCB larvae, they greatly reduced overwintering densities of diapausing larvae. SWCB eggs and all larval stages were susceptible to B. bassiana infection when exposed under laboratory conditions.
25082935|The nesting cycle of P. metricus is described from census data obtained by collecting 237 colonies over a four year period. Nests are initiated in early May, usually by one female. Colony growth is slow until the worker brood emerges in July and at this time egg laying reaches a yearly maximum. This brood develops into the males and overwintering females which emerge by September. Pyralid parasitism appears to diminish brood survival. The nesting cycle ends in October when males die and females seek out hibernacula. Although nests may attain a size of over 400 cells, most nests contain less than 150 cells. Smaller nests may offer an adaptive advantage over larger ones.
25086286|The genus Caribovia Young contains twenty one species endemic to the Greater Antilles. Eight species were already known, C. coffeacola (Dozier), C. coffeaphila (Dozier) and C. lineata (Osborn) from Puerto Rico; C. constans (Walker) type of the genus, C. glabra Young and C. nesiotica Young from Hispaniola; C. intensa (Walker) from Jamaica; and C. gundlachiana (Metcalf & Bruner), from Cuba. Thirteen new species are described from Hispaniola, C. aperta, C. bifasciata, C. divisa, C. doloma, C. dorsalinea, C. furcata, C. hamata, C. obrienae, C. ovata, C. plagata, C. rubida, C. trimaculata and C. vittata. Keys to the species found on Hispaniola are given.
25082436|Two new species of Rhyacophila, acutiloba and appalachia from New Hampshire and South Carolina, respectively, are described in the Rhyacophila nigrita Banks complex.
25085840|Females and pupal exuviae of two new arctic parthenogenetic chironomid species are described, Micropsectra silvesterae n. sp. and Tanytarsus heliomesonyctios n. sp.
25083968|In laboratory tests day-old bollworms, Heliothis zea (Boddie) were evaluated for their preference of flowers, pods, or leaves of soybean plants. Preference for pods and leaves were about equal with these 2 plant parts slightly preferred over flowers.
25084817|Antibiosis to the chinch bug Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say) was evaluated on 16 vernalized small grains in a no-choice test condition. There was little difference in reproduction on most cultivars. CI 15321 and 15322 exhibited a low level of antibiosis.
25085004|A new yellow-green species, R. flavoviridis, is described from Madagascar. Its last instar larva and those of R. anarchica, R. grandidieri, R. xanthura, R. formosa, R. carinata, R. ignobilis and R. vitripennis are described. Based on larval characters, the eight species are tentatively divided into three groups.
25084748|Five species of Nearctic Helochara are recognized: H. communis Fitch, H. delta Oman, H. deltoides, n. sp. (California), H. forceps, n. sp. (Arizona, Texas, Durango), and H. mexicana, n. sp. (Hidalgo, Mexico). The variation in these species is analyzed. Two geographic races of H. delta are recognized, and H. communis is shown to vary clinally across its range.
25086428|The species of Rediviva (Apoidea, Melittidae) occurring in the summer rainfall region of South Africa are revised. Nine species are recognized, four are described as new: R. brunnea, R. autumnalis, R. rhodosoma and R. transkeiana all attributed to Whitehead and Steiner. Distributions and host plants are given for all the summer rainfall area species and a key to identify both males and females is presented. Rediviva rufipes and R. bicava, a winter rainfall area species, are synonymized.
25084509|Rhagoletis electromorpha, n. sp., is described. The host plants of R. electromorpha are Cornus drummondi and C. racemosa. Collections of several Cornus species in Illinois have revealed no overlap of host plants of R. electromorpha and two other Cornus-infesting species, R. tabellaria and R. cornivora.
25082710|Pelicanoptes onocrotali, n.g., n. sp., was collected from a pelican, Pelecanus onocrotalus, at the New York Zoological Park. The new taxon is assigned to the family Epidermoptidae, subfamily Dermationinae.
25083733|Two new species, Alloperla (Sweltsa) thompsoni and Alloperla (Sweltsa) alexanderi both from China, are described and their relationship to North American members of the subgenus Sweltsa is discussed.
25084846|Aggressive behavior of females of the field cricket, Teleogryllus oceanicus (Le Guillou) is described. The number and intensity level of aggressive encounters of isolated and non-isolated (control) females are compared and the role of dominance in mate choice determined by placing males with females after rank orders were established. Female aggressive behavior is similar to that of males and high level fights occurred more frequently than expected based on previous reports. Aggressive females also produce stridulatory-like wing movements, although they are uncommon. As in males isolation enhances aggressiveness. Daily changes in total number of encounters and in proportion of encounters at some aggressive levels were noted but the reason for such changes is unknown. Females also form rank orders but we found no evidence that dominance effects mate choice. Further studies are needed to determine if the level and frequency of aggression exhibited in this study were the results of an abnormal lowering of thresholds for aggressive behavior due to unnatural laboratory conditions or, alternatively, were an expression of a level of behavior which is adaptive under natural field conditions.
25085119|-Amylase inhibitor content of milled fractions of hard red winter wheat was determined by assay against two -amylase isozymes, RW-1 and RW-2, from the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.). Saline extracts prepared from flour (predominantly endosperm) were 9- and 15-fold more inhibitory against RW-1 and RW-2, respectively, than were extracts prepared from bran (bran plus shorts). Milled germ contained relatively little inhibitory activity against either isozyme. Isozyme RW-2 was about 3-fold more sensitive than RW-1 to extracts from each fraction. Electrophoretic analysis indicated no major qualitative differences in inhibitor composition among flour and bran fractions. Although the bran fraction contained significant amounts of inhibitor, bran is generally not ingested by larvae or adults of Sitophilus spp. Ingestion of inhibitors from wheat occurs primarily through consumption of endosperm components.
25084421|Four new species of leafhoppers are described: Harasupia trispinata from Mexico, Articoelidia tumida from Ecuador, Sapingia salsa from Bolivia, and Plapigella pilosa from Peru.
25086052|Flightless females of the crane fly Nephrotoma basiflava Yang & Yang (Diptera: Tipulidae) are described and illustrated. The external morphology of male genitalia is redescribed and illustrated. This is the first record of brachypterous females in the genus Nephrotoma Meigen. The habitat and other ecological factors associated with the occurrence of brachypterous females are discussed.
25082412|After spreading through the body of the cockroach Periplaneta americana, Coxsackie A-12 enters the mitochondria of cells in various organs. A filament stage is followed by mature virus particles; the mitochondrial contents are utilized concurrently. Many infected mitochondria were found in salivary gland cells 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after the virus meal; they also occurred in the Malpighian tubules at 2, 3, and 4 weeks; in the stomach at 3 and 4 weeks; in the intestine at 1 and 3 weeks, and in the gastric caeca, crop, and fat body at 3 weeks.
25083768|Eight new species of chironomids include Orthocladius obseptus, Stempellina leptocelloides, S. rodesta, S. ranota, Tanytarsus trilobus, T. tibialis, Paralauterborniella ostansa and Chironomus cucini, all from Costello Lake, Ontario.
25085488|Various densities of adult potato leafhoppers were established on 'Essex' soybean at plant growth stage V2 in caged field plots. Cages were removed two weeks later, and plots remained uncaged for the rest of the growing season. Direct counts of nymphal leafhoppers on plants shortly after cage removal confirmed that a gradient of infestation levels was attained. In both years of the study, higher levels of infestation resulted in significant reductions in each of the following: plant height, number of nodes per plant, and average internodal length in the lower portion of the plant. Yield was significantly reduced at higher infestation levels in the first year of the study, but not in the second. Rainfall patterns were markedly different during the two growing seasons, and it is suggested that early season moisture stress may exacerbate the effect of potato leafhopper infestation on soybean yield.
25085134|Samples of 1986 crop wheat were taken shortly after harvest and at various times thereafter from identity-preserved lots stored on farms and in country elevators. The extent of quality deterioration was determined at both types of sites to assess its effect on the stocks as a whole. In elevator-stored lots, the percent of damaged kernels (total) was greater shortly after harvest and increased more during storage than in farm-stored lots. Insect density increased rapidly in farm-stored wheat through the fall. The populations then peaked and declined during the winter. Insects were not observed in the elevator-stored wheat until winter and densities remained low. The majority of insects in farm wheat were external-infesting types, whereas most of those found in elevator-stored wheat were internal-infesting types which produce insect-damaged kernels. Various indices of insect-produced grain damage increased substantially in both farm-stored and elevator-stored wheat.
25085110|Durations of egg development, eclosion, and neonatal behaviors were determined for populations of Heliothis zea and H. virescens from Mississippi and South Carolina. Populations of H. zea were more similar to one another than to populations of H. virescens. Egg development averaged 66-72 hr at 26C, representing approximately 23% of the time from oviposition through the final feeding of the ultimate instar. Eclosion averaged 17-29 min, and most larvae fed on the cast eggshell within 1-4 min after hatching.
25085314|Studies were conducted during 1987, 1988, and 1989 to compare the efficacy of chemigated post-planting application of chlorpyrifos 4E vs. planting time application of chlorpyrifos 15G in reducing western corn rootworm (CRW), Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, larval damage to field corn. The effect of tillage (slot planting vs. clean tillage) on CRW larval damage was also ascertained. CRW larval damage was lowest and yields were highest in the chemigated plots but were not significantly different from the planting time applied plots. CRW larval damage was highest and yields were lowest in the untreated plots but were not significantly different from the planting time applied plots. Tillage did not have a significant overall effect on CRW larval damage. However, tillage did significantly affect yield, primarily due to adverse planting conditions in 1989.
25084212|Balclutha woldai is described from Panama. Other new records are: abdominalis abdominalis (Van Duzee), diversa Blocker, flavescens (Baker), and krameri Blocker. The female of krameri is described for the first time, as are measurements of males. A total of twenty taxa (19 species plus two subspecies of abdominalis) are presently known from Panama.
23356037|Arthropod abundance was monitored in maize (Zea mays L.) crops on two farms located in western central Mexico during a single growing season. At the first farm (El Calvario, Michoacn), a no-tillage system was used in maize plots, while in the second farm (Singuio, Michoacn), a conventional tillage system was established. At these sites, sampling was conducted on nine occasions at seven day-intervals. Soil arthropods were captured using pitfall traps. At each sample point, maize plants were randomly selected and the number of arthropods observed on each plant was recorded. Poecilus mexicanus Chaudoir (Coleoptera: Carabidae) was the most abundant insect captured and comprised 75% (n = 2530) of the total capture of arthropods. Other carabid species together represented 18% of the total capture of arthropods at these sites and was significantly greater in the no-tillage farm compared to the conventional tillage farm. Staphylinids were the second most common group and were more abundant in the no-tillage than conventional tillage farm; Platydracus sp. Thomson (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae) was the most abundant staphylinid captured and was most abundant in the no-tillage farm. No differences between the abundance of the remaining arthropods were observed between the farms. The abundance of arthropods associated with maize plants on these two farms was not clearly affected by the type of cultivation. Over the course of the study, the abundance of fall armyworm larvae Spodoptera frugiperda J. E. Smith (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) was very low (maximum 0.16  0.02 insects/plot) on both farms; infestation by this pest did not differ significantly between farms. In conclusion, the no-tillage farm seemed to favor some beneficial predators present in/on the soil (e.g., carabids and staphylinids), possibly because these insects exhibit a preference for more diverse habitats and because they are more sensitive to the type and timing of cultivation practices.
25083857|Division of labor in two species of fire ants, Solenopsis invicta and S. geminata, was studied by a "cross-indexing" method that employed (1) the description of the total behavioral repertory of each principal size class and (2) the plotting of the frequency distributions (polyethism curves) of the size classes engaged in each role. The change in behavior as a function of size was further analyzed with the aid of alloethism curves, which were based on the data on polyethism. The various roles of the ants were elucidated by field and laboratory experiments that involved several kinds of stress and foraging opportunities. S. geminata, which is the more advanced species with reference to the anatomy of its larger size classes, is also more advanced in the overall pattern of division of labor. The larger medias and majors are specialized for the milling of seeds, the majors so much so that they have the smallest behavioral repertory (two categories only) thus far recorded for a social insect. The trend toward the specialization of the larger size classes is already apparent in S. invicta but has been carried to extreme lengths in S. geminata. The difference is associated with a greater readiness on the part of S. geminata to feed on seeds both in the field and under laboratory conditions. Through all size classes of S. invicta and the minors and small medias of S. geminata, the substantial size variation is correlated with the size of particles carried by individual workers during nest excavation and foraging. Finally, the smallest minor workers of both species concentrate more on brood care than do the larger size classes.
25084070|Spilochalcis albifrons (Walsh), a native parasite of the larch casebearer, Coleophora laricella (Hbner), was studied in the laboratory and the natural habitat in Idaho and Washington State. Data from northern Idaho indicate at least 2 generations yearly with maximum populations in July. Parasite activity is most prominent from late morning through mid-afternoon. Courtship, mating, and oviposition behavior were observed in the laboratory. Females sometimes feed on host fluids originating from oviposition wounds. Pupae of the larch casebearer, the Indian meal moth, and the uglynest caterpillar served as hosts and were radiographed in studying parasite development. S. albifrons has at least 3 instars, a larval development time of ca. 15 days at 26C, and a pupal stadium of ca. 12 days at 26C.
25082686|The chemical composition of the lining of the brood cells of the sweat bee, Augochlora pura, was investigated by histochemical methods, thin-layer chromatography, infrared spectrophotometry, and mass spectrometry, and compared with the contents of Dufour's glands. Both substances contain high molecular weight lipids ( 338-349 amu) with ester bonds, and are unstable, pick up oxygen upon exposure to air, and hence, become more polar with age. Probably the cell lining is an oxidation product of the oily contents of the Dufour's gland.
25086413|Dicranomyia (Idiopyga) flabellifera is described and illustrated. The male hypopygium is compared with that of other nearctic members of the subgenus.
25085995|To determine the resources utilized, three species of solitary bees of Jalisco, Mexico, were investigated by microscopic pollen analysis of nest cell contents and pollen loads of females. By this measure, Centris analis Fabricius and C. trigonoides Lepeletier were polylectic without strong preference for a single plant family, visiting flowers of Flaccourtiaceae, Leguminosae, Malpighiaceae and Solanaceae, mainly. C. nitida F. Smith was also polylectic; its most important sources are Malpighiaceae, Myrtaceae and Solanaceae, sometimes with a strong preference for the Malpighiaceae (88%).These species visit a wide spectrum of flowers, C. analis 23 species, C. nitida 46 and C. trigonoides 16, but only a few species were of importance (10%). C. nitida visited more plant species to obtain resources and displayed a homogeneous foraging behavior. C. analis and C. trigonoides forage fewer resources and these were exploited in a heterogeneous way. Samples of the three species showed lower values of similarity in terms of the sources visited.
25086065|Warm Springs, a High Plains warm water tepid spring (21C) near Guernsey, Wyoming, was sampled from fall 1999 through fall 2000 to document the existing aquatic insect community of this unique lotic system of the High Plains of Wyoming. Aquatic insects were collected using a variety of methods, and experts verified identifications. Eighty-nine taxa represented by twenty-seven families and six orders are reported. Interestingly, no thermally adapted aquatic insect taxa were found. The majority of the taxa reported are considered widespread warm or cool water adapted lentic species and were typically associated with pools along the spring run.
25085544|An annotated checklist of the Calliphoridae of Colorado is given. Thirty-three species in 17 genera are reported for Colorado. In addition, notes are provided on the carrion associations and forensic importance for particular species.
25085620|Efficacy of the entomopathogenic nematode, Steinernema carpocapsae Weiser (Mexican strain), as a control agent for the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte, was evaluated with nematode placement in three areas around the base of the maize plant and at four rates of application. Aqueous nematode suspensions were applied to the soil surface when the rootworm larval population was predominately 2nd stage. Efficacy was evaluated on the basis of root damage and adult emergence. The application of 100,000 or 200,000 nematodes within a 15 cm diameter circle centered on the base of the maize plant was most effective in reducing root damage and adult emergence. These application rates held root damage near the threshold for potential economic loss (level 5, 1-9 scale) and adult emergence was reduced by 79-93%.
25084178|The extent of retention of the epicranial and the paroccipital sutures in an adult symphytan cranium shows the degree of the primitiveness of the insect. The members belonging to the families Xyelidae, Pamphiliidae, Argidae, Diprionidae and Tenthredinidae retain the entire paroccipital sutures, whereas the epicranial suture is only partially represented. In Cimbicidae the paroccipital sutures are incomplete, and are further reduced in Cephidae and Siricidae. At the same time the epicranial suture in the latter two families is totally absent. In Xiphydridae the paroccipital sutures are further reduced; only traces of their middle portions are inconspicuously visible. The lower apocritans, as compared to symphytans, are totally lacking these two sutures. The systematic and gradual disappearance of these two sutures from the cranium of suborder Symphyta and lower Apocrita establishes a phylogenetic relationship among the various families. The conclusions drawn are in agreement with the phylogenetic sequence derived from other morphological evidences.
25084410|Incidence of the fungus Nomuraea rileyi in larval populations of Heliothis spp. is recorded for cotton fields in southeastern Arkansas from 1973 to 1980. Infection by N. rileyi occurs in a predictable pattern, beginning in August if there are approximately four inches of rainfall in that month. The weekly increase in rate of infection is from 8 to 14 per cent.
25082359|The tachinid, Xanthomelanodes arcuata (Say), was reared from a fifth-instar reduviid nymph, Pselliopus cinctus (F.). Telenomus sp. (Scelionidae) were reared from field-collected eggs of Zelus exsanguis (Stl). A single wasp emerged from each parasitized host egg, most of which were located on the periphery of the egg mass.
25084917|Microcentrus perditus (Amyot and Serville) (Membracidae: Homoptera), a solitary treehopper, was studied on the host trees Quercus stellata Wangenh. (post oak) and Q. stellata  marilandica Muench. (post oak-blackjack oak hybrid) in Oklahoma in 1983 and 1985. Females oviposit in autumn, laying 40 or more eggs in clutches of four to five in slits in the bark of twigs that they make with the ovipositor. Females sometimes guard eggs. The eggs overwinter, hatch after April and nymphs mature the following fall. Male flight activity showed strong synchrony, and occurred in October and November, when mating was also observed. Two morphs of the suprahumeral horns, long and short, were observed in females, while males exhibited a single horn morph. Parasitism by a fly was observed in one nymph. The life history of this solitary treehopper differs greatly from the more gregarious, ant-attended, presocial members of the families Membracidae and Aetalionidae.
25084451|This paper is a detailed redescription of Chirodiscoides caviae at different stages of its life cycle. The nymphal stages can be distinguished through a variety of characteristics which not only permit differentiation between protonymph and tritonymph, but also between sexes.
25085709|Recent work on sex allocation bias in halictine bees has focused on the role of relatedness asymmetries, historically considered a primary force in the evolution of social behavior, to the exclusion of other known models predicting biased sex allocation. I address several such models here, particularly in regards to Fisherian theory, and introduce new data and new theories relevant to halictines. These include (1) the use of adult dry weights as a measure of allocation may not be valid for halictines; (2) the hypothesis that sex allocation may be strongly influenced by proximate abiotic environmental factors; (3) several features of halictine biology that may produce non-linear returns on investment, thus violating Fisherian assumptions; (4) the recognition that haplodiploidy leads to demographic features, such as greater variance in male fitness versus female fitness, which may favor non-Fisherian female biases; (5) aspects of control of allocation, including empirical evidence that male and female brood do not necessarily receive differential allocation; (6) the potential importance of male-female conflict over sex allocation within halictine colonies; (7) review of the concept of split sex ratios in halictines, and alternative models of the evolution of this phenomenon; (8) an alternative model of a halictine life cycle that is compatible with empirical data; (9) an alternative view of the link between sex allocation and social evolution in halictines. The general conclusion is that many factors in addition to relatedness asymmetry should favor female-biased, non-Fisherian sex allocation in halictines, so empirical observations of female bias may reflect the combined influences of numerous selective forces, rather than kin selection alone.
25084645|The laboratory life history of the water strider Trepobates knighti is described. Eggs were deposited on floating corks or bits of styrofoam, were always vertically oriented, and were attached by a translucent holdfast substance. Eggs developed 2-3 pairs of red spots. The mean number of eggs/mass was 2.2 (1-8), mean incubation time was 15.8 days (12-20), mean egg length was 0.96 mm (0.89-1.02), and mean egg width was 0.28 mm (0.25-0.33). Descriptions of the five instars are given. The mean number of days required for completion of all instars was 43.1 (37-50).
25083611|Theognis occidentalis (Heidemann) is reported as having been taken for the first time in midwestern United States. Specimens were collected in Iowa and Indiana with Pinus sylvestris L. being the observed host plant in Iowa.
25084953|Abnormal, double-collar eggs of Neoperla robisoni Poulton and Stewart and Sweltsa exquisita (Frison) are described from scanning electron photomicrographs. The eggs have an almost fully developed anterior collar, and a rudimentary posterior collar with retention of micropylar structures, abnormally placed on striae, near the posterior collar in one Neoperla specimen. A Neoperla egg with abnormal striae is also described.
25082568|Diapause occurs when the germ band has assumed an elongated -shape. The symbionts are beneath the pseudoperculum and a serosal cuticle is formed. Near the end of seasonal activity, a female may lay only nondiapause, nondiapause and diapause, or only diapause eggs. At 3744' N, the transition from the laying of nondiapause eggs to the laying of diapause eggs occurs during September. In the laboratory, a single, continuous cold period of seven weeks at 4 C yielded a ninety per cent incidence of postdiapause embryos.
25085377|The weevil parasitoid Anisopteromalus calandrae (Howard) was released into a room infested with the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.), to determine if the parasitoid could prevent commercially packaged wheat from becoming infested. Significant S. oryzae suppression (99.4%) occurred for up to 4 mo, after which the wheat became infested and was completely destroyed within 2 more months.
25084767|Cornfields in three counties in Iowa were scouted from 1979 through 1982 for four major corn insect pests. Black cutworms caused economic damage in 10 of 151 fields scouted over the four years of the study. Eight of those 10 damaged fields occurred in 1981, a year of severe cutworm outbreak in Iowa. No fields were observed with damaging infestations of wireworms. All fields scouted had some whorl feeding by European corn borers, but only eight of 100 fields scouted surpassed the economic threshold. Corn rootworm adults exceeded the economic threshold of 1 beetle per plant in 112 of 118 fields scouted over 3 years, with an overall mean density of 4.2 beetles per plant. Eighty-three percent of those fields with soil insecticide check strips had root ratings exceeding the 2.5 economic threshold in the untreated areas.
25083983|The sound-producing apparatus of Empoasca fabae Harris is described. The tymbal is a thin, exoskeletal membrane of the first abdominal segment bordered anteriorly by a metapostnotal ridge and posteriorly by a thickened, sickle-shaped sclerite which is continuous with the antecostal ridge of the second abdominal segment. The tymbal probably is popped by a fusiform-shaped muscle,
25086260|The male and female of Chilicola (Chilicola) venticola, Packer, new species are described based upon material from Santa Cruz Province in Patagonian Argentina. The previously unknown females of C. (Chilioediscelis) araucana Toro and Moldenke and Chilimelissa australis Toro and Moldenke are also described. Notes on the nesting biology and adult behaviour of the species are given. Chilimelissa australis is the second xeromelissine known to nest in the ground and the possibility that other congeners nest in similar substrates is discussed. SEM analyses of brood cell lining materials are made for all three species and suggest the presence of some fibrous components, possibly silk, as in some other colletids. The ichneumonid Grotea sp. is recorded parasitizing brood cells of C. venticola.
25083916|This is the first report of Eucosma womonana Kearfott (Lepidoptera: Olethreutidae) as a pest of cultivated sunflower, Helianthus annuus L. A new record of E. womonana from the roots of Helianthus divaricatus L. also is reported. Larvae of E. womonana infested the roots of from 72 to 88% of sunflower seeded in mid-June or later at Bushland, Texas, in 1977. There appeared to be degrees of susceptibility among breeding lines of sunflower.
25084952|During 1986, the introduced Eurasian coccinellid, Coccinella septempunctata L. was recovered in 27 of 60 counties surveyed in Iowa and 33 of 48 counties in Missouri. No releases of C. septempunctata have been made in either state. The most likely sources of the C. septempunctata population in Iowa and Missouri seem to be either from releases made in central Illinois (1976-1978) and Wisconsin (1978) or part of a natural westward range expansion of C. septempunctata from established populations in the eastern United States. Results of these surveys indicate that this beneficial species is widely distributed in eastern Iowa and throughout Missouri, but at low densities. Approximately 70% of the collections of adult C. septempunctata were made in legumes (e.g., alfalfa, sweet clover, trefoil) in which Acyrthosiphon pisum (pea aphids) were present.
25083407|Two geographical populations of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) were obtained: small weevils from the Louisiana State University culture and intermediate-sized weevils from the Kansas State University culture. A third population of large weevils, S. zeamais Mot. was collected near Stuttgart, Arkansas. Species identification was as described by Floyd and Newsom in 1959. All weevils were reared in Ponca wheat, KS 1639 corn, and Atlas, Martin, Kansas Sourless, and Midland sorghums for five or more generations at 80 F and 70 percent R.H. Adults were weighed and the lengths of the pronotum and the right elytron were measured. Significant differences in size were noted between the three weevil populations in almost every culture medium. Weight differences are sufficient to permit species determination only when entire populations are under consideration. Measurements obtained in this work are compared to those reported in the literature.
25084180|Ants were sampled at 555 randomly chosen sites in 98 counties west of the 100th meridian in Texas. Solenopsis xyloni McCook was found in 58 counties, 51 of which represent new county records. Six additional new county records from east of the 100th meridian are also presented. Solenopsis aurea Wheeler was taken in 32 counties, 31 of which are new records. Both species are rare in the High Plains where extreme winter temperatures appear to restrict their distribution. S. xyloni prefers to nest in the open, whereas S. aurea is more frequently found nesting under objects. Solenopsis geminata was only found in six southeastern counties of the study area, three of which are new records. Solenopsis invicta Buren, the Red Imported Fire Ant, has not been found west of the 100th meridian.
25083516|The green lynx spider, Peucetia viridans (Hentz), has one generation a year under Arkansas conditions and apparently constructs one egg sac. Spiderlings mature to adults in July and August, and mating takes place during these two months. Egg sacs are constructed in September and October. Eggs hatch in 12 to 14 days to become deutova, or first instar spiderlings. The deutova remain in the egg sac for another 12 to 14 days, before they molt to the second instar, leave the egg sac, and begin the winter in this instar. They appear to finish the winter in the second or third instar. From seven to nine instars are required to reach maturity. In the laboratory, males required 288.6 days to mature, and females, 301 days.
25083966|Six nests of Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) orizabense Richards were obtained from trap-nests in Cochise Co., Arizona. Male guards were in two uncompleted nests. Completed nests consisted of a linear series of 5 or 6 cells separated by mud partitions and provisioned with spider prey of the families Araneidae, Theridiidae, Dictynidae, Uloboridae, and Anyphaenidae. Snarebuilding spiders represented 96.1% of the prey. The cocoon of T. orizabense is cylindrical with the anterior end truncate and bearing a median nipple. The preference for snarebuilding spiders and shape of the anterior end of the cocoon agrees with previous predictions for spiders in the nitidum group of Trypargilum.
25086098|The parasitic behavior of Leucospis cayennensis Westwood, the rates of parasitism and other mortality factors in populations of Centris analis (Fabricius), were studied on the campus of the University of So Paulo, Ribeiro Preto, SP, Brazil, from May 1996 to April 1999. The host species nested in cardboard trap-nests. Parasite activity was monitored throughout the host's nesting periods. The attacks to the nests began from one to five months after the nesting activities of the host had been initiated and ended within one month after nesting activity stopped. The parasites attacked the cells in several ways: 1) ovipositing through the side wall of the nest; 2) by entering the unplugged or abandoned nests and ovipositing through the cell partition of the last constructed brood cell; 3) by breaking through the nest plug, entering the nest and ovipositing through the cell partition or, 4) by trying to reach the host cell by inserting their ovipositor through the nest plug and cell partition. Most attacks were made on cells containing host prepupae or pupae. The eggs were placed inside the host cocoons attached to the lateral wall of the cocoon, to the cellular partition, or on the surface of the host. The total duration from attack to adult emergence took 24 to 56 days for females and 23 to 49 days for males. Leucospis cayennensis was the most destructive enemy of C. analis, accounting for 83.8% and 91.7% of parasitized cells in each year. Coelioxys sp. and Mesocheira bicolor (Fabricius) were the other insect parasites associated with the nests of C. analis.
25085661|Over 600,000 acres of roadside rights-of-way laid out in a grid-like pattern across Iowa have been targeted for restorative planting of flowering native prairie plants. These plantings may benefit agriculture if native plant species provide resources for insects that parasitize crop pests. We examined a number of prairie plant species to determine whether they provided nectar resources that could be used by Macrocentrus grandii, a wasp parasitoid of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner). Individual wasps were caged with particular prairie species and wasp lifespan was measured. Of 11 plant species tested, 8 significantly increased M. grandii longevity and three had no effect. The flowers of species which did not increase longevity either produced little nectar or had very deep corolla tubes, making the nectar inaccessible to the short mouthparts of this wasp. The data suggest that plant species which have flowers with very short corolla tubes or no corolla tube (cup-shaped flowers) have the greatest potential to be of benefit to M. grandii.M. grandii has two generations in Iowa, synchronized with the two generations of Ostrinia nubilalis. Only plant species that bloom during these two flight periods could potentially be used by M. grandii. A phenology data base was compiled on all Iowa prairie plant species, based on literature sources and our monitoring of two prairie sites in central Iowa. This database also includes information on corolla depth, type of pollinator that visits the species, and whether the species is planted along roadsides. Two subsets of this database were extracted for central Iowa species, one for the first flight period and the other for the second. These data sets show what plant species could be beneficial to the wasp during the time when it is searching for prey.
25085476|The male imago of Colosmittia clavata gen. n., sp. n. is described from the West Usambara Mountains in Tanzania. The genus differs from other known orthoclads by the combination of a 4-segmented palp with all segments reduced, absence of an anal point, and lack of squamal setae. The genus is tentatively placed in the Parakiefferiella-Pseudosmittia group of genera, and does not appear to resemble any described genus.
25085646|Megachile inermis Provancher and M. relativa Cresson populations were monitored in wooden "trap-nests" in Upper Michigan between 1985 and 1992. Completed nests were routinely replaced with empty tunnels so that nest sites were less likely to be limiting than in natural populations. M. inermis, the larger species, nested in tunnels 11 mm in diameter, whereas M. relativa nested in tunnels 5.5 and 6.0 mm in diameter. Numbers of M. inermis nests generally increased each year, except when floral resources were low in drought years and at one dry site. Nest numbers of the small species were more consistent over sites and years, but never reached the extremes of M. inermis nests. M. relativa nest structure was more variable than that of M. inermis nests in number of cells per nest and amount of empty space in the nest. The small species was more likely than the large species to make nests with few cells, to abandon nests before they were complete, or to have them usurped by other trap-nesting bees and wasps. This suggests that even when nest sites are abundant, the small species may be limited more by inter-specific competition for nest tunnels than the large species, while the large species may be limited more by pollen resources than the small species.
25085301|Esterases of the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), were investigated by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Specific staining procedures or inhibitors were used to identify cholinesterases and carboxylesterases. Polyacrylamide gels incubated in alpha naphthyl acetate stained nine (P1-P9) esterase bands. The fifth and sixth bands stained darker when alpha naphthyl butyrate was used as a substrate. Band P1 was classified as a cholinesterase. Bands P2, P3, P4, P5, and P6 were classified as carboxylesterases. Results were inconclusive with respect to P7, P8, and P9.
25084868|Cocoons of the alfalfa leafcutter bee, Megachile rotundata (F.), were stored for 0 to 22 months at four constant temperatures to examine the effects of temperature and duration of storage on adult survival, period of emergence, and sex ratio. A five-parameter model of adult emergence for storage and temperature is described. High prepupal survival and a narrow period of adult emergence during incubation were observed when cocoons were stored at 5C for 7 to 10 months. For those cocoons held in storage longer than 12 months, a warmer storage temperature of 10C provided good survival and adults emerged over a period of less than 20 days. Storage of cocoons longer than 17 months, however, was not found to be practical because of greater than 90% mortality in the prepupae. A minimum storage period of ca. 2 months was found to increase survival, regardless of the storage temperature. The sex ratio of leafcutter bee adults averaged 65:35 (males to females) over all storage conditions.
25085846|The male of a new species of Oukuriella Epler, 1986, is described from Brazil. The new species is distinguished by basal transverse bands on abdominal tergites and a distinctive superior volsella. The female and immature stages are unknown.
25086132|We evaluated the influence of pupal and adult temperatures on oocyte development in the noctuid moth, Tyta luctuosa (Denis and Shiffermller) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), an imported biological control agent of field bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis L.) (Convolvulaceae). Temperature influenced oocyte development in adults but not pupae regardless of whether both life stages were reared at a constant temperature (20 or 27.5C) or transferred to the higher or lower temperature at emergence. However, the pre-adult temperature experience had an indirect effect on ovarian development. Specifically, oocytes developed and matured faster in moths that experienced an increase in temperature at emergence (20  27.5C) than those that were reared continually at 27.5C. Our findings do not support the idea that temperature is related to differences in ovarian development in T. luctuosa at emergence. Thus, it is possible that the range of maturation is linked to genetic variation or other environmental factors in this moth species.
25083071|Hatching time and mortality of the eggs of Tricorythodes minutus are directly related to temperature.
25082347|Standardized techniques for mass rearing and handling of the house cricket Acheta domesticus (L.) are presented. The methods make possible relatively inexpensive production of large numbers of house crickets of uniform age and size for use as bioassay test insects. Use of these insects in bioassaying insecticide-treated soils and determining toxicity of insecticides through topical applications is discussed.
25086051|The effect of greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani) feeding on chlorophyll content and photosynthetic rate in sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] was assessed under artificial light conditions. Between 1500-1750 greenbugs were used to infest a 5 cm  2.5 cm area on a sorghum leaf by means of a modified double-sided sticky cage. A treatment with cage only on the leaf was also included. The control treatment was leaves with no cages and no greenbugs, which would allow measurement of parameters absent the internal effects of either greenbug feeding or cages. Greenbug infestation intervals of 1, 2, 3 and 4 days reduced significantly both photosynthetic rate and chlorophyll content. Photosynthetic rate showed a positive correlation with chlorophyll content (r = 0.36, d.f. = 208, P = 0.0001). With a small drop in chlorophyll content, a drastic reduction in photosynthetic rate was noticed. Decreased chlorophyll content due to greenbug feeding partially explained the reduction in photosynthetic rate. Leaf age, nutritional status, and micro-environmental parameters may also have influenced the relationship between photosynthetic rate and chlorophyll content.
25083040|In a study of a colony of Bombus vosnesenskii, the nest contents and net inflow and net outflow of sugar and pollen were analyzed at different times during the colony cycle. When the founding queen of the colony was active and the larva/worker ratio was .92 the new queens (34% of 400 colony adults) did not forage for either pollen or nectar, and they removed both from the colony's food stores. Sugar stores were about 5.6 times the daily inflow, and pollen stores were only one fourth the daily inflow. Later, when the founding queen had died and the colony had an 11.5 larva/worker ratio, new queens constituted 60% of the colony population (43 bees) and were the primary providers of both pollen and nectar for the remaining drone brood. On the average, individual new queens brought in twice the amount of sugar per foraging trip as workers. We discuss the comparative ergonomics of bumblebees, honeybees and the solitary Megachile.
25084703|Periodical cicada nymphs that fed on fertilized apple tree roots for 17 years were significantly more than one-seventeenth larger upon emergence than were nymphs that fed for the same length of time on roots in two unfertilized forest habitats. The same pattern was shown by two different cicada species. There was no significant difference between nymph size in the two sparsely populated forest sites, despite a three-fold difference in density. The data suggest that there may be nutritional differences in xylem fluid from habitat to habitat, and these differences may influence nymph size, but do not shorten developmental period.
25084918|The ecology and ethology of Tachysphex antennatus were studied at three sites in Erie County, Pennsylvania during the summers of 1979-1986. Males perched on gravelly hills, cleaned their antennae and wings, made sporadic flights to and from flowers of Stellaria graminea from which they obtained nectar, chased other males and females in flight, and mated with non-nesting females. Females dug burrows in gravelly and loamy soils, mostly beneath flat stones. They left their burrows open, made brief orientation flights above their entrances, and hunted prey in the fields and meadows adjacent to the hills in which they nested. Prey individuals were transported to the nest mostly in low, extended flights and taken directly into the open entrances or released just inside and pulled in from within. Closure of the nest involved using the mandibles, forelegs, and end of abdomen, and sometimes making hovering flights above the entrance. The nests were short, shallow, and one-celled, and contained three to nine Melanoplus bivittatus, M. keeleri luridus, M. s. sanguinipes, or M. f. femurrubrum which approximated the wasp in size or were smaller. The egg of T. antennatus was attached to a forecoxal corium of a relatively large prey in the cell and extended transversely between the bases of the fore- and midlegs. Individual wasps showed uniformity in prey size, number of prey per cell, egg size, and egg attachment site. The ecology and behavior of T. antennatus are compared and contrasted with those of the related species T. crassiformis and T. krombeini.
25086178|The sunflower beetle, Zygogramma exclamationis (Fabricius), is a major pest of commercial sunflower, Helianthus annuus L. (Asteraceae), in the Plains area of central North America. Although an economic injury level for the sunflower beetle has been determined, in-field distributions of the larvae and their natural enemies have not been described. Over a three year period, fields were sampled for sunflower beetle larvae and for larvae of the endoparasitoid, Myiopharus macellus (Reinhard). Sunflower beetle larvae were generally found to have aggregated distributions. Knowledge of the distribution pattern will allow the development of more efficient sunflower beetle sampling protocols. Parasitism rates of M. macellus throughout fields were equivalent, indicating effective host searching. Although the data supports aggregated distributions for M. macellus, it is less clear than that for the sunflower beetle.
25082654|Two to five sounds were recorded and analyzed for each of seven species of Empoasca Walsh. A relatively simple sound, common sound I (CSI), characterized by a relatively slow and variable pulse rate, and variability in number of pulses, was recorded from males of all seven species. A second common sound, common sound II (CSII), was recorded from males of six species. Except for males of E. fabae (Harris), change from CSI to CSII involves an increase in regularity of pulse rate and a decrease in pulse interval. The CSII of E. fabae is similar to its CSI except for an apparent damping of the pulse vibrations resulting in a more noiselike sound. Courtship sounds were recorded from males of three species. The courtship sound of E. obtusa Walsh is the same as its CSII. The courtship sounds of E. fabae and E. gelbata DeLong and Davidson are more complex than their CSI's and CSII's. Courtship sounds and, for some species, CSII's may be species-specific and carry information for species identification. Disturbance sounds, recorded for four species, are relatively short signals characterized by marked irregularity in structure. Males and females of E. fabae produce disturbance sounds. The sex of individuals producing disturbance sounds was not determined for the other three species. Another type of female sound, low in amplitude and, except for a longer duration, similar in structure to disturbance sounds, was recorded from both species of the subgenus Empoasca. Behavior associated with sound production also is described. Possible relationships of sound structure to the operation of the sound-producing mechanism, and possible functions of sounds are discussed.
25085477|Fallen cocoa pods serve as nesting and foraging sites for litter and ground ants in southeastern Brazil. The distribution of the number of species per pod deviated significantly from a Poisson distribution, with a prevalence of one species per pod. Only 17 species of a much larger fauna were present in pods, with the dominant species being Gnamptogenys striatula, and Oligomyrmex sp. Colony populations for 13 species are given.
25083074|Seven new records, some with host and other collecting information, are reported, as a result of extensive collecting in Paraguay, for these species of Balclutha: composa, new species, caldwelli Blocker, diluta Blocker, floridana (DeLong and Davidson), guajanae (DeLong), incisa (Matsumura), and obunca Blocker. B. hebe (Kirkaldy), also commonly collected, has been reported previously; robusta (Caldwell), not collected, has been reported previously.
25084183|Methoprene, a juvenile hormone analog, was investigated as a supplemental dietary constituent for increasing in vivo yield (per larva) of Autographa californica nuclear polyhedrosis virus inclusion bodies (PIB's) in Heliothis virescens. Methoprene-containing dietary treatments prolonged the fifth-stadium and prevented pupation. Combinations of virus and methoprene at 100 or 10 ppm resulted in statistically significant ( = 0.05) increases in mean maximal larval weight and mean PIB yield/larva over controls. However, a linear regression of PIB yield per larva on maximal larval weight was inconclusive. A comparative feedback study of viral PIB's derived from larvae reared on control versus methoprene-containing diet against third-instar H. virescens indicated that methoprene had no significant effect on virulence.
25085907|Periodical cicadas experience most mortality between the time when they hatch from twig-borne eggs and establish on rootlets of their host trees. Predation by ants has been speculated to be the source of this high mortality. We experimentally manipulated the number of ants beneath trees during the time when cicada nymphs were hatching and moving underground in 1996. We censused the density of nymphs beneath these experimental trees two years later in 1998. No effect of ants on cicada numbers was detected in this study, suggesting that they are not important in controlling densities of cicada nymphs.
25078490|Eurytoma brevitergis from galls of Diastrophus kincadii on Rubus parviflorus from Arcata, California, and British Columbia and Alberta, and Eurytoma chrysothamni from galls on Chrysothamnus viscidiflorus and C. nauseosus from several localities in Idaho, are described.
25084963|Interseasonal variation in voltinism and diapause by a non-agricultural population of Colorado potato beetle was studied during the summers of 1983-1985. The population was bivoltine, showing well-developed second generations in 1984-1985 and a partial second generation in 1983. We provide evidence that the reduced size of the second generation in 1983 was due to increased rates of diapause in response to low host (Solanum rostratum) availability. First generation larvae caused extensive mortality of the host population in 1983, while damage was minimal in 1984-1985. Egg production by first generation adults was 22-27 times higher in 1984-1985 than 1983. Tendency to diapause by field-collected first generation adults was significantly higher in 1983 than 1984-1985. Almost one-half of field-collected adults in late July 1983 entered diapause, whereas 100 percent of beetles collected during this same time period in 1984-1985 were reproductive.
25084498|The long-lost bee Chalicodoma pluto was found in the North Moluccas of Indonesia, and was discovered nesting communally in association with a tree-dwelling termite. Using their extraordinary mouthparts, females gather resin and wood and fashion these materials into galleries resistant to termite invasion. The first males known of the species were taken, and male territoriality was observed.
25082792|Males of 12 species of bees in both tribes of Halictinae (Halictidae) lived up to 62 days in captivity, "patrolled" when 3 to 62 days old, and mated when 3 to 18 days old. Patrolling by male bees is defined as the repeated flying of nonfeeding males among landmarks which may be rendezvous places (locations where males are likely to find females); these males usually confine patrolling to particular topographical areas. In nature patrolling halictine males fly in zig-zag paths at nesting sites and around plants and in addition to conspecific females, they are attracted to various female-sized objects. In the laboratory these males exhibit non-sequential patrolling, flying among landmarks in no particular order, and they commonly add and delete landmarks from patrolled areas. Males of Augochlora pura and Agapostemon splendens exhibit topographical orientation in that they search for landmarks removed from their patrolled areas. When alighted, halictine males frequently groom, feed, "lingualate" nectar, and rotate their bodies. They sleep solitarily or gregariously, depending on the species.
25082527|Male courtship behavior of Negalius, Phodaga, and Cordylospasta is described and compared. Male tactual display in each genus contains unique elements within the Eupomphina. However, certain similarities in the behavior of Negalius and Phodaga support the concept of their cognate relationship within the subtribe as previously based on adult and larval anatomy. Characteristics common to both include the stereotyped fore-leg grasp of the female's pronotum, straddling behavior, movement of the middle legs to the head region of the female during display, and the rare occurrence of the genital phase following display. Cordylospasta has also been considered closely related to Negalius and Phodaga on the basis of larval anatomy. Characteristics of male courtship do not support this conclusion. In Cordylospasta the fore legs are not used to clasp the female, straddling behavior does not occur, the middle legs remain posterior to the fore legs throughout courtship, and the genital phase frequently follows bouts of display. Most of the components of courtship in Cordylospasta are also distinct from those in other eupomphine genera, however, the position of the male's legs while mounted on the female is similar to that found in Eupompha and Pleurospasta.
25083978|A new genus Tantulidia is described and Coelidia rufifrons Walker is designated as type-species. Tinobregmus piperatus DeLong and Tinobregmus angustatus DeLong are suppressed as new synonyms of rufifrons. Two additional species, invicus DeLong and maculellus DeLong are redescribed and retained in the genus Tinobregmus. The genus Tantulidia bridges the distributional gap between the North American genus Tinobregmus Van Duzee and the Chilean genus Chilelana DeLong for the tribe Tinobregmini.
25084010|Four new species of Thagria are described; srilankensis and brincki from Sri Lanka, blockeri from Bhutan, and paradigitata from Burma, bringing the total to 139 known species in the genus.
25082378|New synonymy cited for North American Anthonomus is as follows: A. aeneolus Dietz (= A. brevirostris Linell); A. albopilosus Dietz (= A. xanthocnemus picipes Blatchley); A. alboscutellatus Champion (= A. basidens Fall); A. decipiens LeConte (= A. canus LeConte, A. lineatulus Dietz, A. aphanostephi Pierce); A. disjunctus LeConte (= Epimechus nivosus Blatchley); A. faber Dietz (= A. obtrusus Fall); A. leucostictus Dietz (= A. albopictus Champion); A. ornatulus Dietz (= A. figuratus Dietz); A. ungularis LeConte (= A. dissimilis Dietz). Lectotypes are also designated where necessary.
25083569|Detailed observations were made on the emergence and feeding habits of the acrocerid parasite Ogcodes rufoabdominalis from lycosid spiders. One hundred and twenty field-collected hosts yielded six parasites in May. Eggs, first and third instars, and pupae are described for the first time, as well as mating and oviposition.
25085324|Insect natural enemies are often hypothesized to exhibit spatial as well as temporal density dependence in responding to their prey. To evaluate the potential importance of spatial density dependence in biological control of pea aphids (Acyrthosiphon pisum) in Utah alfalfa, we examined whether the distributions of aphid predators varied in relation to densities of their prey among fields. Sweep samples were taken for predators and prey during five periods over the growing season in fields scattered throughout a five
25083633|Ecological and collecting notes are given for eight Parcoblatta and four other species. Nymphs of P. bolliana live in the nests of the ant, Cremastogaster lineolata (Say); most of the other Parcoblatta roaches show fairly specific habitat preferences. Two records of Cariblatta lutea lutea from Tennessee are reported.
25085831|Collection records and observations reveal noteworthy distribution records of several social wasp species in Missouri, U.S.A. The paperwasp Polistes exclamans Viereck has diminished in abundance in eastern Missouri; the adventive European hornet, Vespa crabro L., apparently extended its range into Missouri in the late 1980's and early 1990's; a single specimen of the aerial yellowjacket, Dolichovespula arenaria (Fab.), has been taken south of the species' range; the adventive Vespula germanica (Fab.) was apparently static in distribution for more than a decade before recent range expansion.
25085717|Pollen selection by Hylaeus basalis (Smith), H. ellipticus (Kirby) and H. verticalis (Cresson) was investigated by examining pollen exines recovered from larval feces from nests collected during 1985 in a trap nesting study at five sites in Upper Michigan. All three species specialized in their use of pollen, taking pollen almost exclusively from members of the Rosaceae, including Rubus, Spiraea, and Potentilla. H. basalis (13 cells sampled) and H. verticalis (34 cells sampled) provisioned each of their cells with a minimum of 97% rosaceous pollen; the remaining pollen came from members of the Asteraceae. With the exception of one cell, H. ellipticus (40 cells sampled) provisioned cells with a minimum of 92% rosaceous pollen; the remaining pollen came from Asteraceae and Apiaceae (Heracleum pollen 5% of one cell). One H. ellipticus cell contained 100% Asteraceae pollen (Cirsium and Erigeron). This cell was constructed late in the nesting season after all rosaceous plants at the study sites had ceased blooming. The taxonomically diverse flower records in the literature for Hylaeus are suspected to be based on nectar visits. Females gather large amounts of nectar for their semi-liquid provisions, and males feed on nectar. The identity of pollen actually used by these three species in provisions for larvae has not been previously reported, and this study does not support the diverse flower records in the literature as pollen sources.
25084504|The nymph of Enallagma daecki (Calvert) is described from specimens collected at Highlands Hammock State Park, Florida. It differs from all other described North American Enallagma nymphs in the general morphology of the caudal gills and the absence of coarse setae on the posterior lobes of the head.
43288787|Measuring shifting patterns of occurrence and abundance among members of pollinator guilds is critical for studies of their ecology, conservation and contribution to host pollination. The constitution of floral bee guilds is not readily interpreted from passive sampling of bee communities (e.g., pan or Malaise traps). Net collecting at flowers positively associates bee and flowering species, but do sampling biases of individual net collectors obscure real spatiotemporal dynamics in floral guilds of bees, or generate spurious differences where no changes have occurred? The diverse guild of bees foraging at 1-ha plots of creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) was systematically net sampled by practiced collectors along randomized belt transects across the Chihuahuan, Sonoran and Mojave deserts. These guild samples were compared by Horn's Index of Similarity, evaluating the magnitude of collector biases contrasted with geographical and temporal variability in guild composition. Simultaneous samples taken by several collectors were always more similar than those by the same collector in sequential years at a site (0.86 vs. 0.54) or concurrently at neighboring sites (0.84 vs. 0.61). Pooling collectors' site samples did not alter spatiotemporal estimates of guild similarity. Repeated seasonal samples by three collectors at one site were very similar for any given day (0.90) with the more experienced pair being particularly consistent and similar (0.96  0.01). Seasonal changes of the guild were readily detected and quantified. Thus, aerial net sampling provided reliable estimates of temporal and spatial dynamics of the Larrea bee guilds once the sampling protocol had been practiced. We recommend systematic aerial net collecting of pollinators at counted floral host plants to quickly and reliably characterize pollinator guilds quantitatively. Systematic net sampling of bees taken at a sequence of randomly chosen individuals of a given flowering species offers a reliable and replicable means of efficiently quantifying variability and change in such floral guilds of bees. The method should find application for conservation, agriculture and habitat management involving bees and other insect pollinators.
25085714|The social biology of Halictus ligatus has been investigated in many localities from Southern Canada to the Caribbean. In southern Florida it seems to be multivoltine and continuously brooded unlike the situation in more northerly areas where it has a more typical annual colony cycle with a moderately well established reproductive division of labor. In order to investigate the possibility of genetic differentiation between southern and northern behavioral types, samples of this species were collected along a transect from Toronto, Ontario in the north, to the Florida Keys in the South; additional samples were available from New Mexico and California. Two distinct species were found but surprisingly, their geographical ranges abut far to the north of the behavioral disjunction. The two species are differentiated by no fewer than 7 fixed differences out of 34 loci surveyed using standard gel electrophoretic techniques. It is probable that true H. ligatus is the northern form and that the Southeastern species should be called either H. poeyi Lepeletier or H. capitosus Smith. The two species are sympatric along a narrow stretch around the southern end of the Appalachian Mountains. Several biogeographic hypotheses are suggested which may account for the distribution of these two taxa. Further samples are required from the Southern USA, Central America and the Caribbean to differentiate these hypotheses. Comparisons of the social biology of these two species in an area of sympatry should be performed.
25083778|Reproductive system morphology of male and female face flies, Musca autumnalis DeGeer, is described, as is a gynandromorph face fly collected from the Kansas State University colony.
25084871|The reactive distance and cues used to detect prey by two instars of predaceous diving beetle larvae (Dytiscus verticalis) were examined. The earlier instar larvae had shorter reactive distances than later instar larvae regardless of the type of prey-cue used. The effect of distance depended on the nature of the cue itself as well as distance from the beetle larvae. It also appeared that these beetle larvae utilized non-visual cues (chemical, tactile) to locate and capture prey. Chemical cues appeared to be necessary to elicit the full attack sequence from the beetle larvae. The importance of the results relative to D. verticalis foraging behavior is discussed.
25082536|Three species of pine tip moths, Rhyacionia frustrana (Comstock), R. buoliana (Schiffermller), and R. rigidana (Fernald) occur in Missouri. Rhyacionia frustrana and R. rigidana are found scattered throughout the pine growing regions of the state. Rhyacionia buoliana is found primarily on highway plantings in Jackson and Buchanan Counties. The methods presented for identifying these three species are based on wing venation and on characters of the pupae and genitalia.
25082438|Vertical zone electrophoresis in acrylamide gel was used to resolve certain soluble hydrolases from whole homogenates of larvae and adult smaller European elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistriatus (Marsham). Aliesterases (E.C. 3.1.1.1), arylesterases (E.C. 3.1.1.2), acid phosphatases (E.C. 3.1.3.2), peptidases (E.C. 3.4), and an acetylcholinesterase (E.C. 3.1.1.7) were detected in both larvae and adults. However, larvae contained a larger number of aliesterases and acid phosphatases than did adults. Alkaline phosphatase (E.C. 3.1.3.1) activity was not detected in either stage.
20621941|Ants of the myrmicine tribe Dacetini are mostly specialized predators of Collembola. Prey records in the field, however, indicated that the short-mandibulate species Pyramica mazu (Terayama, Lin and Wu) predates upon gamasid mites. In the laboratory, this ant readily hunted and consumed gamasids as well as collembolans and symphylans. Evidence for specialized predation on Diplura in Pyramica hexamerus (Brown) was supported by field data.
25086069|The mesotibial spur is presented as a new character for use in the systematics of the bee tribe Meliponini. Variable in morphology among the Meliponini, the mesotibial spur occurs as four observed states: present and normal, present and reduced, present and highly reduced, or completely absent. These states are characterized, their distribution across the Meliponini summarized, and their utility in the systematics of stingless bees discussed.
25084012|An overview is provided of North American chrysidid genera along with a short historical account and a key to genera. Recently described genera are included, with illustrations of critical features. Characteristics of male genitalia are discussed and figured. The subgenus Pseudospinolia is elevated to a genus. Data on hosts and distribution are summarized in a table.
25084948|Andrena montrosensis Viereck and Cockerell was designated the type species of Scaphandrena Lanham. Subsequent authors have made this a subspecies or synonym of scurra Viereck. Evidence is presented here for regarding montrosensis as a distinct species which has arisen by hybrid breakdown in Ribble's "trihybrid zone."
25085027|Head capsule widths were measured on 1239 log-reared larvae of Monochamus carolinensis (Olivier) and plotted as a frequency distribution. The number of instars could not be determined by this method. The number of instars for larvae reared on artificial diet was determined, through direct observation, to be variable. These larvae followed one of several instar pathways, i.e., individual larvae developed through three, four, five, or six stadia before pupating. Twenty-seven percent of these larvae developed through three instars while 63% went through four. A chi-square test for independence indicated that instar pathway frequencies were independent of sex but dependent upon temperature. Mean head capsule widths among diet-reared larvae were influenced by temperature but not the sex of the larvae.
25085696|Patterns of physical contact were observed in small groups of whirligig beetles, Dineutus assimilis Kirby (Coleoptera: Gyrinidae). Males and females did not differ in the frequency of overall touching behavior. Females, however, "brushed" and "bumped" males significantly more than expected by chance. Males exhibited no sexually differential behavior. These results confirm previous reports of sexually differential contact behavior by female Dineutus, but suggest that the behavior is not merely associated with novelty.
25084271|The new species described are E. palustris from dipterous galls on Pluchea purascens and from galls of a Neolasioptera sp. on Flaveria linearis; E. scabriterga from a cecidomyid gall on Juniperus; E. antistrophi from galls of Antistrophus microseris on Microseris douglasii; E. cuneiforma, no host given; E. strigosa from Xanthium strumerium, no host relationships stated; E. orbicaulis from the larvae of Languria erythrocephalus in stems of Panicum hemitomon. E. compressa Bugbee, described originally from Mexico, is added to the fauna of the U.S. on the basis of specimens from Napa County, Calif., from the seeds of Rhus trilobata. A parasite and host catalogue includes the new species mentioned above and 21 new species described from North America, north of Mexico since the last revision of Eurytoma (Bugbee, 1967).
25082585|Panorpa vernalis and Panorpa hungerfordi, new species, are described and illustrated. Status of Panorpa insolens Carpenter is discussed. Additions to geographical distribution of various species are given.
25082511|Structural dimorphism of the reproductive system provides a basis for sexing of blister beetles, by dissection, as early in ontogeny as the third larval instar. In addition, external sexual characters permit sexing of live coarctate larvae and pupae.
25086152|We collected data on the density and species composition of grasshoppers on and off three black-tailed prairie dog (Cynomys ludovicianus) towns in the northern mixed-grass prairie of Badlands National Park (BNP), South Dakota during July of 1997 and July-August 1998. Densities of grasshoppers were significantly higher on prairie dog towns than off in July 1997. In 1998, densities were again significantly higher on towns in July, but lower on towns in August. Species from three Acrididae subfamilies, Melanoplinae, Gomphocerinae, and Oedipodinae, were collected at the BNP. Melanopline species comprised the largest proportion of grasshoppers collected both on and off prairie dog towns in both years, gomphocerine species were found almost exclusively off towns, while oedipodine species were significantly more common on towns. In 1998, the stage of the grasshoppers was also recorded. The proportion of melanopline and oedipodine nymphs that were collected on towns was significantly greater than the proportion collected off towns in July 1998. By intensively grazing in the vicinity of their burrows, black-tailed prairie dogs create areas of bare ground which may provide ideal oviposition sites and preferred habitat for some species of grasshopper.
25084756|A new species of Xenyllodes from the state of Baja California is described and differentiated from its closest relatives.
25085605|A tufted titmouse (Parus bicolor) was observed to systematically remove overwintering prepupae from the nest of a pipe-organ mud-dauber wasp (Trypoxylon politum) in Athens, Georgia on a winter day when natural foraging sites were covered by an unusual snowfall. Although rarely reported, avian predation on mud-dauber wasp nests may be more common than thought, because the holes made by the titmouse so closely resemble natural emergence holes made by exiting wasps.
25085098|Pterolichus (P.) hastifolia Mgnin and Trouessart, 1885 is assigned to the genus Aralichus Gaud (Pterolichidae). The species is redescribed from the type host, Enicognathus ferrugineus (Mller) Chile, and E. leptorhynchus (King), Chile (Psittacidae).
25084116|Throughout a 9-month period pirimiphos-methyl (O-[2-(diethylamino)-6-methyl-4-pyrimidinyl]O,O-dimethyl phosphorothioate) was more effective than malathion (O,O-dimethyl phosphorodithioate of diethyl mercaptosuccinate) in controlling insects on 14.6% moisture hard winter wheat stored in plywood bins. Pirimiphos-methyl persisted longer on the wheat than malathion did. Also in laboratory studies, malathion degraded faster than pirimiphos-methyl. The higher the grain moisture, in the laboratory studies the greater the breakdown of both insecticides.
25086027|The spittlebug species Clastoptera lawsoni Doering is redescribed from specimens collected in Arizona that were compared with the type series and others determined by Doering. This species is frequently parasitized by the drosophilid fly Cladochaeta johnsonae Nguyen (Diptera: Drosophilidae).
41681236|A new species of Miocene crane fly, Tipula paleopannonia, new species, is described and figured from a well preserved forewing. The specimen derives from the Paldau Formation (Early Pannonian, ca. 11.3 Ma) and is the first new species of Tipula described from the Miocene of Europe since the mid-1800's. Anhand eines gut erhaltenen Vorderflgels wird in vorliegender Arbeit eine neue Schnakenart, Tipula paleopannonia, sp. n., beschrieben. Das Stck stammt aus der Paldau-Formation (Frhes Pannonium, ca. 11,3 Mio.J.) und ist die erste Neubeschreibung einer Tipula-Spezies aus dem Miozn Europas seit Mitte des 19. Jahrhunderts.
25085667|Few Plecoptera species records are available from Nebraska. Distribution for nine species of stoneflies in five families from 16 western counties are newly presented. Five new state records include: Capnura wanica (Frison), Isoperla quinquepunctata (Banks), Perlesta cinctipes (Banks), Pteronarcys pictetii Hagen, and Taeniopteryx burksi Ricker & Ross. Our survey indicates that western Nebraska is a mixing zone for typical eastern and midwestern North American and Rocky Mountain species.
25084314|Seven new species of Thagria are described and illustrated. These are fossiata from Central Borneo, bidentata from West Sumatra, and mutabilis, bifurcata, barbata, retrorsa and hollowayi, all from Sarawak. The number of known species in this large genus of the Oriental and Australian regions now stands at 161.
25084942|Northern corn rootworm beetles (NCR), Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence, were counted in the ear-zones of corn plants in experimental no-till corn plots and commercial production cornfields in northeastern Ohio, 1979-1980. The egg-laying component of these NCR adult populations was 6% or less in early August, 10-33% in mid-August, and 28-49% after the third week of August. Moreover, the proportion of egg-laying beetles in adult populations was highly correlated (r = 0.89, P < 0.01) with Julian date. These findings may lead to better estimates of NCR oviposition potential in field corn. Whole-plant beetle counts of the western corn rootworm (WCR), D. virgifera virgifera LeConte, approached one beetle per plant in the 1980 plots after being very scarce in the same area in 1979. These data indicate that the WCR took about 50 years to complete its migration across the central U.S.
25086443|The fatty acid compositions of phospholipid and triacylglycerol fractions of total lipids prepared from eggs, nymphs, new-generation, aestivating, and diapausing adults of the wheat stink bug Aelia rostrata Boheman (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The major components were C16 and C18 saturated and unsaturated fatty acid ubiquitous to most animal species. In addition to these components, several odd-chain (C13:0, C15:0, and C17:0) and prostaglandin-precursor fatty acids were found. The fatty acid profiles of phospholipids and triacyglycerols were substantially different. Generally, the phospholipids were higher than triacyglycerols in polyunsaturated fatty acids. The unsaturation/saturation ratio for phospholipid was higher than calculated for triacylglycerol. There were substantial differences in fatty acid compositions from different development stages. In phospholipid fractions, the fatty acid profiles from eggs and nymph were not the same, with decreased palmitoleic acid proportions in nymphs. Eggs also differed from the adult stage, with lower proportions of myristic and higher proportions of palmitoleic and eicosenoic acids. Percentages of linoleic acid increased significantly at the expense of palmitic acid from new-generation adult compared to other nymphal stages. In triacylglcerol fraction, the content of oleic acid in nymphs and most adults stages decreased relative to eggs. In both fractions, polyunsaturated fatty acids contents were higher in female than in male. The proportion of unsaturation/saturation ratio was significantly increased in phospholipid and triacylglycerol, apparently because of increases in major monounsaturated oleic acid at the expense of saturated palmitic acid during diapause. Thus, temperature and development stages seem to play an important role of lipid metabolism in the wheat stink bug. /// Aelia rostrata Boheman (Heteroptera: Pentatomidae) dier adyla Kml'n yumurta, nimfleri, yeni nesil ergini, yazlama ve diapozlu eginlerinin total yalarnn fosfolipit ve triailgliserol fraksiyonlarndaki ya asidi kompozisyonlar gaz kromotografisi-ktle spektrumu ile analiz edildi. Major ya asitleri olarak, ou hayvan trlerinde genellikle tespit edilen 16 ve 18 karbonlu doymu ve doymam ya asitleri tespit edildi. Bu bileenlere ek olarak, eitli tek karbonlu (C13:0, C15:0 ve C17:0) ve prostaglandinlerin ncl maddesi olan ya asitleri bulundu. Fosfolipit ve triailgliserol ya asidi profilleri byk lde farkldr. Genellikle, fosfollipitteki ar doymam ya asidleri triailgliseroldekinden daha yksek tespit edildi. Deiik geliim evrelerinin ya asidi kompozisyonu da farkllk gsterdi. Fosfolipit fraksiyonun da, yumurtadan nimfe doru palmitoleik asit orannda azal gzlendi. Yumurta, dk oranda miristik asit, yksek oranda palmitoleik ve eikosenoik asitler bakmndan erginlerden farkllk sergiledi. Yeni nesil erginde, linoleik acid yzdesi, nimf evrelerine gre nemli derecede artt. Triailgliserol fraksiyononda, nimfteki ve ou ergindeki oleic acid miktar yumurtaya gre d sergiledi. Her iki fraksiyonda, ar doymam ya asidi ierii diide erkee gre daha fazla bulundu. Diapoz sresince, fosfolipit ve triailgliserolde, doymam ya asidinin doymu ya asidine oran nemli lde artmasnn sebebi tek doymam ya asidi olan oleik asidin yerine palmitik asidin harcanmasdr. Sonu olarak, scaklk ve geliim evrelerinin Kml'n ya metabolizmasnda nemli bir rol oynad grlmtr.
25086047|Males and females of Megaselia neocorynurae n. sp. from the Eastern Andes of Colombia are described and illustrated. Females of this species can be recognized by the peculiar white color of the region of tergites 5 and 6 in the abdomen, and males by the combination of relatively large body size, dark color, presence of four supra-antennal setae and four large scutellar setae, and the unusual erect cerci of the terminalia. Larvae of M. neocorynurae n. sp. were found feeding on brood provision 11.4 and 14.9% of the cells of two as yet undescribed species of Neocorynura. These associations represent the first halictid host for Megaselia as well as the first examples of this phorid fly genus as a kleptoparasite of halictid bees. Biological information of M. neocorynurae n. sp. is compared with that known for Phalacrotophora halictorum, the only previously known phorid fly associated with brood provisions of Halictidae.
25084417|Three new species of leafhoppers, Labocurtidia ungula and L. parapaucita from Brazil, and L. tridentata from Paraguay, are described and illustrated. A key to all known species of Labocurtidia is included.
25086168|Megachile (Callomegachile) sculpturalis Smith has been found in several parts of North Carolina, prompting our surveys for it in other states. Including the reports of others, the bee is in South Carolina, Georgia, Virginia, Maryland, the District of Columbia, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Tennessee, New Jersey, Connecticut, Delaware, New York, and Alabama. We also found it in southern Ontario, which is the first Canadian record. Its host plants include Koelreuteria paniculata, Sophora japonica, Ligustrum lucidum, Ligustrum vulgare, Oxydendrum arboreum, Catalpa speciosa, Lathyrus latifolius, Lythrum salicaria, Buddleia spp., Vitex spp., and Asclepias spp. When foraging on L. latifolius and S. japonica, M. sculpturalis sometimes punctures the standard petal with its mandibles, leaving a distinctive mark that is useful for surveys. Over half of the host plants reported here originate from Asia, which is also the native range of M. sculpturalis. Perhaps this favorable foraging environment has, in part, aided the establishment and spread of M. sculpturalis in the United States.
25083657|The genus is redefined; a key to species and figures are included. New synonymies are: Laminalloptes simplex (Trouessart), 1885 [= L. microphaeton (Trouessart) as redescribed by Dubinin, 1955] and L. minor (Trouessart), 1885 (= L. pseudophaetontis Dubinin, 1955 = Alloptes longipes Ewing, 1911).
25086177|We studied aggression and size variation among males in the carpenter bee Xylocopa virginica (L.) at a nesting site in Central Oklahoma. Male size (estimated by head capsule width), male-male and male-female interactions as well as male site fidelity were recorded at three locations: 1) in the immediate vicinity of the nesting site, 2) at the periphery of the same nesting site and 3) at milkweed flowers (a nectar source) in an adjacent pasture. Nesting site males displayed significantly higher levels of aggression than males at the other two locations. These males were also significantly larger than those at flowers in the pasture while males at the nesting site periphery were intermediate in both size and intrasexual aggression among the three male categories. Male-female interactions (chases and contacts) occurred most frequently closest to the nesting site, but not significantly so relative to males in the nesting site periphery. We also found evidence that some males remain faithful to territories near the nesting site. Unlike the other two locations, no male-male or male-female interactions were observed at the flower site during one-minute focal observation periods. In contrast with several Neotropical Xylocopa species described in the literature, our study indicates that male X. virginica practice female and/or resource polygyny.
25082334|The generic diagnosis for Typhoctes females is corrected and modified. Typhoctes aphelonyx sp. nov. is described from Chile and Argentina. The relationships of T. aphelonyx to other species of Typhoctes and Eotillinae are discussed. The known distribution of the Typhoctinae is significantly extended by the discovery of this species.
25084946|Arthropod predators and competitors of the stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans (Linnaeus), were collected from field breeding habitats over a three-year period in Missouri. Forty-five different arthropod species were recovered. These were classified as follows: 29 species (12 families) of Coleoptera, 12 species (five families) of Diptera, two species (two families) of Hemiptera, one species of Dermaptera, and one species of mesostigmatid mite. Macrochelids and staphylinids were the predaceous arthropods collected most commonly.
25085567|Fifteen nests of Xylocopa appendiculata circumvolans were collected to investigate the overwintering bionomics. Nine of these were brood nests, which contained up to 7 overwintering bees. Generally, more males than females were found in these nests. The number of brood cells per nest was always higher than that of overwintering bees in the nest. The remaining 6 nests, however, were distinguished by a short and narrow tunnel, and contained only a young female. These observations suggest that some females disperse from their natal nests and excavate new burrows for overwintering, while other females and most males remain in the natal nests to form hibernating assemblages.
25084086|A new species, Paraphlepsius blockeri, from Kansas and Missouri, is described. The taxonomic significance of the female P. altus (Osborn and Ball) is discussed. This description is based entirely on male characters. A definite association with female specimens is not yet made because of natural variation of the female seventh sternum of P. altus (Figs. 3, 4, and 5) and close taxonomic relationship of P. blockeri and P. altus. A more detailed comparison of both species (P. blockeri and P. altus) is needed before the females can be distinguished.
25084087|Scanning and transmission electron microscopy were used to study the olfactory sensilla of the basal flagellar subsegment, or funiculus, of the antennae of the horn fly, Haematobia irritans irritans (L.). Surface olfactory sensilla consist of thick-walled and 3 morphological types of thin-walled multiporous sensilla; all have typical pore-tubule systems. In addition, surface grooved sensilla are present. Shallow depressions on the proximal ventral surface are populated exclusively with thin-walled multiporous clavate sensilla. Two to 3 olfactory pits on the dorsomedial surface as well as a single pit on the ventral surface also contain numerous thin-walled and grooved sensilla morphologically similar to their surface counterparts.
25082810|The daily drift of E. cinctus in an Oklahoma stream was greatest during early summer and August and consisted mostly of smaller size larvae. The diel maximum occurred between 2200 and 2400 hours with the onset of darkness apparently stimulating activity. Bezzia drift was greatest during April and June and coincided with increases in periphyton and chironomid abundance. The diel maximum occurred between 2000 and 2200 hours agreeing with the previously described bigeminous pattern of other nematocerans.
25085915|A 2-year field study was conducted to determine the effectiveness of an aggregation pheromone for monitoring activity of the pea leaf weevil, Sitona lineatus (L.), in the Pacific Northwest. Relationships between pheromone trap catches, damage to pea seedlings, and time of plant emergence were examined. Traps with and without pheromone lures were set along the edges of fields before planting of peas and were monitored at 5-7 day intervals in the spring of each year. Seedling damage was estimated by counting the number of feeding notches on seedlings at the 3-node stage of development. Highest mean trap catches occurred around 25 April in both years. The aggregation pheromone also attracted alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), but in much lower numbers than pea leaf weevil. Number of pea leaf weevil collected in traps was not related directly to seedling damage at a local or regional level. Seedling damage was related to the time of plant emergence; plants emerging before 15 May, closer to the time of high flight activity, sustained much more damage than plants emerging later. It is concluded that the pea leaf weevil aggregation pheromone could be used to time more accurately the planting of spring peas to minimize feeding damage and could be an important component of integrated pest management programs for the insect.
25082338|Pectinapis, a new genus of anthophorine bees with three new species, fasciata, auricauda, and fasciatella, is described from Mexico. A possible facial pollen-collecting apparatus is described for P. fasciata and P. fasciatella.
25082832|A roost of the neotropical butterfly Heliconius charitonius (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiinae) was observed for several successive days, following an initial period of marking all of the individuals seen at it. The purpose of the study was to document day-to-day variation in various aspects of communal roosting in this butterfly, including: fidelity of individual butterflies to the roost, behavioral patterns expressed at the roost (courtship, encounters, etc.), spatial organization of the roost in terms of perching spots for the butterflies, and effects of local weather (rain, wind and disturbances) on morning departure and afternoon arrival times of individual butterflies. From a previous study of this species at the same locality in central Costa Rica, we suspected that communal roosting was highly variable on a daily basis, more so than generally held to be the case for this group of butterflies. Our results indicated that there exists considerable variation in the fidelity of butterflies to this roost, and that roost occupancy times apparently correlate well with local weather conditions. Encounters between perched and approaching butterflies may occur, presumably since some perching spots are better than others. Females are more residential than males, and this may ensure a higher survival of female butterflies as a means of maintaining the population.
25085824|Males of the neriid flies Glyphidops flavifrons and Nerius plurivitatus mated with females near oviposition sites. Males fought over females, probably using their armed front legs. Smaller males employed an alternative, harassing tactic that delayed copulation by other males. There was little precopulatory courtship, and females usually mated readily. But relatively elaborate leg waving, and complex genitalic tapping, stroking and tugging occurred during copulation. The movements of both legs and genitalia differed between species. Functional interpretations of several genitalic structures that may stimulate the female and/or anchor the male's genitalia inside her are presented.
25082929|Oviposition tests with fresh bovine manure in 100-mm petri dishes showed gravid face flies Musca autumnalis DeGeer did not reorientate to areas of manure surface where communal oviposition had previously occurred. Gravid flies oriented to pinned specimens and black styrofoam blocks arranged in "V" shape. The communal response was not obliterated by painting over the compound eyes, suggesting the stimulus is tactile.
25085241|The Nomadinae sensu stricto is recognized as a monophyletic unit comprising 10 distinctive groups: the tribes Ammobatini, Ammobatoidini, Biastini, Caenoprosopidini, Epeolini, Neolarrini and Townsendiellini, the Brachynomada group of genera, and the genera Hexepeolus and Nomada. Their relationships are analyzed on the basis of adult morphological characters. Special emphasis is placed on the various features of the female sixth metasomal sternum. The Nomadinae in a broad sense would also include the tribes Isepeolini and Protepeolini. However, the monophyly of such a grouping is not supported in the present study. A new genus and species of Biastini, Rhopalolemma robertsi, is described from southern California.
25084239|Chelinidea vittiger Uhler nymphs and adults were reared in environmental chambers at 10, 17, 24, 31, 38, and 45C. Nymphal development and reproduction were found to be influenced by different temperatures. Maximum survival to the adult stage occurred at 24C (35%) whereas the most rapid nymphal development was at 38C (x = 44.3 days). The greatest number of ovipositing females were observed at 31C (90.6%) where the preoviposition period was often shorter. Due to the high percentage of ovipositing females, the 31C treatment exhibited the highest cumulative mean number of eggs. The highest egg production rate occurred at 38C, yet only 18% of the females produced eggs. Adult longevity was observed to be inversely correlated with temperatures within the range of 24-38C with the greatest longevity near 24C.
25083884|Two new species are described from Mexico, mexicana and painteri. Zodion pearsoni is now referred to this genus. None has all of the generic characters of the two previously known species.
25083450|Five species of the genus Myrmecotypus are known from Barro Colorado Island. Two of the species, M. rettenmeyeri n. sp. and M. discreta n. sp., are described from a male and a female respectively. All of the species are antlike in appearance and are possibly ant mimics.
25083841|The type specimens of 27 Nearctic species of Chironomidae are reviewed. Most of these are of species described by J. R. Malloch. Fourteen new generic combinations are given: Metriocnemus annuliventris Malloch [= Eurycnemus annuliventris (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Orthocladius) pilipes Malloch [= Trissocladius pilipes (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Orthocladius) subparallelus Malloch [= Clinocladius subparallelus (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Trichocladius) nitidus Malloch [= Syncricotopus nitidus (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Trichocladius) nitidellus Malloch [= Acricotopus nitidellus (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Trichocladius) striatus Malloch [= Rheocricotopus striatus (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Orthocladius) flavoscutellatus Malloch [= Bryophaenocladius flavoscutellatus (Malloch)], Camptocladius flavens Malloch [= Epoicocladius flavens (Malloch)], Orthocladius (Dactylocladius) pleuralis Malloch [= Platycladius pleuralis (Malloch)], Camptocladius subaterrimus Malloch [= Maricladius subaterrimus (Malloch)], Corynoneura similis Malloch [= Thienemanniella similis (Malloch)], Corynoneura xena Roback [= Thienemanniella xena (Roback)], Corynoneura elana Roback [= Thienemanniella elana (Roback)], and Corynoneura cubita Garrett [= Thienemanniella cubita (Garrett)]. A diagnostic table to the Nearctic species of the Orthocladius obumbratus group is presented while diagnostic keys are given for the Nearctic species of Bryophaenocladius (males only) and Thienemanniella. One new species, Thienemanniella mallochi, is described and one nomen novum, Nanocladius mallochi, is given. Three new genera are described: Clinocladius, Platycladius, and Maricladius. Three species are placed in genus insertae sedis: Orthocladius (Dactylocladius) albidohalteralis Malloch, Orthocladius bifasciatus Malloch, and Camptocladius flavibasis Malloch.
25085489|Males of two species of Xyonysius court females both before and during copulation. Courtship during copulation ("copulatory courtship") is more elaborate, and differs between the two species. Male genital sclerites are moved in ways suggesting that they stimulate females during copulation. It is argued that copulatory courtship may be under sexual selection by cryptic female choice.
25085035|In SE Kansas pecan groves, 6.8% of native pecan trees surveyed were susceptible to the pecan stem phylloxera (Phylloxera devastatrix Pergande). Galls formed by this insect provide nourishment and protection for larvae of the hickory shuckworm (HS) (Cydia caryana Fitch). Individual galls of the pecan stem phylloxera (PSP) were caged at weekly intervals over a 5 week period during the springs of 1983 and 1984. In both years, 50% female moth emergence preceded 50% gall infestation by HS by 11 days indicating that oviposition began with the earliest of the emerging moths. Larvae were unable to complete metamorphosis when confined to a single caged gall. The presence of HS in the gall was independent of the presence of PSP. We concluded that PSP galls were primary oviposition sites for overwintering-generation HS within a native pecan grove but more than one gall was needed to support larval development.
25085493|This study determined the survival of northern corn rootworm eggs exposed to different experimental low temperatures for up to 16 weeks. Eggs were obtained from adults collected in maize fields that had been in continuous maize for 2 years. Eggs were placed in the field in September to simulate soil temperatures experienced by feral eggs. In November they were brought into the laboratory and subjected to temperatures of 0, -2.5, -5, -7.5, or -10C for 2 to 16 weeks. Percent egg hatch following treatment declined as temperature decreased and as duration of exposure at reduced temperature increased. This relationship was described by the equation HATCH = 42.70 - 5.51*TP + 5.67*TM - 0.54*
25085459|Growth-chamber experiments were conducted to assess the relationship between initial colony size and the subsequent growth and alate production of the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia, feeding on winter wheat. Per capita growth of aphid colonies declined slightly as initial density increased, but was largely insensitive to the degree of crowding (with mean final densities up to ca. 1000 individuals/tillering plant). I detected no evidence of optimal growth at intermediate densities, which would have been expected if aphid aggregation caused a beneficial modification of the common feeding site. Alate production was positively related to the density of the aphid colony, but density explained only 15-35% of the variation in the percentage of alates. Much of the unexplained variation in alate production was due to uncontrolled maternal effects; results of an experiment in which all 'founding' aphids developed under uncrowded conditions suggested that prenatal conditions overwhelm post-natal effects on the wing polymorphism in parthenogenetic generations of D. noxia.
25083001|Distributional data are given for four North American species of Trichocera. Structural details of T. salmani are described and illustrated.
25085581|We studied the life history of a nematine sawfly in the genus Euura from May 1989 through April 1990. This particular species produces shoot galls on crack willow, Salix fragilis along East Plum Creek, near Castle Rock, Colorado. Adult wasps emerged in May with mating and oviposition occurring within one to two hours. Larvae development continued through October reaching the last instar by November. The last instar formed a cocoon within the gall in November and overwintered in the gall through April.
25083696|Balclutha delongi n. sp. is described from Matto Grosso. Balclutha abdominalis fuscipennis Linnavuori is reported from Nova Teutonia, Brazil; B. hebe (Kirk.) and B. diluta Blocker from Kansas.
25084131|Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (serotype H-14) was more effective at lower dosages, and remained effective longer than Bacillus sphaericus Neide, against naturally occurring Culex restuans Theobald populations breeding in water in tires.
25084596|Polygyny in fire ants had two overt manifestations in field colonies: (1) workers from polygynous colonies were significantly smaller than those from monogynous colonies; and (2) two transects through fields containing both types of colonies showed that closely spaced polygynous colonies were contiguous with more dispersed monogynous mounds. We present a simple method for predicting whether a field colony is monogynous or polygynous and discuss the possible origins of polygyny in this species.
25084385|Nests of Centris segregata Crawford are described from earth banks in slightly disturbed dry forest habitat in Costa Rica. Nests contain 1 to 3 burrows that originate in a chamber near the nest entrance. Each burrow has 1 to 11 urn-shaped cells arranged in a linear series. Cell caps have a hollow central process and are slightly recessed. In many burrows a short, uncapped, partly provisioned cell is placed above the last fully provisioned cell. Normal males and females were reared from the same nests, but only beta males were reared from some nests. Natural enemies include the anthophorid bee, Mesoplia rufipes (Perty) and the bombyliid fly, Anthrax cintalapa Cole. The diverse nesting habits of species of Centris are discussed in relation to the subgenera.
25085997|The duration of time over which Efferia staminea (Williston) fed on individual prey increased with prey size, but decreased as ambient temperature increased from 24-38C. Some of the residual variation in feeding duration may also be explained by the increased handling time required when large prey are fed upon from more than one wound. The robber flies also sometimes discarded small prey to chase larger prey.
25085652|Larval specimens of Xylophagus cinctus were field-collected, presented with prey, and their survival/pupation/emergence tabulated. Larvae attacked and consumed prey by ripping them with sickle-like mandibles and ingesting the body contents, confirming their insectivorous nature. Fed larvae molted, pupated and emerged as healthy adult flies (five males, x = 9.4 days pupation, (range 4-14 days) and seven females, x = 7.8 days pupation (range 2-14 days).
25086426|Life history of Eufriesea smaragdina (Perty, 1833) (Euglossina) was studied with trap nests. Over 4 yr bamboo canes and wooden blocks were placed in trees in secondary Atlantic forest on Santa Catarina Island and restinga forest on the adjacent mainland in Santa Catarina, southern Brazil. Forty-one brood cells were obtained in 14 nests and 23 Ef. smaragdina imagines emerged in November and December suggesting a univoltine life cycle for these bees. One cleptoparasitic orchid bee, Exaerete dentata, and a meloid beetle, Tetraonyx sp., were also reared from the nests. Their emergence fitted into the schedule of Ef. smaragdina suggesting a close adaptation to this host. /// Aspectos da biologia de Eufriesea smaragdina (Perty, 1833) (Euglossina) foram estudados atravs do mtodo de ninhos-armadilha. Durante 4 anos, bambus e blocos de madeira foram colocados em rvores em vegetao secundria de Mata Atlntica na Ilha de Santa Catarina e em restinga arbrea em uma rea continental adjacente, em Santa Catarina, sul do Brasil. Quarenta e uma clulas de cria foram obtidas em 14 ninhos e 23 indivduos de Ef. smaragdina emergiram em novembro e dezembro, sugerindo um ciclo de vida univoltina para estas abelhas. Uma abelha cleptoparasita, Exaerete dentata, e um besouro melodeo, Tetraonyx sp., tambm foram obtidos a partir dos ninhos. O perodo de emergncia dos parasitas se correlacionou com o de Ef. smaragdina, sugerindo uma estreita adaptao para este hospedeiro.
43288256|Dilacreon (Eluzalmon) lobatus sp. nov. (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha: Cixiidae: Eucarpiini), a new bamboo-feeding species, is described and illustrated from Guizhou and Guangxi of China. This represents the first record of the genus Dilacreon from China. The new taxon extends the distribution range of the genus Dilacreon, previously known only from Australia, Indonesia, Micronesia and New Guinea. A checklist of the known species of this genus in the world is provided.
25083815|Both sexes, the larva, and the pupa of Aedes (Finlaya) mohani, n. sp. from India are described. The relationship of the new species to other members of the niveus subgroup is discussed.
25086241|Aspects of nesting biology of the widely distributed oriental solitary wasp Pison argentatum Shuckard are reported from five localities in the Philippines and one in Borneo. Completed nests comprised 1-9 cells, with average nest size differing between localities and nest substrates. Nests based on hanging roots tended to be heavily plastered with mud pellets, while those on human-made substrates were seldom plastered. Fully provisioned cells contained 7-21 spider prey. Over 75% of the 1003 prey recovered were Salticidae, while about 2% were Araneidae, the first web-building spiders recorded as P. argentatum prey. The remaining spiders were Lycosidae and Oxyopidae, like Salticidae mostly long-sighted non-web-building hunters, but also new prey family records for this wasp. P. argentatum offspring from three samples showed sex ratios (male/female) of 0.41, 1.53 and 2.40.
25085049|Oviposition of the maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motsch., was studied in resistant and susceptible maize under different environmental conditions. At 67% RH and 27C, the females oviposited more eggs in the floury-susceptibles ANC-585 and AREQ-077 than in the resistant CAJ-208 and SMTI-057. Oviposition in the hybrid dent, Pioneer 3377, was intermediate. More eggs were placed in the endosperm than in the germ or germ-endosperm interface. There was significant interaction between types of maize and kernel areas. The number of kernels left without eggs after an oviposition period of 96 hr was recorded at 67% RH in single and mixed maize cultures and at 50%, 75% and 85% RH in single cultures. The females rejected the resistant CAJ-208 kernels 4.5 times more than the susceptible Pioneer 3377 and 3.8 times more than AREQ-077. In mixed cultures, none of the Pioneer 3377 kernels, 2.5% of the susceptible ANC-522 kernels, and 12.5% of the resistant CAJ-208 kernels were left uninfested. At 50% RH, the females failed to oviposit on 20 times more kernels of all accessions than at 75% RH, and 60 times more than at 85% RH.
25083592|The range of Parataracticus Cole is extended from California to Arizona and Baja California. A key to the species and figures of the antennae are given. New species are cuyamus from California and melanderi from Arizona.
25084003|The Vittata Group of the genus Epicauta is characterized anatomically in the first larval instar. Larvae of Epicauta vittata (Fabricius), E. occidentalis Werner, E. temexa Adams and Selander, E. abadona Skinner, E. tamara Adams and Selander, E. vitticollis (Haag-Rutenberg), E. unilineata Champion, E. monachica (Berg), E. luteolineata Pic, E. leopardina (Haag-Rutenberg), E. apure Adams and Selander, and E. aragua Adams and Selander are keyed, described, and figured. A preliminary analysis of the phenetic structure of the group is made by means of techniques of principal components analysis and numerical taxonomy, using 44 anatomical characters. Larval similarities between the subgenus Henous Haldeman, as defined by MacSwain, and the Vittata Group indicate that the former taxon is no more than a species-group of the genus Epicauta.
25084466|Allotrophora mexicana is described from Mexico as a new genus and species and placed in the lygaeid tribe Ozophorini. Its relationship to other Western Hemisphere genera is discussed and notes on the habitat given. Illustrations of the dorsum, the abdomen, the egg and the spermatheca are included.
25083739|The stingless bees of the genus Trigona use the mandibular gland secretion for communication. Field bees can be separated into three groups: 1) Young bees that have not full mandibular glands and that cannot communicate, being perhaps receptor bees at the hive entrance; 2) Middle-aged bees with full glands and communication capacity, functioning as scout bees; and 3) Old bees which have empty glands and do not communicate any more. Of 50 field bees studied, 64% could communicate and 36% could not. Bees become field bees when about 30 days old. They acquire the communication capacity when they are about 43 days old and lose this ability after about 54 days; therefore only for a short period can the bee communicate the discovery of food to its community. We think that this communication method is in principle as good as that of Apis.
25082829|The behavior of egg-bearing male Belostoma flumineum Say is described and interpreted in a manner compatible with natural selection theory. Male bugs encumbered with eggs invest in a variety of brooding behaviors that include keeping the eggs wet, frequently exposing them to atmospheric air, and maintaining an intermittent flow of water over them by stroking them with the hind legs while below the surface. These behaviors enhance egg survival and development as shown by laboratory experiments with detached egg pads. Static eggs failed to develop when covered with water or left in open air. Nondevelopment was attributed to inadequate gas exchange in the one case and desiccation in the other. Eggs left on the backs of healthy males enjoyed a high degree of success. Males test for the presence and adhesion of eggs on their backs, employing the hind legs in variations of the egg-stroking pattern. Egg pad removal and cannibalism of eggs were options apparently exercised in response to egg pad adhesion failure or adverse brooding conditions. The selective advantages accrued by the individual male for his investment apparently depend on his having fertilized most of the eggs he bears.
25086307|Five new species of the genus Anteon Jurine from China are described: A. yunnanense, new species, from Yunnan, Daweishan; A. tongi, new species, from Human, Wuyuedian; A. actuosum, new species, from Guangdong, Dinghushan; A. wengae, new species, from Guangdong, Nanling; A. yani, new species, from Shandong, Shanghe. Keys are provided for the determination of the species along with illustrations of female chelae.
25085537|The 6 previously described species of Spilomena, and 9 new ones are described and keyed. The new species are: S. bakeri Bohart, southern California; clypearis Smith, California and Nevada; fresno Smith, California; hainesi Smith, California; kelso Bohart, southeastern California; leucostigma Bohart, southwestern U.S.; menkei Bohart, Utah and Arizona; montana Bohart, Sierra of central California; occidentalis Bohart, Arizona and California. Characters of special value are the degree of hypersternaulus development, clypeal markings of males, and antennal coloration in both sexes. A new synonym is hurdi Antropov 1992 = foxii Cockerell 1897.
25083872|Nest sites, some with 200-400 nests, and nest architecture of the solitary wasp Cerceris halone are described. Behavior of Cerceris in stinging and transporting prey (the acorn weevil Curculio nasicus) is correlated with the wasp's clypeal and mandibular structure. Sizes of predator and prey are compared. Egg, larva, prepupa and cocoon are briefly described. Associated arthropods include a chrysidid wasp, certain sarcophagid flies, pompilid wasps, bees, ants and mites.
25082332|Convergent evolution is shown to occur in the larvae of two unrelated penstemon-feeding species of Geometridae (Lepidoptera). Both exhibit a striking black and white pattern that is probably adapted to the behavior of grazing by the last-instar larvae on the small penstemon rosettes in the spring. The possible reasons for this pattern are discussed, and the larvae of both species are described and figured.
25083636|A total of seven females of Hedychridium fletcheri was observed entering active nests of females of Tachysphex similis. Four cases of successful oviposition by the cuckoo wasps in the cells of the digger wasps were noted. The cuckoo wasp searches for such nests by running in circles and entering small, open holes. However, the closure of sand with which the female of T. similis keeps her nest entrance filled while foraging poses a temporary deterrent for the female of H. fletcheri. The cuckoo wasp nevertheless locates such a nest and lurks nearby on the sand until the digger wasp with prey lands and removes the closure; and then follows her inside. Depending on the degree of the stage of provisioning, the cuckoo wasp may exit, wait until the cell is fully stocked, reenter and oviposit, or, if the provisioning is nearly complete, oviposit during the first entry. The two hymenopterans must come into contact inside because the digger wasp always enters and leaves the nest before the cuckoo wasp. The number of contacts is probably diminished when both females oviposit at about the same time. The female of T. similis is not visibly disturbed after making contact with that of H. fletcheri, but continues nesting as if nothing were amiss. The cuckoo wasp attaches her egg very loosely to one of the grasshopper prey, whereas the digger wasp affixes hers much more securely to another individual in the cell. The larva of H. fletcheri, probably a highly modified form with a strongly chitinized head and heavy mandibles, apparently feeds first on the wasp larva, molts to the more normal form of aculeate larva, and then feeds on the stored prey.
25083991|Attacks by the army ant Eciton burchelli (Hymenoptera: Formicidae: Dorylinae) on nests of the social paper wasp Polistes erythrocephalus (Vespidae: Polistinae) were witnessed at one locality ("Finca La Selva") in northeastern Costa Rica near the end of a wet season. Prior to, and following the attacks, data were recorded on the sizes of nests, numbers of adult wasps, and presence of brood in the nests. Before the first attack, 41 nests, of which 34 were new and contained large larvae and pupae, were present on a building along with a total of 244 adults. Nests were linearly arranged on eaves and wasps aggregated on them each night. Adult wasps were unsuccessful in defending nests against attacks, and there was 100% mortality of larvae and pupae on 17 of the active nests. Attacks resulted in the evaluation of P. erythrocephalus. There was a significant reduction in the number of adult wasps remaining on nests, presumably a result of wasps scattering to nearby areas and founding new nests away from the building. Following the first attack, three new nests were built, and ravaged nests were left unused. One new nest was built on the pedicel of a ravaged nest that was torn down by the wasps. The three new nests steadily increased in size until a second attack, about three and one-half weeks later, destroyed these nests. At the end of the wet season and during the dry season, webs of the large orb-weaver Nephila clavipes became abundant and blocked wasps from reaching eaves that once served as nest sites. It is suggested that frequent attacks of P. erythrocephalus nests by E. burchelli, and increased inaccessability of nest sites, caused the marked dwindling of the wasp population on the building.
25082506|Schizodectes, new genus, with Proctophyllodes (P.) fenestralis Trouessart, 1885, as type species, is established and a new species, S. hiterminalis is described.
25086067|The male of Panorpa appalachia, from mountainous western North Carolina, is described; taxonomically useful details are illustrated. It is compared with similar American species.
25085766|Megachile (Callomegachile) sculpturalis Smith is recorded from the continental United States for the first time. Presently it is only known in North Carolina where it was presumably introduced from its native range in Japan and China.
25082801|We collected leafhoppers during 1970 through 1972 from grazed and ungrazed tallgrass prairie by sweeping and trapping. The faunas were determined, major species are discussed, and collecting methods are compared. Both collecting methods are necessary for sampling total fauna. Density and biomass per unit area are estimated and discussed. The large number of samples by the trapping method necessary to reduce standard error in density and biomass estimates are prohibitively costly in time and labor.
25084459|Life history character patterns were compared with the a priori morphologically based taxonomic groupings for 174 species of butterflies, representing five major North American families. Failure to find a reliable correspondence between these two sources of evolutionary information is discussed with regard to the potential contribution of life history data to current schemes of classification and in postulating phylogenetic reconstruction.
25085725|Among stingless bees, the Trigona hypogea group is remarkable for its obligate necrophagy. Unlike other Meliponinae, bees in this group no longer visit flowers. Honey and proteinaceous food are stored in separate pots and both kinds of storage pots are devoid of pollen. The proteic nutrition is based on a paste-like material collected mainly from carcasses. Honey-like substances are mainly composed of juices collected directly from fruits and from extra-floral nectaries. Although sugar apparently requires no further care, the treatment involved in the maturation of the protein source is complex and takes several days.
25086157|A redescription of the intertidal aleocharine genus Brachypronomaea Sawada, 1956 from the Ryukyu Islands, Japan is presented with illustrations of its diagnostic features. Brachypronomaea is hypothesized to be a member of the tribe Myllaenini rather than the tribe Pronomaeini based on the small gland opening on the anterior margin of tergite VII; antero-lateral angles of mentum prolonged into spinose processes; galea without setae on the mesal edge; lacinia with a pair of curved setae near the base; and the ligula short and entire.
25084232|The different antennal segments of the stingless bee Scaptotrigona postica were studied both with the light and scanning electron microscope. The observations showed that these bees have all the different types of sensory structures found in Apis antennae, namely: sensilla trichodea, basiconica, placodea, coeloconica, ampullacea and campaniformia, although their size is reduced. The sensilla placodea and trichodea are present in the highest amounts, as in the case of Apis, though in Scaptotrigona they are also present in segment number 2. The number of sensilla placodea, or olfactory discs, per antenna in Scaptotrigona is 1036.400  12.161, i.e. almost three times lower than in Apis, a fact which does not seem to agree with the communication system of this species which is based on formation of scent trails.
25085032|Females of both Euglossa championi and E. hyacinthina cohabit aerial nests. Dissections of both species failed to reveal clear indications of reproductive division of labor. Data are given on nest structure for both species, and nest sizes, ages, and individual female lifetimes for E. hyacinthina.
25085449|Characters of Microbembex are discussed briefly. Five new species are described and figured: evansi, Texas, 3 species from Mexico: albivena, Baja California; coxalis, Guerrero; luteipes, Sonora and Sinaloa; and one species from El Salvador, sternalis.
25083741|Heriades spiniscutis (Cameron) nests in dead pithy stems, rarely in pithy thorns, in various African countries. Nests were studied from the Cape of Good Hope to Kenya. About half had cells separated by thin resin partitions, while the other half had them unseparated, with only loose pollen or later, larval feces, between cells. Failure to separate the cells is a rare phenomenon among bees. Both types of nests were not found in one locality although resin nest closure was sometimes found in nests lacking partitions. Nonetheless, scarcity of resin may be related to absence of partitions. A female was sometimes found near the entrance of a completed nest, suggesting that she may survive and guard the nest for a long time. Reproduction is probably continuous, with overlapping generations, during the warm season. Seventeen specific names are placed as new synomyms of spiniscutis.
25084764|Long stubble or lodged growth left in the field when harvesting alfalfa, Medicago sativa L., favored survival and subsequent population increase of potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris). Nymphal and adult numbers on the regrowth were directly related to postharvest stubble height, or length of the lodged alfalfa. Predator populations were greater in plots with more green residue, but did not appreciably reduced numbers of leaf-hopper nymphs or adults.
25082385|In interior Alaska the carabid beetle Pterostichus brevicornis (Kirby) requires from 14 to 36 months, depending upon the time of oviposition, to complete its life cycle. Hibernation can occur at any developmental stage beyond the egg. The temperatures in the winter hibernacula in the presence of snow-cover are higher than ambient in midwinter, and fluctuate less. Ova begin forming in late February and mature in early May so that the beetles are ready to oviposite as soon as they leave their winter residences. Oviposition took place from May to July in two consecutive summers and the total number of eggs laid per female varied from 40 to 80. The alimentary canals of the beetles, filled with food at the beginning of hibernation, were empty or almost so by January. From the January to mid-February, the beetles fed, mainly on rotted wood, whenever the stump temperatures rose to -4C and above. Feeding increased in March and April, and when the beetles left winter quarters in May, their entire alimentary canals were packed with food. The fat body was most abundant in September and October, and decreased generally until the end of hibernation approached, when fat became abundant again. Determination of whole body water showed that dehydration occurred from November to March.
25083617|The halictid, Lasioglossum (Dialictus) coeruleum (Robertson), observed in northeastern Kansas, nests in decaying logs and limbs of trees lying on the floor of deciduous forest. The nests are started in abandoned insect burrows or other preformed spaces, and expand from there into the surrounding rotted phloem or xylem in the course of further construction. Although the nests of L. coeruleum show the same structural elements as those of soil-nesting Lasioglossum, they are markedly variable in shape according to the form of the occupied cavities and the availability of chewable substrate. Like many other Lasioglossum species, L. coeruleum constructs dependent cells in the sense of Malyshev. In spring the nests are built by overwintered females which emerged at the end of the previous summer and were fertilized prior to hibernation. The offspring raised by these females include males, and fertilized young females at the beginning of July. These females are capable of founding new nests but they also may remain in the nests of their mothers as replacement queens. Sterile workers were also found in summer nests.
25086332|A new species, Myrsidea willardi, is described from the Schlegel's Asity, Philepitta schlegeli, from Madagascar. The only previously described species from the host family Philepittidae, Myrsidea minuscula (Piaget), is redescribed and illustrated. These two species of lice show pronounced genetic divergence based on partial mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I sequences.
25083773|Four nests of Pisonopsis clypeata Fox and one of Belomicrus forbesii forbesii (Robertson), all from Jackson Hole, Wyoming, are described. The first species employs pre-existing cavities and makes cells in series, separating them with earthen barriers; the prey consists of spiders, principally of the family Theridiidae. The second species digs a multicellular nest that is provisioned with bugs of the family Miridae. Notes are presented on digging and provisioning behavior, and the larva of Belomicrus forbesii forbesii is described and figured.
25082954|An attempt has been made to place generically the 37 species of Gyponinae described by Herbert Osborn (1905, 1926, 1938). Rhogosana rugulosa is considered a good genus and species. Clinonana declivata described in Ledrinae has been placed in Clinonella (1971). Gypona aurifera, G. cruzana, G. fulvotincta, G. hyalina, G. peruviana, G. pulchella, G. viridula, G. vitrea and G. sierra, as a synonym of G. paupercula Spang., are considered as species of Gypona. Gypona lineosa and G. ecuadora are placed in Hecalapona. Gypona ancona is a species of Prairiana. Gypona geminata to a synonym of Gyponana octolineata (Say 1964). Gypona bahia is placed in a new genus Bahapona n. gen. Gypona cubana, C. albimaculata, Prairiana rosacea, P. griseola, and P. variegata are placed in Curtara (1976). Gypona boliviana is a species of Chloronana (1964). Prairiana nigrifrons and P. labella are placed in the genus Acuera (1974). Prairiana basalis and P. robusta belong to the genus Foliciana (1972b). Ponana affinula, P. bicolorata, P. grossa, P. ornata, P. notatula, P. sarana, and P. sulfurea, placed in Clinonaria (1969) by DeLong & Freytag, belong to the genus Scaris (1825). Ponana bruneola, P. fusconatata, and P. piceata have been placed in Polana (1927c). Ponana punctella has not been available for study.
25085731|Queens of the social, swarm-founding wasp Epipona guerini are larger than workers in each of 13 morphometric variables. Multivariate analyses revealed that 6 of the variables contribute significantly to queen-worker differentiation. Relationships among thorax length, wing length, and width of the second gastral tergite differ between queens and workers in ways that can only occur through difference in developmental pathways during larval development. Pre-imaginal caste determination has been documented in six genera of Epiponini; Epipona is the second of these that now has been subjected to detailed analysis that revealed caste differences that are not explained by size-based allometry.
25085499|Previous work has shown that guards of Trigona (Tetragonisca) angustula colonies hover near the colony entrance and selectively respond to insects or models of insects presented near the colony entrance (Wittman, 1985, 1990). We found that guards do not attack non-nestmate conspecifics. We also tested the effect of a number of other meliponine species on guard responses; guards attack workers of dark colored species but do not attack yellow or light brown species. We relate these findings to previously published work, which emphasized the importance of chemical cues.
25085744|For the sake of stability of several generic names of Eucerini, a neotype is designated for Eucera antennata Fabricius, 1793. It belongs to the species Tetralonia malvae (Rossi, 1790).
25086298|Late instar larvae of the army cutworm, Euxoa auxiliaris (Grote), infested replicated test plots of 43 wheat varieties in Hays, Kansas in early April, 2004. Five varieties, Trego, 2147, Betty, Thunderbolt, and Jagger, were selected for sampling cutworm defoliation and larval densities. Damage was lowest in Trego (12-41 damaged tillers/m of row), and highest in Betty (128-285 damaged tillers/m). Plots of Betty averaged
25084104|The long-term effects of toxaphene piscicide on benthic macroinvertebrates was examined from 1962 to 1966 in Brewer Lake, Ontario. The immediate effect of treatment was a dramatic decrease in the abundance of all benthic macroinvertebrates within one month. The complete eradication of all benthic macroinvertebrates was not achieved. The phantom midge, Chaoborus punctipennis, was extirpated, with no repopulation within the four years following treatment. Prior to treatment this species constituted 58% of the abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates. A significant increase in abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates occurred from 1964 through 1966, due to an increase in chironomid larvae, following the reduction of predator populations. The population of oligochaetes showed little effect from the toxaphene treatment, with a general increase in abundance during this study. Prior to treatment the highest numbers of benthic macroinvertebrates were collected in the profundal zone. Following treatment the dominant organisms of this zone, Chaoborus punctipennis and Chironomus cucini were extirpated, with a continuing paucity of benthic macroinvertebrates observed in this zone. The overall effect of the toxaphene treatment on benthic macroinvertebrates was to extirpate the dominant macroinvertebrate, Chaoborus punctipennis, and to restrict the repopulation of the deeper areas of the profundal zone, although during three of the four years following treatment the abundance and biomass of benthic microinvertebrates in the littoral-sublittoral zone was significantly higher than the pre-treatment average.
25084358|Four studies using Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson populations in isolated apple (Malus sylvestris Mill.) orchards were conducted to determine if different nest materials, nest shelter placement designs, or methods of releasing adults would affect nesting success of this species. Experiments employing the same mass-release techniques and identical nest shelter placement designs produced remarkably similar results on nest patterns and nesting success. Consistent patterns were also evident in the utilization rates of different nest materials in each of four experiments: wood was the most preferred material; styrofoam was moderately attractive; and, milk carton traps were the least utilized. In addition, the lowest rate of immature mortality and the highest proportion of female to male progeny were found in wood nest materials. Dispersal rates of prenesting bees appeared to be highest where populations were mass-released and lowest in orchards where bees were emerged from natal nests. Population sizes were, however, increased in all four orchards.
25085882|The effect of insecticide treated soil on the distribution of third instar Diabrotica virgifera virgifera (LeConte) was investigated using a choice test. Larvae were allowed the option of remaining on untreated soil or moving into soil containing a concentration of insecticide. In tests with organophosphates (terbufos, chlorethoxyfos, and fonofos) fewer larvae were recovered from treated soil compared to untreated soil. An inverse relationship was found between the percent of larvae which were recovered in treated soil and the concentration of insecticide in the soil. No significant relationship could be found in tests in which tefluthrin, a pyrethroid, was used for soil treatment. Results indicate that D. virgifera virgifera larvae are able to detect and avoid the presence of organophosphates in the soil.
25083684|The subfamily Leptogastrinae (Asilidae, Diptera) is raised in rank to the family Leptogastridae with the type genus Leptogaster Meigen (1803). The common name Grass Flies is proposed. The Leptogastridae have eight primitive characters which include the absence of pulvilli, open-cell wing venation, epandria separated and narrowly joined basally, the triangular hypandrium wedged between the basistyli, the apical dististyli, the simple aedeagus, the non-rotated male genitalia, and the small short testes. The mesonotal pit, the swollen pronotal lobes set close together, the surstyli, the fenestra of sternite 2, and the lack of alulae occur in all the Leptogastridae. Approximately 400 species of Leptogastridae are closely associated with the uniform environment of certain species of grass, shrubs, and the lower branches of trees. Apparently the low number of Leptogastridae is the result of their inability to radiate from the uniform environment because of a slow rate of evolution. Over 4800 Asilidae occupy diverse habitats. The Leptogastridae with weak, and also reduced, mouth parts, feed on soft prey only; the Asilidae with both weak and strong mouth parts, feed on both hard and soft prey. Leptogastridae capture resting prey, the Asilidae moving prey. In the Leptogastridae the mesal anterior angles of the posterior pronotum are two swollen lobes set close together with a mesonotal pit between them. The Dasypogoninae have swollen lobes far apart. No Leptogastridae have pulvilli. Phylogenetic position indicates that the lack of pulvilli is a primitive condition. Approximately 25 per cent of the families of the primitive Nematocera, 80 per cent of the Brachycera, and all the specialized Cyclorrapha have pulvilli in all species. In the Asilidae only 91 of 2800 species of Dasypogoninae are either without pulvilli, or with reduced pulvilli; all 2000 Asilinae have pulvilli. The helicopter-like flight of the Leptogastridae seems to be associated with the open wing cells and probably with modified muscles. Seventy-five per cent of the Leptogastridae have hair on the wing veins; about 35 per cent of the Asilidae have hairy wing veins. Plumose hair is present on the head and thorax of one genus in Dasypogoninae, and on 30 of 65 genera in the Asilinae, but none on the Leptogastridae. Over 50 genera of the Asilidae have a bent spine on the apex of the fore tibiae; none occur on Leptogastridae. The slender abdomen of Leptogastridae is either convergent with Zygoptera (Odonata), or parallel with other Diptera. Some species accidentally mimic twigs with the abdomen. Some Asilidae mimic Hymenoptera, but not twigs. The ventral margins of tergites 2 and 3 of many Leptogastridae overlap sternites 2 and 3. Sternite 2 is almost completely divided into two sclerites by a membrane-inlaid fenestra of various shapes. Overlapped sternites and a fenestrated sternite 2 do not occur in Asilidae. Tergite 1 of Leptogastridae is joined to the mesonotum by a broad ellipsoid membrane and sternite 1 is mostly membranous which permits the abdomen to be moved through an arc of 45 or more. Such flexibility does not occur in the Asilidae. In the Leptogastridae the hypandrium coalesces with the basistyli either partially or completely in 111 of 185 species. In the Asilidae the hypandrium of many species is either partially or completely reduced. Some Leptogastridae have a hypandrial apodeme both in species with and without coalesced hypandrium and basistyli. Lateral and ventral processes are associated with the dististyli. Asilidae do not have a hypandrial apodeme. The primitive aedeagus of Asilidae consists of a basal cone and an apical tube. It is modified by changes in the shape of the base and by the apex being formed of one, two, or three tubes. The two-tube aedeagus appears in only four genera in the Asilinae. The aedeagi of the Asilidae are modified in many ways so that the species can be separated in most genera. The primitive aedeagus of the Leptogastridae is similar to that of Asilidae. Many Leptogastridae have a modified aedeagus that is very slender, while others have a tube of large diameter. Some species have a very slender aedeagus with the apex divided into two tubes. In comparison with the Asilidae, the number of Leptogastridae with two tubes is not common, and only a few species are known with the apex divided into three parts. Only part of the Leptogastridae can be easily separated with the aedeagus. The testes of the Leptogastridae are short tubes, while those of the Asilidae are coiled tubes. The larvae of the Leptogastridae have a dense bristly covering, a short labrum, no mandible, and distally widely separated maxillae. The larvae of Asilidae have less dense bristly covering, the labrum is normal, the mandibles are present, and the maxillae make contact apically. The subfamilies Dasypogoninae, Asilinae, and Megapodinae are recognized in the Asilidae.
41262782|The aim of the present study, for which collections were made in 2004, 2005 and 2008, was to document the species of Geometridae in the Ayder plateau of the eastern Black Sea region of Turkey. A total of 31 species belonging to 23 genera of the Geometridae family were identified. All identified species are first records for the Ayder Platau, while three (Xanthorhoe spadicearia (Denis & Schiffermller, 1775), Dysstroma citrata (Linnaeus, 1761) and Eupithecia egenaria Herrich & Schffer, 1848) are first records for the Turkish Geometridae fauna. Idaea muricata (Hufnagel, 1767), which was collected in Samsun, is a new record for Asian Turkey (Anatolia). A Zoogeographie characterisation is proposed for each species.
40783180|Relatively few studies have examined prdation of Empoasca fabae (Harris) (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae), an important insect pest of alfalfa {Medicago sativa L. [Fabaceae]). In this laboratory study, we quantified rates at which E. fabae adults and nymphs were attacked by three predatory species: Coleomegilla maclala (Degeer) (Coleptera: Coccinellidae), Chrysoperla carnea Stephens (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae), and Orius insidiosus (Say) (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae). Individual predators and E. fabae were held in a feeding arena for 24 hours (individual fava bean plants [Vicia faba L. (Fabaceae)] enclosed within dialysis tubing). Adult maclala attacked 4.2 nymphs and 1.6 adults at the high-prey density (15 E. fabae nymphs or 10 adults per cage) and 2.0 nymphs and 0.6 adults at the low-prey density (5 E. fabae nymphs or 3 adults per cage). Orius insidiosus attacked twice as many E. fabae nymphs than adults at the high density (2.9 versus 1.2). In contrast, similar numbers of nymphal and adult E. fabae were attacked by carnea larvae (4.6 versus 3.5, 1.2 versus 0.8; at high -and low-prey densities, respectively). Of the three predatory species, carnea larvae attacked the most E. fabae nymphs and adults. These predatory species may play a role in maintaining low population densities of E. fabae in alfalfa.
25085398|Feeding preferences of Cylindrocopturus adspersus, the sunflower stem weevil, were examined in relation to age and developmental stage of two sunflower hybrids. Feeding tests were conducted using leaf disks from plants of different ages and from leaves in the mid-section and top of the same plant. Age of the sunflower plant had a significant influence on feeding preference. Leaf disks from plants 6 weeks old were preferred over leaf disks from plants 8 weeks or older. The change in feeding preference coincided with the end of vegetative growth and the development of seeds in the sunflower head. Leaves at the top of the plant expand and mature last but changes which affect feeding preference occur simultaneously in the top and midsection of the same plant. Age and developmental stage of the sunflower plant must be considered when studying feeding preferences of C. adspersus.
25084546|Temperatures in a Kansas farm bin of wheat during fall, winter and spring were simulated and their effects on survival of adult granary weevil (GW), Sitophilus granarius (L.) (Curculionidae), and red flour beetle (RFB), Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) (Tenebrionidae), were studied. Death rates for GW and RFB during the initial 177  1 days were significantly different at the 0.01 level. Survivorship curves showed GW, which underwent gradual thermal acclimation (G-TAc) to 4.4C, had a marked reduction of mortality between days 41-115, compared to weevils held at 27C. In contrast, only 1.05% of RFB survived G-TAc to 4.4C (117  1 day), while 53% survived when maintained at 27C. Of the RFB surviving at 4.4C, 90.5% were females.
25085153|A new species of Nyctiophylax is described from Bankhead National Forest in Alabama, U.S.A., bringing to 10 the number of Nearctic species known for this genus. The male differs from all others by the broadly exposed base of each paraproctal process in lateral view, the digitate lower apex of each lateral blade of tergum X, and the broad inferior appendages each with a sinuate mesal margin. A revised key for males of Nearctic species is provided. Also described is a female presumed to be this new species.
25085175|Information on the bionomics of a species of Scrapteropsis is presented for the first time. Unusual features include thermoregulation by nest-site selection and facultative oligolecty on Acer spicatum. Nests have only one or two cells, but some females make multiple nests. Details regarding habitat, host, nest structure, phenology, brood, and associates are provided.
25082587|Rhyacophila otica (R. carolina species group), Agapetus spinosus, Hydroptila decia (H. consimilis species group), Triaenodes cumberlandensis (T. marginata species group), and Lepidostoma compressa (L. modestum species group) are described as new species from the southern Appalachian Mountains. Ironoquia brysoni Flint is synonymized with I. kaskaskia (Ross). Illustrations of Lepidostoma modestum (Banks) are included.
25084983|Malirekus iroquois, n. sp., is described from adult specimens taken in the northern Appalachians. Males of the new species are distinguished by the shape of the lateral stylets which are only slightly hooked in M. iroquois, but are strongly hooked in M. hastatus (Banks). Eggs of M. iroquois are coarsely punctate while the chorionic surface of M. hastatus is granular with scattered clusters of scale-like processes.
25082901|Fourteen species of Parabezzia known to inhabit North America are described and illustrated, and keys are provided for the identification of adults and known pupae. Three species groups are recognized, the alexanderi, unguis, and uncinata groups. Seven species are new: P. atchleyi, bystraki, eupetiolata, horvathi, huberti, neunguis, and texensis. Parabezzia uncinata (Johannsen) is resurrected from synonymy with P. petiolata Malloch. The evolution of the three species groups and phylogenetic relationships with closely related genera are discussed.
25084265|A population of 4000 Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson adults (1:1 sex ratio) was released into each of two almond orchards in California where females constructed 9379 cells in styrofoam, wood, and milk carton nest materials. Wood proved to be most attractive to nesting bees and milk carton nest materials were least attractive. Female dispersal away from release sites prior to nest establishment was quantified (over 50%) and nesting populations were monitored throughout the flight season. Positioning of nests within shelters was studied and showed some effect on nesting success, especially in milk carton nests. The sex ratio of progeny was established (2 : 1 ) and mortality of immatures measured (6%).
25083987|Over 2000 specimens representing twenty species and four genera of Philodromidae and 19 species and eight genera of Thomisidae were examined from north-central Texas. A mature female Xysticus robinsoni Gertsch is reported for the first time. New state records and natural history data are presented. Thirty-seven species of plants from 14 families were utilized by Philodromidae and Thomisidae.
25082976|The effects of various foods on the reproduction of Bathyplectes curculionis were studied in a caged system in the laboratory. Parasitism by B. curculionis was increased when proper adult food sources were provided to the females. Food sources commonly found in alfalfa fields in Kentucky differed in their effectiveness in promoting parasitism, as did different potential laboratory foods.
25084816|In the arboreal ants, Azteca chartifex laticeps and A. trigona, the worker caste is polymorphic and bimodal, forming two physically distinct groups of workers. Physical differences in A. chartifex laticeps are reflected in division of labor. Defenders and ground foragers are predominantly large workers while workers collected on the tree are predominantly small workers. The pattern of polymorphism and division of labor found in A. chartifex laticeps may be characteristic of ants that are ecologically dominant in tropical canopies.
25083874|Small collections and single individuals of Africanized honeybees are not reliably distinguished by conventional taxonomy from European bees. Discriminant analyses of up to 25 morphometric characters were performed on 101 collections of Africanized bees and 297 collections of European bees. When all characters were included, the analysis gave 100% separation of the samples. Individual bees can also be identified but with a higher risk of misclassification. An explanation of the method and discriminant coefficients for 5 sets of characters are provided.
25085775|In 1994, arthropod predator densities were significantly reduced in harvested (swathed and crimped) alfalfa strips (3 m  9 m) and strips treated with Pounce 3.2 EC (permethrin) at 0.112 and 0.224 kg (AI)/ha. In 1995, no significant differences in predator densities were observed among management treatments when rainfall occurred on the day of insecticide application and harvested alfalfa was not crimped. Compared with control strips, Lorsban 4E (chlorpyrofos) applied at 0.140, 0.280, 0.560, and 1.120 kg (AI)/ha did not result in consistent, significant reductions in arthropod predator abundance. Reductions in prey (Acyrthosiphon pisum and Hypera postica larvae) densities after treatment may have contributed to decreased persistence of immigrating predators to areas of low prey density and subsequent lower abundance of predators in treated alfalfa strips. Rates of Lorsban 4E that reduce H. postica larval densities do not consistently reduce arthropod predator abundance when applied in strips. These results indicate that strip applications for H. postica may be the basis for an integrated control program in Iowa.
25083982|General features used for identification in each of the four orders of chilopods are discussed. A checklist of 51 species known to occur in the north-central region of the United States and an illustrated key to those species are given.
25085479|The larvae of nearctic Pachybrachis and Cryptocephalus species have been found inhabiting leaf litter and feeding on decaying leaves. Larvae of Pachybrachis pectoralis (Melsheimer) and Cryptocephalus fulguratus LeConte were found in a decomposing log and feeding on decaying wood in northeastern Kansas. Larval behavior and procedures used to rear last instar larvae to adults under laboratory conditions are described. This is the first report that decomposing logs harbor the larvae of Pachybrachis and Cryptocephalus.
25083042|Field studies were made on 74 naturally nesting colonies of P. metricus near Lawrence, Kansas from 7 April to 1 September 1977. In contrast to subordinates, queens of multiple-foundress colonies spent more time on the nest, made foraging trips of shorter duration, exhibited frequent episodes of abdominal wagging, and commonly placed a substance on the nest pedicel. Subordinates foraged for caterpillars and commonly returned to the nest without wood pulp or prey. Single-foundress nests were frequently left unattended while multiple-foundress nests were rarely unattended. Subordinates were frequently ejected from the colony shortly after the emergence of the first workers and before eggs destined to become reproductives were laid. Eggs laid by reproductives were eaten by the queen.
25084814|Predators of spider mites (Acari: Tetranychidae) were sampled and monitored in corn fields and adjacent vegetation in Texas from 1981 to 1983. Several species of predacious arthropods were found associated with spider mite infestations in corn. Orius insidiosus (Say), (Hemiptera: Anthocoridae) and Feltiella macgregori (Felt) (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) were the more abundant predacious insects collected. The most common predacious arachnids associated with spider mites were Neoseiulus setulus (Fox) (Acari: Phytoseiidae) and Dictyna consulta Gertsch and Ivie (Araneida: Dictynidae). Several predators responded numerically to increases in spider mite densities. This response generally occurred after spider mites had reached damaging numbers.
25082839|Relative efficiency of four sampling techniques, i.e., cage-aerosol, vacuum-net, sweep-net, and shake-cloth, in collecting soybean-associated insects varied with the size and conformation of the soybean plant. The cage-aerosol technique provided the most accurate estimates of absolute populations of most insects though the vacuum-net technique was superior for minute forms. When a modified cage-aerosol technique and a modified vacuum-net technique were compared, differences in numbers of heavy-bodied insects (Hemiptera, Coleoptera and lepidopteran larvae) captured were nonsignificant, but the modified vacuum-net technique was superior in captures of light-bodies insects.
25084525|Electrophoretic analysis of the fruit fly genus Euaresta has revealed that a sample of E. bellula Snow from New Mexico and a sample from Oregon differ by a Nei genetic distance of 0.450. This value, typical of interspecific distances in many groups of Diptera, indicates that the Oregon and New Mexico populations represent two species. Comparison of the morphology of the flies with the description of E. stelligera Coquillett, synonymized with E. bellula in the most recent revision of the genus, suggests that the Oregon flies should be referred to E. stelligera.
25084063|Three entomopathogens, a fungus (Nomuraea rileyi [Farlow] Samson), a bacterium (Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner), and a virus (Baculovirus heliothis), were compared with a chemical insecticide (carbaryl) for their ability to prevent corn earworm (Heliothis zea Boddie) damage to hand-pollinated sweet corn (Zea mays L.). The virus, B. heliothis, and carbaryl were equally effective (based upon mean damage index, damage-free ears, and usable ears); carbaryl and B. heliothis were more effective than B. thuringiensis, N. rileyi, or no treatment. A mixture of all three entomopathogens was no more effective than B. heliothis alone. Shoot bag treatment with carbaryl or B. heliothis should significantly increase the seed yield of hand-pollinated sweet corn over that of nontreated corn.
25083688|Ten species of Philornis are recognized from the island of Trinidad, West Indies, of which eight are described here in detail and Philornis angustifrons (Loew) redescribed on the basis of male, female and puparium. The genus is characterized and a key presented to separate adults and puparia of Trinidadian specimens. The species with their associated host birds are as follows: (1) Philornis aitkeni Dodge, from nest of Galbula. (2) Philornis downsi n. sp., from nests of Cacicus, Coereba, Crotophaga, Galbula, Legatus, Mimus, Molothrus, Pitangus, Progne, Ramphocelus, Tachyphonus, Thraupis, Troglodytes, Turdus and Tyrannus. (3) Philornis falsificus n. sp., from nests of or associated with Amazona, Crotophaga and Otus. (4) Philornis angustifrons (Loew), from Columbigallina, Crotophaga, Icterus, Leptotila, Manacus, Piculus, Pitangus, Psomocolax and Thraupis. (5) Philornis trinitensis n. sp., from Molothrus, Oryzoborus, Pitangus, Sporophila, Thraupis, Troglodytes, Turdus and Tyrannus. (6) Philornis sanguinis n. sp., from Leptotila, Pitangus and Sporophila. (7) Philornis deceptivus n. sp., from Cacicus, Icterus, Legatus, Pitangus and Psomocolax. (8) Philornis glaucinis n. sp., from Glaucis. (9) Philornis niger n. sp., from Glaucis. (10) Philornis querulus n. sp., from Mimus.
25085623|While encased in a sealed cell, both Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) politum Say and their fly parasite, Amobia distorta (Allen), are able to accurately determine which walls of their cell are not covered by the cell walls of another pipe or some obstruction. They both make more aborted tunnels and have a higher mortality rate when emerging from cells in pipes that are encased by other pipes than when escaping from cells in pipes with partially exposed walls. The effect is much greater on the parasite than on the host.
25082556|Description and figures are presented for Choroterpes oaxacaensis Brusca & Allen, n. sp., from southern Mexico.
25084893|Two single cell nests of Megachile brevis pseudobrevis are described from the Florida Keys and compared with the nests of the nominate subspecies. Both cells contained pupae of the meloid beetle Nemognatha (Pauronemognatha) punctulata. This is the first record of a larval host for this species. The triungulin larva of N. punctulata is described and a key to the first instar larvae of the subgenus Pauronemognatha is presented. Observations indicate that Borrichia frutescens is the preferred host plant for the meloid adults and it seems probable that they oviposit mostly on this species.
40961675|Leluthia danielensis n. sp. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), reared from Scolytopsis puncticollis Blandford (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), is described from Mexico. Illustrations of lateral and dorsal habitus and wings are provided.
25084502|Fruit set problems have been reported for the apple (Malus domestica Borkh) cultivar 'Delicious'. In orchards where Osmia cornifrons Radoszkowski, Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson and Osmia lignaria lignaria Say were released, fruit set was significantly higher on 'Delicious' trees in the areas near Osmia nests than in areas where Osmia were not present even when Apis mellifera L. was present. Apples from trees in areas near Osmia nests had significantly greater numbers of fully formed seeds, more carpels with at least one fully formed seed, and better shape than apples from trees remote from Osmia nests.
25083900|In 4 series of tests, 9,057 larval honey bees, Apis mellifera L., of various ages from hatching to recently sealed were inoculated with spores or with a mixture of rods and spores from pure cultures of Bacillus pulvifaciens Katznelson by ingesting treated food. Only 17 (0.16%) were sealed and eventually dried to a powdery scale, and most of them had been inoculated as older larvae. Although most of the inoculated larvae were thus removed by adult nurse bees, particularly between the 1st and 2nd day after inoculation, the percentage removed before the brood was sealed tended to increase with increasing spore dosage and to decrease with increasing larval age at inoculation. More than half the reared larvae removed by hand 1 or 2 days after inoculation contained motile bacterial rods; the check larvae (uninoculated) contained no rods. Both types of inoculum used (spores or vegetative cells) caused the same mortality in 1-2 day old larvae, and the nurse bees quickly removed larvae infected with either inoculum before sealing. However, only the spore stage appeared to be infective to older larvae. Apparently, B. pulvifaciens is highly pathogenic to young honey bee larvae, but kills them so rapidly that nearly all are removed from the brood cells by the nurse bees before cells are capped. As a result, few remain to reach the powdery scale stage. This early detection and removal of diseased larvae may prevent the perpetuation and spread of the pathogen within and between bee colonies because the infected larvae are removed before the bacterium develops spores.
25084250|At least one species of a primitively social sweat bee, Lasioglossum zephyrum, can now be considered a year-round laboratory test animal. It has been maintained active and reproductive for at least three years, with four or more successive generations of inbreeding in some lines. A greater proportion of inbred than outbred colonies may be non-productive; however, inbred queens that begin to lay eggs are at least as productive as outbred ones. Sex ratios did not vary consistently with degree of inbreeding. Long-term studies involving genetics and behavioral biology are now possible, although maintenance requirements are demanding.
25084216|Two maize inbreds and 2 commercial maize hybrids were rated for larval damage under several different levels of artificial infestation with eggs of the western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte. Although the 4 types of root systems differed significantly in size, their mean root damage ratings were the same for each level of infestation. Thus, a given level of rootworm infestation appears to produce the same root damage rating with root systems of varying sizes. Therefore, root damage rating would be useless as a measure of tolerance, for tolerance is a function of root system size. It would, however, be useful in measuring antibiosis or antixenosis even among maizes having varying-sized root systems.
25086328|Latitudinal variation in body size, over-wintering emergence time and weight loss during development in the alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Cockerell, were studied in individuals from 24 populations in the western United States when reared under controlled laboratory conditions. Individuals from northern latitude sites were significantly heavier and took less time to develop to adults, but lost comparable weight during the developmental process.
25084508|Thomomydoecus, originally placed as a subgenus of Geomydoecus, is redescribed and elevated to generic rank. The new species T. byersi is described from Thomomys bottae aureus from Colorado and T. b. fulvus from New Mexico.
25084006|Supernumerary moults of Hyphantria cunea were induced by incorporating methoprene (Altosid) in a wheat germ diet. Based on calculated
25083906|The buffalograss webworm, Surattha indentella Kearfott (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), had one generation a year in Kansas. We found larvae throughout the year except during early September. Interval between larvae of successive generations was 7 to 10 days. Larvae are solitary and inhabit vertical tunnels attached to individual horizontal surface tubes, which they extend until they encounter a grass stem. Food gathering is nocturnal and feeding is in vertical tunnels during the day. Most food is consumed during later instars (larvae pass through 8 instars). Pupation occurs within vertical tunnels at various depths during August. Adults emerge in August and September, peak emergence being in late August, and they are crepuscular and nocturnal in flight. Male moths are small, light-to-dark, smoky, ochreous brown and have bipectinate antennae; female moths are larger, lighter in color, and have filiform antennae. During August and September, each mated female laid an average of 84 eggs, each being laid singly in barren areas to a depth of 1/4 to 1/2 inch. An average hatch of 97% was determined from 3 fertile females. After hatching, 1st instar larvae excavated cells where they overwintered and underwent an obligatory diapause. Natural enemies included killdeer, robins, swallows, robber flies, toads, crab spiders, ants, and domestic poultry. A larval parasite, Anisepyris subviolaceus Keiffer (Hymenoptera: Bethylidae), also was collected from an infestation of S. indentella.
25083869|The Argentine ant, Iridomyrmex humilis (Mayr), produces visible trails on asphalt.
25084299|Larvae of the European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), took longer to pupate and weighed less when increasing levels of DIMBOA, 2,4-dihydroxy-7-methoxy-1,4-benzoxazin-3-one, were incorporated into the artificial diet; larvae given a choice preferred to feed on diet containing no DIMBOA. DIMBOA did not increase larval mortality unless there was a stress factor not associated with concentrations of DIMBOA. Single-pair matings of adults obtained from larvae reared on DIMBOA-treated diet showed that DIMBOA did not affect either percentage mating or production of egg masses. DIMBOA sprayed on corn, Zea mays L., plants susceptible to ECB increased the number of ECB larvae moving off the plants. DIMBOA seemed to be acting as a behavior-modifying chemical. It was difficult, however, to discriminate between behavior and physiology (starvation vs. toxicity).
25082883|A new genus of Mengeidae, Perissozocera (type, P. cryophila n. sp.) is described from Kentucky and Georgia. This genus is compared with the closely related genus Corioxenos Blair in the subfamily Calliphraxeninae.
25085596|Experimental tests on Agelaia multipicta in Venezuela and A. hamiltoni in Peru failed to demonstrate recruitment of nestmates to carrion. Foraging ranges of neighboring colonies overlap and foragers occasionally showed aggression when they encountered one another on the baits. These species appear to engage in scramble competition with congeners and non-congeneric scavenging wasps, ants, and bees. A possible reason for the failure of these wasps to evolve nest-based communication of food location is the unfavorable benefit/cost ratio due either to inadequate colony size or to the behavior of interspecific competitors at carrion.
25084958|The nebulosus Group of the curculionid genus Anthonomus is now known to include three species, two of which are described herein as new. The group is distributed in the United states and Canada. This revision includes a key for identification, descriptions of the three included species, illustrations of adults and diagnostic characters, and a map of distributions. The two new species have previously been confused with Anthonomus nebulosus LeConte. All of the species are associated with Crataegus.
25086268|A survey of the bee species and their ornamental host flowers that occur in residential neighborhoods of the cities of Albany and adjacent Berkeley in northern California was conducted from 1999-2003. A simple bee frequency (visitation) count was developed to evaluate the relative attraction of bees to their host flowers. Results of the survey revealed that 76 species of bees, mostly natives, from five families, visited 129 host plants at measurable levels. The most common host plant families were Asteraceae, Lamiaceae, Polygonaceae, Rosaceae, and Scrophulariaceae. Honey bees and all other bee taxa were recorded separately on host plants, and both bee groups were more attracted to California native plants than exotics on a percentage basis. Variable attraction was recorded within native and exotic host plants, and a large part of this variation appears related to where the plants are found in residential areas. In general, the highest bee diversity and abundance was observed in diverse gardens having a high number of bee-attractive plants flowering at the same time. Ground nesting by several species was also noted in diverse and other garden sites. Overall, many bee species seem pre-adapted to use extant urban resources for forage, reproduction and survival in residential areas of these two California cities.
25086213|The Euglossa subgenus Glossuropoda is examined and males of three species described, Euglossa inflata sp. nov., a small bee apparently endemic to the Guianas, E. rugilabris stat. nov., a euglossine with proportionally the longest tongue, and E. cyanochlora stat. nov., the largest Euglossa and a sibling species to the widespread E. (G.) intersecta, endemic to Bahia, Brazil. E. (Glossuropoda) juremae is synonymized under E. hugonis, sibling to E. rugilabris, and E. (Glossuropoda) nigrosignata is given new status. In the subgenus Glossura, the male of E. piliventris is described and suggested as a sibling species to E. lugubris sp. nov., being of the eastern and western Amazon, respectively. Euglossa orellana sp. nov. and E. occidentalis sp. nov. are described, both widely misidentified as E. chalybeata, which to varying degree with that species, E. flammea, E. ignita, E. imperialis, and possibly E. iopoecila stat. nov. may be considered sibling species. Euglossa tiputini sp. nov., of the E. piliventris group, is a close mimic of E. intersecta in the western Amazon region.
25085075|Secondary parasitism, or hyperparasitism, is generally assumed to have a significant impact upon population dynamics of primary parasitoids, reducing their numbers to the detriment of effective biological control efforts. Field samples from collards in Ohio and California revealed that up to 90% of Diaeretiella rapae (Aphidiidae) parasitizing cabbage and green peach aphids (Brevicoryne brassicae and Myzus persicae) were themselves parasitized, mostly by Asaphes lucens, Aphidencyrtus aphidivorus, and/or Alloxysta spp. Secondary parasitism was concentrated within aphid populations of highest density, not under biological control by Aphidiidae or predators. A demographic model based upon these data and incorporating population responses of primary and secondary parasitoids describes the high mortality of Aphidiidae within "epidemic" aphid populations. In the model, secondary parasitoids have minimal impact upon either within-generation pest population dynamics or biological control by primary parasitoids. However, secondary parasitism may reduce emigration of primary parasitoids in low-density aphid patches, thereby limiting potential for biological control.
25084130|Seven wingless Myrmecocystus mexicanus queens were captured on a mesa just north of Colorado Springs, Colorado, shortly after their nuptial flights in late July and each was placed in an observation nest. The nests were observed for periods ranging from 195 to 384 days and were supplied with water, blue-dyed sugar water, red-dyed honey water and mealworms. Data were collected on the numbers, developmental times and behavior of the first brood. Workers hatched 53 to 87 days after the first eggs were laid and the maximum number to hatch varied from 5 to 19 depending on the nest. None of these workers became swollen semi-repletes or repletes. Observations were also made on the behavior of the workers and the queen toward the brood and toward one another.
25085651|The genera of Brachynomadini are reviewed and distinguished by a key. The North American Melanomada and Hesperonomada are considered junior synonyms of the South American Brachynomada. A new Argentine and Brazilian genus and species, Trichonomada roigella, is described.
25082512|Emphoropsis pallida Timberlake, which nests in sandy slopes along watercourses in the Colorado and Mojave deserts, is the second species in the genus to have its biology recorded. The nest architecture resembles that of E. miserabilis Cresson, which nests in coastal sand dunes, by having: (1) one-celled nests; (2) long, unlined burrows; nest entrances that remain open after nest completion; (4) barrel-shaped, vertical cells with convex caps; (5) an extremely thin cell lining in which sand granules are embedded to form the cell walls. The nests differ from those of E. miserabilis (1) in being deeper (as deep as 2 meters), (2) in having burrows plugged during and after the nesting season, and (3) in having the provisions shaped into a domelike structure not covered with a layer of nectar. The nest architecture of E. cineraria (Smith) and E. depressa (Fowler), differs from E. pallida and E. miserabilis in having burrows branched and earthen cells urn-shaped, thick-walled, and placed singly and/or in linear series. These cells are lined with a continuous, waxlike coating, and the caps are flat or concave, similar to those found in most species of the closely related genus Anthophora. Males of E. pallida construct irregular burrows in sand banks in which to spend the night. The females, which forage most actively shortly after dawn and before dusk, provision their cells primarily with pollen of Larrea divaricata Cav. Two meloid beetles were found as parasites of E. pallida: immatures and adults of Lytta magister Horn were found in burrows above the cell level and Zonitis (Neozonitis) (sp.) was found within cells.
25082794|Notes are presented on an aggregation of Cerceris rufimana rufimana near Buenos Aires, Argentina, and on an aggregation of C. rufimana colombica near Cali, Colombia. The latter is a previously undescribed subspecies, and a description is provided by Manfredo A. Fritz. The two populations differed in no important details of nesting behavior. In several cases from 2 to 4 females were found in a single nest, and in both localities there was evidence that nests of a previous generation had been reoccupied and extended. Prey consisted of small Chrysomelidae and Curculionidae both in Argentina and in Colombia.
25085273|Seedcorn maggot, Delia platura (Meigen) (Diptera: Anthomyiidae) populations were sampled from soybean fields located in northwestern, western and southern Ohio during 1987 and 1988. Treatments consisted of two factors, cover crop (the presence or lack of a wheat/rye winter cover) and planting date (two plantings ca. 1 week apart). Cover crops were incorporated into the soil by disking twice, followed by soybean planting immediately or 1-1.5 weeks later. Adult seedcorn maggots were sampled with metal traps placed over the row which collected the positively phototactic flies. All three locations were sampled in 1987; during 1988, only two locations were used because of severe spring drought at the third. Significantly more adult seedcorn maggots were collected in the plots where a cover crop was spring plowed. Numbers of adults collected from soybeans planted on the two dates were significantly different only at one location in 1987. Fly emergence was completed within a short time span at all locations, indicating that eggs were laid during a short period. Results indicate that seedcorn maggot oviposition in soybeans was more influenced by the incorporation of a cover crop than by soybean planting date.
25082364|Studies were conducted to determine the life history of the larval endoparasite Apanteles marginiventris (Cresson) in Trichoplusia ni (Hubner), Pseudoplusia includens (Walker), and Heliothis virescens. Optimum developmental periods from egg to pupa for T. ni, P. includens, and H. virescens were 7, 7, and 6 days, respectively. Minimum development for the parasite in all 3 species were 6 days. A. marginiventris showed preference for 2-day-old T. ni larvae over 1- and 3-day-old larvae for oviposition.
25082423|Four small South American genera of large gyponine leaf hoppers are described as new. Also treated is Rhogosana Osborn with one species, rugulosa Osborn. New are Clinonella with one species, declivata (Osborn) (type species); Tuberana with two new species, cliva and tubera (type species); Flexana with one new species spinosa (type species); and Declivara with one new species ornamenta (type species).
25085283|Conventional-, reduced-, and no-tillage plots of winter wheat were sampled for predators of aphids during a three-year study in eastern Kansas. Predators collected included Hippodamia convergens Guerin, Coleomegilla maculata lengi Timberlake, Coccinella septempunctata L., Scymnus spp., Chrysopa spp., Nabis spp., spiders and coccinellid larvae. Conservation tillage usually had a neutral impact on densities of aphid predators, but population reductions did occur for a few species groups each year. Hippodamia convergens and Chrysopa spp. (1985); H. convergens, Chrysopa spp., and all predators combined (1986); and spiders (1987) were significantly smaller in the reduced-tillage and /or no-tillage treatments than in the conventional-tillage treatment. Coccinella septempunctata did not occur at the study site until 1987, where it comprised the smallest proportion of the total predator population. The 1985 spider population was the only predator category during the three-year study that was smaller in conventional-tillage when compared to reduced- or no-tillage treatments.
25083485|Populations of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) obtained from Louisiana and from Kansas were compared with a third population of S. zeamais Mots. from Arkansas, to determine their reproductive potential, developmental time, interbreeding and intrabreeding, population competition, ovipositional preference, adult longevity, and larval frass ejection from grain kernels. Significant differences were noted among all three populations, especially between the two species of weevils.
25082789|From 1972-1974, 3 Vespula atropilosa and 4 V. pensylvanica colonies were observed in glass-bottomed nest boxes throughout most of their development. Workers from these colonies were marked and their activities followed from shortly after emergence until old age or death. Behavior related to emergence; foraging for prey, plant fiber, honey, and water; feeding larvae, queen, and other workers; nest construction and sanitation; aggressive interaction; and colony defense are described and correlated with worker age and the growth of the colony. The behavior of few workers became somewhat specialized, e.g., tending to collect fiber or guarding, but most behavior was plastic and workers assumed a variety of functions within a given day. Aggressive interaction, prey and fiber foraging, and nest construction were age related. Worker longevity was related to colony growth rate and foraging activity. Worker oviposition was never observed. Evidence for both intra- and interspecific colony drift is presented. The behavior of foundress queens was also observed throughout colony development. Queens at first concentrated on nest construction, oviposition, foraging, sanitation, and larval feeding; but after the appearance of workers only oviposition continued. Behavior of larvae and males is described.
25078485|Mortality in eggs produced in 1972 by the eastern tent caterpillar, Malacosoma americana (F.) in northwest Arkansas was investigated. Total mortality from parasitism, infertility, and unknown factors was 25.3%. Infertility and unknown factors accounted for most of the mortality, 12.1 and 11.6%, respectively. Only 1.6% of the eggs were parasitized with the eulophid, Tetrastichus malacosomae Girault, being the most common parasite.
25084920|Emergence of the sunflower stem weevil (SSW), Cylindrocopturus adspersus (LeConte), was monitored in wire-screened cages. Similar trends were observed in three successive years (1982-1984). Emergence period averaged 41 days (range 36-50 days), beginning 6-11 June and ending 16-25 July. Sex ratio approximated a 1:1 ratio, with males showing an earlier and more rapid rate of emergence. A base temperature of 5C gave the lowest coefficient of variation for degree-day (DD) accumulations. At this base temperature initial emergence of SSW occurred at 420 DD and by 865 DD, 90% of adults had emerged. Calendar date and associated DD accumulations for cumulative emergence of SSW through 90% emergence was consistent among years. For the years 1982-1984, DD accumulations and calendar date were equally accurate in predicting emergence of adult C. adspersus.
25083525|Spatial and seasonal distribution of adults were investigated in a five-acre clearing and surrounding aspen forest in northern Lower Michigan by means of window traps, sweep-net, and direct observation. Trapping measured flight activity, a parameter directly related to population density, which reached its maximum in the clearing during the period of June 4 to 16. This corresponds to the time during which bracken fronds in the clearing were 3 to 10 days old, the stage in which this sawfly oviposits. The low sawfly population levels in the forest appears to be due to the advanced development and consequent immunity of the host plant there. Bracken fronds emerge earlier and stands mature more rapidly in forests than in clearings.
25085244|The study was conducted to determine the effect of insecticide application on sunflower moth, Homoeosoma electellum, infestation in sunflower planted on different dates at Belleville, Hesston, Hutchinson, and Manhattan, in north and south central Kansas during 1986-1988 under nonirrigated conditions. Sunflower was planted on three dates at approximately two to three week intervals from early June to mid-July. Insecticide-treated and untreated plots were established for each planting date. Treated plots were sprayed with Pydrin 2.4 EC @ 0.11 liter/ha at 10-20% bloom and 7-10 days later. The number of larvae/head, percent area of the head covered with webbing and frass, and yield were recorded. The number of larvae/head was usually lower and yield was higher in treated than in untreated sunflower planted in June. The difference between the number of larvae/head in treated and untreated plots was not significant in July plantings. The relationship between number of larvae/head and yield loss was significant, with a loss of 9.9 kg/ha with one larva/head. Early June plantings usually had the highest number of larvae/head and July plantings the lowest in untreated plots. Although the number of larvae/head was lower in later than early plantings, yield was not always higher in later plantings. Economic analysis indicated that planting sunflower during the first week of June at Manhattan and Belleville, the second to third week of June at Hesston, and the first week of July at Hutchinson resulted in the highest net return when the sunflower moth was properly controlled.
25086299|Qualitative collections of aquatic insects were made at Fort Sill, Lawton, Oklahoma, between 2002 and 2004. Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera, Odonata, Coleoptera, aquatic Heteroptera, Neuroptera, and Megaloptera were targeted. Additional records are included from a survey that took place in 1999. More than 11,000 specimens from more than 290 collections were examined. Based on the current understanding of aquatic insect systematics, 276 taxa distributed over 8 orders, 46 families, and 141 genera were identified. Twenty-three of the 276 taxa, Plauditus texanus Wiersema, Tricorythodes allectus (Needham), Palmacorixa nana walleyi Hungerford, Climacia chapini Parfin and Gurney, Oxyethira forcipata Mosely, Oxyethira janella Denning, Triaenodes helo Milne, Ylodes frontalis (Banks), Acilius fraternus Harris, Coptotomus loticus Hilsenhoff, Coptotomus venustus (Say), Desmopachria dispersa Crotch, Graphoderus liberus (Say), Hydrovatus pustulatus (Melsheimer), Hygrotus acaroides (LeConte), Liodessus flavicollis (LeConte), Uvarus texanus (Sharp), Gyrinus woodruffi Fall, Haliplus fasciatus Aube, Haliplus lewisii Crotch, Haliplus tortilipenis Brigham & Sanderson, Chaetarthria bicolor Sharp, Epimetopus costatus complex, and Hydrochus simplex LeConte are reported from Oklahoma for the first time. The three most diverse orders included Coleoptera (86 species), Odonata (67 species) and Trichoptera (59 species), and the remaining taxa were distributed among Heteroptera, (30 species), Ephemeroptera (21 species), Plecoptera (6 species), Megaloptera (4 species), and Neuroptera (3 species). Based on previous published records, many of the species collected during this study were expected to be found at Fort Sill; however, 276 taxa of aquatic insects identified from such a small geographic area is noteworthy, especially when considering local climatic conditions and the relatively small size of Fort Sill (38,300 ha). Despite agricultural practices in Oklahoma, the dust bowl days, and the development of water-based recreation at Fort Sill, a high percentage of the total known aquatic insect fauna of Oklahoma can be found in a small geographic area.
25082521|Two new mutations of Plodia interpunctella are described. "Scaleless" has front and hind wings devoid of scales and is an autosomal recessive. "Melanic" lacks the normal wing pattern and has uniformly dark front wings; this mutation is recessive and sex linked. These mutations have potential value as genetic markers in population studies.
25081706|This paper involves a comprehensive study of the genus Orgerius in America, North of Mexico. To the two older species, O. rhyparus Stal 1859 and O. minor Ball 1909, have been added the following nine new species: proprius, triquestrus, bucculentus, bilobatus, junceus, spicatus, disgregus, bicornis, and foliatus. Three of the varietal forms of Ball and Hartzell (1922) have been raised to specific rank; namely, pajaronius, concordus and ventosus. Orgerius rhyparus var. clitellus (Ball and Hartzell, 1922) is not recognized even as a color variety since this same coloring is occasionally found in four other species. Dissections of the male genitalia were made and the structures figured. Other comparative structural drawings are included. The structures of most value in the classification of the group are lateral lobes of the ninth abdominal segment in the male, length and shape of the vertex and the male genitalia.
25085102|Colonies of Polistes annularis ceased rearing brood on average on 26 August 1977 and 14 September 1978 at a study site near Austin, Texas, U.S.A. Since warm weather lasts through October, and other species in nearby Austin, Texas, continue to rear brood into October, it appears that there must be a special reason for the early cessation of brood production by colonies of P. annularis. Females emerging from the nest may cease rearing brood and instead become gynes after the original queen dies because of decreases in the number of young they can rear and because of decreases in their relatedness to young. I found that colonies that lost their original queens earlier ceased producing brood earlier, even though fully fertile females took over as queen after the loss of the original queen. Females emerging from the nest also may cease rearing brood if brood rearing conditions are poor. In years of low rainfall there may be no prey available to feed brood later in the summer. Colonies ceased rearing brood earlier in 1977, which was a drought year, than they did in 1978, which was not. The great density of colonies at this study site may be the cause of early brood rearing cessation in both years as compared to other species in the same area that have more dispersed colonies.
25085975|Taxonomic changes affecting the Oriental and eastern Palaearctic Fulgoroidea are proposed to stabilize the nomenclature. Five new generic synonymies, eleven new specific synonymies, and eleven new combinations in Cixiidae, Derbidae, Dictyopharidae, Issidae, and Ricaniidae are proposed.
25085214|Many variables affect probe trap catch of stored-product insects in bulk grain. Often these variables affect trap catch because of their influence on behavior and mobility of insects. Five of the most important variables affecting trap catch are insect species, trapping duration, grain temperature, grain type and condition, and trap placement. The number of Cryptolestes ferrugineus (Stephens), Rhyzopertha dominica F., Tribolium castaneum (Herbst) and Sitophilus oryzae (L.) captured per trap increased by 0.77, 0.26, 0.36 and 0.47 insect, respectively, per day of trapping. Temperature significantly affected only the number of C. ferrugineus caught and captures per trap increased by 0.35 insect per degree between 10 and 32C. Captures of Cryptolestes pusillus (Schonherr) in millet were 2-3 times greater than in wheat or corn. Aggregated distributions of insects make trap catch very sensitive to trap placement. Estimates of insect populations in stored grain using probe traps are likely to be inaccurate without careful consideration of these factors.
25085481|Pentacora ouachita n. sp. is described and compared to P. ligata Say. Distributional records are given for the latter.
23355955|Mayflies (Ephemeroptera) in aquatic naiad stages are known to be filter feeders of detritus and algae, but are nonfeeding during their short adult life. Members of Hexagenia form U-shaped burrows in the silt of lake bottoms or streams where they remain for a year or more before emerging as subimagos to fly to the shore. For activities such as mating flights and oviposition, adults must rely on stored energy sources which are principally glycogen and lipids. This study focuses on the fatty acid composition of lipid stores in Hexagenia limbata (Serville) adults and late-instar naiads from a North Central Texas lake. Lipids from whole-body homogenates were extracted with organic solvents, and fatty acids were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Total lipid extracts, as well as neutral lipids (triglycerides and diglycerides) and polar lipids (phospholipids), were analyzed. Adult males exhibited the highest amount of lipid as a percentage of dry weight, followed by naiads and females. The most abundant fatty acids were 16:0 > 18:1 > 16:1 in both naiads and males and 18:1 > 16:0 > 16:1 in females. Phospholipids and triglycerides were the most prominent lipid classes in naiads while free fatty acids were abundant in males, which also showed a diglyceride fraction. Triglycerides were the main lipid fraction in females. The profiles suggest that dietary fatty acids are stored in naiad triglycerides, and once adult emergence occurs, the triglycerides appear to be retained in the females primarily for oocyte production; whereas they are quickly mobilized to supply energy for flight in the males.
25086134|Seven Malaise traps obtained 1308 bees in six families, 16 genera, 60 species, and 27 morphospecies during 1991 through 1993 in three shale-barrens subhabitats with over 200 melittophilous angiosperm species in western Maryland, U.S.A. The total sample had a mean of 15 specimens collected per species. Annual samples varied markedly. As a group bees were more common in shale-barrens openings compared to the forest and forest-opening's ecotone. From one through five genera occurred only in one of the three subhabitats, with the openings having the greatest number of unique genera. Forest managers should take measures to maintain shale-barren's openings because they are prime bee areas.
25082321|Bradyphyllodes clavulus, new genus and species, is described from Bradornis mariquensis Smith, 1847 (Muscicapidae) from the Republic of South Africa and South-West Africa.
25084761|Trypoxylon clavatum clavatum possesses a venom apparatus with pared filamentous glands and a poorly defined convoluted gland. The arrangement of such glandular tissues appears to be similar in the known Sphecoidea and Apoidea. Dufour's gland has a twisted appearance, although this condition could be related to an increasing and decreasing use of compounds from the Dufour's gland. Outstanding features of the sclerites of the venom apparatus are an enlarged furcula with extensive muscle supply, large lancet valves, distinctly bilobed gonoplacs and a strongly descendent sting. Such a descendent sting is a modification for the method of paralyzing its host used by this species.
25084103|Larvae of Zygogramma exclamationis (F.) had significantly (5% level) higher mortality when reared on 18 species of Helianthus than when reared on 'Hybrid 896' in the laboratory. All larvae died on 14 species of Helianthus. Developmental stadia were significantly longer for larvae reared on H. angustifolius L., H. argophyllus Torrey and Gray, H. mollis Lambert, and H. praecox ssp. hirtus (Heiser) than for larvae reared on Hybrid 896. Also, mean weight of pupae from larvae reared on H. angustifolius and H. praecox was significantly less than the mean weight of pupae from larvae reared on Hybrid 896. Adults of Z. exclamationis resulting from larvae reared on Hybrid 896 died prematurely and did not lay eggs when confined on H. radula (Pursh) Torrey and Gray, H.  laetiflorus Pers., H. debilis ssp. silvestris Heiser, and H. praecox ssp. hirtus.
25086254|A new species of apoid wasp, Cerceris howardevansi, is described from Hispaniola, West Indies. It is the third species of the genus known from the Greater Antilles, and it belongs to the species group I of Scullen (1972).
25083706|Two new species of the subgenus Protolepidostola Hull are described: problematica (Panama) and evansi (Mexico). The subgenus is here removed from synonymy with subgenus Myolepta (Eumyiolepta) Shannon and recognized as a valid subgenus of Myolepta Newman in the tribe Myoleptini. The tribe, genus and subgenus are recharacterized and keys given to their genera, subgenera, and species respectively.
25084656|Spiders were systematically sampled from live oak, Quercus fusiformis and Q. virginiana, in one natural and two different urban sites in Austin, Texas, 1975. Frequencies of total spiders and taxa were similar among the three different habitats; however, the natural area had a slightly greater species diversity. Each site had several different species at significantly different frequencies, representing hunting and web-building guilds. Each site had nocturnal, diurnal and diel forages. Differences between natural and urban habitats are discussed.
25082420|Crepuscular and nocturnal flight of Trichoptera is analyzed from results of light trap catches. The trapping sequence of these catches is initiated at a light intensity of four ft-c. The recorded peaks in flight behavior indicate that lowered light intensity is a strong and specific release mechanism of flight behavior. The collections are analyzed and specific attributes of behavior peaks are noted and discussed.
25083908|Praon pakistanum n. sp. a parasite imported into the United States for the biological control of greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), is described and illustrated.
25082774|The following new synonymy is proposed: A. papagonis Duncan, 1933 = A. convicta Fall, 1899; A. durangana Obenberger, 1928 = A. decipiens LeConte, 1866; A. mariposa bernardino Van Dyke, 1937 = A. dohrni Horn, 1878; A. lucia eburna Van Dyke, 1949 = A. immaculata Horn, 1878; A. pulchella var. arizonae Horn, 1878 and A. obesa Kerremans, 1910 = A. mixta LeConte, 1860; A. anthobia Obenberger, 1924 = A. obtusa Horn, 1878; A. sparsa Horn, 1878 = A. rubronotata Laporte and Gory, 1835; A. faceta Fall, 1907 = A. stigmata Horn, 1894; A. robusta var. rubrosuffusa Fall, 1907 and A. moronga Van Dyke, 1943 = A. tuta Horn, 1878; and A. lucia Fall, 1901 and A. distincta Kerremans, 1902 = A. variegata LeConte, 1852. The following previously established synonymy is supported: A. biedermanni Skinner, 1903 = A. lanata Horn, 1880; A. pallidula Kerremans, 1910 = A. latiflava Fall, 1907; and A. robusta duboisi Cazier, 1938 = A. tuta Horn, 1878. The following are removed from synonymy and given specific status: A. haemorrhoa LeConte, A. mima Gory and A. mixta LeConte. A. dolorosa liberta Fall is recognized as a subspecies for the first time. The taxonomic status of the following is discussed: A. laticollis Kerremans, A. montezuma Obenberger, A. opacula LeConte, and A. quatuordecimspilota Obenberger.
25083543|Two new genera, based on new species, are described: Tanyphyllodes, type species, T. scelorchilae, n. sp., from Scelorchilus rubecula (Rhinocryptidae), Chile and Philepittalges, type species, P. rotundus, n. sp., from Philepitta castanea (Philepittidae), Madagascar.
25085760|Numbers of Orius insidiosus (Say) collected in Kentucky soybean peaked in mid to late July, while numbers of Nabis roseipennis Reuter peaked after those of O. insidiosus. Nonetheless, there was an overlap in the seasonal occurrence of these species, and some instars of the species occurred at similar heights within the soybean canopy. However occurrence on specific plant parts was different for these predators. O. insidiosus individuals were more commonly found on flowers and pods, whereas N. roseipennis has been reported to occur mostly on leaves. No direct interactions were observed between the two species.
25085999|Five new species of Panorpa from Mexico are described and illustrated: P. acicularis, P. aculeata, P. luteola, P. fusca and P. conversa. Bittacus occidentis Walker is reported from Mexico for the first time.
41681222|The first record of a protogrylline orthopteran (Ensifera: Grylloidea: Protogryllidae) from the Middle Jurassic of India is provided. Protogryllus (Protogryllus) lakshmi, new species, was recovered from the Kota Formation in Andhra Pradesh and is compared with other species in the genus. General comments are provided on Protogryllidae and the diversity of the family is summarized.
25083561|A new genus is established for Haplohyphes huallaga n. sp. and Leptohyphes mithras Traver. The genus is characterized, and the species are keyed and illustrated.
25082771|Propachlor, Atrazine, Terbutryn, Propazine, and Norea + Atrazine, when used in combination with disulfoton, phorate, or carbofuran, did not interact, and the efficacy of the insecticides to the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani) was not effected. When caged on treated sorghum plants infested with greenbugs, Orius insidiosus (Say) and to a lesser degree Chrysopa spp. (Say) were affected by granular disulfoton. Larval Hippodamia convergens Guerin-Meneville and adult Nabis spp. were not affected.
25083572|Stoneflies collected between the altitude of 6,760 and 10,770 feet in the Gunnison River drainage, Colorado, show definite altitudinal distribution. The effect of altitude on stonefly distribution is largely due to temperature and, in part, food supply. The greatest number of stonefly species was recorded between 7,000 and 9,000 feet. Carnivorous stonefly species were dominant at all elevations and reached high dominance values at the higher elevations.
25085380|Eggs of the western and northern corn rootworms, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte (WCR) and D. barberi Smith and Lawrence (NCR), respectively, were sampled from corn plots located near Rutland, South Dakota, in 1987. Egg densities of each species were estimated at three 10-cm increments to a depth of 30 cm in the soil profile. Results of this investigation were compared with those from an earlier 1985 study conducted in Iowa, in which similar sampling methodologies were utilized. Nearly twice as many WCR eggs were found in the South Dakota location at the 20 to 30 cm depth (60%) as compared with the Iowa site (34%). The precentage of NCR eggs in the upper 20 cm of the soil was similar in South Dakota and Iowa (83% and 85%, respectively). Researchers considering future intensive ecological investigations on eggs of either of these corn rootworm species should consider sampling to a depth of 30 cm in the soil profile, especially for the WCR.
25085422|The females of Andrena (Melandrena) barbara Bouseman and LaBerge and A. (Tylandrena) perplexa Smith are almost or quite indistinguishable except that the latter has humeral angles on the prothorax, generally a major character of subgeneric value. The implications of this in Andrena phylogeny and systematics are briefly discussed.
25083497|The genus is redefined and enlarged by inclusion of seven named species and ten described as new. The former are: azteca Mocsry, cyanosoma Mocsry, kansensis Viereck, nearctica Mocsry, perpulchra Cresson, semicuprea Viereck, and unita Mocsry. The new ones are: C. alveata (SW United States). C. antyga (SW United States), C. bitumida (New Mexico), C. cavicantha (SW United States), C. crossata, (SW United States; Puebla, Mexico), C. declinis (Colo. to N.Y.), C. longiceps (Nevada; Guanajuato, Mexico), C. thysana (Calif. and Oregon), C. trachypleura (W. United States), and C. tuberella (Pacific Coast).
25084832|Females of the leafcutting bees Megachile integra Cresson and M. mendica mendica Cresson were observed excavating nesting tunnels in sandy soil and building nest cells with leaf sections cut from nearby plants. The cells were provisioned with pollen, nectar, and pungent oil. The malodorous oil, shown by gas chromatography to be secreted from Dufour's glands, consisted of short-chain fatty acids and short-chain fatty acid triglycerides. The imported fire ant, Solenopsis invicta Buren, was abundant where M. integra nested and appeared to be the dominant predator of this bee species.
25083560|Sticky traps were used in three tests to study some aspects of the flight behavior of horn flies. In test 1, flies released during daylight and darkness responded positively to traps containing dry ice
25082508|Issikiella, new genus, is compared with the similar neotropical genera Kalobittacus and Nannobittacus. Issikiella pulchra, new species, from Brazil, is described and illustrated.
25084775|Nests of Centris heithausi are described from an earthen floor of a workshop in Guanacaste Prov., Costa Rica. Nests usually consisted of a short burrow occupied by 2 or 3 urn-shaped cells. Some nests consisted of a short burrow that opened to a chamber with several cells, and in one case 2 side burrows, built into the walls. Cells were provisioned with a clear tasteless oil and the pollen of Cochlospermum vitifolium. Males of C. heithausi established territories (presumably for mating) in flowering crowns of the following trees and lianas: Gliricidia sepium, Piscidia carthagenensis, Cassia emarginata, C. grandis, Securidaca sylvestris, and Cochlospermum vitifolium. Males rarely appeared to scent mark vegetation around their territories. The source of the presumed scent is a gland described from the hindleg. Chemicals isolated from the gland include the ester tetradecenyl acetate and eleven hydrocarbons. The relationship of C. heithausi to other Centris spp. is discussed.
25085582|The digestive tracts of Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer) larvae and adults consist of straight tubes with attached maxillary glands and Malpighian tubules. The foregut includes the pharynx, maxillary glands and esophagus with no well-defined crop or proventriculus. The midgut is a simple sac-like structure with a loose network of circular and longitudinal muscles. The hindgut is divided into two distinct sections, the anterior small intestine and the posterior large intestine. In larvae, the intestine is sigmoid in shape, and in adults a loop is formed. Both life stages have six Malpighian tubules in a cryptonephridial arrangement. The tubules are equally spaced around the hindgut in larvae, and two tubules are attached ventrally and four dorsally in adults. In cross-section, the foregut and hindgut of both life stages have, from lumen to haemocoel, an intima (with backward projecting spines in the foregut), epithelial cells, longitudinal muscles and well-defined circular muscles. Longitudinal muscles were present in the adult hindgut, but they were not conspicuous. By contrast, in larvae they were arranged into distinct bundles between the rectal pads. The midgut has, from lumen to haemocoel, a peritrophic membrane, epithelial cells with a striated border, circular muscles and longitudinal muscles. The muscle arrangement of the midgut is reversed from that of the foregut and hindgut. The similarity in digestive tract structure between the two life stages suggests that they share similar feeding habits as generalized scavengers.
25084719|Hymenopteran and dipteran parasitoids, representing seventeen species in six families were reared from larvae of the sunflower moth, Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) in 1982 and 1983. Parasitoids found and identified included: Braconidae, Bracon mellitor Say, Chelonus altitudinus Viereck, Dolichogenidea homoeosomae (Muesebeck), Agathis buttricki (Viereck) and Macrocentrus ancylivorus Rohwer; Eulophidae, Elasmus setioscutellatus (Crawford); Bethylidae, Goniozus floridanus (Ashmead); Perilampidae, Perilampus sp.; Ichneumonidae, Pristomerus austrinus Townes and Townes, Pristomerus sp., Diadegma sp., Temelucha sp.; Tachinidae, Clausicella opaca (Coquillett), Erynnia tortricis (Coquillett), Leskiomima tenera (Wiedemann), Pseudachaeta sp., and one species of Blondeliini. E. setioscutellatus, G. floridanus, Pseudachaeta sp., and Blondeliini sp. have not been previously identified as parasitoids of the sunflower moth.
25481810| apresentado pela primeira vez o uso de ninhos-armadilhas por Trypoxylon albitarse Fabricius, 1804 (Hymenoptera: Sphecidae). De outubro de 2000 a fevereiro de 2001 foram amostrados, em uma reserva de Cerrado do Estado de So Paulo, sete ninhos-armadilha ocupados por esta espcie. Os dimetros destes ninhos variaram de 12 a 20 mm e o comprimento de 150 a 200 mm. As fmeas de T. albitarse no preencheram toda a cavidade dos ninhos-armadilhas e os ninhos amostrados no diferiram na aparncia daqueles construdos livremente. Esta  a principal diferena entre os ninhos construdos em ninhos-armadilhas por T. albitarse e a espcie norte-americana Trypoxylon politum Say, 1837, para a qual havia o nico registro de uso de cavidades preexistentes por espcies do grupo albitarse. So discutidos fatores que poderiam promover esta diferena.
25086357|A new species, Collyria catoptron, is described from Gansu Province, China. It is an egg-larval koinobiont parasitoid reared from Cephus fumipennis, a grass-mining sawfly that attacks wheat. Collyria catoptron is currently being evaluated as a possible biological control agent for Cephus cinctus in North America.
25082589|Paracymus toleratus and P. secretus are described from Mexico. These new species are correlated with an earlier key to the Central American species.
25085335|In this study, we examined orientation by Atta cephalotes in the field. We tested whether the presence of trail pheromones is necessary for nest-bound orientation. Laden Atta cephalotes foragers taken from their foraging trail and placed on a branch marked with their trail pheromones showed no evidence of using polarity of their trail pheromones as a cue for determining the correct direction back to their nest. These ants preferentially moved towards their nest both on normal and on 180 rotated trails. Laden foragers taken from their foraging trail and placed on branches lacking trail pheromones, however, did not move preferentially towards their nest, despite other cues that indicated the correct direction. Instead, these ants appeared to move in an arbitrary direction, perhaps in an attempt to relocate their lost trail.
23356035|Nine new species of Eugnamptus Schoenherr, 1839 are described from Central America: E. amistadensis (Costa Rica), E. baliosus (Panama), E. blancensis (Costa Rica), E. lampyridus (Costa Rica), E. lycidus (Costa Rica), E. megalosus (Costa Rica), E. mottledus (Honduras), E. panamensis (Panama) and E. viridius (Mexico). Collection data, digital images and map locations are provided.
25082499|The northern distributional limit of Ablautus rufotibialis Back is extended to the northeastern corner of Colorado. The simple male courtship behavior is described. This is the first time male courtship behavior has been reported for the genus Ablautus. Females oviposit in the soil, usually in the shade of grass clumps. The majority of prey taken belong to the dipterous families Anthomyiidae, Sepsidae and Cecidomyiidae.
25085903|Because the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), has developed resistance to a number of carbamate and organophosphorous compounds that inhibit cholinesterase, we were interested in its response to insecticides with different biochemical targets. A susceptible (S) greenbug strain showing no elevated esterase activity and three (R) resistant strains with different patterns of elevated esterase activity were compared for their response to imidacloprid using a surface residue vial bioassay. Two S clones, two clones designated pattern 1 (R1), two clones designated pattern 2 (R2), and one clone designated pattern 3 (R3) showed no significant differences in responses to imidacloprid. Imidacloprid's mode of action provides another means to control greenbugs that are tolerant to conventional organophosphorous insecticides and have the ability to adapt to previously resistant plant cultivars.
25082558|Rhadinopsylla (Rhadinopsylla) golana n. sp. is described from Israel where it is a parasite of the Palestine Mole Rat Spalax ehrenbergi ehrenbergi Nehring, 1898. Distinguishing characters of the new species are compared with those of its nearest relatives, R. masculana J. & R., 1912, R. socia Wagner, 1930, and R. syriaca Lewis, 1962. Morphology and distribution of the new species suggest that it is intermediate to these three species. A key to the seven known species belonging to the subgenus is provided.
25084377|No loss in insecticidal activity or spore viability of an aqueous or a dry preparation of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (B.t.i.) was detected after 500 days at 5C. At 30C, the aqueous preparation of B.t.i. was stable; however, both the insecticidal activity and spore viability of the dry preparation were significantly reduced. Insecticidal activities were not detected after 28 and 208 days at 50C for dry and aqueous preparations, respectively. Viable spores were not recovered from dry preparation stored at 50C for 203 days. Spore viability in aqueous preparation was not detected after 392 days at 50C. The half-lives of insecticidal activity of the dry and aqueous preparations at 50C and the dry preparation at 30C were 9, 138, and 52 days, respectively.
25084414|Tetrastichus gallerucae (Fonsc.) has been repeatedly introduced into the U.S. for biological control of the elm leaf beetle, Pyrrhalta luteola (Muller), but reportedly has not become established. We report recovery of the parasitoid from eggs of P. luteola in central Ohio, where the last known introduction was in 1932.
25082854|The metaunci of Conotrachelus retentus (Say) and Conotrachelus juglandis LeConte are useful secondary sex characters in separating males from females. The metaunci in both species of males are dentate, and the metaunci of both species of females are non-dentate and are illustrated in SEM micrographs.
25084602|Female black cutworms captured in blacklight traps during the 1978 and 1979 flight seasons in Iowa and Ohio were dissected and assigned to one of four reproductive classes. When females were categorized according to three flight periods (spring, summer, fall) the results showed that the spring and fall flight periods were dominated by older mated females and unmated females, respectively. The summer flight periods were represented by large proportions of each of the four reproductive classes. The significance of these seasonal changes in the reproductive condition of female populations is discussed relative to pest management considerations. In Ohio (1979), 74% and 66% of the females of the spring flight and summer flight, respectively, had mated once.
25086244|The tropical stingless bees are known to use diverse nest sites, and some species will nest within the nest of other insects including ants and termites. However, it has not been reported before that a stingless bee, Trigona cilipes (Fabricius) (Hymenoptera: Apidae), is able to establish its nest within the nest of the social paper wasp Epipona tatua (Cuvier) (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) as reported here. The bell-shaped nest with both wasps and bees was found in secondary forest in Peru, and held under observation for several weeks until collection. Description of nest architecture and some behavioral observations are presented. Trigona cilipes is usually found nesting with Azteca ants, and the behavioral flexibility that enables them to also colonize wasp nests results in several advantages that may favor wasp associations as discussed in the text.
25084324|The life cycle of Pseudanthonomus hamamelidis on its host plant (Hamamelis virginiana) is described, with notes on its parasitoids. Host plant relationships of the genus Pseudanthonomus are also reviewed.
25082881|The genus Praetorblissus along with its sister genus Heteroblissus, both South American, are quite possibly the most primitive genera of living Blissinae, as shown by a preliminary cladistic analysis of the more primitive genera of the subfamily. The primitive genera analyzed include Blissus, Capodemus, Caveloblissus, Dimorphopterus, Geoblissus, Ischnodemus, Macchiademus, Praeblissus and Talpoblissus. Two new species of Praetorblissus are described: P. wilcoxi from Peru and the first macropterous form in the genus, and P. obrieni from Costa Rica. A key to the four species is provided.
25086326|For several groups of insects, including the velvet ants, male-female associations are difficult because of extreme dimorphism between the sexes. Many species, or even genera, are known from only a single sex. In this study, we investigate the use of DNA sequences of the internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS1 & ITS2) as a means of associating males and females in velvet ants. We compare ITS sequences between sexes in taxa where the associations are well documented and uncontested. We compare these sequences to other closely related species. The DNA sequence data show little or no variability between sexes, while much greater differences exist between species. This method should prove a valuable technique for making associations between previously unmatched males and females in velvet ants, and likely other hymenopteran taxa.
25086095|Diathoneura mephistocephala (Diptera: Drosophilidae), collected from Costa Rica, is described and figured. This is the first recorded drosophilid possessing genal processes, which is probably restricted to males as in other Diptera that possess the trait.
25086318|We cataloged the bee fauna to determine potential pollinators in upland and wet longleaf pine savannas in Louisiana. A total of 122 species of bees were collected from four savanna sites. A regional list of 165 species was produced by adding species collected from nearby savannas in Mississippi. Our Louisiana survey documented range extensions for 23 species, 64 new state records, and two possible new species. Upland savannas contained a higher proportion of range restricted bees. Three species collected at upland sites are typically associated with prairies or grasslands and are potential targets for conservation efforts. Biogeographically, the fauna is eastern or southeastern with 68% of the species ranges extending eastward. Species composition comparisons of the Louisiana savanna fauna with other grassland and sand scrub habitats indicated 45% overlap with Mississippi, 30% with southern Florida, 29% with Indiana/Illinois, and 22% with Minnesota. Based on our Louisiana study and one nearby in Mississippi, longleaf pine savannas on the western edge of the East Gulf Coastal Plain are likely to contain close to 200 species of bees.
25084357|A 2-year study was conducted in soybeans to survey aphid population fluctuations and soybean mosaic virus (SMV) disease incidence in Iowa. Of primary interest were aphids that are reported to vector soybean mosaic virus. Only 2 aphids, the corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch) and the potato aphid, Macrosiphum euphorbiae (Thomas), both potential vectors of SMV, were collected in sufficient quantities for study of their population fluctuations. Neither aphid, however, was predominant during increases in disease incidence in early summer. Both aphids increased to large numbers only in August when SMV disease was low. Other aphids collected that are reported to vector SMV are so noted.
25083776|The genus Pasadenus is one of several rare deltocephaline genera known only in California on manzanita, Arctostaphylos spp. P. chicanus, pasadenus, and margaritae are keyed, redescribed, and illustrated, and P. anzanus is treated as a local hybrid population between two sympatric species. Pasadenus bicolor Beamer is a new synonym of P. margaritae Ball.
25085983|Several recent phylogenetic analyses of separate morphological, molecular, and paleontological data sets have addressed evolutionary relationships among the tribes of corbiculate bees (Apidae: Apini, Bombini, Euglossini, and Meliponini). These analyses appear to disagree in their implications about the evolution of eusociality within this group. Whereas morphological and paleontological data strongly support the classical hypothesis of a single origin of general eusociality and a single origin of advanced eusociality, some authors have suggested that molecular data strongly contradict this view, and instead support independent, parallel origins of advanced eusociality or, alternatively, evolutionary reversals to solitary behavior from a eusocial ancestor common to all corbiculate bees. In order to reconcile this conflict between morphology and molecules, these authors have suggested that the morphological data may be flawed. We briefly review the evidence for this disagreement between morphological and molecular data and conclude that it is exaggerated; we also find the various criticisms of the morphological data unpersuasive. By any standard phylogenetic measure, three of four molecular data sets are ambiguous in their support of alternate hypotheses regarding eusocial evolution, whereas morphological, paleontological, and recent ethological data are unequivocal. Judged in its entirety, then, the available evidence continues to support Darwin's null hypothesis of (Euglossini + (Bombini + (Apini + Meliponini))) and single origins for both general and advanced eusocial behavior in the corbiculate bees.
25083783|The mature larvae of 10 species of aquatic insects (Boyeria vinosa Say, Ophiogomphus rupinsulensis Walsh, Pteronarcys dorsata (Say), Taeniopetryx maura (Pictet), Acroneuria lycorias (Newman), Isogenus frontalis Newman, Ephemerella subvaria McDunnough, Stenonema rubrum (McDunnough), Brachycentrus americanus (Banks), and Hydropsyche betteni Ross) were tested in the laboratory to determine their relative tolerance to low pH. The pH at which 50% died after 96 hours
25082790|The anatomical and histological aspects of the adnexal glands of the sting apparatus of 48 species of Apidae were studied and compared with those of Colletidae, Andrenidae, Halictidae, Megachilidae, Melittidae and Anthophoridae. The results, plus the analyses of data found in the literature on the biology of these bees, permit the conclusion that the "basic" (Dufour's) gland is related to the reproductive system and is the only one found in the Meliponini. The acid gland is the only one responsible for production of venom, and reaches maximum development among the stinging social bees, being absent among Meliponini (stingless bees).
25084253|Lethal high and low temperatures were determined for larval, pupal, and adult Patasson lameerei by exposing them to different constant temperatures for varied time periods. Adult survival was restricted to the narrowest temperature range and pupal survival was less restricted, while larvae survived over the widest range of temperatures. The effect of low temperatures on oviposition was also determined. There was no significant difference in the number of offspring produced per female at 21, 15 and 10C. The mean number of offspring produced per female (n = 10) at these temperatures was 6.3, 6.4, and 4.8, respectively. At 5C only 4% of the exposed eggs produced adult parasitoids and at 0C no offspring were produced.
25085408|Of the present series of associations between species of the genus Dalbulus (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) and species of its dryinid (Hymenoptera: Dryinidae) parasitoids, the most primitive is that which occurs between Anteon ciudadi Olmi (Dryinidae) and Dalbulus quinquenotatus DeLong & Nault on gamagrasses (Tripsacum), in habitats with relatively low environmental disturbance. We suggest that this association began before the genus Dalbulus diversified and when Tripsacum was actively speciating. The association of the dryinids Gonatopus bartletti Olmi, G. flavipes Olmi, and G. moyaraygozai Olmi and their respective hosts D. maidis (DeLong & Wolcott), D. elimatus (Ball) and D. quinquenotatus, began simultaneously, at a time when perennial teosintes were evolving from the gamagrasses that later gave origin to annual teosintes; these host/parasitoid relationships were initiated subsequently to that of A. ciudadi with D. quinquenotatus.
25084545|Microarthropod densities in the top 5 cm of soil of tallgrass prairie averaged 47,700
25082793|One-day-old larvae were taken from brood combs of 4 species of Melipona bees, namely, M. quadrifasciata, M. rufiventris, M. marginata and M. scutellaris, and raised in individual wax cups, under controlled conditions of food, temperature and humidity. It was found that with less than, respectively, 155 mg, 137 mg, 40.5 mg and 222 mg of food, no queen was produced (50 workers in total). With amounts that varied from 1 to 1.75 times the normal quantity of food naturally found in a given day in the alveoli, a 3:1 segregation was obtained (152 workers to 48 queens). This demonstrates the hypothesis of Kerr, that is, that there is an interaction between food and genetics, queens of Melipona being well fed double heterozygotes
25084709|Studies were conducted to assess the overwintering potential of Nomuraea rileyi (Farlow) Samson in Iowa. N. rileyi mycelia in Plathypena scabra (F.) cadavers were held in wire-mesh envelopes and exposed to winter field conditions and produced conidia after 93 and 105 days of exposure at surface and subsurface soil conditions, respectively. In general, bioassays with Trichoplusia ni (Hbner) larvae confirmed the pathogenicity of conidia that were produced. N. rileyi mycelia in cadavers stored at a constant 2.8C produced infective conidia even after 171 days. When stored in glass vials exposed to surface and subsurface soil conditions, N. rileyi conidia retained some pathogenicity after 168 and 183 days (20 May and 4 June), respectively. These dates usually are within the soybean planting period in Iowa and indicate that reservoirs of inoculum are available during the next season. Mycelia from conidia stored at 2.8C caused significant mortality in bioassay throughout the 183-day testing period.
25082812|In field experiments during 1970 and 1971 disulfoton, phorate, propoxur, dimethoate, carbofuran, and fensulfothion were tested as systemic insecticides (seed treatments) on 'Lee 68' soybean seed at rates of 2 and 4 oz AI/100 lb of seed. These materials were evaluated for effects on various stages of plant development. Rainfall was abundant in 1970, but deficient in 1971. The high rate of dimethoate and fensulfothion produced the greatest reduction in plant stands; the low rate of disulfoton caused the least reduction. Germination was reduced to such an extent by the high rate of dimethoate that this treatment was removed from consideration. The low rate of disulfoton and phorate had the least effect on plant height in 1970; but in 1971, no significant differences in height among treatments were detected. In 1970, the 1st mature pod height was significantly lower in plots treated with the high rates of dimethoate, fensulfothion, and carbofuran than in the untreated check. No significant differences in the weight of 100 seed samples were detected between treatments and the check either year. In 1970, no significant differences in yield were shown between treatments; but in 1971, the low rate of dimethoate and the high rate of fensulfothion caused significantly lower yields than the high rate of disulfoton and the low rate of propoxur.
25085002|Insects representing 106 families were caught in pane traps placed adjacent to single-row Siberian elm windbreaks in north-central and eastern North Dakota. Tachinids, sarcophagids, heleomyzids, calliphorids, syrphids, and halictids accounted for 38%, 17%, 16%, 14%, 6%, and 3%, respectively, of the insects trapped in north-central North Dakota in this study. In eastern North Dakota, halictids and syrphids accounted for 47% and 34%, respectively, of all insects captured. Insect abundance by family varied between these two regions. Pane traps hung at a height of 1.5 m caught significantly more insects than those at 3.6 m. Catches of bombyliids and hemerobiids were significantly greater in traps placed at a height of 3.6 m and parallel to the windbreaks. Carbaryl and Bacillus thuringiensis had no effect on the abundance of most families of insects collected in pane traps. In north-central North Dakota, abundance of sarcophagids, coccinellids, calliphorids, and staphylinids varied with sample date but did not vary with treatment. Coccinellid abundance tended to decrease in all blocks immediately after treatment, but by 8 days after treatment their abundance had increased in the carbaryl-treated blocks. In eastern North Dakota trap catches of coccinellids, syrphids, halictids, and chrysopids varied among wind-breaks. Braconid abundance was significantly lower 8 days after treatment.
25084938|Brief observations of the behavior of males of the dynastine beetle Ageopsis nigricollis suggest that the males use their horns as weapons in intraspecific fights. Measurements of nearly 200 males show that there are two different morphs. Thoracic but not head horns are missing in the minor morph, and behavioral observations confirm that thoracic horns are less useful for smaller individuals.
25085858|Chironomidae were sampled with emergence traps in fen, swamp forest, and sedge mat plant communities during two summers in order to characterize these habitats on the basis of their insect fauna. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to ordinate chironomid taxa, traps, and environmental parameters, including plants, to see whether habitats could be distinguished by their midge fauna as they had already been characterized by their flora. Clusters of traps, plant, and chironomid species produced by the ordination closely resembled the results of optimal agglomeration and recurrent group analysis which had been performed on plant quadrat data alone.
25084993|Females of Megachile (Litomegachile) mendica observed in central Texas were found to use thoracic vibration as an aid in collecting pollen from the poricidal anthers of Chamaechrista fasiculata (Fabaceae) but used non-vibratile methods in harvesting pollen from the non-poricidal anthers of Agalinis strictifolia (Scrophulariaceae). Larger bees used vibratile pollen collection from both taxa.
25083713|The biologies of Anthophora (Micranthophora) flexipes Cresson and Zacosmia maculata (Cresson), a cleptoparasitic bee, are described in detail. Unlike most bees, maculata enters the host cell after it has been sealed and attaches one or more eggs to the inner face of the cell cap by one end. The adult subsequently seals the small hole with fine particles of soil. The meloid beetle Zonitis (Neozonitis) hesperis Selander and a bombyliid fly, Anthrax limatulus larrea Marston, are additional associates in nests of the host bee. The immature stages of Zacosmia maculata are described in detail. Diagnostic features of the first stage larva are suspected of being adaptations to enhance successful hatching. The mature larva and pupa are compared with those of Xeromelecta californica (Cresson). Mesoscutal tubercles on the pupae are proposed as tribal characteristics.
25086150|Florida scrub is a hotspot of biological diversity containing many endemic species, such as burrowing wolf spiders (Geolycosa species), that are threatened by habitat destruction. This study investigated why two species, G. xera archboldi (McCrone) and G. hubbelli Wallace, are significantly underrepresented in fire-maintained scrubby flatwoods, a widespread scrub habitat on the Lake Wales Ridge in south-central Florida. Palmettos resprouted within 1-2 weeks after a fire, then in the ensuing months oaks and lyonias dominated the vegetative community. Over the course of 10-11 years after a fire, woody shrubs grew logarithmically in height to form dense thickets, causing the size of gaps in the vegetation to decline in a log-log fashion as a function of time-since-fire. Gaps in the scrub matrix shrank dramatically on average from about
25082858|Anorthalloptes, n. g., is erected for a single species, Proctophyllodes (Alloptes) megamerus Trouessart, 1887 and assigned to the subfamily Proctophyllodinae. The probable host is Alisterus c. chloropterus (Ramsay, 1879) (Psittacidae) from New Guinea.
25086156|Burmanteon olmii, a new genus and species of anteonine wasp (Dryinidae) is described and figured from a single female preserved in Cretaceous (Cenomanian-Albian) amber from Myanmar (Burma). This fossil is presently the oldest record for its subfamily (and the second oldest for its family) which has hitherto been known only from Middle Eocene Baltic amber. A revised key to the genera of Anteoninae incorporating the new fossil genus is provided.
25085221|Pheromone traps for stored-product insects have been generally used by industry for 10 years, particularly by food stores, food processors, pest control companies, seed companies, and the grain industry. The cigarette beetle (Lasioderma serricorne (Fabricius)) pheromone was the most frequently purchased (48.8%) in 1987 and 1988 from Insects Limited, Inc., followed by the Indianmeal moth (Plodia interpuntella (Hubner)) (20.3%), Trogoderma complex (Trogoderma spp.) (14.3%), and red and confused flour beetles (Tribolium spp.) (5.3%). A long-term study on cigarette beetles in an Hawaiian food storage facility and a laboratory experiment indicated that continuous and extensive use of cigarette beetle-pheromone-baited traps may be effective for both monitoring and long-term suppression of cigarette beetle populations. Pheromone trapping is especially useful in warehouses containing tobacco treated with methoprene and in tobacco factories to detect insects. Cigarette beetle pheromone traps did not reduce populations of cigarette beetles in a laboratory experiment. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently clarified its position on the use of insect traps in storage facilities. Insects found in traps will not be used toward the tolerance for insects in the facility. Recognition by the Federal Government of the benefits of insect traps for monitoring populations will spur the development of Intergrated Pest Management (IPM) programs. Action levels can be decided and the judicious use of control methods can be prescribed when population growth is observed in one or more areas of a facility. The data collected from each trap can be very important for planning a control strategy. The practical application of pheromones to disrupt insect behavior, e.g., preventing reproduction of a pest provides another option in a total pest management strategy.
25083728|The ootheca of Ischnoptera deropeltiformis (Brunner) is deep brown, smoothly curved along the dorsal margin, and longer dorsally than ventrally. It is usually 11 mm long by 4.5 mm deep and contains about 40 eggs. The seam is very small, occupying only about 7% of the total depth. A hollow aeration chamber and two small additional hollow chambers are built into the opposing seam faces; denticles are provided for each egg, with a surplus of two to six usually present. There is one large spongy body in the seam for each egg below. A regular pattern of square calcium oxalate crystals is present; these are spread over the surface in a very thin, transparent layer. The chorion pattern is mostly regular.
25084889|The Nearctic members of Endochironomus Kieffer and Tribelos Townes and of two new genera Synendotendipes and Endotribelos form this taxonomic study. Endochironomus is represented by E. nigricans (Johannsen), E. subtendens (Townes), and E. oldenbergi Goetghebuer and by two undetermined species seen as larvae. Tribelos occurs as T. jucundum (Walker), T. fuscicorne (Malloch), T. atrum (Townes), T. subatrum, n. sp., and T. subletteorum, n. sp. and by one undetermined species recorded as an adult. Synendotendipes is present as S. luski, n. sp. Species of Endotribelos examined were E. hesperium (Sublette) and one undetermined species seen as an adult. The species Tanytarsus (Tribelos) protextus Townes is synonymized under T. jucundum. T. subatrum and T. subletteorum have larvae that survive during the summer when water is absent from pools where they occur in California. S. luski larvae have been collected in California mountains and in Canada. E. hesperium larvae are presumed to inhabit plant tissue and occur in California and Florida. The genus Synendotendipes has certain characteristics of adult male and female genitalia and larval mouthparts that seem to place it close to Endochironomus, but the pupal exuviae suggest that these genera are rather distantly related. Endotribelos is probably more closely related to the genus Phaenopsectra Kieffer than to any of the taxa dealt with in this paper. This assemblage of species plus certain other genera should be studied in order to get information regarding evolution within this group.
25082660|Five junior specific homonyms in mayflies (Ephemeroptera) of the genera Baetis, Cloeon, and Ecdyonurus are replaced with new names. They are: Cloeon peterseni NEW NAME for Cloeon brunneum Esben-Petersen, Baetis murphyi NEW NAME for Baetis melleus Needham and Murphy, Baetis quebecensis NEW NAME for Baetis cingulatus McDunnough, Cloeon kimminsi NEW NAME for Cloeon viride Kimmins, and Ecdyonurus indicus NEW NAME for Ecdyonurus subfuscus Kimmins.
40961676|Heliotropium curassavicum L. (Boraginaceae) is a small desert perennial producing inflorescences visited by Hesperopsis gracielae (MacNeill) (Lepidoptera: Hesperiidae), a skipper found along the lower Colorado River in Nevada, Arizona, and California. Flowers on H. curassavicum are white, with yellow centers that turn purple as flowers age, and absorb ultraviolet light. I found cymes supporting fewer yellow-centered flowers which contained greater masses of sugar. I compared attractions of H. gracielae adults to inflorescence models displaying the plant's floral colors. Skippers more-frequently approached or landed-on purple models compared with yellow models, and white models elicited fewer approaches than yellow or purple models. Attraction of sootywings to purple and yellow corresponded with numbers of purple-and yellow-centered flowers on inflorescences but not with masses of sugar in individual flowers. Models displaying yellow and purple together, or both colors plus white, elicited fewer approaches but equivalent landings compared with single-color models. Blocking ultraviolet light from multiple-color models greatly increased frequencies of responses, especially landings on models displaying white. Olfaction, tested by adding H. curassavicum inflorescences to multiple-color models, did not influence attraction. Each of the floral colors, especially purple, reflected by H. curassavicum inflorescences attract H. gracielae, whereas landings are most elicited by reflectance of all three colors without ultraviolet.
25082723|Two new genera Proxima and Angucephala and two new species, P. ocellata n. sp. from Brazil and A. mellana n. sp. from Columbia, Honduras and Venezuela are described.
25082618|The fecundity of Sitotroga cerealella (Olivier) in wheat was greatest at 25 to 30C. Development of pupae was shortest at 30-32C, and differences due to relative humidity were not significant. Optimum conditions for development, attainment of adult weight, and percentage emergence were 30-32C and 65-80% RH.
25084422|Two new species, Perulidia dentata and P. paracrista, from South America are described. Four species are presently known and are keyed.
25085029|The mating behavior in males of the solitary bee species Panurgus banksianus and P. calcaratus was investigated for two sympatrically nesting populations on land, Sweden. Males search for mates by patrolling flowers of Hypochoeris radicata, the exclusive host plant species from which females of each bee species collect pollen. Field experiments with artificial flowers confirm earlier reports that males are attracted to the color yellow and that this attractiveness is enhanced when a strip of black cloth mimicking a female bee is placed on top. Black strips impregnated with female cephalic odors are significantly more attractive to males than are unscented samples and elicit longer inspections of the artificial flowers. The species- and sex-specific cephalic odors therefore seem to serve as close range identity signals. When on flowers, males perform a rejection display towards approaching conspecific males, which may reduce interactions between males. Males in copula vibrate their wings, possibly as a display to females.
25085042|Mating behavior and the climatic conditions which release reproductives of Pogonomyrmex salinus Olsen are described. Mating aggregations were found near Atriplex and Sarcobatus shrubs. Multiple matings were observed.
25084773|Immatures of the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum (L.), were able to develop and molt after imbibing only 16% (larvae) and 18-21% (nymphs) of the average engorged blood meal weight for this tick species. Most ticks at or below this "critical" engorgement weight did not molt and normal molting success (>93%) in ticks did not occur until 36% (larvae) and 43% (nymphs) of the average blood meal weight (0.852 mg and 8.4 mg, respectively) was imbibed. The critical engorgement weight of the feeding immature ticks is normally attained between 3 and 4 days after attaching to the host. An index of size (length times width) of the molted ticks was highly correlated with the engorged weight of the larvae (r = 0.986, n = 64) and nymphs (r = 0.969, n = 65). The engorged weight of females was highly significantly correlated with the index of unfed size (r = 0.642, n = 27), although there was considerable variation in the engorged weight of similar sized ticks.
25083018|Twelve species are discussed of which five are new: Zodion griseatum (Brazil, Peru), Z. discale (Brazil), Z. bifasciatum (Brazil, Argentina), Z. teutoniense (Brazil), Z. marstoni (Brazil). Four nearctic species are newly recorded from Mexico.
25082879|A choice tube bioassay for host-seeking behavior was developed for ticks (Ixodidae) using nymphs of Dermacentor variabilis (Say), Amblyomma americanum (Linnaeus) and Rhipicephalus sanguineus (Latreille). A methanol extract of dog hair presented in the choice tubes significantly attracted the ticks, especially at 37C, the host body temperature. Nymphs younger than 15 days responded indifferently to odors; beyond that age, responses became more pronounced. The compound N, N-diethyl-m-toluamide elicited highly reproducible responses from the ticks.
25082384|Two new genera of the subfamily Proctophyllodinae are established: Hadrophyllodes, including the type species Monojoubertia grandiloba Gaud and Mouchet, 1957, and Proctophyllodes (Alloptes) lonchophorus Trouessart and Neumann, 1888; and Ptaismatophyllodes, including only the type species Ptaismatophyllodes pulimus, n. sp., from Lalage nigra (Forster), 1781 (Campephagidae), Malaya.
43288257|Ecological studies on native bees in urban tropical environments are rare, however, ever-increasing urban areas world-wide necessitate study on how many of these bees can and have adjusted to human constructs. Predictable ecological patterns that emerge from these studies can provide guidance on how future urban constructs can be designed to provide habitat for conserving and protecting native bees. These patterns can also be used for bee habitat restoration in natural and agricultural environments. An extensive survey of native bees and honey bees and their relationships to a community of 102 plant types in urban residential environments of Bagaces and Liberia in northwestern Costa Rica was conducted from 2003-2012. Bees were attracted and recorded at measurable frequencies to 82 plant genera in 41 families, the most common of which was Fabaceae. Forty-two plant types were native ornamentals; 39 were non-natives; and 21 were native weed species. Standardized bee visitation (frequency) counts, 17,000+, were used to record relationships between bees and flowers. The following data were recorded for each plant type: flowering phenology in months, type of floral reward(s) (pollen, nectar, and/or oil), main daily attraction period, and most frequently visiting bee taxa. Plant life forms included trees, shrubs, lianas/vines, herbs, and palms. Each plant group had a different seasonal flowering phenology with native ornamentals and native weeds having patterns that closely resembled the general patterns for wild plants in the dry forest. Predictable associations of certain bee taxa with each plant type emerged from the count data, which allowed for categorizing relationships into four types: small bee, diverse bee, specialized bee, and nocturnal pollination systems. Intraspecific variations in bee attraction to several plant types were also noted. Honey bees (Africanized) did not figure prominently in most pollination relationships, especially with regard to native plants. Most native bee species were generalized foragers. Beyond the urban environment, it is suggested that knowledge of predictable bee-flower relationships can also be used to restore bee habitat in disturbed environments such as deforested areas. With some imagination and outreach education, bee habitats could also be installed for some agricultural crops. Outreaching information on native bee-flower relationships at local, regional, and state levels is important for short and long-term propagation of urban (and agricultural) plants. Yet, very few outlets for transferring this knowledge currently exist in Costa Rica. A few limited options for sharing this information are discussed, including collaborative partnerships with local NGOs.
25084243|In field nesting studies with Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson, 1600 released females constructed 4078 cells in styrofoam and wood nest traps placed at two experimental sites. Wood nest materials were more attractive to nesting bees than was styrofoam, and nesting was more successful in shelters than in nest traps attached individually to trees. East-, west-, and south-facing nests were equally attractive to nesting bees, but north-facing materials were markedly less attractive. Drifting from the central release area by bees establishing nests was confirmed and measured. Pollen analyses of cells constructed in the orchard demonstrated that nesting bees restricted pollen collection to three host plants, with almond pollen averaging 90.5%/cell volume.
25084585|Adults of the buffalograss webworm, Surattha indentella Kearfott, are crepuscular and nocturnal. Males were collected in large numbers in blacklight traps. Gravid females were collected only in ground level traps. Males also were collected in daylight fluorescent light traps placed at 1 meter. Male flight activity peaked within one hour after sunset, while female activity was nearly constant throughout the evening. Adults were collected in blacklight insect traps from mid-August through mid-September.
25082358|Coxackie A-12 virus was found among gastric caecae microvilli at 1/2 hour, among stomach microvilli at 1 hour, within stomach microvilli at 48 hours, and in the salivary glands at 3 weeks after consumption by Periplaneta americana.
25082473|A detailed description of male courtship behavior in Meloe (Meloe) strigulosus Mann. is presented, and this behavior is compared to that of other species of the nominate subgenus. Courtship in M. strigulosus is tactual in nature and consists primarily of the dorsally-mounted male manipulating the antennae of the female with his own. Two distinct kinds of antennation by the male are recognized. These are antennal tapping, known to occur in no other species, and antennal grasping, a characteristic of all members of the nominate subgenus that have been studied. Antennal grasping is almost always followed by a copulation attempt in M. strigulosus, and, primarily on this basis, courtship in this species is considered most comparable to that of M. impressus Kirby, and M. dianella Pinto and Selander. In contrast, in M. augusticollis Say, and M. campanicollis Pinto and Selander the copulatory attempt as a ritualized component of male display is absent.
25085419|Numerous Bombus terricola Kirby workers and males ingested crystallizing honeydew that had accumulated on balsam firs in the alpine tundra near the summit of Whiteface Mt., N.Y., during unusually warm, dry weather in July 1982 and 1991. Bumble bees may fly far to opportunistically exploit this rare, energy-rich resource. This has significant implications for optimal foraging theory.
25082845|Scanning electron microscopy revealed that the tip of the palpal tarsus of the martin mite, Dermanyssus prognephilus, bears a cluster of 8 blunt-peg type setae with apparent terminal pores. A sensory field at the tip of tarsus 1 includes 8 setiform and 2 irregularly-shaped structures. Diversity in size, shape and surface features characterize the setiform structures of this sensory field, with 3 setae bearing apparent surface pores, 3 having an apparent single terminal pore, and two lacking detectable pores. Setal morphology and behavioral data suggest that these tarsal setae of the palp and foreleg are comparable to the palpal organ and Haller's organ, respectively, of ticks.
40783182|In Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica there are 13 species of Centris (Hymenoptera: Apidae) of which six are referred to as lodger or cavity-nesting bees. Here we describe nests of these six lodger bees, five of which have been found to nest in holes bored into wooden stick "trap nests". Although the nests of three of these five have been described from Brazil (C. bicornuta, C. analis and C. vittata), the nests of these same species from Guanacaste Province, Costa Rica have some differences that may be due to resource availability. We also describe nests of two additional species of lodger bees (C nit ida and C. trigonoides) from trap nests in Guanacaste. In addition, one nest is described of the remaining lodger bee in Guanacaste each species of lodger Centris from Guanacaste after nests are complete and sometimes after the mature bees have emerged and dispersed.
25084855|Parasitoids reared from Ancylis platanana (Clemens), collected from sycamore plantations (Platanus occidentalis L.) growing in the bottomlands of the Mississippi Delta, included Apanteles sp. nr. polychrosidis Viereck, Bracon sp. [probably montowesi (Viereck)], Macrocentrus sp., Gambrus ultimus (Cresson), Brachymeria molestae Burks, Spilochalcis albifrons (Walsh), S. igneoides (Kirby), and Pediobius niger (Ashmead). Hyperparasitoids were Isdromas lycaenae (Howard), Elasmus atratus Howard, E. meteori Ashmead, Horismenus atroscapus (Girault), H. fraternus (Fitch), and H. microgaster (Ashmead). Seasonal occurrence and other biological notes are discussed.
25083840|Halictus umbripennis Ellis is placed in Dialictus, and the male and worker female are described for the first time. The female can be distinguished from the similar Dialictus lesseppsi, tropicior, deceptor, aeneus, and aurichalceus (new combinations) by the weak propodeal striae that reach less than halfway to the posterior rim; polished mesoscutum, scutellum, and mesepisternum, the latter with coarse, distinct punctures; and the flattened fore trochanters. Dialictus umbripennis is closely related to D. exiguus (Smith) (new combination) from Mexico.
25085405|Colorado Scaphandrena in the strict sense are currently listed as members of a trihybrid cross, "scurra  arabis  capricornis" Ribble, under which 7 species are synonymized. Here A. scurra is considered a non-hybrid, and three species are resurrected from synonymy-ellisiae Cockerell, montrosensis Viereck and Cockerell and sieverti Cockerell. A key to species and data on distribution and composition of samples taken in a field survey are given. Trihybrid and dihybrid hypotheses explaining the Rocky Mountain Scaphandrena fauna are discussed.
25084114|The new species, Rhynonirmus carrikeri, is described and illustrated from specimens taken off Capella nobilis (Sclater) (Charadriiformes: Scolopacidae) from Colombia. A key to the species of Rhynonirmus and a host list are provided.
25084023|Studies were conducted in Oklahoma from 1973-78 to determine the effects of winter grazing of dormant alfalfa stands on populations of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal) and its parasite Bathyplectes curculionis (Thomson). Grazing by livestock reduced overwintering H. postica egg numbers by over 60% and resulted in significantly (P = 0.01) lower larval densities during the growing season. Trampling by livestock resulted in mortality rates of B. curculionis in overwintering cocoons ranging from 2-12%. Considering beneficial effects of grazing in reducing weevil populations, these levels of parasite mortality can be tolerated in a pest management program.
25085963|Derecyrta araucariae spec. nov. is described from Southern Brazil. This woodboring sawfly emerged from dead Araucaria angustifolia (Bert.) O. Kuntze branches (Araucariaceae), collected up to 10 m above ground level in So Francisco de Paula, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Larvae also were found within the wood and, therefore, it is the first confirmed record of a neotropical sawfly developing in a gymnospermous host. Our sample of 42 adults is the largest known series of a Derecyrta species, permitting for the first time a detailed description, including intraspecific variation. Since all adults were female, this species may reproduce parthogenetically.
25082930|Fourteen new species of Erythroneura (Erythridula) are described: lasteri, davichi, caryaglabrae, mitlini, morrisi, solomoni, parrotti, saileri, merkli, lloydi, rosenkranzi, coleyi, fagiphylla and harei. Two species, eluta McAtee and iconica McAtee are redescribed.
25082598|Purpose of the study was to quantitatively measure the effect of a single spring burning on biomass and density of arthropods in a native true prairie grassland. Triplicated sweep net collections with 200 sweeps per replicate were taken on four dates, both nighttime and daytime, on matched burned and unburned sites. The burned site produced significantly more total arthropods and greater biomass of arthropods. Cicadellidae and Tettigoniidae produced most of the increased numbers on the burned site and Acrididae and Tettigoniidae accounted for most of the increased standing crop biomass on the burned when compared to the unburned site. Significantly greater numbers and less biomass were found in daytime when compared to nighttime collections. Herbivore biomass on the burned site was significantly greater than on the unburned site while non-herbivore biomass was not significantly different between the burned and unburned sites.
25083641|Cedar at Larned, Kansas, appeared to be more severely damaged in the upper and southern portions of the trees. There was a significant difference, in numbers of eggs and leaf mines, between the upper and lower halves and between compass directions; the upper and southern portions of the trees being most highly infested.
25084044|Laboratory and field studies on Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson were designed to determine: how cocoon orientation is established by the species; and, if misdirected cocoons affect survivability of adults emerging from nests having cells in linear series. Bore diameter, size of larvae, position of fecal particles in cell, position of provision loaf, and gravity were found to influence orientation of the cocoons produced by this species. These may act separately or have a cumulative effect on orientation. Particular factors will over-ride others when directional influences on cocoon orientation are in conflict. Details on cocoon construction and types of cocoons spun by this species are described. Data accumulated demonstrate that survivability of adults during emergence was not affected by direction of cocoon orientation within nests.
25085164|The ultrastructure of the distal surfaces of the palpi of a termite is characterized for the first time and compared among castes. The species studied was the primitive dry-wood termite, Pterotermes occidentis (Walker). The maxillary and labial palpi are essentially alike in the kind and arrangement of setae. However, striking caste-specific differences occur in the number of small hooded pit structures (presumably chemosensillae). These structures are most common on palpi of the reproductives and are absent on the soldiers.
25084308|Number and density of 10 species of adult overwintering thrips were compared among 6 plant species on a central Illinois prairie remnant. A significant difference (P < 0.05) was found between Schizachyrium scoparium and 4 other native prairie plants in the density of thrips in the soil around the plants. The suitability of different root and rhizome systems for overwintering and the species relationships among these thrips were discussed.
25083835|Two closely related allopatric species of leafhoppers, Carneocephala triguttata Nottingham and C. nuda Nottingham, were successfully interbred in the laboratory. Among 19 crosses including two intraspecific, two interspecific, two selfed
25084473|A reexamination is made of the queen's role in directing foragers to cells in colonies of the primitively eusocial halictid, Lasioglossum zephyrum. Previous reports indicate that the queen's intervention is important in helping foragers locate cells in which to deposit their pollen loads. In this study it is shown that the queen's involvement in coordinating forager activity may be considerably less than previously suggested and that foragers usually locate cells in which to deposit their pollen without any assistance from the queen.
25085450|Trypoxylon dominicanum sp. n., T. eucharis sp. n., and T. pallidiventre sp. n., each represented by a single specimen from Dominican amber, are the first described fossil Trypoxylon Latreille. The specimens are between forty-five to twenty-five million years old (Late Eocene to Late Oligocene). All three species belong to the Neotropical fabricator species-group. T. dominicanum sp. n. has unusually modified fore femora and male antennal flagella that differ from previously described species in the genus. Trypoxylon eucharis sp. n. and T. pallidiventre sp. n. have a mesosomal color pattern which differs from other members of the species group.
25083952|The predacious bug Xylocoris flavipes (Reuter) was placed into 2.6-m high towers filled with farmers stock peanuts that contained 3 prey species, the squarenecked grain beetle (Cathartus quadricollis (Gurin-Mneville)), the red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum (Herbst)), and the merchant grain beetle (Oryzaephilus mercator (Fauvel)). Data from samples collected throughout a year indicated that X. flavipes was able to penetrate to any depth where prey insects were located, which subsequently resulted in a ca. 84% reduction in the prey population.
25082923|The species and subspecies of Nomamyrmex Borgmeier, 1936, are considered. Included is a list of recognized species and subspecies, distinguishing characteristics, keys and figures (1-28), distribution maps with a discussion of the ranges of the subspecies, and a bibliography.
25085071|The green cloverworm, Plathypena scabra (F.), is an indigenous pest of soybean and other leguminous crops in the eastern United States. We have recently investigated the ecology and behavior of nabid predators of the green cloverworm, as well as the tactics used by four common hymenopteran parasites to overcome the defensive behavior of young green cloverworm caterpillars. Of the three dominant Nabis species in Kentucky agroecosystems, Nabis roseipennis Reuter is the most successful colonist of soybean fields. Our studies have determined the seasonal phenology, within-plant stratification, and predatory habits of these Nabis species, and we have demonstrated the impact of N. roseipennis on green cloverworm populations in the field. Three braconid primary parasites and an ichneumonid hyperparasite all must capture young green cloverworms in order to oviposit. Early instars of the green cloverworm usually respond to disturbance from other insects by dropping from the foliage and hanging on silk threads. Each of the four parasites uses a different tactic, or set of tactics, to overcome the caterpillar's defensive behavior. These studies illustrate that taxonomically closely related species, such as nabids, or members of the same ecological guild, such as parasites of young green cloverworm larvae, can exhibit striking behavioral differences. Comparative behavioral studies are an important step in determining the respective roles of these species in the natural biological control of the green cloverworm.
25084214|Aspects of the reproductive behavior of nine species of thynnine wasps are described, including the patrolling behavior of males, the calling position in which receptive females release a sex pheromone to attract males, and the manner in which females receive food from their mates. For seven species, experiments were conducted in which females were separated prematurely from their mating partners. In every case the females resumed sexual calling and succeeded in attracting additional males. Female receptivity may be linked in part to the quantity of food received from a male. The possible adaptive value of nuptial feeding by males is discussed.
25085454|Timing of floral visits was recorded for two bee species, Ptiloglossa arizonensis and Bombus sonorus, on the nightshade Solanum elaeagnifolium at a site in southeastern Arizona. Periodic censuses revealed that P. arizonensis foraged between 0500-0600 hours, whereas workers of B. sonorus were most common after 0700 hours. Continuous observations of focal flowers revealed the same pattern, as P. arizonensis accounted for nearly 100% of the initial three visits to the focal flowers. These observations also revealed that floral visits often did not involve pollen collection but were simply investigatory in nature. For both species, we examined whether investigatory visits were more likely to occur at flowers that had received a high number of prior visits.
25084483|The development and fecundity of Forcipita loca DeLong and Caldwell was studied in the laboratory on 'Kentucky-31' tall fescue, Kentucky bluegrass and smooth brome. Nymphal development took 17.5, 16.0, and 16.7 days, and % nymphal survival was 75.9%, 50.0%, and 39.4%, respectively; male adult longevity averaged 62.5, 42.2, and 37.8 days; female adult longevity averaged 48.5, 36.8, and 42.7, respectively; total eggs per female averaged 183.7, 56.8, and 47.5, respectively. Host selection appeared to have a significant effect on % nymphal survival and female fecundity. 'Kentucky-31' tall fescue was the most suitable host of the plants tested, smooth brome was the least suitable. Data were also collected on parasites and predators of F. loca, and the immature stages of the leafhopper are described and illustrated.
25083030|Leafhopper specimens of the genus Spathanus DeLong were examined from localities representative of its distribution in North America. The status of the 5 species in the genus was evaluated on the basis of male and female genitalic characters, adult coloration, and collection data. It was concluded that the genus should be represented by a single highly variable species, Spathanus acuminatus (Baker) until variation within the genus can be studied more thoroughly through breeding experiments and additional collection data.
25083915|Immature stages of Tiphia berbereti Allen, an ectoparasite of 3rd stage larvae of Phyllophaga anxia (LeConte), are described with special reference to the cephalic sclerites and mandibles of 5th stage larvae. The cephalic sclerites and mandibles may prove useful in generic and specific determinations of the Scolioidea. Mandibles are quadridentate with the basal tooth being smaller than and offset from the 3 apical teeth. T. berbereti has 5 larval stages as determined by the number of feeding punctures in the integument of the host and by the number of exuviae that adhere to the host. Larval head capsule measurements were not as useful for determining larval stages as the 2 methods mentioned above. The behavior of T. berbereti under laboratory conditions is described with emphasis on courting, mating, ovipositing, and grooming. The sequence of activities for courting and mating is consistent, with the male having the more aggressive role. The behavioral formula for T. berbereti is presented in the form of a symbolized formula and a flow chart. Rate of parasitism of T. berbereti on P. anxia varied considerably from year to year and from area to area within the same hay meadow.
25084660|When placed under an "economic" stress by removing comb cell walls (wax-deprivation), honey bee workers utilized previously "uncommitted" work potential, thus increasing their efforts, rather than "reallocating" already "committed" efforts. Therefore honey bees can be characterized by "ergonomic inefficiency" as described by Oster and Wilson (1978). Previous data showed that bees did not behave in a fashion corresponding to ergonomic theory, by having redundant team organization and by "carrying out" tasks during the same time period that are spatially separated within the hive. These observations are discussed in terms of optimization theory, sufficiency theory, and basic aspects of bee biology including swarm founding and the time scale of environmental fluctuations.
25084731|The biology of the bluegrass billbug, Sphenophorus parvulus Gyllenhal, was studied for two years at an infested turfgrass field in eastern Nebraska planted with Kentucky bluegrass, Poa pratensis L. Observations were made throughout the year, and life stages were saved for measurement, to monitor incubation periods, or for internal examination. Billbugs were univoltine at the study site. Adults became active in April, mated, laid eggs, and died as new adults appeared in August. Highest densities of eggs were found in the greenest, thickest bluegrass available. Adults were usually found above ground in dense areas with a thick thatch layer, which apparently offered shade and protection. Overwintering was accomplished by adults burying themselves in the topsoil. An unidentified larval dipteran parasite was found inside some adult billbugs, with peak numbers occurring in late July in 1980 and mid-June 1981.
25082947|Seven new species of Gypona (Homoptera: Cicadellidae) are described. Four G. quadrella n. sp., G. amapa n. sp., G. quadrina n. sp., and G. nigromedia n. sp. are placed in the subgenus Gypona; Three, G. compacta n. sp., G. anfracta n. sp. and G. venella n. sp. are placed in the subgenus Marganalana.
25085790|The imported longhorned weevil, Calomycterus setarius, is an uncommon and minor pest of soybean. A natural population in an Iowa soybean field was treated with insecticides and data were collected on weevil densities, leaf defoliation, and grain yields. Three insecticides (carbamate, organophosphate, and pyrethroid) and an untreated check were established in the first three border rows of V4 stage soybean in late June 1994. Pretreatment densities averaged 30-143 weevils per five plants depending on row location. Plants were nearly completely defoliated in Rows 1 and 2. The insecticides had a minimal impact on the weevil population. One week posttreatment, numerous weevils were alive in the sprayed treatments; one sprayed plot had 466 weevils on five plants. Populations tended to increase in the sprayed treatments, but this was a result of weevils migrating out of the defoliated, unsprayed plots and into plots with greater leaf area. Grain yields were greatly reduced in Rows 1 and 2 when compared with Row 3. Yields in Row 1 averaged 27.1% of Row 2 yields and 10.6% of yields in Row 3. In Rows 2 and 3, trends were for lower grain yields in the unsprayed treatments. Soybean defoliation by the weevils also allowed weeds to proliferate in the defoliated rows. The imported longhorned weevil can have a direct effect on soybeans by reducing grain yields and an indirect effect by stripping soybean leaves, thereby allowing weeds to compete with soybeans. The flightless nature of the weevil and the occurrence of defoliation only in the border rows suggest that this insect should not become a major pest of soybean in the midwestern United States.
25083553|Observations on the ecological distribution, phenology, and possible larval foods are presented for 10 species of Heleomyzidae occurring in northeastern Ohio and northern Kentucky.
25084840|Nine parasitoid species emerged from field collected cocoons of Bathyplectes curculionis, a parasitoid of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in southeastern Nebraska in 1982-1983. Four of the parasitoid species, Gambrus ultimus, Coccygomimus sp., Gelis sp., and Itoplectis conquisitor, belong to the family Ichneumonidae. Three, Catolaccus aenoviridis, Trichomalopsis viridescens, and Pteromalus sp., are Pteromalidae. The final two, Spilochalcis albifrons and S. torvina, belong to the family Chalcididae. All of these are new state records. Coccygomimus sp. is apparently a new record from Bathyplectes.
25082664|A new species, Ponana ornatata n.p., is described and illustrated.
25085199|The ovipositional potential of two populations of the potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris) (Homoptera: Cicadellidae), was measured by counting mature oocytes and by counting eggs deposited on four different ovipositional substrates. Oviposition by the feral population was more discriminating than the culture population, with the feral population depositing 72% fewer eggs in broad bean than in alfalfa stems, and 24% fewer eggs in excised than uncut stems. Egg deposition among substrates did not differ statistically for the culture population, and mature oocyte counts after oviposition did not differ for either population. Mature oocyte counts were poor predictors of the ovipositional potential of the leafhopper.
25568922|Big-eyed bugs have been well documented as predators on a diverse group of arthropod prey in turfgrasses; however, little is known about the big-eyed bug species associated with buffalograss, or their feeding habits relative to the western chinch bug, Blissus occiduus Barber. This research documented that Geocoris uliginosus (Say) was the predominant big-eyed bug species associated with buffalograss, obtained information on its feeding behavior, and characterized predation rates. Laboratory studies documented G. uliginosus, as a predator of B. occiduus. While all life stages of B. occiduus were attacked by G. uliginosus, predation was greater on 1st through 4th instars than on 5th instars or adults. Low 5th instar and adult chinch bug mortality was likely the result of their larger biomass, as well as their superior size and strength compared to younger (1st through 4th instar) chinch bugs. The mean number of 1st through 3rd instar chinch bugs consumed by G. uliginosus at each evaluation period was higher than for 5th instar or adult chinch bugs. Based on this research, chinch bug management decisions should take into consideration big-eyed bug densities, especially when the majority of B. occiduus are early (1st-2nd) instars.
25084289|Methods used to obtain information on the relative efficacy of 24 insecticides, in the laboratory, against adult chinch bugs are described. Adult chinch bugs were directly exposed to the insecticides by passing solutions of different concentrations over confined insects. Adult chinch bugs were indirectly exposed to the insecticides by placing them on filter papers that had been treated with insecticides at varying concentrations. Insect mortality data was subjected to probit analysis and
25085136|Colony growth and colony size in bumble bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae) were investigated. Nests of Bombus terrestris were initiated in the laboratory from field-caught queens, and were divided into three experimental groups prior to worker emergence: 60 nests were amalgamated by combining the brood of two nests under the ownership of one queen; 25 nests were requeened, and 30 nests were left undisturbed. Amalgamated and requeened colonies initially grew at a faster rate, but did not display significantly greater productivities than control colonies. Those colonies ejecting larvae prior to field placement exhibited significantly reduced mean productivity. A total of 61% of the colonies from the three experimental groups were found to be infected with the microsporidian pathogen N. bombi, a purportedly Bombus-specific Nosema species. Our study failed to demonstrate a debilitating influence of N. bombi infection upon colony productivity. Single colonies of each of the three types which were placed in an urban garden grew to be significantly larger than their field colony counterparts, indicating that location may be more important than colony manipulation in determining ultimate nest size. We tentatively suggest that food supply was the prime difference between locations, and that it is an important limiting factor in the determination of bumble bee colony size.
25086382|This study provides a morphometric analysis of a new morphotype belonging to the subgenus Trigona s. str. collected in Colombia. This morphotype is similar in external morphology as to the T. fulviventris complex. We use a non-parametric multivariate approach to compare 40 characteristics from five species of bees from the subgenus Trigona s. str. Our results suggest that this morphotype is morphologically distinct from the other species used in this study, but in order to asses the real validity of this finding further data from molecular genetics and ecology are needed.
25084321|Two new species of leafhoppers in the genus Terulia Stl are described and illustrated. These are woldai from Panama and triangularis from Nicaragua. A revised key to six known species of the genus is presented.
25085107|Laboratory and field studies were performed to investigate feeding activity of the brown stink bug, Euschistus servus (Say), and the onespotted stink bug, E. variolarius (Palisot de Beauvois), on an early growth stage of corn. The number of stylet sheaths found in plant tissues increased with duration of exposure. There were no significant differences between the slopes of the regression equations of feeding activity over time for species or for sexes within a species. The numbers of stylet sheaths left per plant by E. servus and the percentage of damaged plants increased with increased insect density. Regardless of stink bug density, the numbers of stylet sheaths were significantly more numerous as observed plant damage increased in severity.
25084753|Larval populations of western spruce budworm (Choristoneura occidentalis Freeman) are sampled by counting the numbers of larvae and buds, or shoots, on the host tree. Populations are usually expressed as number of larvae per 100 new buds or shoots. With repeated sampling, this technique could introduce sampling errors because the number of buds recognized by the observer could decrease owing to their complete destruction by larval feeding. To find out if population estimates could be affected, larval feeding behavior was studied on potted Douglas-Fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii [Mirb.] Franco) and white fir (Abies concolor [Gord. and Glend.] Lindl.) seedlings. The portions of the bud that remained, even after extensive feeding, could be readily identified by observers. Therefore, destruction of buds or shoots would not appear to affect estimates of western spruce budworm populations when sampled by this method.
25084169|Sweet potato cultivars with different levels of resistance to larvae of a white grub, Phyllophaga ephilida Say, were tested with and without a preplanting soil treatment of ethoprop. Control by host plant resistance alone was, with one exception, as good as or better than control with ethoprop applied to a susceptible cultivar. Combining the ethoprop treatment and the highest level of host plant resistance resulted in 95-100% control of white grub damage to the edible roots.
25085523|Drosophila percnosoma form leks and defend leaves on isolated trees (Clermontia) in the Hawaiian rainforest. Males do not prefer lower leaf groups, but more male-male agonistic interactions take place on the lower leaf groups, suggesting that they may be preferred by the most aggressive males. D. percnosoma males show diurnal variation at leks. The time of peak abundance was 1000 to 1300 hr, with numbers declining at 1500 hr.Male removal resulted in rapid occupation of previously occupied leaves. Agonistic interactions occurred non-randomly among the 15 leaves that were monitored, with larger leaves or particular leaves in a given leaf group being preferred. Males that win agonistic interactions are usually either the larger or the resident or both.An interaction begins when an intruder lands on an occupied leaf. Intruders may decamp early if the resident is much larger. If the intruder remains after landing, the agonistic interaction escalates to either wing flicks by the resident or to a side-to-side pushing match. Two males may come together, oriented head-to-head, and then rear up anteriorly and "box" with the front legs. This may be followed by mutual wing-raising, and assumption of a side-to-side posture (each facing in a different direction) with wings still extended. In this posture the flies appear to push laterally, often toward the leaf margin. At any point either male may decamp.
25085466|The effects of interspecific competition between northern and western corn rootworm larvae were examined under greenhouse conditions. Potted corn seedlings were infested with predetermined (mixed) numbers of embryonated eggs to determine how interspecific competition would affect survivorship, sex ratio, and developmental time for each species. Survivorship of both species declined as population densities of the opposite species increased. Sex ratios of both species were influenced by the population densities of the opposite species. Females declined as the level of the other species increased. The slope of cumulative adult emergence was the same for heterogeneous populations and homogeneous populations of each species.
25082566|The genus Perlomyia is reviewed and certain critical and fine structural details which might make this genus and its included species better known are described and figured. Also presented is a description of a third species of this genus, Perlomyia smithae, new species, from China. The relationships of the genus Perlomyia to the other genera within the Leuctridae is examined and a cladrogram of the genera of this family, generated by quantitative numerical techniques, is presented.
25085724|Pollination of Corydalis cava (Fumariaceae), an obligately self-incompatible forest spring herb with a complex flower, was studied outside the range of its specialist pollinator, a long-tongued anthophorid bee. Here, the major pollinators were queens of the short-tongued opportunistic Bombus terrestris (Hymenoptera: Apidae) that had newly emerged from hibernation. Flowering of the C. cava population lasted 39 days, with a peak on the 14th day. During the first 14 days of the flowering period, bumblebees collected pollen (i.e., pollinated), perforated the flower spur and robbed the nectar (i.e., primary nectar-robbery). Over the first nine of these days, they perforated the flower spur at random. Then, during the following five days, they learned to locate the nectar and placed most holes in spurs where the surface of the nectar was located. After having perforated most of the flowers, queens changed their behavior to the slightly faster method of secondary nectar-robbing, i.e., using old nectar-robbing holes. Thus, plants with a specialized floral morphology which indicates a tight evolutionary history with specialist pollinators may survive without these specialists at their range margin through pollination interactions with opportunistic flower foragers.
25084729|Head muscles in adult Epicauta segmenta (Say) (Coleoptera: Meloidae) are described and compared with those of immature stages. Considerable differences were observed in maxillary musculature. In the adult one additional antennal muscle was found and one in the labium. The labrum and mandibles showed similar musculature in both cases, however some variation was observed in pharyngeal-cibarial muscles. A discussion of the correspondence in musculature between E. segmenta and other known Meloidae is also included.
25083580|Five new species of Paracymus are described from the U. S. They are: P. confluens, P. communis, P. confusus, P. restrictus and P. dispersus. A neotype of P. subcupreus (Say) is also designated. A key that will separate the 14 known Nearctic species is included.
25084647|Feeding preferences of the black grass bug, Labops hesperius Uhler (Hemiptera: Miridae), for 16 grass species and interspecific hybrids were examined in simulated monoculture and mixed stands under greenhouse conditions. Feeding damage was rated visually by two observers. Significant differences were found in food preferences for grass entries. Rankings of the grasses according to preferability were essentially the same in the mixed stand and monoculture tests and at two bug population levels. Orchardgrass (Dactylis glomerata L.) and reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.) were the least preferred whereas "Fairway" crested wheatgrass [Agropyron cristatum (L.) Gaertn.] and intermediate wheatgrass [Elytrigia intermedia (Host) Nevski] were the most favored. Greatest within entry variation in feeding response was found with quackgrass [Elytrigia repens (L.) Nevski]  bluebunch wheatgrass [Elytrigia spicata (Pursh) D. R. Dewey] hybrids, and this variation indicates that opportunities are available to select for resistant germplasm.
25086429|The distribution and morphology of antennal sensilla were investigated in females of Doeringiella (Triepeolus) nobilis (Friese) (Apidae, Epeolini) using scanning-electron microscopy. Sensilla campaniformia and three different types of sensilla trichodea were observed in the scape and pedicel. Sensilla trichodea and placodea were the most abundant types in all the flagellomeres. Variability in terms of length was observed in sensilla trichodea and to a lesser extent in sensilla basiconica, allowing further classification of these cuticular structures into types. Sensilla ampullacea, coeloconica and coelocapitula displayed a similar morphology to that reported for other hymenopterans. A previously unknown type of sensilla basiconica was observed in flagellomere nine.
25084347|Erepsocassis Spaeth (1936), a monotypic genus of the tortoise beetle tribe Cassidini, is redescribed and validated. The type-species, Coptocycla rubella Boheman, 1862, from the south-eastern United States, is redescribed and Metriona marginepunctata Schaeffer, 1925, is reinstated as a synonym of that species.
25083943|A review is given of the six known North American species of the Culicoides haematopotus group, subgenus Diphaomyia, with redescriptions of males, females, and pupae, diagnostic illustrations, and a summary of the known distribution and larval habitats. Two species, C. defoliarti and C. erikae, are described as new species. Culicoides haematopotus is commonest and most widespread, found over all the 48 contiguous states and most of Canada, C. footei is found over most of the eastern states, and C. defoliarti in the west from California and New Mexico to Oregon and Wyoming, while edeni (Florida), erikae (Arizona and New Mexico), and inyoensis (California) have quite restricted distributions.
25083541|The ibidionine Cerambycidae of Mexico have been poorly known, especially at the generic level. This preliminary study is an attempt to reclassify the genera and to list all available distribution records for the species prior to the completion of a monograph of the entire tribe by Martins. Thus far, nine genera and 23 species are known from Mexico with numerous species as yet undescribed. Support for this study is acknowledged from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation of New York City (Martins) and the National Science Foundation through Grant GB-2326 (Chemsak). A key to the nine known genera of Mexican Ibidionini is presented. These are: Hexoplon, Gnomidolon, Alcyopis, Compsibidion, Ibidion, Heterachthes, Neocompsa, Xalitla, and Coscinedes. A key to the species of Heterachthes is also included. Distributional data is listed for species from available material. New combinations are proposed as follows: Gnomidolon sylvarum (Bates); Heterachthes polingi (Fall); Neocompsa exclamationis (Thomson); and N. clerochroa (Thomson). Neocompsa puncticollis orientalis, new subspecies is described from Cotaxtla, Veracruz, Mexico.
25084757|Two new species of chewing lice are described and illustrated from the type-host Gallinula ventralis, the Black-tailed Water Hen, of Australia. They are Pseudomenopon australis (Amblycera: Menoponidae) and Rallicola bournei (Ischnocera: Philopteridae).
25086229|Pseudoscolia aequatoria, new species, from Archer's Post, Kenya, is the first sub-Saharan member of the genus. It is not closely related to any previously described North African species.
25085650|A new genus and species of Ithonidae from Honduras is described with more general comments on faunal relationships and biogeography.
25086088|International markets are concerned about possible quarantine pests in sweet cherries exported from the Pacific Northwest. To determine the incidence of surface arthropods on cherry fruits, fruit samples entering (presorted) and leaving (final pack) two packing houses in Washington state were collected weekly. Fruits were sampled from 63 grower lots and included 'Bing,' 'Lapin,' 'Lambert,' and 'Rainier' cultivars. In each of the 131 samples, 50 cherries were randomly examined, along with leaves (if present), and the bag containing the cherries. Samples were inspected under a microscope at 25, and all live and dead arthropods were recorded. Among 3,600 presorted fruits inspected, the only live arthropods found were two predacious mites and six thrips. No codling moth, Cydia pomonella (L.) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae), or cherry fruit fly, Rhagoletis indifferens Curran (Diptera: Tephritidae), larvae were observed. Among 1750 final pack fruits, the only live arthropod was an aphid. The survey demonstrated that very few live arthropods enter the packing house and that the remaining are eliminated by typical packinghouse operations. If typical, this information can be used to develop a comprehensive program for quarantine security.
25084582|The gross morphology of the mentum and lorum (="submentum") of a wide variety of bees was examined with the objective of understanding the structures and their implications for apoid phylogeny. From a condition found in Andrenidae and some Colletidae (and with little modification in Stenotritidae), it seems likely that desclerotization led to the structures characteristic of other Colletidae and especially Halictidae and Oxaeidae. Other bees evolved the V- or Y-shaped lorum characteristic of Melittidae, Ctenoplectridae, and long-tongued bees.
25084790|Five Japanese polistines, Parapolybia indica, Polistes (Polistella) snelleni, P. (P.) mandarinus, P. (Polistes) chinensis antennalis and P. (Megapolistes) jadwigae fall into two distinct groups with respect to the timing of mating. The "early mating" group includes the first three species, in which mating begins prior to, or immediately after, the end of emergence of adults and is nearly complete by the end of September. The last two species are the "late mating" group, in which mating occurs after mid-October.
25084157|Examinations of the base of corn stalks for eggs of the western corn rootworm (Diabrotica virgifera LeConte) and the northern corn rootworm (D. longicornis (Say)) showed that for oviposition to occur, there must be moist subsurface soil and a way for the beetles to get to it. Under high moisture conditions, such structures as earthworm burrows and cracks around clods provided suitable oviposition sites. Under low moisture conditions, drought cracks served as oviposition sites either independently from the stalks or where the soil pulled away from the base of the stalks. Otherwise, the stalk itself did not influence the choice of oviposition site.
25086228|We record 16 species of spider wasps from Puerto Rico. One new species, Auplopus taino (Pepsinae), is described from a single female. The types of the long unrecognized Pompilus cressoni Dewitz, 1881 have been examined and found to be a species of Episyron, a genus not previously reported from Puerto Rico; E. cressoni is a senior synonym of E. conterminus posterus (W. Fox, 1893), a common North American species. Batazonus hookeri and B. mundiformis, now placed in Poecilopompilus and both described by Rohwer, 1915, are opposite sexes of a single taxon; P. hookeri has page priority. We here treat this wasp as a subspecies of the widespread Neotropical species, P. flavopictus (F. Smith, 1862). Keys in both English and Spanish are provided for the separation of the known species, as are appropriate illustrations. /// Reportamos 16 especies de avispas cazadoras para Puerto Rico. Una nueva especies, Auplopus taino (Pepsinae), es descrita basado en una hembra. Los tipos de la ya no reconocida Pompilus cressoni Dewitz, 1881 fueron examinados encontrndose que son una especie de Episyron, un gnero no previamente conocido para Puerto Rico; E. cressoni es un antiguo sinnimo de E. conterminus posterus (W. Fox, 1893), una especie comn en Amrica del Norte. Batazonus hookeri y B. mundiformis, ahora colocados en Poecilopompilus y ambas descritas por Rohwer, 1915, son los sexos opuestos de un solo taxn; P. hookeri tiene prioridad de pgina. Nosotros aqu tratamos esta avispa como una subespecie de la especie de amplia distribucin neotropical, P. flavopictus (F. Smith, 1862). Claves en ingls y espaol se proveen para identificar las especies conocidas, as como las figuras apropiadas.
25085880|The efficiency of the blacklight, blacklight blue, cool white light, and plant/aquarium light in attracting wild moths was tested in field experiments in Central Missouri between 1 May and 31 October 1996. The most commonly captured family was the Noctuidae. The highest total number of moths occurred in June. The blacklight and blacklight blue lamps usually were more efficient than cool white and plant/aquarium lamps and about equally attractive to the entire moth community, especially Noctuidae and Arctiidae. However, some moth species did not favor the blacklight source, and were significantly attracted by white light or plant/aquarium light without being mutilated by hundreds of large aquatic beetles that are usually attracted by ultraviolet light. Thus, the use of cool white light or plant/aquarium light to monitor or collect these moths is encouraged.
25082896|Inexpensive and easily constructed mounting blocks for spreading Lepidoptera are suitable for all sizes of moths, especially microlepidoptera mounted as described by Tagestad (1974).
25086434|A family of extinct lacewings is described and figured from the Yixian Formation [Early Cretaceous (M.S.E.) or latest Jurassic (D.R.)] of Liaoning Province, China. Aetheogrammatidae Ren and Engel, new family, is established for Aetheogramma speciosa Ren and Engel, new genus and species, and is distinguished from other myrmeleontiform families. The enigmatic kalligrammatid genus Kallihemerobius Ren and Oswald is placed in a new subfamily, Kallihemerobiinae Ren and Engel.
25083716|The nest, developmental biology, and larval morphology of Proteriades (Hoplitina) bunocephala (Michener) are described. The developmental biology and larval morphology of Chrysura sp. near halictula Gribodo are described and found to closely resemble those known for other species in the genus except in the placement of the egg.
25083523|Changes in the systematics of Colladonus include new synonymy of two genera and one species, clarification of the taxonomic status of four species, and resurrection of seven species. Sequoiatettix Bliven and Coniferadonus Bliven are new generic synonyms of Colladonus Ball. Colladonus delongi Linnavouri is a new synonym of Colladonus montanus montanus (Van Duzee).
25083625|Augochlora nigerrima Friese and A. costaricensis Friese are placed in Pseudaugochloropsis. Pseudaugochloropsis nigerrima occurs in two color phases, green and black, in Costa Rica. It is considered a valid species and its green form differs from the very similar P. graminea (Fabricius).
25084587|Three species of Neotropical deltocephaline leafhoppers are described. They are Paratanus bipunctatus, n. sp., and Doleranus cruzanus, n. sp., from Bolivia, and Mendozellus albolectus, n. sp., from Argentina.
25084141|In eastern Kansas individual foundresses of the paper wasp, Polistes metricus, sometimes maintain multiple nests or share several nests with other foundresses. Since P. metricus is heavily parasitized in local habitats, it may be that both behaviors reduce the probability of complete reproductive failure for individual foundresses.
25083467|Fifteen new species of Pygostenini (Coleoptera, Staphylinidae) are described. These are: Typhloponemys platycollis (Ivory Coast), T. scabra (Liberia), T. noiroti (Liberia, Ivory Coast), T. liberiensis (Liberia, Ivory Coast), T. tubmani (Liberia, Ivory Coast), T. hirsutocollis (Ivory Coast), T. douceti (Ivory Coast), T. pauliani (Ivory Coast), Pogostenus ivoiriensis (Ivory Coast), Doryloxenus amicus (Ivory Coast), D. ferrugineus (Cameroun), D. lepidulus (Cameroun), D. liberiensis (Liberia, Ivory Coast), D. simulans (Cameroun, Ivory Coast), and Micropolemon camerounensis (Cameroun). Eupolemon (also cited Micropolemon) simplicicollis Cameron was determined to be a synonym of Anommatophilus kohli Wasmann. Distribution data representing extensions of known ranges of 23 other species belonging to the genera Typhloponemys, Anommatoxenus, Doryloxenus, Mimocete, Anommatophilus, Micropolemon, and Sympolemon were presented. New doryline ant host associations were presented for all species listed. A chart summarizing the geographic distribution of all Pygostenini known from West Africa is included.
25086191|The larva and female adult of Paraleptophlebia calcarica are described for the first time, based on reared and additional material from Kansas. These new records represent the first report of P. calcarica since its original description from Arkansas. Paraleptophlebia calcarica larvae may be distinguished from congeners by characters associated with the mouthparts, abdominal gills, and caudal filaments. Larvae of P. calcarica inhabit intermittent streams. New Kansas records are noted for P. ontario and Leptophlebia intermedia, which may cohabit with P. calcarica.
25084203|A new species, Phyllobaenus atriplexus, from southern California is described. This species most closely resembles Phyllobaenus discoideus (LeC.) but differs in size, elytral color pattern, and structural details of the fifth and sixth abdominal segments. Elytral patterns and terminal abdominal segments of P. atriplexus are illustrated. The holotype male, allotype, and 16 paratypes are designated.
25085183|Male Acmaeodera impluviata court females before, during and after copulation. Precopulation courtship includes tapping with the genitalia against the undersides of the female elytra. Implications of these observations for theories of genitalic evolution are discussed.
25083858|Fragmentary biological information on the nesting habits of Ctenoplectra armata from South West Africa (Namibia) is compared with similar data regarding other species in this monogeneric subfamily. All species in the genus nest in preexisting galleries in wood or, in the case of C. armata, in abandoned nests of the bee Chalicodoma, although one species has been reported chewing holes in soft wood in New Guinea. In contrast, all other Melittidae nest in the ground, and females construct their own burrows. Cocoons spun by Ctenoplectra consist of semi-transparent, cellophane-like fabric as opposed to the opaque, mat cocoons of other cocoon-spinning Melittidae. The fact that Ctenoplectra is thought to provision cells with oils from oil-producing plants, as is also the case for Macropis, may be the only identifiable synapomorphy to suggest a relationship between the Ctenoplectrinae and other melittids on biological grounds. The larva of C. armata is described and illustrated for the first time and compared with the larvae of other Melittidae. Larval Ctenoplectra differs from other melittids in many characteristics, the plesiomorphic-apomorphic polarity of which cannot be determined. However, several characters suggest that Ctenoplectra may be related to Meganomia. A cladogram is presented showing the relationships of all taxa in the Melittidae for which larvae have been collected.
25084302|Coelioxys (Xerocoelioxys) bisoncornua Hill is reported for the first time east of the Mississippi River on the basis of collections made in 1979 and 1981 from sunflowers in Illinois. Megachile (Phaenosarus) fortis Cresson is suggested as a possible host of C. bisoncornua.
25082599|Augochlora pura and Lasioglossum coeruleum are normally inhabitants of decomposed wood, but in the laboratory they were induced to construct nests and hibernacula in soil. Nests in soil were similar to those made in wood and progeny were produced in soil nests. They had curving and looping burrows that were not made from burrows of other insects.
25082352|A species hitherto confused with Tetanops rufifrons Wulp (Mexico) is described as Tetanops parallelus, new species (Arizona; New Mexico; Texas; Guanajuato, Mexico) and a key to the American species of Tetanops s. s. is given.
25085781|The seed bugs Ozophora baranowskii and O. maculata were found on branches of the fig Ficus padifolia with mature fruits, and on the ground below. Adult O. baranowskii were more common on branches, while adult O. maculata were almost always on the ground. Nymphs of both species were found only on the ground. Adults and nymphs of both species fed on seeds of the fig. In female O. baranowskii, insemination is apparently associated with mature eggs. Several parasitoids attacked adults and nymphs on the ground.
41681231|A species of Diospilus from Mexico is described and illustrated. Diospilus sisyphus Sanchez, Figueroa and Sharkey new species attacks Anthonomus sisyphus Clark (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) on the fruit of red nanche, Malpighia mexicana A. Juss. A key is included to identify the described species of Diospilus of the New World.
25086002|Ecological studies on Patterson's Bindweed, Stylisma pickeringii var. pattersonii in Illinois, yielded specimens of Heterostylum croceum and H. robustum. These are the first records of this genus and species of flies occurring in Illinois.
25086214|Four new fall-emergent species of Andrena from the southwestern United States are described. Andrena brooksi n. sp., from southeastern Arizona and southwestern New Mexico, is a close relative of A. reflexa Cresson, and belongs to the subgenus Callandrena Cockerell. A. neffi n. sp., A. mimbresensis n. sp., and A. vogleri n. sp. were all collected in the same area of the Mimbres Mountains of New Mexico. These species belong to a clade formerly ascribed to Callandrena but which has been shown by phylogenetic analysis to be only distantly related.
25085541|Ecological characteristics of potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris), including polyphagy, suggest that non-economic plant species in the landscape may be important to its population ecology. The objectives of this study were to compile a host list, to ascertain taxonomic and ecological patterns within the list, and to determine host utilization in non-crop habitats. The host plant list included 220 species in 100 genera and 26 families. Fabaceae represented 47% of the genera and 62% of the species. Yet, the list includes a diversity of taxonomic groups within the class Magnoliopsida, representing highly divergent chemistry and morphological types. Ecological classifications, based on such characteristics as habitat, growth form, and origin, were similarly diverse. Thus, the diversity of plant species suitable for reproduction suggests that non-crop habitats may be a significant source of potato leafhopper populations after spring migration into northern states. Also, the ability of leafhopper adults to utilize additional species (e.g., grasses, pines) as refugia provides a secondary role to non-crop habitats. Yet, our limited data suggest that utilization of non-crop habitats for reproduction is restricted to a relatively few naturalized hosts (e.g., deciduous trees). Host finding behavior, operating at a landscape or habitat level, as well as abiotic and biotic factors within habitats, may limit host utilization in non-crop habitats.
25085234|Field data on male abundance, aggression, and female visitation were collected at a lek of Drosophila imparisetae in Hawaii. The lek was located at a single tree, and males defended individual leaves as mating territories. Male abundance was greatest during midday when 9-12 individuals were usually present. Aggressive interactions were infrequent (1.46/h/territory) and involved only brief chases without escalation to grapples. Only one female arrival was noted in 26 h of monitoring, and this resulted in courtship but no copulation. The present findings are compared with data recently collected for two other species of lek-forming Drosophila in Hawaii.
25084713|Ipsiura is raised to generic rank and 15 new species are described: boliviana, Bolivia; catamarcae, Argentina; cooperi, Costa Rica; covillei, Mexico to Brazil; fritzi, Paraguay; irwini, Texas to El Salvador; lata, lilloi, Brazil to Argentina; nigriventer, Mexico; oaxacae, Mexico and Brazil; obidana, Brazil and Bolivia; prolixa, Brazil; spiculella, Brazil; tropicalis, Colombia to Argentina; and venezuelae, Costa Rica to Ecuador and Venezuela. A key to the known species is provided.
25082677|Populations of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) exposed to substerilizing doses of irradiation each generation for as many as 25 generations had decreases in reproductive capacity; the decreases were positively correlated with the size of the dose per generation, but not with the number of ancestral generations treated. Exposure of the selected populations to an additional 2 krad dose of irradiation revealed no increase in resistance to irradiation, even after 25 generations of selection. Development of radioresistant populations from any fertile survivors of irradiation disinfestation of bulk-grain does not appear likely.
25086023|Phenological and spatial abundances of macropterous and brachypterous males and females were compared in adult Arpediothrips mojave Hood, a desert thrips restricted to leaf clusters on Yucca. Macropterous adults were trapped, and brachypterous adults and immatures were collected, on Yucca schidigera Roezl ex Ortgies every 12-16 days during 3 March-14 November 1999. Thrips were found on 92% of the leaf clusters sampled. Phenologies of macropterous and brachypterous males, macropterous females, and immatures were similar, exhibiting one discrete generation during spring and a second, smaller discrete generation during summer. Phenology of brachypterous females differed from other morphs by being abundant (97% of adult thrips) throughout most of the sampling period. Most (87%) brachypterous females occurred on leaf clusters without adult males, whereas macropterous females occurred together with brachypterous or macropterous males. I hypothesize A. mojave brachypterous females are dormant during winter and capable of parthenogenesis and macropterous adults disperse genetic variation among established thrips aggregations.
25084064|Twenty-one species of Helianthus and Viguiera porteri (Gray) Blake were evaluated for resistance to the carrot beetle, Bothynus gibbosus (De Geer). Primary rot damage was significantly (5% level) less in 9 species and secondary root damage was significantly less in 11 species than in 'Hybrid 896,' the susceptible standard. Four species exhibited no ill effects in well-watered pots despite >50% loss of secondary root systems. High mortality of carrot beetles feeding on the roots of H. arizonensis Jackson, H. atrorubens L., H. occidentalis ssp. plantagineus (Torrey and Gray) Heiser, and V. porteri indicated that antibiosis also may have been a resistance mechanism.
25085159|The behavior of two swarming and three absconding queens of the African honey bee was examined in the Okavango River Delta, Botswana. Compared to the swarming queens, the absconding queens (1) spent significantly less time active per observation interval, (2) were less mobile, and (3) exhibited greatly reduced egg laying activity. Worker treatment of the two queen types also differed. The absconding queens were fed and harassed by attendant workers significantly less than were the swarming queens. Likewise, while workers frequently performed vibration dances on the swarming queens, absconding queens were not observed to be vibrated. The differences in queen activity and worker-queen interactions are discussed with respect to the contrasting functions of swarming versus absconding.
25082946|Nests and prey of two species of Pterocheilus are described from observations made in north central Colorado: P. laticeps Cresson and P. quinquefasciatus Say. Both make very shallow nests and provision them with moth larvae. The mature larva of P. quinquefasciatus is described.
25085245|In 1988 and 1989, an economic threshold for corn rootworm larvae (Diabrotica spp., Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) was established at three Ohio sites. Rootworm larval populations fit the negative binomial distribution which allows sampling costs for a given level of accuracy to be calculated; at 70% accuracy, the cost of sampling is $4.10/ha ($1.66/a). However, a sampling cost of $10.00/ha ($4.05/a) would reflect a more realistic value using a "scout friendly" method with 80% accuracy. The economic threshold for larval sampling of corn rootworms in Ohio is a mean of two larvae per plant, sampling after June 1 through V6 growth stage of corn with 70% accuracy. Such a sampling scheme in conjunction with corn prices and knowledge of attainable yields at insecticide application time could be used to decide whether to treat or not treat.
25084526|Seven to ten day old manure pats, the soil below the pats, pasture with no manure, and areas of dense vegetation indicating a decomposed manure pat were sampled in a grazed pasture in 1976. Significantly more wireworms were found in the combined manure pat and soil below the pat sample than in the other two pasture conditions. The occurrence of wireworms in the manure pats could be a useful indicator of possible wireworm infestations in pastures intended for conversion to row crop production.
25082545|A pheromone deposited in the feces inhibits locomotion in first instar Periplaneta americana nymphs, although synergistic tactile and possibly social factors are involved in the behavioral response.
25084477|Larvae of the driedfruit moth, Vitula edmandsae serratilineella Ragonot, were fed various foods readily available and encountered during infestations of cells or hives of the alfalfa leafcutter bee, Megachile rotundata (Fab.). Survival of second instar larvae was significantly greater on diets containing a high proportion of pollen and nectar or live bee prepupae than on the other diets tested. Head-capsule growth approximately followed Dyar's rule, but a logarithmic relationship more accurately described growth. The number of larval instars was either 5 or 6. A logarithmic relationship described the developmental pattern of the instars more accurately than did linear or second degree polynomial equations.
25086158|Tipula (Lunatipula) rossmani n. sp. is described and its taxonomically useful structures illustrated. It is compared with Tipula (L.) rotundiloba Alexander, apparently a near relative occurring in the same region.
25084318|Ranatra montezuma, a water scorpion endemic to Montezuma Well, displayed a nocturnal planktonic behavior. Horizontal migration from the marginal weed bed into the open water column was initiated at light intensities of <100 lux. Two to three individuals
25086300|Twenty six new species are added to the genus Chiasmodolon Dietrich for the Neotropical Region. These are C. bispinatus, C. egeri, C. torrus, and C. alatus from Brazil: C. sabanus, C. stenus, C. acutus, C. procerus, C. obtusus, C. deltus, C. saranus and C. camarus from French Guiana: C. dozieri from Ecuador; and C. ulcus, C. lobatus, C. angulatus, C. hamatus, C. inflatus, C. orthodens, C. cornutus, C. latidens, C. gracilis, C. bellus, C. lautus, C. merus and C. exornatus from Colombia.
25085549|The immature stages of Suragina concinna (Williston) are described and compared with the immature stages of Atherix lantha Webb and A. pachypus Bigot.
25085518|Observations of flight behavior were conducted on 54 nests of the facultatively social nesting halictine bee, Nomia (Austronomia) australica (Smith), in southwestern Victoria, Australia. Nests consisted of 1, 2 or 3 females. All females were individually marked to monitor the activities. Foraging trips that resulted in visible pollen on the scopa as well as total flights were compared both among and within colonies. Following observations, colonies were excavated and all resident females, plus their offspring, were obtained. All adult females excavated from nests were marked indicating that all residents foraged. In two-bee colonies both colony members forage and there are no differences in flight activity between colony members. Moreover, all bees had enlarged ovaries indicating that all may be egglayers as well as foragers. There was no correlation between ovarian width and the number of pollen foraging trips for individual females.
25085473|The effect of temperature on hatching, larval and pupal development time and mortality of the banded sunflower moth, Cochylis hospes Walsingham, in a controlled laboratory environment were examined. Estimates of the optimal temperature range for development, thershold temperature, thermal constant, and degree day heat accumulations needed for development were obtained. The optimal temperature tested was 28C based on the fastest development rate and lowest mortality. Temperatures in the 15-20C range were considered suboptimal because mortality was high, the fifth instar diapaused, head capsule size was smaller, and the development rate was slower than at warmer temperatures up to 32C. The latter temperature was near the upper end of the optimal developmental temperature range because development showed signs of a plateau and the humidity had to be raised from 45-50% to 80-90% to increase hatch and survival. Pre-diapause and post-diapause phases had different estimated threshold temperatures of 11.1  0.4C and 15.0  1.0C, respectively. Degree day (DD) accumulations or thermal constants for development of pre-diapause stages, post-diapausal development to the pupal stage and finally the pupal stage were 298.4  9.2, 403.3  14.0, and 128.7  1.3 DD, respectively. Overall, the DD requirement for development of diapause moths was 831.4 DD to develop from egg to adult. Non-diapause moths needed 546.2  21.4 DD for development from egg to adult. The data provides basic information on the biology of banded sunflower moths and have potential for the development of predictive models of the seasonal progress of this pest insect.
25085430|Emergence composition and temporal abundance of Chironomidae from Quebrada Prieta, a second-order, high-gradient mountain stream near El Verde in the Luquillo Experimental Forest of Puerto Rico, was determined by regular emergence trapping from February 1990 through January 1991. Thirty taxa were collected, with Chironomini being most species rich (11 taxa), followed by Orthocladiinae (9), Tanypodinae (6) and Tanytarsini (4). Chironomini also dominated numerically, comprising 49% of total emergence, followed by Tanypodinae (26%), Orthocladiinae (13%) and Tanytarsini (12%). Chironomini were proportionately most abundant during February (70% of monthly emergence), March (63%) and January (56%), and least abundant during August (27%), corresponding to months of minimum and maximum rainfall, respectively. This pattern is in contrast to the emergence pattern of Chironomini in mid-latitudes, where they are proportionately more abundant during summer months. Two species each of Xestochironomus and Stenochironomus, whose larvae are typically xylophagous, were the most common Chironomini (45% of total annual emergence), suggesting that woody debris is an important food basis for the stream Chironomidae. Cricotopus (grazing larvae) and Rheotanytarsus (filter-feeding larvae) constituted less than 5% and 0.1% of total emergence, respectively. Other common genera were Larsia, Labrundinia, Pentaneura, Limnophyes, Tanytarsus and Polypedilum. All taxa that were common displayed multiple emergence peaks or emerged continuously throughout the study period.
25086441|Between 2005 and 2007, 656 new country records and eight new state records were obtained for Nebraska's short-horned grasshoppers (Acrididae and Romaleidae). This represents an increase of 30% in the known grasshopper county records in Nebraska. Based on the large number of new distribution records, it appears that the previous distributions of Nebraska's grasshoppers greatly underestimated the actual distributions. The new grasshopper state records were: Boopedon gracile, Chloealtis abdominalis, Encoptolophus subgracilis, Melanoplus bispinosus, Melanoplus borealis, Melanoplus punctulatus, Paratylotropidia brunneri, and Psinidia fenestralis were obtained. These new records will aid in both grasshopper monitoring for pest outbreaks and in conservation of rare and declining species which are often habitat specialists associated with prairie ecosystems.
25085795|New approaches to control of greenbugs [Schizaphis graminum (Rondani)] include the use of transgenic plants. Several techniques are available for screening proteins and non-proteins potentially lethal to chewing and piercing-sucking insects for insertion into the host plant genome. A quick and easy technique was modified for use in screening dietary compounds with deleterious effects against aphids. Results obtained were consistent with those of other techniques; benzyl alcohol and tannic acid were strongly deterrent.
25084017|Ant colony populations were estimated from the reduction in catch in successive removal samples. Population estimates are given for 2 colonies of Lasius neoniger Emery, 3 colonies of Myrmica americana Weber, and 2 colonies of Pogonomyrmex occidentalis (Cresson), comparing the accuracy of 2 models. All colonies were excavated to compare the actual population with the estimated population. The models provided good estimates for both L. neoniger colonies but unsatisfactory estimates for some colonies of M. americana and both colonies of P. occidentalis.
25085184|Male Eumenes consobrinus court females by stroking their antennae during copulation.
25083686|Life history data and descriptions of the immature stages are given for Paroxyna albiceps (Loew), a common species of Tephritidae in northeastern North America. Species of Aster (Compositae) serving as larval hosts in northeastern Ohio between 1964 and 1966 were A. puniceus L., A. laevis L., A. novae-angliae L., A. praealtus Poir., and A. pilosus Willd. Infestations were heaviest on A. puniceus, lighter on the next three species, and lightest on A. pilosus. Up to 80% of the seeds produced by heavily infested plants were destroyed by the larvae. Adults were found in marshy habitats between mid-June and mid-September. Eggs were deposited among the disk florets of the flower heads during late August. Larvae began feeding on the maturing achenes during early September and generally completed development during early October. Formation of puparia usually took place in the soil beneath the host plants. Overwintering occurred as diapausing pupae, and there was only one generation a year. The pupal diapause was broken by holding the pupae at 5 to 7C for two or three months. Descriptions and illustrations are given for the egg, three larval instars, and puparium.
25086001|Between 1994 and 1999, more than 800,000 leaf-feeding beetles, Galerucella pusilla and G. calmariensis (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) were released in Iowa for biological control of purple loosestrife, Lythrum salicaria. The objective of these releases was to establish natural enemies to suppress populations of L. salicaria. Both Galerucella species have successfully overwintered and are increasing in abundance in Iowa.
25085111|Maize weevils, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky, were found in fallen acorns in Georgia. Weevils emerged from and reproduced in infested acorns kept in the laboratory. This suggests that fallen acorns in or near maize fields could provide a source of field infestation of maize, which is common in mild climates.
25083931|In the cockroach Shawella couloniana, it was found that females responded to sisters with greater agonistic intensity that they did to non-siblings, while males responded to brothers with less intensity than they did to non-siblings. These results suggest a mechanism for kin recognition, possibly individual odor. The data are explained in terms of mechanisms to maximize the classical and inclusive fitness of individuals.
25085917|This study describes mating behavior and sexual size dimorphism of two water striders, Ptilomera hylactor and Cylindrostethus costalis, in Nam Cat Tien National Park, Vietnam. Water strider mating systems can be classified as Type I or Type II. Type I mating systems begin with and end in struggles (somersaults and flips) between the mating pair. Type II mating systems involve male courtship and territoriality. P. hylactor appears to exhibit Type I mating behavior. Individuals of this species also form aggregates on the water surface and males perform the skating for the pair while mating. C. costalis exhibits some components of both Type I and Type II behavior. Female C. costalis are significantly larger than males, while P. hylactor shows no significant sexual size dimorphism. This is the first documentation of the mating systems of these two genera.
25084851|The laboratory life history of the stenodemine plant bug Trigonotylus coelestialium (Kirkaldy) is described. Eggs were deposited in the lower portion of grasses between the main stem and sheath attached to the underside of the sheath just below the ligule. The mean number of eggs deposited per group was 4.07 (1-13), mean number of eggs deposited per female was 14.76 (2-14), and mean number of eggs deposited per day was 3.17 (0.8-5.8). Mean nymphal development for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th stadia was 3.39, 3.32, 3.51, 3.97, and 4.85 days, respectively. A summary of the seasonal history and host plants in Missouri is presented.
25083719|The halictid bee Augochlora pura (Say) can be induced to nest in cellulose powder which is placed between two horizontal glass plates. Large numbers of nests can be maintained conveniently indoors if they are arranged in suitably converted shallow drawers of a cabinet.
25085832|Females of the subsocial burrower bug, Sehirus cinctus (Heteroptera: Cydnidae), terminate egg care after a predictable interval when eggs do not hatch. This study examined the influence of ambient temperature by presenting maternal females with immature stimulus eggs under various thermal regimes. Females housed in warmer temperatures terminated care earlier than females at cooler temperatures, suggesting that duration of care is associated with the rate of embryogenesis. The results of this study suggest that female S. cinctus use a temperature-regulated mechanism to determine the duration of maternal care, and provide the first evidence that subsocial behavior is influenced by thermal cues.
25082680|The following new synonymy is indicated (all are North American taxa except as indicated): Polistes rubiginosa Lepeletier, 1836 = Polistes carolina (Linnaeus), 1767; Eumenes belfragei Cresson, 1872 and Eumenes brunneus Isely, 1917 = Eumenes smithii ssp. americanus Saussure, 1852; Odynerus molestus Saussure, 1870, Odynerus turpis Saussure, 1870, and Odynerus manifestus Cresson, 1872 = Euodynerus boscii (Lepeletier), 1841; Odynerus fusus Cresson, 1872 = Euodynerus castigatus (Saussure), 1853; Odynerus blandinus Rohwer, 1917 = Euodynerus foraminatus ssp. scutellaris (Saussure), 1870; Odynerus birenimaculatus Saussure, 1853 = Ancistrocerus aucta (Fabricius), 1793, an Old World Species; Odynerus pertinax Saussure, 1855, Odynerus tigris Saussure, 1857, Odynerus cervus Saussure, 1858, Ancistrocerus howardi Cameron, 1909 and Ancistrocerus tenuatus Tucker, 1909 = Ancistrocerus adiabatus (Saussure), 1853; Ancistrocerus neocallosus Bequaert, 1943 = Ancistrocerus bustamente (Saussure), 1857; Odynerus floridanus Robertson, 1901 = Stenodynerus ammonia ssp. ammonia (Saussure), 1853; Odynerus fundatus Cresson, 1872 = Stenodynerus propinquus (Saussure), 1870; Odynerus lacunus Fox, 1894 = Parancistrocerus texensis (Saussure), 1870. New taxa are: Euodynerus auranus ssp. aquilus Bohart (eastern U.S. to Arizona and northern Mexico); Ancistrocerus lutonidus Bohart (eastern U.S. to Texas); Ancistrocerus lineativentris ssp. sinopis Bohart (upper Sonoran, s. Rocky Mts. to Mexico); and Stenodynerus histrionalis ssp. rufustus Bohart (Florida). The following names replace those that have been misapplied: Euodynerus crypticus (Say), 1823 = Euodynerus or Rygchium dorsale of authors, not Fabricius; Euodynerus auranus (Cameron), 1906 = Euodynerus or Rygchium boscii of authors, not Lepeletier; Stenodynerus histrionalis (Robertson), 1901 = Stenodynerus ammonia of authors, not Saussure.
25083493|Two Malaise traps were constructed to separate the catch into four directional components. Catches, when related to wind direction, confirmed that several groups of insects are wind-oriented in flight.
25082719|Neivamyrmex cornutus, n. sp. (Formicidae: Dorylinae) from Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, Mexico, collected 13 December 1947, by T. MacDougal is described from 35 worker ants. Illustrations include a profile of the whole ant, frontal view of head, anteroventral view of mandible and dorsal view of the petiole and postpetiole. The holotype is deposited in the American Museum of Natural History, New York, U. S. A.
25085573|Within the past decade, populations of the poplar twiggall fly, Hexomyza schineri (Giraud) (Diptera: Agromyzidae), have greatly increased along the Front Range of Colorado. The insect produces smooth, knot-like galls on the current year twigs of Populus spp., particularly aspen. These swellings continue to expand even after the insect emerges from the gall the following spring. The average length of galls produced in aspen was 12.91 mm with an average diameter of 8.48 mm. The average number of live H. schineri larvae and pupae was 1.4/gall. However, number of insects per gall was not correlated to gall size. Only one species of parasitoid wasp, Eurytoma contractura (Bugbee) (Hymenoptera: Eurytomidae), was reared from the galls and percent parasitism averaged 21.5 percent. Additionally, predation by chickadees, particularly of the pupal stage, was observed. A wide range of galling was observed in an established planting of nine aspen clones, suggesting that development of resistant cultivars may be a useful control approach. The color fluorescent green was most attractive to adult flies and could be used to monitor adult insects but was not sufficiently attractive to be used in trap out strategies.
25085735|The sweat bee Mexalictus (Georgealictus) eickworti n. sp. is described from specimens collected in the Mexican states of Hidalgo, Puebla and Chiapas. This species is closely related to M. polybioides Packer; however, it does not agree with the original description of Georgealictus, in that it possesses the metallic color on the face and lateral part of the propodeum. The male is unknown.
25085228|The vital dye acridine orange was useful as an internal marker of small Hymenoptera and Diptera. The dye internally labeled adults of all of the species examined. In addition, acridine orange labeled the eggs in the ovaries of some species. Subsequently, the eggs oviposited by acridine orange labeled females could be identified. The dye had no discernible effect on the longevity or behavior of females. This procedure could provide a powerful tool for ecological and behavioral studies where marked eggs are needed.
25083076|A new species of Corimelaena (Corimelaena) is described and illustrated, and compared to C. (C.) lateralis to which it is closely related.
40783186|Velvet ants are larval ectoparasitoids on a variety of insect taxa, and like many insects show sexual dimorphism in color patterns and size. For many mutillids, host size appears to be an important criterion in sex allocation. The criteria that female mutillids use when determining the sex of an egg are unclear and it is unknown how this size dependent sex allocation system is manifested. We conducted an experiment to test if size-based sex allocation in Sphaeropthalma pensylvanica is a product of host species specificity, differential mortality, or if it is facultatively size dependent. We show that male S. pensylvanica commonly develop in large host species, females in small host species, and both in intermediately sized host species, supporting facultative size-dependent sex allocation. We also report new observations on the natural history of five hosts of S. pensylvanica.
25084018|Four species of Chloronana, C. dariena n. sp. (Panama), C. incisura n. sp. (Venezuela), C. extenda n. sp. (Columbia), C. boliviella n. sp. (Bolivia) and one species of Reticana, R. similaris n. sp. (Brazil) are described.
25082381|Five new species of Scaphoideus are described: aduncus, bihamatus, and forceps from Texas, soleus from Ohio, and procerus from North Carolina.
25085016|Although host-plant resistance workers routinely use an applicator (bazooka) to infest maize plants with neonate larvae of maize stem borers mixed with maize cob grits, information is unavailable about the possible adverse effects of this technique on the larvae. Neonate larvae of the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), and the southwestern corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella Dyar, were mixed with raw or sterilized maize cob grits or received no treatment, and were then reared on an artificial diet for 12 days at 27C LD 16 hr:8 hr. The results showed that the treatments did not adversely affect the survival or growth of the larvae.
25085156|Estimates of parasitism in samples of the cabbage aphid, Brevicoryne brassicae (L.) by the braconid Diaeretiella rapae (McIntosh) in a field population in Massachusetts on collards were 2.3-4.3 times greater for "scattered" aphids than for aphids in colonies (defined as five or more aphids in physical contact). Laboratory and field experiments were performed to see if aphids separated from colonies were subject to higher rates of successful parasitoid attack, or if parasitized aphids were more likely to become separated from colonies because of increased rates of movement over the plant. Parasitism levels of "scattered" aphids on potted collard plants exposed for 3 days in a collard field were 2.3-3.2 times higher than parasitism levels for aphids in colonies on identical potted plants at the same location for the same period. In laboratory experiments, aphids in colonies subjected to parasitism showed more movement than controls at 1 hr and 4 days after parasitoid attack, but at 8 days after attack cumulative amounts of movement of aphids in colonies subject to parasitism and control colonies not subject to parasitism were equal. From these results we conclude that higher levels of parasitism in "scattered" cabbage aphids seen on field plants are likely the result of the combined effects of higher levels of successful parasite oviposition in aphids already outside of colonies and higher rates of movement of aphids away from colonies after colonies are attacked by parasitoids.
25084033|Camponotus pennsylvanicus showed a diel foraging periodicity during summer, but patterns changed monthly. Predictive models of foraging intensity were generated through multiple linear regression incorporating environmental parameters. Smaller workers guarded aphid colonies, while larger foragers worked on the ground and in trees. Carbohydrate content of the various worker groups varied greatly. Average carbohydrate content of an individual ant was 52 g for aphid guardians, 381 g for tree foragers, and 485 g for ground foragers. 13% of the forager force carried in excess of 1000 g of carbohydrate, and probably serve to transport collected honeydew to the nest. Mark-recapture experiments indicated a high degree of task fidelity for those workers guarding aphids (x = 86%) and those foraging on the ground (x = 78%).
25084261|Extensive evaluations were conducted in 558 homes located in Macy and Omaha, Nebraska to measure the effects of selected baits in sticky traps as a method of monitoring German cockroach [Blattella germanica (L.)] populations. A mean of 34 cockroaches was caught per trap per night during the course of this study. The following baits were tested: white bread, Mr. Sticky Chrysalis Poweder, Mr. Sticky Roach Bait, 'no bait', boiled raisins, potato, apple, dry dog food, German cockroach feces, German cockroach, dry yeast, banana, and Osage Orange (a suspected repellent). Cockroaches caught per trap per night were compared (minimum of 30 replications per bait) and statistically analyzed. White bread as bait attracted significantly (P = 0.10) more cockroaches to traps than did: 'no bait', dog food, cockroach feces, apple, yeast, and Mr. Sticky Chrysalis Powder. Osage Orange also attracted significantly (P = 0.10) more cockroaches than Mr. Sticky Chrysalis Powder. The results of this study indicated that white bread is the bait of choice when the Mr. Sticky trap is to be used to monitor German cockroach populations and insecticide treatment efficacy.
25085526|Adults of overwintered sunflower stem weevil, Cylindrocopturus adspersus (LeConte), emerged from sunflower stalks from the beginning of June to mid-July in North Dakota. Adult emergence was only 8.8 and 12.8% of the potential number of adults that could have emerged for the years 1990 and 1991, respectively. Burying infested sunflower stalks reduced the subsequent emergence of adults. Reduced emergence of weevils from buried stalks may be due to the inability of move from stalks to the soil surface. This study reveals that tillage that buries infested sunflower stalks can be an effective cultural control for subsequent generations of weevils. Burying infested sunflower stalks with at least 15 cm of soil reduces populations of emerging sunflower stem weevil adults the following season.
43288788|Abundances of Neohydatothrips catenatus (Hood) larvae and adults were determined on the native host-plant Pluchea sericea (Nuttall) Coville during 9 April11 November 2012 at Boulder City in southern Nevada. A total of 531 first instars, 191 second instars, and 53 adults were counted in 800 apical leaf-clusters, and 141 adults were collected in 16 Berlese samples of soil and leaf litter beneath plants. Sex ratios of adults were similar on and beneath plants and were female biased (1 male: 1.8 female). Abundances of N. catenatus were greatest on 10 May 2012, when a maximum 74% of leaf clusters were inhabited by larvae or adults, 13 d after the appearance of new leaf-clusters. Two peaks in abundances of first instars in leaf clusters and adult females beneath and on plants were observed during spring and summer and interpreted as complete generations with thrips developing through all life stages. A third peak in first instars in leaf clusters and adult females beneath plants was observed during late summer and fall and interpreted as an incomplete generation with adult thrips not migrating to leaf clusters. Two additional Berlese samples of soil and leaf litter during January 2013 produced two male and two female adults, suggesting low numbers of N. catenatus adults overwinter beneath plants. Ingestion of chlorophyll by larvae and adults in leaf clusters was evident from the green coloration inside their abdomens. Pluchea sericea appears to support abundant, multivoltine populations of the leaf-feeding N. catenatus.
25085194|Strains of stored-product insect pests collected on farms and at country elevators throughout Kansas in 1987 were screened for resistance to chlorpyrifos-methyl (CM), pirimiphos-methyl (PM) and malathion. Tribolium castaneum and Cryptolestes spp. were uniformly susceptible to both CM and PM, but all T. castaneum strains were strongly resistant to malathion. Of 22 strains of Oryzaephilus surinamensis tested, all but three were susceptible to CM, but only about one-third were susceptible to malathion. One of the CM-resistant strains was cross-resistant to PM. Of 18 strains of Rhyzopertha dominica tested, all but three were susceptible to CM. These resistant strains were not cross-resistant to PM. The implications for resistance development are discussed.
25481788|Diceroprocta apache Davis is a locally abundant cicada in the riparian woodlands of the southwestern United States. While its ecological importance has often been hypothesized, very little is known of its specific life history. This paper presents preliminary information on life history of D. apache from larvae collected in the field at seasonal intervals as well as a smaller number of reared specimens. Morphological development of the fore-femoral comb closely parallels growth through distinct size classes. The data indicate the presence of five larval instars in D. apache. Development times from greenhouse-reared specimens suggest a 3-4 year life span and overlapping broods were present in the field. Sex ratios among pre-emergent larvae suggest the asynchronous emergence of sexes.
20621965|The extinct polyneopterous order Caloneurodea Handlirsch, which includes more than 20 species, has been found in Eurasia and North America, and ranges from the Upper Carboniferous to the Upper Permian. North American records are most numerous from the Lower Permian Wellington Formation of Kansas and Oklahoma. The genus Ligogramma, provisionally assigned by Bthoux et al., 2004, to either Caloneurodea or Orthoptera, is herein redescribed and placed in the Caloneurodea, based on the discovery of a new species, Ligogramma wichita, described from a specimen collected from Noble County, Oklahoma. This brings the total number of Caloneurodea currently known from the Wellington Formation to eight species.
25082752|The biology of Perdita nula Ckll. is described in detail and compared with biologies of other known Perdita species. The parasitic halictine bee, Sphecodes Sphecodes sp. [(near fragariae Ckll.)], is associated with Perdita nuda, and its biology is described. Important findings include: (1) host and parasite larvae can remain in diapause for 35 months; (2) not all P. nuda larvae pupate during any particular year; (3) Sphecodes larvae mimic the host larvae in feeding and overwintering positions; (4) Sphecodes larvae diapause as predefecated forms. Also, movement of the Perdita egg during embryogenesis is explained. The larvae and pupae of P. nuda and Sphecodes sp. are described and compared with known forms. Species of known Perdita larvae are nearly indistinguishable, but those of Sphecodes spp. are easily separated. However, species of both taxa are distinguishable on the basis of pupal characteristics.
25085621|The swimming abilities of female, unencumbered male, and egg-bearing male water bugs, Belostoma flumineum Say (Hemiptera: Belostomatidae), were examined. While females and unencumbered males did not differ, both groups swam significantly faster than males encumbered with eggs. This differential performance represents a potentially large cost for male care in this species: slow-swimming males may suffer increased predation and decreased foraging success. Because encumbered males of another genus (Abedus) exhibit similar behavior, impaired swimming may represent a generalized physical constraint associated with male care in the Belostomatinae.
25084564|The bang-bang (all-or-nothing) reproductive strategy model for annual eusocial insect colonies, proposed by S. Macevicz, G. Oster, and E. O. Wilson, does not apply to temperate vespine wasps. Errors in transcription and interpretation invalidate these authors' use of previously published data on a generalized colony of Vespa orientalis. In contrast to their methodology of optimization modeling, a broad consideration of vespine reproductive biology is here employed to precisely define, then empirically determine the production schedules of representative species (Vespa orientalis, V. crabro, Dolichovespula maculata, D. arenaria, Vespula atropilosa, V. vulgaris). Rather than investing only in workers until one generation before season's end and then switching entirely to reproductive production, vespines actually begin producing reproductives prior to the midpoint of colony life, when the adult worker force is still increasing exponentially. There is thus an extensive overlap ("graded control") of worker and reproductive production, contrary to the prevailing conception of the latter as a brief, climactic, "explosive" event. Although it puts constraints on worker force size and therefore on reproductive output, an early switching time may nevertheless be highly adaptive for annual social wasp colonies to limit the risk of total loss. If this is the case, the relatively brief adult worker longevity of vespines may necessitate graded control to prolong what otherwise would be a correspondingly brief reproductive production period. In addition, worker oviposition in many vespine colonies makes the "colony optimum" approach of the bang-bang model inappropriate.
25082432|Alate fundatrigeniae of the aphid Pemphigus populitransversus showed a variety of emergence patterns from galls on the cottonwood Populus deltoides during the summer of 1964. Nine characters of alates emerging during the summer showed a seasonal trend (increase in size for 4 out of 5 galls, a decrease in the fifth). Since the alates emerging from one gall are identical twins, the possible mechanisms determining these changes must be environmental or physiological in origin. Such seasonal morphometric trends must be allowed for in the analysis of geographic variation patterns based on non-synchronously collected samples.
25086374|A new species of the cleptoparasitic bee genus Chiasmognathus Engel (Nomadinae: Ammobatini), a lineage of minute Anthophila victimizing Nomioides Schenck (Halictidae: Halictinae: Nomioidini), is described and figured from Sindh Province, Pakistan. Chiasmognathus pashupati Engel, new species, is distinguished from previously described congeners and is a cleptoparasite of Nomioides patruelis Cockerell.
25085506|Osmia ribifloris biedermannii Michener and Megachile rotundata (Fabr.) were introduced into the Maine lowbush blueberry agroecosystem. We studied their biology and behavior in relation to weather and the availability of alternate forage plants to determine if they have potential as pollinators of lowbush blueberry, Vaccinium spp. In 1991 O. ribifloris foraged at temperatures ranging from 10-23C, in winds up to 24.1 km/hr, and light intensities lower than 4
25085095|The effects of temperature on the development of the egg parasitoid, Anastatus semiflavidus Gahan (Eupelmidae, Hymenoptera), and its host the range caterpillar, Hemileuca oliviae Cockerell (Saturniidae, Lepidoptera), were examined. The egg of H. oliviae had a lower developmental threshold (t = 12.9C) and thermal constant (K = 297.0 dayC) than the egg parasitoid (t = 15.0C, K = 345.0 dayC). The developmental rate of the egg of H. oliviae peaked at 25C, slowed at 30C and no larvae emerged at 35C. The egg parasitoid developed faster at 30C than did the egg of H. oliviae, and parasitoid developmental rate continued to increase even at 35C. Anastatus semiflavidus appeared better adapted to high temperatures than did H. oliviae.
25085323|Based on 209 excavations of prairie ant (Formica montana Emery) nests we found that colonies are often, but not always, polygynous. Queens lay eggs in a communal chamber starting in May, with two separate flushes in worker production over a season, but only one in alate production. Alate females are feeble flyers at best and mate on or near the natal nest. The common dispersal route of new queens is by walking to newly formed "worker" nests. Males are highly attracted to females. Mound location mapping in nine separate plots revealed that each population of colonies is significantly aggregated; still, a negative correlation between nest number and neighbor distance as well as between nest number and mound volume exists. Food location (honeydew) and intraspecific competition, in addition to dispersal behavior, account for the observed nest spacing. Homopteran honeydew is solicited by prairie ants throughout a season, however, its location shifts as the plant phenologies influence the timing and duration of Homoptera residence.
25085086|Paracymus fuscatus and P. inconditus are described from Ecuador and the male genitalia are figured.
25084785|Lignyodes bischoffi (Blatchley), a weevil that severely damages ash (Fraxinus spp.) seed in the northern Great Plains, was found in seed capsules of lilac (Syringae spp.) collected in a seed production area in North Dakota. Adults emerged during July and early August and laid their eggs in the seed during August. Larvae fed on the endosperm within the seeds for 21  1.1 days, left the seeds during September and overwintered in the soil. Pupation occurred in the soil the following spring.
25084367|Males of six species of Polistes (subgenus Fuscopolistes) are similar in the presence and distribution of sternal glands. The sternal glands comprise ducted gland cells and hypertrophied epidermal cells. The ducted gland cells form a dense mat, one cell layer thick, on the posterior portion of each of gastral sternites 3 to 6, while those on the posterior portion of the seventh gastral (terminal) sternite form large masses, up to 8 cells thick. The ducted cells on all sternites open to the cuticular surface among scattered body hairs (setae). In addition, those on the seventh sternite open among large, posteriorly curved setae.
25085599|Greenhouse and field experiments were conducted to determine whether host-plant species affects the ability of a generalist predator to reduce populations of the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko). Aphid colonies were allowed to develop on six species of cool-season grasses for 10 days, after which half of the plants received five neonate larvae of the common green lacewing, Chrysoperla carnea (Stephens). Lacewing larvae substantially reduced aphid density on both grass seedlings (in the greenhouse) and mature plants (in the field). The level of control varied among grass species, however. Aphid populations were reduced to zero or near zero on two slender-leaved grasses (Indian ricegrass and bluebunch wheatgrass), but were maintained at moderate densities on a pubescent cultivar of intermediate wheatgrass. Mechanisms underlying this tri-trophic interaction are unknown, but plant morphology may play an important role because of the "leaf-galling" habit of D. noxia.
25083799|The lesser mealworm, Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer), was reared on ground wheat at constant temperatures of 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, and 100F ( 2F). From 8 to 11 larval instars were found, depending partly on temperature. The optimum temperature for development from egg to adult appeared to be 90F, with a mean developmental time of 45.6  0.65 days. Most stages developed slightly faster at 100F, but mortality was usually higher. There was no oviposition at 50F, and no larvae survived beyond the first instar at this temperature. More larvae were produced in cultures of adults when the rearing medium was held at 90F and approximately 15% moisture than at any other combination of temperature and moisture. A sex ratio of 1: 2.25, males to females, was obtained in laboratory rearing. Adults of both sexes were found to possess a pair of fleshy scent glands which produced a secretion causing sexual excitement among adult mealworms.
25082424|A new species, Agallia pumila, is described from Oregon Caves, Oregon, and the quadripunctata group of the leafhopper genus Agallia defined. The relationship of pumila and quadripunctata is discussed.
25084433|In laboratory tests, nymphal and adult male and female Nabis roseipennis (Reuter) were fed nymphal and adult potato leafhoppers and predation rates were determined. Late spring and summer populations of damsel bugs (Hemiptera: Nabidae) and the potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris), were monitored in spring-planted alfalfa near Belleville, Illinois. Four species of nabids were collected: N. roseipennis, Reduviolus americoferus (Carayon), Reduviolus alternatus Parshley, and Tropiconabis capsiformis (Germar). The peak population density of these damsel bugs coincided with the peak density of the potato leafhopper.
25083033|Winter survival studies were conducted with the adult green cloverworm, Plathypena scabra (F.), during the winters of 1974-75 and 1975-76. Cages containing field-collected adults were partly buried in wooded areas and covered with forest litter. The risk of predation of overwintering adults by arthropods, insectivores, and rodents was high. Natural mortality increased throughout the winter, resulting in all moths being dead by mid-December to early January. Adults were collected in large numbers during the fall of 1974 and 1975. The dissection of blacklight-collected females revealed that all were unmated. Adults reappeared in small numbers late in the spring. The percentage of the spring collected females mated was ca. 96%.
25085460|Nuptial flights of the western harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex occidentalis Cresson, were observed over five consecutive years at asite in the shrub-steppe of south-western Wyoming and their seasonal timing related to local precipitation patterns. All flights followed within 1-2 days of a rain. Nest soil temperature following a rain may be the proximate cue that determines daily flight timing. We relate the timing and frequency of mating activity observed in our study with those observed for Pogonomyrmex species in other environments.
25085893|A survey of the Sarcophagidae in three cattle feedlots near Lethbridge, Alberta, was conducted between May and October of 1997. A total of 2023 specimens representing 24 species were recorded in the genera Agria, Blaesoxipha, Boettcheria, Macronychia, Metopia, Phrosinella, Ravinia, Sarcophaga, Senotainia and Wohlfahrtia. Most of these species are parasitic or predaceous on other insects in rangeland habitats, but species of Ravinia are typically dung-inhabiting and accounted for 1292 (64%) of the Sarcophagidae collected. Five species of Ravinia were recorded: R. acerba (Walker), R. anxia (Walker) (=R. lherminieri of most authors), R. planifrons (Aldrich), R. querula (Walker) and R. stimulans (Walker). Larvae of Ravinia species are facultatively predaceous on immatures of pestiferous flies; the populations of these and other beneficial insects in cattle feedlots should be taken into consideration when planning control measures against resident pest flies.
25082446|The vasa deferentia, formed as posterior continuations of the primordia of the testes, have an entirely mesodermal origin and the paired mesadenia arise as tubular evaginations from their ampullar extremities. Each of the phallic lobes, developed from the ninth sternum in the anterior part of the primary genital invagination, divides rather obliquely into an outer 'paramere' lobe forming the 'paramere' and an inner 'mesomere' lobe. The fusion of the mesomere lobes of the opposite sides results in the formation of two concentric hypodermal tubes, the outer of which is differentiated into the phallobase and conjunctiva, while the inner one forms the vesica. The rudiment of the ejaculatory duct is derived from a tubular invagination arising from between the bases of the mesomere lobes.
25082491|Oviposition of boll weevils, Anthonomus grandis Boheman, fed standard adult diet plugs and maintained at a temperature of 31.10.9 C and an RH of 555% with 20 hr of light and 4 hr of darkness was measured for two 36-week periods. The data from the 2 periods did not agree, but they did indicate a seasonal fluctuation on weevil oviposition though the magnitude of this effect could not be determined.
25083624|About two-thirds of the nests of the neotropical bees Pseudaugochloropsis costaricensis, P. graminea, and P. nigerrima are small and inhabited by lone females which construct and provision from one to six brood cells, then stop nesting activities, but remain in the nests until about the time of emergence of the offspring. The mothers probably die at this time. Some of the nests are subsequently enlarged by colonies which may consist of up to seven adult females. These individuals seemingly work cooperatively since only one cell is constructed or provisioned at any one time; it is sealed before the next is started. The colony shows no sign of matrifilial organization, all individuals being more or less similarly worn; probably they are sisters forming a semisocial group. The females in a colony are commonly divisible into egg-layers and workers, the latter having slender ovaries, empty spermathecae, and a slightly smaller mean size than the egg layers. Certain unmated individuals, however, have enlarged ovaries like those of mated egg-layers and seemingly lay eggs. Up to about half the females in a colony may be egg-layers, at least in P. costaricensis; perhaps in the other species there is usually only one. Males are produced in smaller numbers than females and leave the nest soon after maturity. Nests are in banks of soil and consist of a main burrow leading to a large chamber, and sometimes beyond as a blind burrow. In the chamber the bees construct a cluster of earthen cells, supported by pillars or by rootlets. Cells are added distally (away from the entrance) as the chamber is enlarged. Large clusters in nests occupied by colonies may contain between 60 and 70 cells. Cells may be relined and reused, or filled with earth and new cells made without regard to the old cell walls. The small nests are strikingly similar to those of Neocorynura, another neotropical halictine genus. Nests of P. costaricensis differ in a number of features from those of P. graminea and P. nigerrima which are relatively similar; this relationship corresponds to differences in structure among the three species, P. costaricensis being quite distinctive, the other two species are similar to one another.
25085260|A new genus and species, Cocrassana riepmai, of Cicadellidae related to Crassana is described from Tripsacum and Zea spp. in Jalisco, Mexico. A female specimen from San Luis Potosi has also been identified. Available ecological information is discussed.
25085400|Two new species of Acinopterus, A. centralis n. sp. from Costa Rica and Nicaragua and A. godoyae n. sp. from Costa Rica, are described, illustrated and compared with the only known congeneric species from Central America, A. angulatus Lawson.
25078467|The 5 nymphal instars of Pselliopus cinctus (Fab.) and P. barberi Davis (Reduviidae) are described and illustrated. Both species have 1 generation a year and overwinter as adults. P. cinctus averaged 13.9 days for egg development and 63.0 days for nymphal development. P. barberi averaged 11.3 days for egg development and 74.8 days for nymphal development. Xanthomelanodes arcuatus (Say) (Tachinidae) was recorded as a parasite of a P. barberi male. Pselliopus cinctus was observed to prey upon Stictocephala lutea (Walker) (Membracidae) in the field; also, P. barberi preyed upon Lygus sp. (Miridae) and Molorchus bimaculatus Say (Cerambycidae).
25083069|A sequential sampling plan enabling rapid treatment decisions for the larva of a midge, Contarinia texana (Felt), infesting flower buds of guar, Cyamposis tetragonoloba (L.) Taub., is presented. When compared with a fixed point sample of 100 buds, treatment decisions with the sequential plan can be made in 69% less time, and usually after sampling only 26 buds.
25083720|A nest of the nocturnal bee Megalopta centralis Friese is described from a nearly vertical, 22 mm-diameter dead stick along a road through primary lowland tropical wet forest. The cell substrate is wood fragmented by the bee; a single male was reared from a pupa in the nest. Solanum spp. and Calathea insignis are recorded as flower hosts of Megalopta.
25085376|A scelionid wasp, Eumicrosoma beneficum Gahan, was reared from chinch bug, Blissus leucopterus leucopterus (Say), eggs collected from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) near Odell, Nebraska, in June 1989. Three-hundred twenty-one of 680 chinch bug eggs (47.2%) were parasitized by E. beneficum. Based on a subsample of 92 wasps the population was 64.1% female. This is the first report of this wasp from Nebraska.
25084771|Second and third instar larvae and pupae of Eutreta angusta Banks and E. diana (Osten Sacken) are described and illustrated.
25083031|A Baculovirus, Subgroup A (nuclear polyhedrosis virus) was isolated from the pepper-and-salt moth, Amphidasis cognataria. Polyhedra averaged 2.7  in dia. Both multicapsid and unicapsid virions were occluded within polyhedra. Sixty-three percent of the virions were the multicapsid type and, therefore, this virus should be designated as polytypic: multiply embedded (P: M63) and represents the first documented record of a Baculovirus from A. cognataria.
25082687|Neaplax mexicana is described as a new genus and species of Oxycareninae from Mexico. The genus is more closely related to Palearctic genera than to Nearctic. A general summary is given of the distribution of the subfamily. Eight figures are included that illustrate the dorsal surface, metathoracic scent gland auricle, parameres, genital capsule and abdomen.
25085638|Collections of chironomid pupal exuviae from 25 springs, springbrooks, and spring-fed streams in the central High Plains Region of the United States were analyzed to determine taxonomic similarity and emergence patterns among springs. One hundred thirteen species in 70 genera and eight subfamilies/tribes were collected. Orthocladiinae was most species rich (54 taxa) and abundant (55%), followed by Tanytarsini (23, 21%), Chironomini (17, 8%), Tanypodinae (13, 6%), Diamesinae (2, 7%), Pseudochironomini (1, 4%), Prodiamesinae (2, 0.1%), and Podonominae (1, 0.04%). Emergence species richness was low to moderate and species diversity was low for individual springs when compared to richness and diversity of chironomids in streams of Kansas. Among the variables measured in this study, spring type appears to influence species composition the greatest, with Orthocladiinae constituting a greater proportion of total taxa in rheocrene type springs and Chironominae being more abundant in limnocrene springs and springs that are artificially altered into pool-like habitats. Species of Diamesinae, which often dominate streams at higher altitudes and latitudes and which are expected to occur near cold springs at lower altitudes and latitudes, were collected in greater numbers in larger spring-fed streams than in springs or small spring-runs, suggesting that discharge of groundwater into streams acts to shift community structure of Chironomidae toward that expected of a spring source habitat. Our results indicate that emergence of Chironomidae from springs in the High Plains is strongly influenced by the physical structure of the habitat, which in turn is a function of local geologic relief or artificial alteration.
25082462|Limited experiments with Neodiprion taedae linearis Ross indicated that photoperiod is an important factor in the induction of diapause. N. taedae linearis is a "short-day" species. Continuous development occurred when larvae were reared at LD 8:16 and 10:14, with a low percentage continuing activity under LD 12:12. The critical period for continuous development was between the 10 and 12 hour photofractions. Larvae reared to the sixth instar under LD 10:14 at 25.5 C were induced into diapause by exposure to LD 16:8 at 21.1 C.
25084636|Three new species of Hydroptila, H. lagoi, H. chelops, and H. patriciae, and a new Neotrichia, N. mobilensis, from Alabama are described and illustrated.
25084191|Sampling of the Colorado Scaphandrena of the scurra group indicated that at least some, and possibly the majority exist as discrete, varied, but internally uniform populations of too many kinds to name in standard binomial fashion. It is concluded that Ribble's theory of the hybrid origin of these populations is essentially correct. A populations with tarsal claw structure intermediate between the toothed claw of Andrena scurra and the simple claw of A. arabis is described.
25084144|The genus Limnichoderus is recharacterized. Eight species are redescribed, lectotypes are designated for ten species, five are placed in synonymy, and thirteen new species are decribed. The new species are Limnichoderus barberi, L. modicus, L. fragosus, L. cupidus, L. amoenus, L. magnus, L. angustus, L. conspectus, L. similis, L. durus, L. plenus, L. moratus and L. insularis. A key to separate all known species is provided.
25084368|Metribuzin was applied to dormant alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) in March of 1980, 1981 and 1982. In all years there were significantly more larval alfalfa weevils, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in the herbicide-treated plots than in the untreated plots. In 1981, the untreated plots contained significantly more alfalfa weevil eggs than the treated plots, indicating that the difference in numbers of larvae was not the result of preferential oviposition in the treated plots. Possible sources of the differential egg or larval mortality between treated and untreated plots are discussed.
25082490|There are two cell types in the epithelium of the larval midgut of Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), a dark cell type and a light cell type. All of the epithelial cells of the midgut have many microvilli on their mesal surfaces and on portions of the intercellular surfaces. It is estimated that the microvilli increase the absorptive surface area of the epithelial cells by 81 fold. The epithelial cells contain very large numbers of ribosomes on endoplasmic reticulum. They also contain large numbers of mitochondria. The cell walls are double-membraned. Cells that are very close together have septate desmosomes between them.
25082755|Metapolybia sp. A in Costa Rica commonly nests on buildings and on tree trunks, where it shows a preference for the underside if the trunk leans. Nests on a building were larger than those on trees and included a higher proportion of active colonies, suggesting a shorter average life and higher rate of turnover of colonies on trees.
25084632|The taxonomic history and biology of Cicindela politula LeConte are reviewed. A key to the subspecies is presented. C. alleni Cazier and C. alleniana Mandl are recalled from synonymy under C. p. laetipennis W. Horn and newly synonymized under the nominate subspecies. New collecting data are presented for subspecies politula, laetipennis and barbaraannae. C. p. petrophila, n. ssp. from the Guadalupe Mountains of western Texas is described and figured.
25084675|Nest structure and temporal pattern of emergence of bees are described from a single nest of Euglossa turbinifex Dressler (Hymenoptera: Apidae: Bombinae: Euglossini) from the Atlantic watershed region (lowland tropical rain forest) of Costa Rica. The arboreal nest was "top-shaped" and attached to the underside of a mature leaf on a cacao tree heavily shaded by a large Erythrina (Leguminosae). Apparently no bees had yet emerged from the nest when it was discovered. Subsequently, a total of eight bees, five females and three males, emerged at irregular intervals, usually between 0700 and 0800 hours, over a 38-day period. Judging from what little data there are on the developmental time of Euglossa from other studies, this nest was probably completed near the middle of the rainy season, as bee emergences took place near the end of this season (under laboratory conditions). The nest was opened and eight cells, arranged in two orderly rows of four each, were suspended by a thick petiole from the posterior wall of the resinous nest envelope. This perfect match between numbers of cells and emerging bees, and the absence of older cells and bee carcasses, indicates a solitary life cycle for this species. With one exception, all bees emerged from a round emergence hole near the apex of the frontal wall of the nest, and in one instance the nest was re-sealed between emergences.
25085203|Occurrence and relative abundance of adult Papaipema species were determined by blacklight trapping from 1982 through 1987 in Iowa. Three species of Papaipema are reported for the first time from Iowa: P. baptisiae (Bird), P. impecuniosa (Grote), and P. maritima Bird. These new reports give a total of 19 species known from the state. Species lists were compared from collections in Iowa and Missouri. From these lists, 19 species were collected only in Iowa, 20 species were collected only in Missouri, and 13 were common to both states. Papaipema nebris (Guenee) was the most abundant species (95.3% of all Papaipema moths collected). Because many Papaipema species have restricted host plant requirements, observed differences in species occurrence and abundance probably reflect differences in habitat availability.
25082738|Melitoma taurea in Missouri sometimes nests sparsely and on a slope so that the chimneys at the nest entrances lie on the ground instead of projecting from it, as they do in the better known dense aggregations in vertical banks. Nests of the Melitoma resemble those described previously for this species as well as M. segmentaria. Some of the Melitoma burrows were occupied by nests of Paranthidium jugatorium; nests of Paranthidium proper have not previously been described. The cells consist of resin linings; loose pebbles are used to fill empty spaces but pebbles are not often incorporated into the resin. Feces shape the space for the cocoon, which has a nipple at the anterior end as in most Anthidiini. Both the Melitoma and the Paranthidium populations in mid August consisted of adults and young immature stages and some prepupae that appeared to have overwintered. These prepupae would either metamorphose late in the summer or more likely pass a second winter before emerging. Dasymutilla asopus bexat (Mutillidae) is a parasite of the Paranthidium.
25084359|Adults of the American aspen beetle, Gonioctena americana (Schaeffer), a viviparous chrysomelid, emerge in spring after the minimum temperature of the forest floor litter surpasses 8C. In the Sherman Mountains, SE of Laramie, WY, at an elevation of 2498 m, this usually occurs about June 1st. Larviposition occurs 3-5 days later; the larvae develop through 3 instars, in 18 days, on the leaves of aspen (Populus tremuloides Michx.). The pupal period, which occurs in the litter, lasts 15-18 days. Only one generation per year is produced; a few new adults may appear briefly in the canopy but do not feed.
25086176|More than 200 soil-surface and in-ground termite-monitoring devices were established across Oklahoma to collect termites. Termites were also collected from tree stumps and wooden buildings. Four species of Reticulitermes (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae), R. flavipes, R. virginicus, R. tibialis, and R. hageni were recovered. From previous records, Gnathamitermes tubiformans (Buckley) is also indigenous to Oklahoma. Based on previous records, non-subterranean species including the dampwood termites Zootermopsis angusticollis (Hagen) and Zootermopsis nevadensis (Hagen), and the drywood termites Cryptotermes brevis (Walker) and Incisitermes minor (Hagen), are occasionally reported in lumber and furniture shipped to Oklahoma from California and Oregon, or from Gulf coast states. Known distributions of R. virginicus and G. tubiformans are extended. Reproductive flights of subterranean termites in Oklahoma peak from mid-March to mid-May. Observations of relative foraging densities across the state are also reported.
25084400|A sampling tool for obtaining absolute population estimates of above-ground arthropods in row crops was developed and used to sample Mexican bean beetle, Epilachna varivestis Mulsant (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) in soybeans. The sampling tool has the following advantages: no presampling disturbance, minimal disturbance during sampling, large area per sample and short time requirement for taking each sample.
25084911|Food withdrawal or Hydroprene (JHA) treatment of adult Leptocoris coimbatorensis leads to ovarian aberrations and changes in the corpus allatum (CA) volume. Yolk deposition was initiated, however in 80% of the cases there was oocyte resorption. Our results show that starvation or juvenoid (Hydroprene) treatment reduces the volume of the corpus allatum, and presumably its secretory activity, which probably accounts for resorption of the oocytes.
25082802|The terminology of the chaetotaxy of the upper back of the head of Diptera Schizophora is reviewed, and the terms 'postvertical' and 'inner occipital' are considered misleading. It is proposed to replace these terms by 'postocellar' and 'paravertical,' respectively, the latter a new term. Terms for other bristles in this area are also redefined.
25084730|The apparent mimicry of a cuckoo bumble bee (Psithyrus ashtoni) by a carrion beetle (Necrophila americana) is described. Other published observations of bumble bee mimicry by silphid beetles are examined. Based on these examples, we suggest that some carrion beetles are distasteful Mllerian mimics of bumble bees and cuckoo bumble bees, and that the presence and extent of mimicry has been favored by similarities in size, diurnal flying habits, and resource searching ecologies.
25086040|Using strobe-lit video, jumping cat fleas, Ctenocephalides felis (Bouch), were observed tumbling, splaying their limbs, and landing in various orientations. Speeds averaged 3.6 m/sec, and ranged between 1.62 and 5.76 m/sec, 4 times faster than other fleas, Spilopsyllus cuniculi (Dale) and Xenopsylla cheopis (Rothschild). Average acceleration was -8.1
25085486|Botocudo diluticornis (Stal), the type species of Botocudo, is described: records are given from Brazil and its relationships are discussed. Relationships within the genus and its general distribution are considered. Botocudo neomodesta, a brachypterous new species, is described and figured from Mexico. Paurocoris punctatus (Distant) is reported from Tennessee, the second record of the species from the United States.
25083366|A study of the oviposition behavior and life cycle of Anthrax limatulus fur (O. S.) is reported and the egg and first, second and third instar larvae are described. The pupae of A. limatulus limatulus Say, A. nidicola Cole, A. albofasciatus albofasciatus Macq., and A. trimaculatus Macq. are described and figured, and a key is provided for their separation. Notes on the biologies of the other subspecies of A. limatulus are included.
25085770|There has been an effort over the last decade to enhance the effectiveness of wild-type baculoviruses using genetic engineering. Wild-type viruses are extremely sensitive to sunlight-ultraviolet, but, what about engineered, recombinant baculoviruses? We found that insertion of a foreign gene did not result in recombinant baculoviruses being more or less sensitive to simulated sunlight-UV than a parental wild-type baculovirus. The half-life of activity for all recombinants and the wild-type parental isolate we tested was within that previously reported for other baculoviruses.
41353888|A new species of Heriades Spinola, H. tayrona, is described and figured based on females collected in a tropical dry forest of the Caribbean coast of Colombia. This is the first record of the genus and the tribe Osmiini for South America.
25085514|Numerous Bombus hypnorum workers collected honeydew from aphids, Cinara cembrae, on Pinus pumila 15 km southwest of the Aborigen Field Station (6150N, 14920W) in the Russian Far East in July, 1992. Five other species of bumble bees foraged on flowers in the immediate vicinity but did not collect aphid honeydew. Aphids were on P. pumila only at the driest site P. pumila grew in the area.
25085631|North-central Florida is dominated by a karst geology which gives rise to numerous springs and spring-influenced streams. These systems are fed by a regional aquifer system; the Floridan Aquifer. The periphyton communities of spring-influenced stream systems, such as the lower Suwannee and lower Santa Fe rivers, are characterized by an algal community typically dominated by diatoms (comprising 73% of the taxa list). Beds of submergent aquatic vegetation (SAV) are common in spring-influenced stream systems, dominated by macroalgae (primarily Chara spp.) and vascular plants (Sagittaria kurziana, Vallisneria americana, and others). Benthic invertebrate communities are dominated by chironomids, Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera on woody substrata (as suggested by data from Hester-Dendy samplers), with gastropod molluscs and crustaceans (primarily the amphipod Hyalella azteca) occasionally being relatively abundant. Sandy substrata are dominated by chironomids, gastropod and bivalve molluscs and oligochaetes. Our data indicate that a more species rich community is associated with hard substrata (such as wood and limestone shoals) than with soft-bottom communities. Epiphytic invertebrate communities on SAV are dominated by chironomids and ephemeropterans. Spring influence is a major structuring force in stream systems in north-central Florida. Increases in benthic invertebrate species richness and a higher proportion of diatoms in the periphyton community are associated with spring input. Two critical management issues regarding the springs and spring fed streams in the region are the allocation of groundwater from the Floridan Aquifer for human consumptive uses versus spring and stream ecosystem needs and prevention of groundwater contamination from overlying land uses.
25083449|Successive stages of spermatogenesis in Leucophaea maderae (F.) can be correlated with nymphal growth stages. Effects of experimental procedures (allatectomy, etc.) on spermatogenesis can thus be observed without an additional preliminary operation. This saves time, reduces post-operative mortality, and makes possible the use of both testes for assessing the effects of the experiment.
25084616|The predominantly anemophilous, functionally dioecious maple, Acer rubrum, blooms before most vernal plants in its habitat. The masses of conspicuous, fragrant flowers provide abundant nectar and pollen for species of Tenthredinidae, Braconidae, Colletidae, Andrenidae, Halictidae, Megachilidae, Apidae, Vespidae, Calliphoridae, Scatophagidae, Syrphidae, Tachinidae, and Coccinellidae, some of which effectively cross-pollinate. Red maple may be an overlooked resource for the rapid recovery of weak colonies of overwintered honey bees.
25082726|Three new species are described, Xenocoelidia spinella n. sp. from Peru, Coelidiana plaga n. sp. from Panama, and Neocoelidiana chlorata n. sp. from Panama.
25085947|New Mexican species Panorpa gladiata (from Oaxaca), P. apiculata (Michoacan), P. tribulosa (Puebla) and Bittacus whartoni (Oaxaca) are described and illustrated. The genus Nannobittacus is recorded from Mexico for the first time.
25083423|Philanthus bicinctus (Mickel) nests in aggregations and provisions its nest primarily with Bombus spp. The activity of female P. bicinctus was divided into three major categories of digging, feeding, and provisioning. Nesting and hunting behavior are described. The distribution of the eight species of Bombus in a sample taken as prey by Philanthus and in a sample collected in a clover patch was significantly (P = 0.02) different. There also were significant differences for the distribution of males of 4 species of Bombus in the two samples. The distribution of B. bifarius with red hairs on the abdomen in the categories of prey, field, and avoid was not independent (P < 0.001). The distribution of wing wear in the same categories departed from independence for B. bifarius (P < 0.001) and B. occidentalis (0.01 > P > 0.001). These distributions indicate some kind of prey selection by the female P. bicinctus, but the mechanism is unknown.
25082753|Heterocampa manteo (Doubleday) secretes formic acid that causes vesications and dermal lesions in man.
25082625|The description and operation of an automated system for detection of ingested dyes in labeling studies for Imported Fire Ants are given.
25082569|This paper is the second in a series of four that will treat the 85 confirmed and 16 probably occurring species of Membracidae in Missouri. The tribes Acutalini, Ceresini, and Polyglyptini of the subfamily Smilinae are presented. The 28 species treated in part II are Acutalis tartarea (Say), Micrutalis calva (Say), Spissistilus borealis (Fairmaire), S. festinus (Say), Stictocephala albescens (Van Duzee), S. basalis (Walker), S. brevicornis (Fitch), S. brevis (Walker), S. brevitylus (Van Duzee), S. bubalus (Fab.), S. constans (Walker), S. diceros (Say), S. lutea (Walker), S. palmeri (Van Duzee), S. taurina (Fitch), S. tauriniformis Caldwell, Stictolobus lateralis Funkhouser, S. subulatus (Say), S. trilineatus Funkhouser, Tortistilus curvatus (Caldwell), T. inermis (Fab.), T. minutus Caldwell, Entylia bactriana Germar, Publilia concava (Say), P. modesta Uhler, P. reticulata Van Duzee, Vanduzeea arquata (Say), and V. triguttata (Burmeister). Subfamily, generic, and specific keys are provided. Illustrations, a description, distribution, host plant records, and biological notes are given for each species treated.
25084994|The previously unknown reproductive female (gyne) of the harvester ant, Pogonomyrmex texanus Francke and Merickel, is described and illustrated with scanning electron micrographs.
41262858|Recent evidence suggests that declines in bumblebee diversity have occurred on several continents. Assessments of regional faunas are critically needed in the United States to ascertain potential conservation needs. Over the course of seven years I conducted bumblebee surveys on the majority of Arkansas's native grassland remnants. The presence of seven of the eight bumblebee species previously recorded from the state was reconfirmed. Bombus variabilis was the only species not observed. Bombus bimaculatus, B. griseocollis, and B. pensylvanicus were the most frequently encountered bumblebee species. Bombus fervidus was rediscovered in the state after 90 years. Potential localized extirpations for B. auricomus, B. fraternus, and B. impatiens merit additional examination. The data generated represents a site-specific baseline for future assessments of species persistence in the state's remaining native grasslands.
25082448|A study of the biologies of 7 species of stink bugs included field observations, laboratory life histories, and parasites. The species were Coenus delius (Say), Holcostethus limbolarius (Stl), Chlorochroa persimilis Horvath, Thyanta calceata (Say), Thyanta custator (Fab.), Mormidea lugens (Fab.), and Neottiglossa cavifrons Stl. New parasite records were obtained from 5 of the 7 species. The tachinid parasites were: Cylindromyia dosiades lobata from M. lugens, Cylindromyia fumipennis from H. limbolarius and T. custator, Euclytia flava from C. persimilis and T. custator, Gymnoclytia occidua from T. calceata and T. custator, Gymnosoma fuliginosum from C. persimilis and H. limbolarius, and Gymnosoma occidentale from H. limbolarius. One scelionid parasite, Telenomus podisi, was obtained from the eggs of T. custator.
25086153|The nesting biology and social behavior are described for Augochlora (Augochlora) isthmii Schwarz at the species' type locality (Barro Colorado Island, Republic of Panam). Bees nested in a fallen log with wood that was still solid. Nests of A. isthmii sometimes contained more than one female, suggesting some form of social behavior, while other females nested alone. Pollen taken from nest cells was almost exclusively (>95%) from a single species of Rubiaceae (nr. Warscewiczia coccinea) that is rare on BCI. An occupied nest of a second, related species (A. alexanderi Engel, new species) was discovered in a tree branch in southern Colombia, supporting the conclusion that females of the repandirostris species-group regularly use wood as a nesting substratum. We provide the first taxonomic descriptions of the male of A. isthmii and both sexes of A. alexanderi; we also redescribe the female of A. isthmii. The evolution of social behavior in the "Augochlora group" is briefly considered in light of available information.
25085264|Four perennial, glandular-haired Medicago spp. strains and four alfalfa (M. sativa L.) cultivars were sampled for potato leafhopper (PLH), Empoasca fabae (Harris), abundance and damage in replicated field plots during 1986, 1987, and 1988. Sweep samples were used to determine leafhopper abundance, and plant discoloration was rated visually to estimate damage. PLH were less abundant on the glandular-haired M. glandulosa and M. glutinosa than on the M. sativa cultivars in all three years. Less damage was observed on M. glandulosa than on any other entry in 1986 and 1988. These results suggest that nonglandular PLH resistant alfalfa cultivars would benefit from the incorporation of PLH resistance from glandular-haired Medicago species.
25086078|Following the concept of Gess and Gess (1988), the nesting and flower associations of Ceramius fonscolombei Latreille can be characterised by the following ethological elements: a. Nest excavated in non-friable soil; b. Burrow surmounted by a turret of earth extracted from within the burrow; c. Nest probably not re-used; d. Nest with a relatively short, vertical to sub-vertical main shaft, main shaft with a "bulb"-like expansion in the lower third of 50% of the nests; e. Main shaft continues into an oblique to subhorizontal secondary shaft terminated by a cell; f. Succeeding cells terminate further short, subhorizontal secondary shafts; g. Cells sub-horizontal, without preferred direction, except that the second cell is built at an angle of 140-170 from the first, all at different depths; h. No constructed mud-cell within an excavated cell; i. Forage plants are only species of Reseda (Resedaceae); analysis of brood cell contents revealed C. fonscolombei to be oligolectic with regard to its pollen source: Cells were found to be provisioned with pollen of two species of Reseda.During nest excavation the females perform pellet dropping flights and use a defined pellet-dropping area. Water is used to soften the soil. Females alight on the edge of a water source to collect water.
25085275|Two chloropid flies, Dysartia latigena Sabrosky and Olcella sp., were found as predators of grasshopper eggs (Melanoplus bivittatus (Say) and M. sanguinipes (F.) in northeastern Montana and northwestern North Dakota. Neither fly previously had been reared from grasshopper eggs. Both chloropids pupated within the host egg-pods and the adult flies emerged after the hatching of grasshopper eggs. Data indicated that 11.1% of the overwintered egg-pods of M. bivittatus and 6.2% of M. sanguinipes were infested by these predators. About 66% of the chloropids were D. latigena and 34% were Olcella sp. A total of 71 egg-pods was infested with an average of 1.8 chloropids. In pods which contained chloropids, it was estimated that 3.6% of M. bivittatus eggs and 6.8% of M. sanguinipes eggs were killed by the predaceous larvae. In the laboratory, the average developmental period required by Olcella sp. was 15.5 days, compared to 21.2 days for D. latigena. The males of both species emerged a few days before females. Adult longevity averaged 2.8 days for D. latigena and 2.2 days for Olcella sp. The proportion of sexes was 51:49 (male:female) for D. latigena, and 43:57 for Olcella sp.
25084024|Notes on the nest and prey of Trachypus mexicanus Saussure in Texas are presented. Two females were found in one burrow. Prey records for Trachypus petiolatus (Spinola) in Trinidad are also reported.
25083475|Field and laboratory observations were made on the courtship, mating, oviposition, eggs, and larvae of a desert-inhabiting tenebrionid beetle. The courtship ritual as an active process is described. The male mating ritual is altered after prolonged confinement but can be re-established in the laboratory. Reproductive behavior seems to be dependent upon temperature rather than photoperiod. Some aspcts of the ritual suggest a female sex attractant. The function of the male femoral spur in mating is also described.
25082622|The new species, Colpocephalum rosei, is described and illustrated from specimens taken from an Indian flamingo, Phoenicopterus roseus.
25085668|An experimental procedure was developed to visualize the vortex wake of free-flying insects. Neotropical Heliconius erato butterflies were filmed hovering inside a transparent plexigals cube. A dispersed cloud of Sephadex particles was used as the visualization medium. The flow field around the flying insect was illuminated with a planar laser beam, thereby generating a cross-sectional perspective of the three-dimensional vortex wake. Thirty-seven flight sequences from five individuals were filmed for analysis. A variety of vortex structures was observed, although the most likely form of the wake in slow forward flight is a series of distinct vortex rings.
25083760|A new species, phasianus, belonging to the genus Epidermoptes Rivolta is described from Phasianus colchicus, the ring-necked pheasant from South Dakota.
25084376|The behaviour of encumbered male Diplonychus indicus Venk. & Rao is described and interpreted in relation to phylogenetic significance. During placement of eggs on males by females, the former infrequently attempted to copulate. Male bugs thus encumbered with eggs invest in a variety of brooding behaviours, some not hitherto reported in any other genera. Adaptive significance of brooding behaviour in relation to ecological niche is also analysed.
25083551|Thermobia domestica has a temperature preferendum of 32 C to 41 C. Complete removal of the antennae resulted in a loss of thermal discrimination and difficulty in orientation. Removal of the flagellar segments of the antennae had no effect on thermal discrimination. The basal segments possess trichoid sensilla which might function as thermoreceptors. One week after antennectomy, the firebrats partially regained their thermal discrimination. After removal of the antennae, the tarsi and maxillary palpi also appear to function as sites of thermoreception. Antennae of an undetermined species of lepismatid and a machilid investigated appear to function in thermoreception.
25084704|A new genus of Tetraonycini, Opiomeloe, is proposed for Tetraonyx flavipennis Gurin-Mneville, which is redescribed from adult material collected in Cundinamarca, Colombia. In adult characters the genus is intermediate between Tetraonyx Latreille and the blind, flightless Meloetyphlus Waterhouse. Evidence from comparative anatomy suggests that Opiomeloe is the closest known relative of Meloetyphlus and that the Opiomeloe-Meloetyphlus line evolved either directly from Tetraonyx or from an immediate common ancestor with that genus.
25082465|The digestive tract of Entylia bactriana Germar is described and illustrated. The 2-lobed filter chamber, a highly modified pyloric region, is attached to mesenteron 1 and surrounds the junction of the oesophagus and mesenteron 1. Mesenteron 3 emerges from the posterior end of mesenteron 2 and runs forward to the filter chamber. Emerging from the filter chamber are four malpighian tubules and the anterior intestine. The four malpighian tubules run parallel to the anterior intestine and attach to the anterior portion of the rectum.
25084375|Tolerance to 1% DDT applied to the thorax was studied in workers from colonies of africanized bees, Italian bees (Apis mellifera ligustica) and their
25082884|Nine species of Mexican Osbornellus, O. alveus n. sp., O. digitus n. sp., O. trifrustrus n. sp., O. aculeus n. sp., O. remotus n. sp., O. excavatus n. sp., O. lacunis n. sp., O. capitatus n. sp., O. cibus n. sp., are described.
25082621|Ancyloscelis armata Smith, which nests in vertical adobe walls, is the second species in the genus whose biology is described. The nest architecture resembles that of A. panamensis Michener by having: (1) nests aggregated in soil; (2) nest entrances without turrets; (3) burrows unplugged; (4) provisions molded into a particular shape; (5) provisions attached to one wall of cell near cell base; and (6) egg deposited on exposed surface of provision. Their architecture differs from that of nests of A. panamensis by: (1) being founded on vertical embankments; (2) nest surfaces bare; and (3) burrows horizontal. The parasitoid bombyliid fly, Anthrax limatulus Say, and the torymid wasp, Monodontomerus mexicanus Gahan, were found in cocoons of A. armata. Comparisons between the nest architecture of exomalopsine bees (including Ancyloscelis) with other anthophorid bees indicate that: (1) the various taxa can be distinguished on the basis of biological characteristics; (2) particular biological features important in distinguishing some groups of bees cannot be used to distinguish between other bee taxa; (3) some biological features not included in previous descriptions are now emerging as important characteristics in comparative bee biology.
25481814|A biological assessment was done to determine the impact of heavy metal discharge from the Schuykill Metals Recycling Plant (SMCP) on Cannon Creek, Missouri, its receiving stream. The relationship between sediment chemistry and chironomid emergence was examined. Twenty-four heavy metals and nutrients from the SMCP discharge effluent were examined in Cannon Creek from above the effluent, at the effluent, and below the effluent. Five heavy metals (barium, cadmium, lead, manganese, and zinc) and sodium varied significantly between sites. Changes in community composition, mean abundance of emerging chironomids, and Kansas Biotic Index Values were used to detect impairment by heavy metals and nutrients in Cannon Creek. Concentrations of lead and zinc in Cannon Creek were at levels potentially lethal to chironomids, yet mean abundance of emerging chironomids actually increased with the increase of heavy metals and nutrients and showed a strong and positive correlation with barium and sodium, and a weaker correlation with increases in lead and cadmium. Chironomid diversity patterns did not correlate with the concentrations of heavy metals in Cannon Creek. Community similarity between sites was greatest between the reference site and the site at the SMCP discharge effluent. Low similarity between sites was attributed to gross changes in stream morphology rather than to any effects from the SMCP effluent. Finally, the KBI tolerance values to heavy metals for chironomids in Cannon Creek were above those encountered in the reference condition for the Western Cornbelt Plains Ecoregion, indicating minimal impairment.
25085597|Chromosome number of 16 Bombus and one Psithyrus species were determined, and the total chromosome complement lengths of 11 species were measured. The modal haploid chromosome number of the Bombus species was 18 (range in n 12-19). These comprise seven subgenera which are well separated phylogenetically, therefore, we infer that the ancestral chromosome number of bumble bees is probably 18. Chromosomal fission and fusion events probably account for the intra- and inter-subgeneric variation in haploid number found in Bombus. The pattern of variation suggests that changes in chromosome number probably followed, rather than preceded, differentiation into subgenera. The much higher haploid number (26) found in Psithyrus (cleptoparasites) must be the derived state, presumably attained by chromosomal fission, since the total complement length of P. citrinus is not significantly greater than that of most of the Bombus species. The genus Psithyrus is considered to be a monophyletic group and this conclusion is supported by the chromosome counts.
25085287|The relationship between the vibration dance and queen activity was examined for 2 laying queens (LQs) and 5 virgin queens (VQs) in swarming colonies of the African honey bee. Queens were vibrated approximately twice as often when inactive than active, and responded to the dance with heightened activity, expressed primarily as increased locomotion. However, other behaviors (inspecting and egg laying by LQs; piping by VQs) were also enhanced, although for the LQs the degree to which these behaviors were affected depended upon whether the dance was received while inactive or active. The vibration dance therefore appeared to exert a non-specific, activating influence on queen activity, which elicited a variety of responses depending in part upon contextual cues. Thus, the dance may help regulate queen activity during swarming preparations.
25085015|Occurrence and relative abundance of Plusiinae moths were determined by blacklight trapping from 1984 through 1986 in Iowa. Four new records of Plusiinae species are reported, Plusia balluca (Geyer), Syngrapha falcifera (Kirby), Syngrapha rectangula (W. Kirby), and Trichoplusia oxygramma (Geyer), giving a total of 12 species in nine genera known from the state. S. falcifera was the dominant plusiine in Iowa.
25084978|The drumming behavior of six Plecoptera species, Clioperla clio, Diploperla robusta, Oconoperla innubila, Osobenus yakimae, Perlinodes aurea and Yugus arinus, are described for the first time, and additional data for Isogenoides zionensis are provided. Patterns and evolution of drumming in the family Perlodidae are discussed, and an out-group comparison shows that: (1) a simple call-answer exchange between sexes in seven species is ancestral, and (2) bi-grouped calls of Hydroperla crosbyi and the complex, grouped exchanges of Isogenoides zionensis are derived expressions of drumming. Similarly, grouped calls of some Isoperla and grouped bi-beat calls of Calliperla luctuosa and Kogotus modestus are derived. The grouped drumming pattern is known only in Perlodidae, and the European Leuctra pseudosignifera (Leuctridae).
25085079|One hundred fifty-three species from 15 families of Trichoptera are reported from the Ozark and Ouachita mountains of Arkansas. Forty-nine represent new state records. Families having the most species were the Hydroptilidae (38), Hydropsychidae (31), and Leptoceridae (30).
25085128|Survival to the adult stage was significantly reduced when neonate larvae of Diabrotica virgifera virgifera LeConte were starved for 1 day before being placed on the roots of maize. After 3 days of starvation, a mean of only 3.4 out of 73 larvae (ca. 4.7%) survived to the adult stage; 24% of the larvae starved for 3 days were dead before they were transferred to roots. At most, larvae have only about 3 days in which to find a suitable host, but starvation for as few as 24 hr caused 45% reduction in the number of neonate larvae surviving to the adult stage; rootworm larvae must establish very quickly or die. Starvation as neonate larvae did not appear to cause the resulting adults to be smaller, nor did it delay adult emergence.
25084081|A new species of Anisops from the East Cape Province, South Africa, is described and the diagnostic features illustrated.
25481790|Greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), (Homoptera: Aphididae), biotype K feeding reduced the chlorophyll content and photosynthetic rate on both resistant ('Cargill 607E') and susceptible ('NC+ 272') sorghum hybrids. Greenbugs caged on a 5 cm  2.5 cm area on the newest fully expanded leaves for one day caused greater reduction of photosynthetic rate and chlorophyll content loss in the susceptible line compared to the resistant line. The resistant hybrid recovered more rapidly than the susceptible hybrid over a 10-day observation period. However, high levels of four day feeding damage caused a drastic decrease in chlorophyll content and photosynthetic rate in both resistant and susceptible hybrids and little recovery was recorded. Thus, 'Cargill 607E' was physiologically tolerant to greenbug feeding at low levels of infestation. These data could be helpful in predicting yield losses if the relationship between photosynthetic rate and yield is well understood.
25085061|Research on the biology and control of Cylindrocopturus adspersus, a pest of cultivated sunflower, is hampered by its seasonal availability and larval diapause. A non-diapausing strain of C. adspersus was selected from laboratory reared insects to facilitate laboratory rearing. Non-diapausing larvae do not require chilling which reduces generation time by 9 weeks.
25084633|The following new taxa are described: Nuevoleonia minuscula, n. gen. and n. sp. from the state of Nuevo Leon; Paraxenetus brailovskyi, n. sp. from Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas; and Zacynthus mexicanus, n. sp. from Oaxaca. The adults and the male genitalia are illustrated.
25083777|During 1965-66, descriptions and an identification key were developed for the mature larvae of the following 17 species of aquatic chironomid midges. Tanypodinae: Ablabesmyia americana Fittkau, Pentaneura pilosella (Loew), Procladius denticulatus Sublette, Tanypus grodhausi Sublette. Orthocladiinae: Cricotopus sp. #1, Psectrocladius sp. # 1, Smittia sp. # 1, Unplaced sp. # 1. Chironominae: Chironomus stigmaterus Say, C. sp. # 1, C. sp. # 2, C. sp. # 3, C. californicus Johannsen, Goeldichironomus holoprasinus (Goeldi), Paralauterborniella subcincta subcincta (Townes), Pseudochironomus sp. # 1, Micropsectra nigripila (Johannsen).
25083658|The new species Monojoubertia rarisetata, M. latifoliata, M. longimentulata, and M. trouessarti collected from Pachycephalopsis poliosoma (Muscicapidae), British New Guinea are described; M. latifoliata has also been collected from P. hattamensis, Dutch New Guinea.
25082791|A new genus of Pteromalidae is characterized and its taxonomic affinities are discussed. The type-species attacks egg sacs of the feather-legged spider Uloborus octonarius Muma.
25084043|Nannohelea, a new genus of biting midges of the tribe Ceratopogonini, is described and illustrated. Species included in this genus are Ceratopogon bourioni Clastrier from France and Algeria as the type-species, Ceratopogon fuscipennis Tokunaga from New Guinea and Malaysia, and Nannohelea clastrieri, new species from Colombia. Nannohelea most closely resembles Baeohelea Wirth and Blanton by its small size, reduced palpus and male flagellum, but differs from that genus by many characters as stated within. A phylogeny is presented for Nannohelea and Baeohelea. Nannohelea bourioni (Clastrier) and N. fuscipennis (Tokunaga) are new combinations.
25086103|Halictus (Seladonia) lanei (Moure) has the most extreme cephalic dimorphism, and thereby presumably also caste dimorphism, among the halictine bees. Previously known only from a few sites in Brazil, additional localities for this species are documented, including the first records for it from Bolivia, and a distribution map is provided. In order to investigate the possible social organization of this species in the absence of nest excavations, circle tube experiments were performed. In these arenas pairs of putative workers of this species generally behaved very aggressively, on average more so than any of the other halictine species studied with this apparatus. One pair, however, acted very cooperatively and perhaps they were nestmates. The circle tube behaviors are consistent with the species being eusocial, a fact also supported by the strong size dimorphism and comparisons with its sister species.
25085072|The olfactory responses of Macrocentrus grandii Goidanich, a larval parasitoid of the polyphagous European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner) to 51 species of plants were assayed in a laboratory olfactometer. Naive female parasitoids exhibited positive responses to 15 species and negative responses to 7 species. There was no correlation of parasitoid response with a plant's status as an ECB host or non-host. Attraction was strongest to corn, Zea mays L. Experienced females preferred the species (corn, potato or sunflower) on which they previously had found host ECB, even when the plant (sunflower) was not attractive to naive females. The response of experienced females to the odor of sunflower stem declined significantly after the third day post-experience. Responses to host-damaged sunflower stem did not decline until the ninth day. Females exhibited a preference for corn when experienced on ECB frass from corn, ECB damaged corn, or ECB larvae from corn. Females exhibited a preference for sunflower after a simultaneous experience with sunflower and ECB frass from corn.
25084322|The nymph of Viehoperla ada (Needham and Smith) is described and a modified generic key to Peltoperlidae nymphs is presented. Illustrations of nymphal habitus, gill arrangements, mandibles and lacinia and ecological notes for this rarely collected species are given.
25084208|Herein we report on the ethology of Bembix inyoensis in Death Valley National Monument, California. Nests were built in damp sand with entrances in full sunlight all day and consisted of an entrance tunnel terminated by a single cell. Cells were progressively provisioned with Bombyliidae, Asilidae, Therevidae and Tachinidae. Adults were crepuscular and exhibited no group flight behavior. B. inyoensis exhibits a combination of primitive and specialized traits, thus occupying an intermediate position in the evolutionary scheme proposed by Evans (1957) for Bembix.
25082892|Adults of D. olivacea emerged 1 month before beginning nesting. Nests were continuously added to an aggregation for at least 3 weeks, gradually expanding the perimeter, and were typically placed near or under surface objects. Burrows extended 19 to 37 cm to the vertical cells that were arranged in widely spaced linear series of one to four cells each. Nests of D. diminuta with horizontal turrets were closely aggregated in bare soil and were each used for less than 2 weeks, the bees digging up to three nests each within 3 weeks. Female D. diminuta frequently entered nests occupied by other females; the intruders were mostly bees that were about to initiate new nests and they did not successfully usurp occupied nests. In a mixed aggregation, nests of D. olivacea and D. diminuta differed in entrance location, turret shape, cell depth and arrangement, and occupancy period. Selective advantages and disadvantages are suggested for the peculiar type of gregarious nesting found in Diadasia.
25084163|Middle coxae of bees, like those of the Crabroninae and certain Larrinae in the Sphecidae, have the disticoxite reduced and the basicoxite enlarged to form a vertically elongated spindle or cylinder. The shortened disticoxite may allow a relatively short leg to reach far forward and upward for grooming and pollen-manipulating movements. The vertically elongated coxa provides space for the levators of the leg, which would be greatly reduced in size if the disticoxite were reduced without concomitant basicoxal enlargement. Elongation of the basicoxite is probably secondarily reduced in those Anthophoridae which clean the dorsum of the thorax with front or hind, rather than middle legs, and perhaps in many of those bees whose parasitic habit makes pollen gathering from the dorsum of the thorax unimportant. Bees are divisible into those with hemicryptic mid coxae (short-tongued bees except Melittidae) and those with fully exposed mid coxae (Melittidae and long-tongued bees). It is not certain whether hemicryptic or exposed mid coxae are ancestral for bees, although in sphecids they are exposed.
25086383|The nests of Lithurgus collaris were found in dead branches of Hibiscus tiliaceus (L.) (Malvaceae). Mean entrance diameter of the nests was 8.51.2 mm (n=9). The mean tube length and diameter were 65.739.6 mm (n=41, range 7-141) and 7.40.7 mm (n=41), respectively. The main entrance was larger than the gallery entrance. Mean number of galleries per nest was 4.63.1 (n=9). A completed nest was always sealed with wood dust, which was not seen in a new nest. The mean pollen lump length was 215.5 mm (n=9). Larval fecal pellets were thread-like and often extended (5-9 mm) from the abdominal tip. The mean length and width of cocoons were 12.70.8 mm and 6.50.4 mm, respectively (n=7). Adults appeared to forage pollen in the first half of the day and nectar during the latter half of the day.
25085176|The female genitalia of the five species of the planthopper genus Prokelisia are described and illustrated and a key for identification is provided. Form of the valvifers of the 8th abdominal segment and shape and dentition of the median gonapophyses of the 9th abdominal segment are used to separate species. Copulation in two of the species is described.
25085780|Six sites were surveyed for Bathyplectes parasitoids (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) of alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae), to compare parasitism rates across Wyoming and among Bathyplectes spp. Fourth instars of alfalfa weevil were collected and reared individually until a weevil or parasitoid (adult or pupa) emerged. Though relative rates of parasitism for the two most prevalent species (B. curculionis [Thomson] and B. stenostigma [Thomson]) differed among survey sites, the rank order of parasitoids (species prevalence) was consistent across survey sites and three survey years. Of a total of 4,463 weevils assessed, parasitism rates of B. curculionis (mean = 34.5%) > parasitism rates of B. stenostigma (mean = 3.7%) > parasitism rates of B. anurus [Thomson] (mean = 0.045%). The range of B. curculionis parasitism rates (7.4 to 65.3%) was similar to that reported before the last release effort involving B. anurus that occurred in the 1980's. B. stenostigma was present at all sites, but at low densities: parasitism rates ranged from 0.2 to 16.9%. B. anurus was uncommon, and contributed little to the overall larval parasitism of alfalfa weevil in Wyoming, despite the substantial release effort in the 1980's. Earlier reports of B. curculionis dominance in the western U.S., and the relative scarcity and ineffectiveness of B. anurus in Wyoming were supported by our data.
25085566|Eleven species of New World Alebra are recognized: A. aurea Walsh, A. bella n. sp., A. bicincta DeLong, A. castaneae n. sp., A. eburnea DeLong, A. elegans n. sp., A. floridae n. sp., A. fumida Gillette, A. rubrafrons DeLong, A. thoracica n. sp. and A. wahlbergi Boheman. The last of these is postulated to be an introduced species. Host associations are established for most of the species; only 2 species are believed to be polyphagous.
25085370|Hay harvesting and burning of birdsfoot trefoil were tested in northern Wisconsin as a potential cultural control for the trefoil seed chalcid, Bruchophagus platypterus (Walker). Cutting reduced infested seed from 13 to 6% in 1989, and from 23 to 3% in the 1990 trial. Seed yield decreased an average of 68% for all cutting treatments in 1989 but in 1990 only the latest two cutting treatments resulted in decreased yield. Below-average July precipitation may have reduced the seed yield when hay was harvested. In a separate, single trial, burning was tested for efficacy against the trefoil seed chalcid. Though burning reduced plant bugs (Hemiptera: Miridae), it was not effective against the trefoil seed chalcid.
25085140|Adults of the wheat stem maggot, Meromyza americana Fitch, were reared from blasted seedheads of weeping lovegrass, Eragrostis curvula (Schrad.) Nees, collected from seed production fields in Garfield and Major Counties of Oklahoma. From random samples in five production fields, economic losses in number of seedheads per acre ranged from 3.2 to 22.6%. Weeping lovegrass is a new host record for this species.
25085371|The adult female reproductive system of Alphitobius diaperinus (Panzer) (Coleoptera: Tenebrionidae), consisting of paired ovaries (each with 12 ovarioles), lateral oviducts, a median oviduct, shortened bursa copulatrix, spermathecal duct, spermatheca, spermathecal gland, vagina, and an ovipositor, was described and illustrated. Viable sperm was traced throughout the reproductive system of inseminated females, and time of mating was determined by examining the spermathecal chamber. Female age at first mating varied from 3 days if males were 7 days or older to 7 days if males were same age as females.
25084339|The survival of lab reared and feral black cutworms, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), was monitored separately in field cages in Columbia, Missouri, during the fall and winter of 1977-1978. Lab reared cutworms did not survive beyond October. Feral cutworms completed a generation within the cage, mated, and oviposited viable eggs during October. In late December 14% of the eggs were viable, but by early January the number of viable eggs was only 1%, and in February none were viable. The moths did not survive beyond December and viable larvae or pupae were not found during the winter or spring.
25084263|Nomia (Epinomia) triangulifera Vachal, a sunflower bee not collected in Illinois since 1917, is reported from the state on the basis of collections made in 1979, 1980, and 1981, from Helianthus spp. in Alexander and Henderson counties.
25084494|Sphecid wasps of the genus Larra usually sting their mole cricket prey into temporary paralysis, lay an egg on it and leave. The prey quickly recovers and resumes normal activities until eaten by the developing larva of the wasp. Crickets stung by other, presumably more advanced, larrine wasps of the genus Liris also recover from temporary paralysis. In sharp contrast, however, they are seldom if ever able to resume normal activities, even if taken out of the cells in which they had been stored. Such permanent "deactivation" prevents escape of the stored prey, after recovery, whereas temporary paralysis alone is a method of "tranquillizing" the prey primarily during egg deposition (and secondarily during storage in more advanced wasps). Evolution of such differences and some possible explanatory factors are discussed.
25083937|This paper presents data that suggest a displacement of small solitarily foraging bees from flowers by larger bees. In addition, the flight time of smaller bees between Vernonia heads was significantly greater than for larger bees. Evidence is presented which suggests that in the presence of other insects, flight time between flower heads increases significantly.
25083831|A detailed study was made on the life cycle of an oribatid mite, Humerobates rostrolamellatus Grandjean. It was reared in plaster of Paris culture cells and fed on Protococcus. At 25C the average life cycle in the laboratory was 97 days. Sexual reproduction was observed. Females averaged longer and broader than males. Field studies suggest that this species on an apple tree in England has only one generation per year with the larval maxima in August.
25082422|Pasimachus elongatus LeConte was studied near Guernsey and Dwyer, both in Wyoming, and in the laboratory at the University of Wyoming in 1965-1966. It had a 2-year life cycle. Adults showed no prey selectivity; larvae ate soft-bodied prey only. Adult activity increased with soil moisture. The optimum temperature range was 72 to 78 F. Marked adults did not travel far.
25085387|A central Texas population of Diadasia rinconis, a common, oligolectic, gregariously nesting solitary bee, is shown to be partially bivoltine. Most individuals are univoltine, over wintering as prepupae in cocoons in their natal cells. However, a portion of the mature first generation larvae does not spin a cocoon but rather immediately pupates and emerges. Since this second emergence usually occurs well after the peak bloom of its floral hosts, we suggest most second emergence individuals are unsuccessful because they neither nest nor over winter and simply die without leaving any progeny. In addition, in some years a high proportion of a local population may skip that year, spending an additional year in diapause despite the local abundance of the appropriate floral resources. Males patrol the emergence sites and mate with emerging females during both the first and second emergences although some mating also occurs at flowers. First emergence females commonly provision two to three cells per day, taking eight to fifteen pollen-gathering trips per cell. Only Cactaceae pollen is used in provisioning nest cells, primarily that of several species of Opuntia. Data are provided on nectar and pollen production of three primary floral hosts (O. leptocaulis, O. macrorhiza and O. engelmannii var. lindheimeri).
25082375|An analysis was made of the effects of temperature as influenced by altitude on the seasonal distribution and adult emergence of all winter stoneflies (Plecoptera) in a single stream. Water temperature of the stream, when modified by air temperature, solar insolation, snow cover, and springs, produced significant changes in insect emergence patterns.
25085224|S. boharti is a mite associate of the alkali bee only in Fremont County, Wyoming. Its life stages are typical of acarid mites. Duration of all life stages, mean female life span, and mean fecundity at 3 temperatures are given. Large mite colonies were supported on sick or decaying bee larvae or on moldy pollen. Small colonies were occasionally found with healthy bee larvae. Hypopi moulted to tritonymphs within 30 hours and to adults less than 77 hours after food exposure. Large mite populations build up swiftly, then crash, leaving only hypopi. Mites were comparatively rare on healthy tenerals or pupae in cells and much more common on bees captured in flight. Males carried larger mite populations than females. S. boharti was the most important necrophage of diseased bees at the Fremont County sites. Its role as a vector of bee disease is discussed.
25085052|Observations on a nesting aggregation of Perdita (Perdita) difficilis in southeastern Arizona indicate that this species is solitary, provisions two cells per day during two foraging periods (0700-1000 and 1700-1930 hr) and requires only three trips (two with pollen and one with nectar, in that order) to provision a cell. Nests are occupied for less than 5 days and bees most likely occupy several nests during their lifetimes. P. (Perdita) luciae, a bee similar in appearance to P. difficilis, was studied at the same locality. Like females of P. difficilis, females of P. luciae completely provision a cell with three trips (two with pollen and one with nectar, in that order), however, unlike P. difficilis, P. luciae provision cells between 0800 and 1300 hr. Nest architecture of both P. difficilis and P. luciae is described. Perdita (Cockerellia) coreopsidis, studied in southeastern Arizona, has up to three generations a year, is facultatively communal (with up to 14 females per nest), requires six to eight pollen trips to provision a cell and is capable of provisioning up to two cells per day. Communal nests appear to arise in this species because emerging females remain in their natal nests. No obvious agonistic or cooperative behavior was observed among nest-mates. A study of P. (Cockerellia) albipennis in the vicinity of Lawrence, Kansas indicated that this species is solitary, requires five pollen trips to provision a cell and provisions only one cell per day. There was no indication of more than one generation per year. Information on the behavior of the parasites of all four species is provided. The costs and benefits and possible causes of communal nesting in P. coreopsidis are discussed.
25085270|Worker honey bees were reared in the larger cells of drone comb in experimental colonies. Workers were unusually small when colonies were provided with only drone comb. Unusually large worker bees were reared when a colony was also provided with worker comb. The probable causes and implications of such potential size variation on morphometric identification of Africanized bees are discussed.
25085755|The freshly preserved pupa of the cleptoparasitic bee, Neopasites cressoni Crawford, is described taxonomically and compared with pupae of other members of the apid subfamily Nomadinae. This is the first account of a pupa of any Biastini. The individual described was collected as a larva from a nesting site of Dufourea australis australis (Michener) which had a cleptoparasitism rate of more than 40%.
25082769|Data are presented suggesting the mode of inheritance of a fourth character involved in the aggressiveness of Africanized honey bees in Brasil. Colonies of Africanized bees (Apis mellifera adansonii), Italian bees (Apis mellifera ligustica), their
25083050|An unusually high degree of nest reutilization by Polistes is described from a site in Michigan. Two possible factors governing the tendency to reutilize old nests are discussed in view of data on parasitism by a pyralid moth and reutilization observations from seven localities in North America. No clear tendency is demonstrated either to reutilize extensively where parasitism is apparently slight or for colonies based on old nests to be more productive in the early part of the season. This suggests unknown factors surrounding the reutilization of old nests.
25085498|The polygynous form (multiple functional queens in each nest) of the red imported fire ant is able to quickly dominate an area and eliminate most native ant species. This is apparently due to higher nest densities and hence larger forager populations that exist in areas with polygynous nests. Areas with the monogynous form (single queen per nest) have much lower nest densities. We hypothesized that foragers in polygynous areas would recruit to baits in higher numbers than in monogynous areas. Our data supported this hypothesis. The polygyne form was more active at 8 A.M. and 3 P.M. than the monogyne form, but there was no significant difference in activity of the two forms at midnight. We were unable to test a second hypothesis, that baits would be discovered sooner in polygynous areas, as foragers in both areas encountered baits within ten minutes. The rapid recruitment rate suggests that there is little or no difference in rate of discovery between the two forms of the fire ant.
25085909|Soil insect communities from two tidal wetland ecosystems were compared with those from a neighboring non-tidal wetland. These three wetland ecosystems are on Spencer Island (Snohomish County, Washington). The aim of this study was to determine how soil insect communities are influenced by tides and plant communities. The non-tidal wetland was on a cross levee and was an emergent grassland dominated by reed canarygrass (Phalaris arundinacea L.). The tidal wetlands included a marsh, with a monoculture of reed canarygrass, and a forest, dominated by red alder (Alnus rubra Bong.). The cross levee had the highest diversity of insect species; the tidal marsh had the lowest. This high insect diversity from the cross levee was attributed to site stability and a thick ground cover. The low insect diversity from the tidal marsh was maybe due to tidal influences such as flooding and sedimentation, and vegetation monoculture. Insect diversity from the tidal forest, which had the greatest variation in vegetation structure, was closer to that of the cross levee than that of the tidal marsh. A subsample from the tidal marsh had about a hundred individual specimens of the same collembolan species; this demonstrates the problem of using population size alone as an environmental indicator.
25084454|The efficacy of "kuru kuru" sticky traps and electrified traps used in the control of populations of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.), in heavily infested homes was evaluated. Cockroaches in ten homes in Macy, Nebraska, were trapped with sticky traps for five consecutive nights with a total of 19,426 cockroaches removed. Ratio of males, females, and nymphs caught in sticky traps was 1:1:4. In another study in Omaha, Nebraska, cockroaches in eight apartments were trapped with electrified traps for two to four months with a total of 72,557 cockroaches removed. Ratio of males, females, and nymphs caught in electrified traps was 1:1:6. Trapping with sticky traps did not appear to result in reductions in German cockroach populations, but electrified traps caused reductions in cockroach population ranging from 0% to 76% after two months of trapping.
25082682|Dogielacarus uncitibia from the rail Porzana parva (Aves: Rallidae) is redescribed and reassigned from the analgoid family Falculiferidae to the Xolalgidae.
25084479|The greater wax moth, Galleria mellonella L., has a pair of tympanic hearing organs located ventrally on the 1st abdominal segment. These organs or ears respond to sound at frequencies from 7 to over 300 kHz. Maximum sensitivity of the ear to sound is near 33.6 kHz. Although the moth's ear is highly sensitive to frequencies below the maximum, actographic analysis did not show the distinct cessation of activity in response to continuous 25 kHz sound that was evident at higher frequencies. This evidence suggests that the moth can distinguish between certain sound frequencies. Other sounds associated with this moth suggest that it may use its hearing for purposes in addition to defense.
25085833|Field observations and published data suggest euglossine males collect volatile substances that later serve as "good genes" markers to potential mates. Because this synthesis is just emerging, two field observations made in the Ecuadorian Amazon and Panama are relevant, supplementing other data on Eulaema meriana. Six males were found attempting to extract and sequester chemicals of a recently killed male in the Yasun National Park, Ecuador. No female came to the dead male. Three dead males of this species, placed in the field in Panama, attracted one male but no females. Further, males had qualitatively the same mandibular gland odor but perceptibly different hind tibial odors. These data are explained by considering the male euglossine chemical collecting behavior one that ultimately demonstrates bee longevity, foraging ability and, in the context of male mating territory, suitability as a mate.
25086404|Honey samples belonging to Scaptotrigona mexicana Gurin and Apis mellifera L. from 10 localities in northern Puebla State were evaluated by means of melitopalynologic analysis. Pollen from nine plant taxa had values of importance (10%): Ageratum houstonianum Mill. (Compositae), Bursera spp. (Burseraceae), Coffea arabica L. (Rubiaceae), Muntingia cf. M. calabura L. (Tiliaceae), Heliocarpus donnell-smithii Rose (Tiliaceae), Miconia argentea DC. (Melastomataceae), Pimenta dioica (L.) Merr. (Myrtaceae), Quercus sp. (Fagaceae) and Vernonia sp. (Compositae). Honey samples of S. mexicana had relatively high numbers of pollen grains per gram and diversity indexes. Both stingless bee and honey bee samples suggested heterogeneous foraging behavior. In addition, high correlation indexes were registered between honey samples of S. mexicana and A. mellifera. Botanical relationships among S. mexicana (PAE: Parsimony Analysis of Endemism) honey samples were established by A. houstonianum, H. donell-smithii, M. argentea and Piper sp. /// Muestras de miel pertenecientes a Scaptotrigona mexicana Gurin y Apis mellifera L. de 10 localidades del norte del estado de Puebla fueron evaluadas por medio de anlisis melitopalinolgico. Polen de nueve taxa de plantas tuvieron valores de importancia (10%): Ageratum houstonianum Mill. (Compositae), Bursera spp. (Burseraceae), Coffea arabica L. (Rubiaceae), Muntingia cf. M. calabura L. (Tiliaceae), Heliocarpus donnell-smithii Rose (Tiliaceae), Miconia argentea DC. (Melastomataceae), Pimenta dioica (L.) Merr. (Myrtaceae), Quercus sp. (Fagaceae) y Vernonia sp. (Compositae). Las muestras de miel de S. mexicana tuvieron cantidades altas de granos de polen por gramo de miel, as como altos ndices de diversidad. Las muestras de miel de abejas sin aguijn y abejas melferas sugirieron una conducta de forrajeo heterognea. Adems, altos ndices de correlacin fueron registrados entre las muestras de miel de S. mexicana y A. mellifera. La relacin botnica entre las muestras de miel de S. mexicana (PAE: Anlisis Parsimonioso de Endemismo) fue establecida por A. houstonianum, H. donell-smithii, M. argentea y Piper sp.
25085055|Composites of the base population and five cycles of
25085670|Melipona capixaba Moure & Camargo, a recently described species, seems to be restricted to the montane forest of a small region in the State of Esprito Santo, Brazil. The nest architecture is similar to that of other Melipona. Among the 17 colonies examined, the nest entrance was quite variable, ranging from a simple to very elaborate structure. Larvae and puparia of milichiid flies were found in great numbers inside the nests. This is the first report of an association between Milichiidae and stingless bees.
41262794|Switchgrass (Panicum virgatum L.) is a perennial warm-season grass native to the North American Great Plains. Recently, this prairie grass has received increased attention as a potential biomass energy crop. Little is known about the arthropod community affecting switchgrass grown under either managed or minimally managed conditions. This information is important for characterizing the arthropods associated with switchgrass and developing appropriate management strategies for potential pests. The objectives of this research were to identify the arthropods associated with switchgrass in Nebraska and to document the seasonal abundance of selected arthropods. In 2007 and 2008, arthropods were sampled from May through October using vacuum samples, soil cores, pitfall traps, and yellow sticky traps. Samples were collected from switchgrass stands managed for biomass production and from native switchgrass at Nine-Mile Prairie in Lancaster County, NE. Thysanoptera and Hymenoptera comprised 60% of arthropods collected. Leafhoppers, grasshoppers, grass flies, and wireworms were the most abundant potential pests, whereas beneficial arthropods included ants, rove beetles, ground beetles, parasitoid wasps, and spiders. This research provides important baseline information on the arthropods associated with switchgrass in the central Great Plains.
25086037|A new species of the fossil dustywing genus Apoglaesoconis (Coniopterygidae: Aleuropteryginae) is described and figured in Late Cretaceous (Turonian) amber from New Jersey. Apoglaesoconis cherylae, new species, is differentiated from other species of the genus by a unique combination of venational traits. The Lower Cretaceous (Neocomian) species Glaesoconis fadiacra Whalley from Lebanon is reassessed and is transferred to a new genus, Libanoconis.
25086054|The mole cricket family, Gryllotalpidae, is currently represented in the continental United States by two native and three introduced species. The native species, Gryllotalpa major Saussure and Neocurtilla hexadactyla Perty, produce sexual advertisement calls of chirps, while the introduced species, Scapteriscus borelli Giglio-Tos and S. vicinus Scudder, produce calls of trills like most other species in the family. Scapteriscus abbreviatus Scudder does not have an advertisement call. We used a scanning electron microscope to photograph forewings and describe the male and female condition of Gryllotalpa major for the first time. In addition we compared forewings of males of the four calling species to determine whether or not call type was linked to morphology of the stridulatory apparatus. The female G. major forewing was compared with those of females of the other calling species, including S. vicinus, which has previously been reported to produce low-amplitude sounds. Although there are generic differences in morphology of the stridulatory apparatus of value to taxonomists, there are no clear differences that can be used to segregate the mole cricket males into chirping and trilling species. The female G. major wing has a more highly developed stridulatory file than females of the other species from the continental United States.
25086232|Compared to other ensiferan Orthoptera such as true crickets (Gryllidae) and katydids (Tettigoniidae) relatively little is known about the reproductive behavior of Anostostomatidae (formerly Stenopelmatidae), the king crickets, weta and allies. Moreover, although the New Zealand species (the weta) are best known, there is little knowledge of the biology of ground weta (Hemiandrus species), a variable genus especially with regard to ovipositor length. This paper presents observations of mating and post-mating behavior of several Hemiandrus species with short ovipositors. Sexually active males and females drum their abdomens on the substrate, apparently as local signals for mate attraction (pheromones may be involved in long distance communication). After mating there is both maternal and paternal investment. Females provide care to eggs and young larvae and males provide a spermatophylax to the female, a mating meal that, in other ensiferan Orthoptera can be an important source of nutrition. In contrast to other ensiferans, however, the spermatophylax of Hemiandrus species with short ovipositors is deposited on the female's abdomen, a separate location from the sperm ampulla. The spermatophylax is deposited while the male is attached to the female's underside, apparently to her modified 6th abdominal sternite. Also, in contrast to related taxa, males remain with their mates while the mating meal is eaten. These observations indicate that ground weta are excellent systems for examining behavioral and ecological questions about the evolution of complex signals, as well as the evolution of maternal and paternal investment.
25084113|Hylaeus bisinuatus, a bivoltine twig-nesting bee, was used to test Fisher's sex ratio theory. Because females were slightly larger than males, the expected sex ratio based upon wet or dry weights was  1.1 /1.0 . According to sex ratio theory, offspring should be produced in this ratio by each adult generation. The sex ratio of offspring (2.45/1.0) produced by the second generation (1978) was significantly different from expected. Limited data on offspring production from the first generation (1979) showed no difference between observed (0.95/1.0) and expected sex ratios. Possible reasons for the significant deviation from expected values in 1978 include harassment of nesting females by large numbers of Vespula sp., and "routine" departure from equilibrium values.
25083859|The behavior of wing cleaning is qualitatively uniform within the superfamily of the bees (Apoidea). Bees exhibit seven distinct wing cleaning movements, including unilateral scraping of all four wing surfaces by the ipsilateral hind leg. Wing cleaning in the Sphecidae is more diverse than that of the bees; one finds unilateral and bilateral scraping of the wings in this family. The basic wing-cleaning pattern of the Hymenoptera became established within the Symphyta, the Tenthredinidae being more primitive and the Cephidae being intermediate between the former and the Apocrita. Among the Pterygota, Paleoptera clean their wings with the abdomen (if at all), some primitive Neoptera also still do so. The typical wing cleaning movement of the Neoptera is scraping with the hind leg, a behavior which is considered homologous to a stepping movement in the context of locomotion.
25084463|The adult male and female, pupa, and larva of Orthocladius (Orthocladius) ferringtoni, n. sp., are described and illustrated. Characters are given to distinguish Orthocladius ferringtoni, in all stages, from other members of the subgenus.
25086403|The efficacy of sweeping and vacuuming as methods of sampling native bees were compared to those of passive blue and yellow translucent-vane traps located adjacent to a highly attractive forage source, Helianthus spp. (Asteraceae). A total of 35 species of native bees belonging to 12 genera were caught during September, 94% in the passive blue-vane traps, 63% by sweeping, and 54% by vacuuming and yellow-vane traps. Overall, 55.7% of all the native bees trapped in the study across the four treatments were collected in the blue vane traps. There were almost double the number of species, and over five times more individuals in blue vane traps than in the yellow. Agapostemon virescens (Fabr.) was the predominant species collected across all methods (400 of 1208). The majority of females (> 99%) captured in the blue vane traps lacked pollen suggesting that the bees may have been diverted by the reflected light from the trap during their flight to the floral sources rather than on their return flight to the nest. Very few Apis mellifera (L.) were taken in the traps, whereas they dominated in sweeping and vacuuming samples. These studies suggest that the blue vane traps can serve as an effective sampling tool for bee diversity studies in proximity to stands of intense floral competition.
25086255|Ammophila hevans Menke, new species, is described from Bolivia, Paraguay and Argentina. Taxonomic notes are provided for the following species of Ammophila: rufipes Gurin-Mneville, 1831; laeviceps Smith, 1873; ruficollis Reed, 1894; and ruficosta Spinola, 1851. New synonyms are: Ammophila variolosa Giner Mar, 1994 = rufipes Gurin-Mneville 1831; chilensis Reed, 1894 = laeviceps Smith, 1873. A lectotype is established for Ammophila chilensis Reed from Chile. The history of the acquisition of the Edwyn C. Reed collection in 1951 by the California Academy of Sciences is outlined.
25083021|A new species of the caddisfly genus Hydropsyche is described. Illustrations for both the adult male and female are given. The immature stage is associated to the adult stage, however, it is not described or illustrated.
43288784|The larvae of the cossid moth Semitocossus johannes (Staudinger) were found to utilize the native woody tree-like milkweed Calotropis procera (Aiton) W.T., Aiton, at Al Muzahimiyah, Al Kharrarah Park, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The life cycle of this moth is apparently bivoltine with overlapping emergence. Adults were captured from early April to late June as mean air temperature reached 27-35C. Another adult activity peak occurred in early October, when air temperatures again ranged 24-34C. Adult females laid eggs singly or in small clusters on the inner base of woody branches. Eggs hatched on the average of 58 (45-70) days under laboratory conditions. Measurements of the head capsule width and body length were used to recognize size classes I-VI; size classes III-V were present throughout the year. Most larvae tunneled larger branches at the lower portion of the main trunk of the plant. Pupation occurred within the galleries of mature larvae near a prepared exit hole. Before adult emergence, the active pupae moved partially through the hole. Larvae of S. Johannes can cause severe damage and death to infested C. procera plants. Numerous larvae (47-192) could be collected from a single infested plant.
25078483|A survey of 113 sites in Southern New England revealed 18 containing Buenoa confusa and 8 containing B. margaritacea. Buenoa confusa occurs in larger, more stable ponds than B. margaritacea. The five instars of B. confusa are described. The immature stages of B. margaritacea are described in terms of how they differ from those of B. confusa. A key to the nymphs is given.
25083619|An efficient field method for rapidly collecting feather lice from large numbers of dead or living birds is described. Ethyl acetate vapors in polyethylene bags are used as a fumigant.
25082617|An efficient method for mounting small moths is described and illustrated. Styrofoam mounting blocks, cover glass, and acetate circles and strips are utilized.
25085130|Adults of Stenaspis verticalis arizonicus Casey fed mainly (92%) at sap ooze sites on stems of desert broom (Baccharis sarothroides), but also fed (8%) by biting into the foliage and small stems of the host plant. The main feeding sites were small, localized, and patchily distributed. Spatial distribution of males and females corresponded to spatial distribution of feeding sites. Mating occurred most frequently at the feeding sites (75% of 100 observations). In spite of these facts, aggressive defense of the feeding sites was rare. In eight instances of resource defense observed, larger males were at an advantage. However, larger males did not have an advantage in mating frequency, nor did they tend to mate with larger females. There may be little pressure on males to defend resource patches in order to monopolize access to females. This pressure may be reduced because of the relatively large number of sap ooze sites available, or because of the ability of this insect to exploit food sources other than sap ooze sites.
25086335|The subgenus Blepharipus Lepeletier et Brull (Crabronidae: Crabroninae: Crossocerus) from southwestern China is reviewed. A key to the species is provided. Two new species, Crossocerus (Blepharipus) rudipunctatus n. sp. from Yunnan Province, China, and Crossocerus (Blepharipus) carinicollaris n. sp. from Yunnan and Hubei Provinces, China, are described and illustrated, and one new record for China, Crossocerus (Blepharipus) barbipes (Dahlbom) from Yunnan, Hebei and Xinjiang Provinces, is reported.
25084337|The posterior row of abdominal tergal spines on pupae of psychid moths are anteriorly directed, whereas when present in other lepidopteran families both anterior and posterior rows of tergal spines are posteriorly directed. Spines of the posterior row are slender hooklike processes that arise at a 60 angle from a colliculate surface and bend forward to form a 35 angle. They are initially used by both sexes to stablize the pupae within cocoons. In the male of Thyridopteryx ephemeraeformis (Haworth), the spines are present on segments II-VI and strongly developed on segments III, IV and V. Spines on these 3 segments are used to suspend the partially emerged pupa at the opening of the bottom of the bag prior to adult emergence. Similar spines on the female pupa have a shorter taper length than on the male pupa. There are ca. 2 1/4 times more spines on segment II of the female than on males. Females use these spines primarily for attachment to the cocoon and for support of mating and ovipositional activity in the pupal case within the bag. The anterior row of spines posteriorly directed on the male is strongly developed and used to facilitate movement of the pupa out of the cocoon prior to adult emergence. In females, the anterior row is weakly developed and non-functional. Male and female cocoon differences and functions are described.
25084138|A technique for surface sterilization of insect eggs using benzalkonium chloride and a new application method was developed. Egg mortalities were lower than those produced by previous methods and bactericides, and exposure to procedural contaminants was reduced.
25085587|A nesting aggregation of the bee Svastra atripes atrimitra (LaBerge) is described from the coastal plain of Alabama. Nests were visited and entered by the cleptoparasitic bee, Triepeolus quadrifasciatus atlanticus Mitchell. Pollen for nest cell provisions was likely obtained by sonication from the legume Cassia occidentalis L.
25083620|The fall webworm, Hyphantria cunea Dr., has appeared in Europe, Japan and Korea in recent years. In its new habitats, it has found suitable host plants and is not hindered by its native parasites and predators. Consequently, there is international interest in the natural enemies of the fall webworm and their effect on suppressing its numbers. The number of species of parasites and predators known to attack the fall webworm in Asia, Europe and America is approximately 175. Of these, Rogas hyphantriae (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), has been recorded only from the fall webworm.
25085762|Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko) reared on resistant (PI 137739) and susceptible ('Stephens') wheat were provided to the predator Scymnus frontalis (F.) over three generations. Larval, prepupal, pupal, and total developmental times were not different for predators fed aphids reared on susceptible and resistant wheat. Adult weights were not different for predators fed D. noxia reared on either wheat entry. In the first and second generation, percent mortality of S. frontalis larvae was greater on 'Stephens' than on PI 137739. This higher mortality on 'Stephens' was attributed to entrapment in curled wheat leaves caused by D. noxia feeding. The study indicates compatibility and possibly a complementary association between plant resistance to D. noxia and the predation by S. frontalis.
25085800|Crop dissections of female Melissodes rustica (Say) in northwest Arkansas revealed that on the last collecting trip of the day large amounts of pollen are carried back in the crop, suggesting that this is a feeding trip, providing resources for self-maintenance. Females returning to burrows in the middle of the day do not carry large amounts of pollen or nectar in their crops. Females arriving at their burrows without scopal pollen on the final trip of the day spend more time in their burrows prior to their last trip and have shorter last trips than females carrying scopal pollen at the same time. Foraging females may make pollen and nectar-loading decisions based on whether or not they have an active brood cell in which they can deposit externally-carried scopal pollen. As an important part of self-feeding, the last trip of the day is a potentially critical aspect of nesting energetics.
25084612|The following new agalliines are described: Agalliopsis imparsumma, n. sp. (Bolivia), A. dirhachis, n. sp. (Panama), A. decis, n. sp. (Mexico), Agallia pina, n. sp. (Bolivia), A. harpis, n. sp. (Bolivia), A. cornuta, n. sp. (Bolivia), Euragallia calibera, n. sp. (Bolivia). Agalliopsis vicosa Oman is recorded from Bolivia for the first time and genitalic variation is discussed.
25085948|In the northern part of the Russian wheat aphid's (Diuraphis noxia [Mordvilko]) (Homoptera: Aphididae) North American range (the High Plains east of the Rocky Mountains), over-summering of the aphid is likely during late summer when cultivated small grains are not in production if volunteer small grains or noncultivated perennial hosts are present. Grasses of eight genera were sampled from a small plot in Laramie, WY, 1995-1997, to assess field presence of Russian wheat aphid on noncultivated grass hosts during summer when small grains are not in production. Significantly greater densities of Russian wheat aphid were found on spring barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) than on six perennial grasses each summer. In 1995, when perennial plants were in their first year of growth, significant differences in aphid densities were found among noncultivated perennial grasses, with greater densities on crested wheatgrass (Agropyron cristatum [L.] Gaertner  A. desertorum [Fischer ex Link] Shultes) than on smooth brome (Bromus inermis Leyss.) and slender wheatgrass (Elymus trachycaulus [Link] Gould & Shinners). After plant vernalization during the winters of 1996 and 1997, densities of Russian wheat aphid were similar on all perennial hosts. Volunteer spring barley in particular appeared important in supporting Russian wheat aphid during late summer, although the cool-season perennial hosts were also capable of hosting the aphid. Until mid-September, aphids are likely to occur on spring barley and perennial grass hosts if abiotic conditions are favorable for plant growth, providing a local source of aphids to move onto newly emerged winter grains.
25084431|Studies of biotype-C greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), and corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch), suggested a two-fold impact of facultative alate production: (1) a significant role of alate emigration in the numerical decline of both aphid species on sorghum, and (2) removal of significant numbers of immature primary parasites via alate greenbugs. The implications of these results in interpretation of aphid population dynamics and impact of natural enemies are discussed.
25083060|Knightensis quadrimaculatus and Knightophylinia bellissimus are described as new genera and species belonging to the Phylinae, Phylini. The specimens were collected in the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. The adults and male genitalia are illustrated.
23356032|The Genus Carapona new status with nine valid species, and the genus Spinanella new status with one species, are revised. Both were previously subgenera, Carapona as a subgenus of Hecalapona, and Spinanella as a subgenus of Gyponana. Four new species are added to the genus Carapona: C. deserta and C. dicrota from Brazil, and C. colombiana and C. longula from Colombia. The characters which place species into these two genera are given, as well as characters to separate them from the closest genus Hecalapona. A key to the thirteen species of Carapona is also included.
25085931|The seventh species of Denisiella, based only on females is described and illustrated. It is very similar to D. sexpinnatus Denis, 1931, from Costa Rica. /// Le septime espce de Denisiella est dcrit et dessin avec seulement des exemplaires females. Elle est proche de D. sexpinnatus Denis, 1931 du Costa Rica.
25084981|Dicranocentrus yoshiius, n. sp. is described from a specimen collected near Chiang Mai, Thailand. Dicranocentrus fasciatus Yosii, 1961, a species unreported since its description, is redescribed. Remarks on the variation of the coloration of Dicranocentrus thaicus Yosii, 1961 are given. Heteromurus (Alloscopus) tetracanthus (Brner) 1906 is reported for the first time from Thailand.
25083522|Some large, beelike species of Tachytes nest in the ground and stock the nests with Orthoptera. The nests are deep and multicellular with the cells constructed either in a line or at the ends of side burrows leading from the main one. In crassus and validus, many of the deep cells contain large larvae and some of the shallow ones small larvae or eggs, indicating that the former are made and provisioned first. Some Nearctic species (sayi, pepticus, distinctus, and several others) utilize Acrididae as prey, whereas others (crassus, validus, aurulentus, praedator, harpax) employ only Tettigoniidae. In crassus, older cells contain mostly nymphs, whereas more recently provisioned ones contain more adults, suggesting that the wasps take whatever stage of grasshopper is seasonally available. In some species, the egg is not laid until the full complement of prey is inside the nest; in such a case, the grasshoppers are stored in temporary chambers off the main burrow. There are other subtle differences between species in the type of soil utilized, the arrangement of cells in the nest, and the nature of the nest entrance. On the other hand, all species appear much alike in the manner of prey carriage and the placement of the egg on the prey.
25085897|Micropterocheilus R. Bohart, previously a subgenus of Pterocheilus Klug, is raised to generic rank along with Megapterocheilus R. Bohart and Onchopterocheilus R. Bohart. Pterocheilus Klug is an Old World genus in which the female mandible is stout and 5-toothed. Also, the male has the terminal 5 articles of the flagellum forming a tight coil. Micropterocheilus has a relatively slender 4-toothed mandible and the male flagellum ends simply at F-XI. Of the 22 known species of Micropterocheilus, 10 are newly described: asperatus, southwestern U.S., northern Mexico; coralae, Utah; griswoldi, northwestern U.S.; hidalgo, Arizona; landerae, Nevada; rufimus, Baja California, Mexico; simulator, Arizona, New Mexico; sinopis, southwestern U.S., texicus, Texas; venatis, California. A key to species and illustrations are given.
25082933|The diurnal activities, especially feeding, of the water measurer Hydrometra championiana are described. While feeding decreased, mating and resting generally increased as the day progressed and the temperature rose. Factors probably responsible for temporal changes in behavior are thermal stress, food availability, amout of shade, and individual spacing. Sizeable populations of Hydrometra championiana and Tenagogonus quadrilineatus coexisted in the same stream even though their diets overlapped. The coexistence was possible because of spatial resource partitioning which was reinforced by morphological adaptations.
25084968|Amblyopone pallipes Haldeman is recorded from California for the first time, and the specific distinctness of it and A. oregonense Wheeler is confirmed. The previously unknown worker castes of Proceratium californicum Cook and Smithistruma californica Brown are described. Proceratium californicum is compared with other members of the genus including a new species (P. compitale) from west Texas and Coahuila, Mexico. Three new species of Smithistruma are described: one (S. reliquia) from a remnant patch of riparian oak woodland in the Sacramento Valley of California, and two others (S. chiricahua, S. arizonica) from southeastern Arizona. Biological and distributional notes are given on these and other mesophilic ants whose presence in southwestern United States attests to an earlier period of more benign climate. The affinities of these ants appear to lie with taxa in the eastern United States and, less clearly, with those of temperate Asia.
25083552|The variability of characters of Townsendia Williston from Mexico and the United States is discussed. Descriptions and a key are given for six Mexican species -minuta Will. and five new species: dilata, nemacula, gracilis, albomacula, and triangulata.
25083059|Neltumius texanus spends its larval life in seeds of Condalia correllii, C. globosa var. pubescens, C. hookeri var. hookeri, C. spathulata, and C. warnockii var. kearneyana. Eggs of N. texanus are glued to the surface of fruits of Condalia. The larvae enter the fruit, feed inside a seed, and pupate in it. Only 1.4% of the fruits collected had adults emerge from them although more had bruchid eggs on their surfaces. The other two species of Neltumius, N. gibbithorax and N. arizonensis, feed only in seeds of the legume genus Prosopis. Some reasons for the unusual feeding habits of N. texanus are discussed. The recent separation of the genera Condalia and Ziziphus is supported because the bruchids that feed in Condalia and Ziziphus are different. N. texanus has a distribution from Texas to California into northern Mexico.
25481786|Andrena chaparralensis n. sp., an early spring bee from the South Texas Plains is described to make the name available for the publication of a molecular study of subgenus Callandrena. This small bee apparently is narrowly oligolectic, collecting pollen only from flowers of Aphanostephus and Astranthium (Asteraceae: Astereae).
25082927|A water-pheromone trap baited with the synthetic sex pheromone of adult cabbage loopers, Trichoplusia ni (Hubner), caught 5 more male moths in the field than a BL trap baited with cabbage looper pheromone and 36 more than a BL trap alone. The addition of perfumed detergent to the water significantly increased the catch in the water-pheromone trap compared with similar traps without perfumed detergent.
25082531|The effect of tillage practices on populations of northern and western corn rootworms, Diabrotica longicornis (Say) and D. virgifera LeConte, at Orange City, Iowa, and Hills, Minnesota, was tested by applying 8 tillage treatments to test plots. Stand counts and height of corn from treatment to treatment indicated that increased tillage was a benefit to the growth of corn but did not result in a difference in numbers of rootworm larvae or in yield of corn.
25086354|Bumble bees (Bombus Latr.) are primarily a cold temperate group, but a few species live in the hot, moist conditions of tropical rainforest. We describe the external and internal characteristics of a Bombus pullatus Franklin nest from the tropical lowlands of Costa Rica. The nest was a large, conical mound constructed of cut vegetation on the forest floor, similar to nests of the Amazonian bumble bee, B. transversalis (Olivier). Maintenance of the vegetative canopy involved moving cut materials with the mandibles and a backward-directed sweeping of the legs, behaviors reported in some species of Fervidobombus and Thoracobombus and in the sister species to B. pullatus, B. transversalis and B. atratus Franklin. We recorded foraging activity, task specificity, and internal parasites of bees at the nest. Foragers were polylectic and peak foraging rates, particularly for pollen, were during the morning. The nest had five active entrances, and foragers tended to have a unidirectional flow through these entrances. The colony, with 414 adult workers and both worker and reproductive brood, was larger than most temperate colonies and comparable in size to nests of other tropical bumble bee species. A few workers were parasitized by the conopid fly, Physocephala sp.
25084872|Dialictus laevissimus (Smith) is unusual among halictine bees because it hibernates away from the nest site; has only two annual broods, with nest closure between them; produces no males in the first brood, and has numerous unfertilized first-brood workers. These workers evidently are responsible for producing the many males of the second brood. Details regarding phenology, floral hosts, nest architecture, the nest aggregation, sociobiology, reproduction, and natural enemies in Maryland are provided.
25084548|Hylesia lineata, a hemileucine saturniid of the Pacific side of Central America, is exceptional among the 30 species of saturniids of the deciduous forests of Santa Rosa National Park, Costa Rica (0-350 m elevation). It passes the dry season in the egg stage, lays all its eggs in one egg nest, and has strongly urticating hairs on the adult (female only). In addition, this small moth exhibits enormous fluctuations in adult density among years, has caterpillars that feed on at least 46 species of plants in 17 families (but females prefer a smaller number of species for oviposition sites), grows very slowly as a caterpillar, is polymorphic in color as both caterpillar and adult, and has longer male than female pupal duration (resulting in synchronous emergence of the sexes).
25085560|Nesting and associated behavior of the solitary bee, Andrena (Melandrena) vicina Smith were studied in Maine and Washington State. A perennial nesting aggregation was found in a suburban lawn in Edmonds, WA while Maine bees nested within fields managed for commercial blueberry production-so-called "blueberry barrens". Nests consisted of a near-vertical main burrow with as many as 13 cells dispersed around its lower end at depths of 15 to 36 cm. Provision masses consisted of flattened spheres of pollen moistened with nectar and varied considerably in size. Egg placement and larval feeding and development are described and illustrated. Male A. vicina patrolled the nesting site and certain other nearby areas. A single mating was observed at the nesting site. Information on diurnal behavior of females is presented. Mean, fresh weight of adult females was nearly twice that of males. Sex ratio data are presented for 1992 and 1993. A. vicina overwinters as an adult in the natal cell. Parasitic bees, Nomada spp., were associated with both A. vicina populations. New parasite records are presented for A. (M.) regularis Malloch and information on nesting and associated behavior for North American Melandrena is reviewed.
25086226|Dolichurus heevansi, new species, is described from Baltic amber (Middle Eocene). It is the first fossil representative of a modern day genus in Ampulicidae. Putative relationships of D. heevansi with recent Dolichurus and fossil Ampulicidae are discussed. The taxonomic status of all known fossil Ampulicidae is evaluated.
25085033|New biological information concerning host-plant associations and/or significant geographical distributions are presented for 16 species of Cerambycidae from the Great Plains ecosystem in the following genera: Ataxia, Crossidius, Dectes, Ecyrus, Mecas, Megacyllene, Oberea, Sternidius, Tetraopes, and Urgleptes. Season-long phenological data are presented for two sympatric four-eyed milkweed beetles, Tetraopes femoratus and Tetraopes tetrophthalmus. The distribution of Tetraopes pilosus is influenced by soil type and characterizations of the habitat are given based upon soil associations.
25082709|The lectotype of Paracymus orientalis is described and the known distribution is given for this species which was previously known only from the Philippine Islands.
25085293|Grasshopper species and densities were documented by Van Horn et al. (1970) from 1968-1970 at the Central Plains Experimental Range (CPER). We compared the 1970 data with species composition and density taken during 1989 from the same sites. Two pastures, originally studied in 1970, one of which was heavily grazed and one which was lightly grazed, were resampled biweekly for grasshopper species composition and density from June to October 1989. Species composition was similar, with 10 species dominating the pastures. In 1970 there was not a significant difference in grasshopper density between lightly and heavily grazed pastures, but in 1989 more grasshoppers were found in the lightly grazed pastures. In 1989, there was a significantly higher density of grasshoppers in the lightly grazed pasture than in 1970, but no difference in the heavily grazed pasture between years. These results suggest that livestock grazing regimes are a factor associated with the different grasshopper densities of CPER, but that the degree of response varied with time.
25083677|Two new species are described in the previously monotypic genus Zagymnus: Z. rugicollis from British Honduras and Z. variatus from Sinaloa, Mexico. A key to the three known species is presented.
25086142|This report contains details of the attack by army ants of the genus Eciton on colonies of the Amazonian bumble bee, Bombus transversalis. Attacks were made on two colonies in different regions of Amazonia by two different species, E. rapax on a colony in the Tambopata River area of Peru, and E. hamatum near the Javar River in Brazil. Observations of the Peru raid include descriptions of the time-course of the raid and subsequent defense strategy of the colony, which successfully repelled the attack, in part because of its impregnable nest canopy and defending workers. The second attack was made on a defenseless colony (guards and foragers removed), destroyed by E. hamatum. Both the structure of the nest and a defense force come into play to withstand a raid. Ant-repellant substance(s) may be employed and should be investigated. /// En el presente trabajo se describen ataques de hormigas legionarias del gnero Eciton en colonias del abejorro amaznico, Bombus transversalis. Los ataques fueron observados en dos colonias salvajes encontradas en regiones distintas de la cuenca Amaznica. En una ocasin, una correra de E. rapax fue observada atacando una colonia localizada cerca al ro Tambopata, Peru. En otras ocasin, una correra de E. hamatum fue observada atacando una colonia encontrada en el rea del ro Javar, Brasil. Las observaciones realizadas en Per incluyen la descripcin sucesiva de los eventos del ataque, as como las estrategias de defensa empleadas por la colonia de B. transversalis, la cual logr repeler exitosamente el ataque, en parte debido a la cubierta de hojas del nido y a la presencia de las obreras defensoras. En el ataque registrado en Brasil, las obreras forrajeras y defensoras haban sido removidas previamente de la colonia, la cual fue destruida completamente. Tanto la estructura del nido como la faccin de obreras defensoras parecen jugar un papel predominante en la defensa de B. transversalis. Adicionalmente, es posible que repelente(s) qumico(s) de hormigas sean empleados en la defensa de la colonia, sin embargo su eventual utilizacin debe ser investigada.
25086227|Loss of the queen is a crisis for a social insect colony. The process of queen succession could cause increased aggression and work inefficiencies, and the new queen, if the colony can produce one, could be slow to develop mature eggs. We evaluated the cost of queen replacement in Polistes dominulus by removing the queen from a set of single-foundress colonies while leaving a control set with their queens. At 2 and 11 days after queen removal, we found that the queenless colonies had increased levels of some dominance behaviors, chewing and climbing, but not of the far more common lunging and biting. However, foraging behavior did not decrease on nests without queens as compared to nests with their original queens. Nest growth diminished as compared to control nests, as would be expected if new queens were not as competent at egg laying or if dominance behavior interfered with nurturing activities. Furthermore, replacement queens did not mate in the first 12 days after queen removal and few had mature eggs in their ovaries, though after a month most had mated and had developed ovaries. The degree of ovarian dominance of the top egg-layer over the others was also diminished at 12 days, but by a month the new queen was as dominant as control queens. The high cost of replacing the queen may indicate that workers are kept reproductively suppressed enough not to be a threat to the existing queen.
25085864|Seasonal and diel drift patterns of Chironomus yoshimatsui Martin et Sublette in Otto River and their relations with environmental parameters were studied during May to December 1990 and during April to August 1991. Considerable larval and pupal drift was observed during May to September in 1990 and 1991 when water temperature exceeded 20C. Maximum pupal and larval drift amounted to 135
25084906|A worker Polistes pacificus mouthed and rubbed her gaster over two newly emerged wasps. We describe this behavior, which differs from previously documented behaviors in Polistes, and consider possible functions.
25084721|The appearance of the first generation of larvae of Homoeosoma electellum (Hulst), was followed from May 6, 1983, in Texas, northward until August 9, 1983, in Nebraska and South Dakota. First generation sunflower moths utilized at least five host plant species in central United States: Gaillardia pulchella Fougeroux, G. aestivalis (Walter), Coreopsis tinctoria Nuttall, C. linifolia Nuttall, and Helianthus annuus L. G. pulchella, C. tinctoria, and H. annuus were the most commonly used host plant species.
25086288|Asian ladybug (semitransparent blue) and Japanese beetle (semitransparent yellow) insect traps (Springstar) were tested for their utility in studies on bee diversity. The unscented traps were placed at four diverse ecological sites in Oregon in 2004 for approximately 48 hr and catches identified. Trap vanes were highly UV-A and UV-B reflective. The bee catch was diverse with a total of 369 bees, in 17 genera in five families. Bee captures were consistent with bee fauna at each site during the test periods. The semitransparent blue yielded an average of 17.3 bees/trap/day and the yellow 5.75 bees/trap/day. Bombus sp. made up 62.1% of all the bees captured, followed by the halictines (23.8%). It was surprising that Apis was virtually absent from all traps in all zones even though they were abundant in the immediate proximity of each trap. The current study is the first one in which colored traps captured sizeable numbers of bees: 1) in the absence of a pheromone or other attractant; 2) over a short time period of time (48 hr); and, 3) in a selective manner. These studies suggest that a modified SpringStar semitransparent blue trap may be a valuable tool in future studies on bee diversity, distribution, seasonal abundance, and bee foraging behavior.
25085890|Mating behavior in Ozophora lygaeid bugs is described for the first time. Male and female copulatory behavior differed between O. baranowskii and O. maculata. Females tapped or pushed the males with their hind legs during copulation. In O. baranowskii female tapping was inversely correlated with copulation length, and male copulatory courtship occurred in association with tapping. Females sometimes ejected a spermatophore containing live sperm after copulation.
25084588|Techniques for assessing the acute toxicity of two insecticides to the pillbug, Armadillidium nausatum, were developed. Topical application to the dorsum can be carried out in either a large or small volume of solvent since the thick cuticle offers little resistance to penetration. Application to the venter of the abdomen is not as effective as application to the dorsum. In addition,
25481816|Dictyophara nekkana Matsumura (Hemiptera: Fulgoroidea: Dictyopharidae), unrecorded since its 1940 description, is recently rediscovered. Two syntypes of D. nekkana are recently found and a lectotype is newly designated for the identity of this species. Diagnosis and description of the adults, with illustrations of the male genitalia, are presented. New distributional records for D. nekkana are given for Heilongjiang, Inner Mongolia, Hebei, Beijing, Shandong, Shanxi, and Shaanxi. This has extended the distribution range of the species considerably, which was previously known only from Manchuria in northeastern China.
25083963|Ovipositional preference of the potato leafhopper, Empoasca fabae (Harris), was determined on eight isolines (pubescent types) of Clark soybeans. In field tests, counts of all leafhoppers on the isolines were used as an index of feeding preference; the glabrous and curled deciduous lines had the highest number of leafhoppers and the dense type the fewest number of leafhoppers. In greenhouse tests, the glabrous line received a significantly greater number of eggs than the other lines, but the curled deciduous line was also highly preferred for oviposition. The dense pubescent soybean line received the least number of eggs.
25084992|Quantitative tests evaluating the relationship between whole maize, Zea mays L., kernel resistance to the maize weevil (MW), Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky, and degree of pericarp surface relief on 10 dent inbred lines indicated that smooth surfaces are found on resistant inbred lines and rough surfaces on susceptible lines. We conclude that pericarp surface relief is a significant component of maize resistance to the MW. We also propose that the form of pericarp relief plays an important role in resistance.
25084424|The morphology of the internal and external reproductive system is illustrated and described for the male and female Plathypena scabra (F.). The structure and position of the spermatophore within the bursa copulatrix also is described and discussed. The reproductive anatomy of P. scabra is compared with that of previously examined species of Noctuidae.
25085000|Studies were conducted to determine the suitability of white-tailed deer, Hereford cattle, and goats as hosts for all parasitic stages of the lone star tick, Amblyomma americanum (L.). With unrestrained hosts, significantly more (P < 0.05) engorged larvae and nymphs were recovered from deer (x = 20.9 and 52.1%, respectively) than from calves (x = 5.5 and 24.0%, respectively) or goats (x = 3.4 and 17.7%, respectively). Significantly fewer (P < 0.05) engorged adult females were recovered from goats (x = 0.6%) than from deer (x = 8.7%) or calves (x = 13.6%). The engorged weight of females (x = 174.1 mg) reared on goats was much less than the weight of those females reared on calves (x = 378.8 mg) or deer (x = 401.6 mg) and resulted in fewer eggs produced. When goats were restrained from grooming after being infested in the laboratory and field, they yielded nearly equal numbers of engorged nymphs and adult females as from calves treated similarly. The overall suitability of the white-tailed deer as the most important host of the lone star tick is discussed.
25083685|The alimentary canal of adult male and female Haemogamasus ambulans (Thorell), with its sexual dimorphism, is described, illustrated, and compared with several related species. General arrangement of gross internal structures and cellular make-up of some organs are described, with techniques for their study. Cactus spines were found to be the most useful dissecting implements.
25083737|Andrena candida Smith is a spring and early summer, double-brooded, species from the western United States. It has a wide host range and a pronounced mock-orangelike odor emanates from its head. Nesting occurs in small aggregations in flat, hard-packed, partially exposed ground. The average nest had main burrows about 10 cm long and 3 laterals, each about 1 cm long and ending in a single, slightly inclined cell. Completed nests were plugged with soil. Each cell was provisioned with a slightly flattened sphere. The egg was arched, with the anterior end directed toward the cell cap. The average life cycle was as follows: egg, 4 days; feeding stage, 8 days; defecation, 3 days; postdefecation (prepupa), 16 days; pupa, 11 days. Fecal material was deposited in a flattened scale of shingled layers in the lower, terminal portion of the cell. Morphological differences between the first and last stage larvae are described and illustrated. The general body form of bee larvae is emphasized as an important, but often neglected, character.
25083068|Within a small aggregation of male digger wasps, Eucerceris flavocincta, each individual was seen posturing on prominent perches on low vegetation and stones, with wings lifted and spread apart. Such males challenged any approaching insect, but particularly conspecific males, which were vigorously chased away or else both males performed a mutual frontal display with heads almost in contact. After each aerial chase they went back to the same or another perch in the same area or left.
25082757|A lectotype and paralectotypes are designated for Scatella brunnipennis Malloch (= Lamproscatella brunnipennis (Malloch)). Notes on the species' distribution and taxonomic history are also given.
25082655|Eggs of stored-product insects representing 2 orders, 14 families, 30 genera, and 40 species are described and illustrated. Most can be distinguished by such diagnostic characters as size, shape, color, and details of chorionic sculpturing. The collection of eggs, the oviposition habits of females, and the variation among eggs of a species are discussed.
25085872|Spermatophore transfer in the beetle Pseudoxychila tarsalis occurred in association with one of the four movements of the body and aedeagus that males performed during copulation. Some copulations did not result in spermatophore transfer, and females ejected some of the spermatophores they received. This suggests females may be capable of exerting cryptic female choice. Data on spermatophore transfer do not fit with a previous hypothesis regarding the "phases" of P. tarsalis copulation.
25085302|A new species of Hydroptilidae (Trichoptera), Ochrotrichia robisoni, from the Interior Highland region of northwestern Arkansas is described and illustrated. This species is a member of the O. shawnee species group, characterized by a spiral on the tenth tergum. A cladistic analysis of the six members of the O. shawnee group was conducted using the outgroup criterion to polarize the characters. Nineteen characters produced a single most parsimonious tree requiring 25 steps (CI = 0.800, R = 0.857). Comparison of these values to those calculated from randomized data indicated that the observed data contained phylogenetic information. A key to separate males of the O. shawnee group and closely related species is presented.
25084865|The effects of light and heavy mechanical clipping, and defoliation by migratory grasshopper, Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.), on growth of blue grama, Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.) Griffiths, and western wheatgrass, Agropyron smithii Rydb., were examined in the laboratory. Comparison of shoot and root biomass production, tiller production, and shoot: root ratios of nondefoliated, clipped, and grasshopper-defoliated plants indicated that the primary effect of herbivory was the physical removal of foliage, which temporarily altered carbohydrate allocation patterns resulting in proportionately greater shoot than root biomass production in defoliated plants. Heavy defoliation and clipping caused the greatest reductions in shoot and root biomass production. Trends were observed that suggested a subtle interaction between intensity and method of defoliation (grasshopper or clipping) that affected biomass production of blue grama but not western wheatgrass. Specifically, some data suggest that regrowth of blue grama following heavy grasshopper defoliation was not as great as that of plants which were mechanically clipped at the same level.
25083474|Twenty-seven organisms, including 9 parasites, are associated with Lasioglossum zephyrum, a primitively social bee. They belong to the following groups: Bacteria; Fungi; Protozoa (Gregarina); Nematoda; Collembola; Diptera (Bombyliidae, Phoridae, Conopidae, Anthomyiidae, Sarcophagidae); Coleoptera (Cicindelidae, Meloidae, Rhipiphoridae); Strepsiptera; Hymenoptera (Mutillidae, Tiphiidae, Sphecidae, Diapriidae, Scelionidae, Halictidae); and Acarina. Details of the life histories of several of these associates are given.
25085399|An emigration was observed in Pogonomyrmex occidentalis Cresson. Comparisons are made to emigrations by other members of this genus. Observations were also made on adult transport behavior.
25086309|A new species of andrenid bee (Hymenoptera: Andrenidae), Andrena (Callandrena) jazleya Pohl and Larkin, n. sp., is described from southwestern Mexico. The species is closely related to A. brooksi Larkin and A. reflexa Cresson, but can be easily distinguished from these and all other known species of Callandrena by the distinctive, black coloration.
25082602|Observations were made at a nest site of Melissodes rustica (Say) in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Old burrows or rocky crevices near the nest site are male nocturnal quarters. Nests are architecturally uniform. Females construct single-celled nests in adobe-like soil 8-22 cm below the surface. After cleaning out material from the first 2-7.5 cm of excavation, females leave the remaining loose sand in the tunnel, forming a permanent plug which they must subsequently traverse. A short right-angled extension branches from the lower end of a main vertical shaft and prevents loose sand from entering the cell. The West Thumb population is oligolectic on Eriophyllum integrifolium (Hook.) Smiley. The relatively dry pollen provisions have a moderately strong fermenting odor and lack a surface layer of nectar in cells containing eggs. The biology of this species is compared with known biological aspects of other species of the genus. The postdefecating larva is described. Triepeolus nr. eldredi Cockerell parasitized 24 of 51 unearthed nests.
25085678|A 257 bp region of the mitochondrial ND4 gene was analyzed for genetic variation in three species of corn rootworm, southern corn rootworm (Diabrotica undecimpunctata howardi Barber, SCR), northern corn rootworm (D. barberi Smith and Lawrence, NCR), and western corn rootworm (D. virgifera virgifera LeConte, WCR). Nucleotide sequencing revealed 26 polymorphic sites. Genetic distances averaged 8% for all pair-wise comparisons among the three species. Restriction maps were constructed from sequence data and compared to potential species specific restriction sites. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) revealed three restriction enzymes (Alu I, Apo I and Sau 3A) which produced diagnostic patterns for both adults and larvae. Only NCR showed intraspecific polymorphism.
25084490|The genus Priapismus Distant and the species P. foveatus Distant and P. maculatus Distant are redescribed. Two new species, P. costaricensis and P. ecuadorensis, are added to the genus.
41681217|A description of the last larval instar (based on the exuvium) of Trogoderma megatomoides Reitter, 1881 (Coleoptera: Dermestidae) is presented. New morphological characters of T. megatomoides larvae such as general morphology of antenna, epipharynx, mandibula, maxilla, ligula with labial palpi, hastisetae, legs, terga and condition of antecostal suture are documented and discussed. General morphological differences among mature larvae of the following Trogoderma species are compared and summarized: T. anthrenoides (Sharp, 1902), T. glabrum (Herbst, 1783), T. grassmani Beal, 1954, T. inclusum LeConte, 1854, T. ornatum (Say, 1825), T. simplex Jayne, 1882, T. sternale sternale Jayne, 1882, T. megatomoides Reitter, 1881, T. variabile Ballion, 1878.
25083683|Five new Trichoptera are described: Rhyacophila sierra from California, R. haddocki from Oregon, Lepidostoma moneka from Arizona, L. fischeri from Oregon, and L. calensis from California. Description of a variant of Glossosoma califica Denning and additions to the description of Lepidostoma bakeri Flint are included.
25085691|Megaphorus willistoni is an opportunistic predator, but one which biases its prey use towards Hymenoptera. The vast majority of the 487 prey collected at two sites in Montana were Hymenoptera (82%) or Diptera (14%). With the exception of Halictidae and Tiphiidae, no family comprised more than 5% of the prey. The most common species of prey were Tiphia nevadana which were taken in large numbers at a honeydew source, and Halictus rubicundus which were taken as prey from mating swarms at one site and at white sweetclover (Melilotus alba) at another. Prey varied in length from 4 to >15 mm and, although both prey and predator size varied widely, we found no correlation between the two. Based on examination of puncture wounds on prey, M. willistoni typically attacked prey dorsally and inserted their mouthparts either in one compound eye or between sclerites on the dorsum of the abdomen.
25084280|Males of Pyralis farinalis L. (meal moth) and Amyelois transitella (Walker) (navel orangeworm) were found to be cross-attracted to females of the other species; both were found in traps baited with females of either species. On 3 occasions, male P. farinalis and female A. transitella were found in-copula. Male P. farinalis were also caught in traps baited with (Z,Z)-11,13-hexadecadienal, a sex pheromone of A. transitella. It is suggested that the two species share one or more sex pheromone components.
25082981|In this specimen the 5th-6th inter-sternal suture is incomplete on one side and, on the other, serves posteriorly to join the 6th-7th inter-sternal suture. The anomaly is not of phylogenetic significance nor, probably, does it result from a basic error in development.
25085798|Eggs, larvae, and adults of the introduced Palearctic species Coccinella septempunctata L. and the indigenous Coleomegilla maculata (Degeer) were sampled in spring alfalfa along with their prey, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) (Homoptera: Aphididae), to determine their temporal occurrence, rate of survival, and density of A. pisum. A partial life table was constructed for the first, second, and third instars of both coccinellid species. The larvae and adults of both predators overlap spatially and temporally in spring alfalfa, and mortality from first instar through third instar was high for both species (93.0% for C. maculata and 90.8% for C. septempunctata). Adult density ranged from 7.0 to 11.8 adults per
25084710|The new genus Spastomeloe is described for the new species S. formosus, from Tacna, and S. singularis, from Piura, both in Peru. This is the second alate genus of Meloini and the first endemic South American genus. In anatomical characters of the triungulin larva S. formosus is more similar to species of Eurymeloe Reitter, new status, than to those of either Meloe Linnaeus or Spastonyx Selander. In the adult stage Spastomeloe shows special similarity with Spastonyx not only in retaining the hindwings but also in several characters of male courtship behavior. Interpretation of cladistic incompatibility of larval and adult characters indicates that, with the inclusion of Eurymeloe, the genus Meloe is polyphyletic. It is therefore proposed that Eurymeloe (which is redefined, on the basis of larval characters, to include Meloe cicatricosus Leach and M. tuccius Rossi) be elevated to generic rank. Further, it is suggested that Spastonyx, despite its similarity to Spastomeloe in adult characters, is more closely related to Meloe. As a result of the redefinition of Eurymeloe, Coelomeloe Reitter is reduced to a junior synonym of it.
25084344|A simple compartmental model used to forecast European corn borer phenology is described. The model produces a constant progression of life stages which are driven by temperature using a linear transition function. When parameterized using laboratory and field data, the model yields 2-wk forecasts with 2-day accuracy. Model sensitivity to parameter estimation error is evaluated and indicates a mean parametric deviation of  16% can be tolerated before the error rate exceeds the 2-day accuracy limit. The model, though empirical in nature, is shown to have a close structural relationship with a general development rate model thus enhancing its credibility as a generalized phenological model. Finally, extension of the model for other species and non-temperature dependent effects is discussed.
25085064|European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), larvae were reared on a meridic diet for 1 to 14 generations (10 replications of each generation each of 3 years). Averaged over 3 years, 61.9 percent of the larvae reared on a meridic diet for 1 generation crawled out of the diet into corrugated strips of paper to pupate, whereas ca. 90 percent of the larvae reared on a meridic diet for 10 through 14 generations crawled into corrugated strips to pupate. Number of larvae that crawled into corrugated strips to pupate increased from 282 larvae per strip in generation 1 to more than 800 larvae per strip in generations 10 through 14. Thus, maximum efficiency in ECB egg production can be obtained by using moths originating from larvae reared on a meridic diet for 10 to 14 generations. Only moths from larvae that crawl out of the diet into corrugated strips of paper to pupate are used for egg production; larvae that remain in the diet to pupate are discarded because removing pupae from the diet is labor intensive.
25083870|In spring, males of Andrena erigeniae fly in swarms of thousands over woodland floors where conspecific females nest and forage for pollen and nectar from Claytonia virginica. Individually marked males, that were found from 1-11 days after marking, have overlapping home ranges that are greater than
25086010|Extensive observations of aposematic Uresiphita reversalis (Guene) larvae feeding on sky-blue lupine Lupinus cumulicola Small in February in south Florida revealed a low incidence of predation by natural arthropod enemies. Three species of spiders, the wolf spiders Lycosa ceratiola Gertsch & Wallace and L. osceola Gertsch & Wallace and the crab spider Misumenops sp., rejected U. reversalis larvae that were offered to them in laboratory predation tests. However, the green lynx spider Peucetia viridans (Hentz) and the assassin bug Zelus longipes (L.) were found to feed on the caterpillars. Bioassays with the wolf spider L. ceratiola confirmed previous studies showing that the larval integument possess potent antifeedant properties, most likely because it contains quinolizidine alkaloids of dietary origin.
25084650|Five species of parasitoids were reared from two leafmining beetles, Sumitrosis inaequalis (Weber) and S. rosea (Weber), collected on Aster simplex (Willd.) and Laportea canadensis (L.), respectively, in east-central Illinois.
25082659|Two approaches were used to obtain preliminary information about the chemical basis of host selection by adults of the cereal leaf beetle, Oulema melanopus (L.): (1) tests for volatile attractants using an olfactometer; and (2) tests for beetle response on agar strips incorporated with plant extracts. No strong olfactory components could be demonstrated, but feeding stimulants or arrestants were easily demonstrable. When all components of a water or methylene chloride extract of barley were incorporated into agar strips, there was a definite preference for the barley extract compared to the agar control. When 8 sugars and saccharine were tested, beetle response ranged from highest in sucrose to lowest in mannose.
25084720|Data from field observations on the location and activity of Rhagoletis tabellaria (Fitch) flies on Cornus stolonifera Michx. revealed the following: Females made more visits to fruit and leaves than did males. Flies fed while on the upper surface of leaves and females fed more often than males. Females spent most of their time on leaves while males spent most of their time on fruit. Most encounters between flies occurred on fruit. Males mounted other males as readily as they did females, indicating the inability of males to distinguish between the sexes. Unripe fruits were preferred over ripe ones for oviposition.
25085876|We conducted an intensive survey of the bee fauna of Everglades National Park (ENP), Florida. We identified bees (Apoidea) from our field collections (1995-1997) and reviewed published records and collections in regional museums. Sixty-six species of bees occurred in ENP. Thirty-eight additional species were recorded from outside of ENP in Dade and Monroe Counties (total of 104 sp.). The most diverse site in ENP was the Long Pine Key region. Peak diversity was observed from March-April. The numbers of species per family in ENP were: Megachilidae (30), Apidae (17), Halictidae (13), and Colletidae (6). The most diverse genus was Megachile (Megachilidae), with 17 sp. in ENP. Three endemic, two introduced, and twelve parasitic species occurred in ENP. The most diverse parasitic group was Coelioxys (Megachilidae), with 7 sp. present in ENP. The bee fauna is distinct from adjacent tropical areas of the Bahamas, Cuba, and the Yucatan, sharing only a few species with them. Most species in ENP and the region are Nearctic. Compared to northern Florida, the fauna lacks numerous genera and species in the Andrenidae and Apidae. Local and regional differences in bee species composition may reflect lack of suitable ground nesting habitat in ENP.
25085841|The chironomid component of the aquatic community found in Jamaican bromeliad phytotelmata consisted of Chironomus anonymus Williston, a Metriocnemus sp., Polypedilum cf. tritum (Walker) and two species of Monopelopia. The fourth instar larva, pupa, and adult male and female of Monopelopia mikeschwartzi n. sp. are described from material collected from these phytotelmata. The new species is very similar to M. tillandsia Beck and Beck, another New World Monopelopia species also known from bromeliad phytotelmata. Characters are given that separate these two species in all life stages, as well as from other Nearctic species of the genus. Water temperature, pH and conductivity values and additional ecological data are given for the phytotelmata in which the new species was found.
25085586|The spinning behavior and structure of cocoons were described for Rubrica nasuta (Christ.) in Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil. There are some minor morphological differences between the species of Rubrica in the number of pores, sizes and coloration of the cocoons. However, the larvae follow the same seven steps in construction of the cocoon as the species of Bembix studied by Tsuneki (1956) and Evans (1966). Although more comparative data are called for, it seems that the spinning behavior in the Bembicini could be evolutionarily conservative.
25083774|Ten new species of Erythroneura are described: brooki, greeni, hamneri, vinsoni, ellisi, fergersoni, arneri, sadleri, colmeri, and spiniterma. They are related to univittata and lenta and apparently utilize oak and hickory species as oviposition sites or summer hosts.
25085511|Artificial infestations of western corn rootworm, Diabrotica virgifera virgifera Leconte, involve suspending eggs in an agar solution. In order to overcome the disadvantages of long preparation times and inconsistent flow rates of agar solutions, xanthan gum, a colloidal hydrophilic polysaccharide secreted extracellularly by Xanthomonas bacteria, was evaluated for use as an agar replacement. Corn rootworm egg hatch was significantly reduced after eggs had been suspended in xanthan gum one day. Eggs that remained suspended for 7 or 10 days in xanthan gum did not hatch. In addition, plants infested with eggs suspended in xanthan gum had fewer live larvae and lower damage ratings than plants infested with eggs suspended in agar. The reductions in egg hatch and larval fitness show that xanthan gum would not be a suitable replacement for agar as a carrier for the artificial infestation of western corn rootworm.
25083562|Adults of Sitophilus oryzae (L.) from Kansas and from Louisiana and adults of S. zeamais Mots. from Arkansas were held in a Percival walk-in growth chamber at 70 F. and 80 F. without food until they died. The zeamais populations lived significantly longer than either population of oryzae. All populations survived nearly twice as long at 70 F. as at 80 F. One-day-old zeamais adults lived significantly longer than 15-day-old adults, but only minor longevity differences were found among the oryzae populations. In general, virgin males and virgin females lived longer than mated pairs.
25082688|Four new species of Gypona from Panama are described as G. woldai n. sp.; G. nepa n. sp. both placed in the subgenus Gypona and G. gelbana n. sp. and G. blantoni n. sp. placed in the subgenus Marganalana.
25086240|Information is presented on the previously unstudied digger wasp, Chlorion cyaneum (Dalhbom), obtained from 21 nests in central Texas. Nests were dug in partially shaded sandy soil and had 1-3 cells, each mass-provisioned with 1-9 Arenivaga bolliana (Saussure), (Blattaria: Polyphagidae). Prey were generally transported on the ground, grasped dorsum-up with the mandibles and forelegs. Wasps maintained both outer and inner nest closures when hunting. Arrangement of prey, degree of paralysis, and egg placement were similar to those reported for C. aerarium Patton. Cocoon structure is described for the first time for Chlorion. Comparisons of nesting behavior components with those reported for C. aerarium are presented and discussed.
25082314|Collected in northwest Arkansas in 1968 were 2,220 fleas representing 17 species from 247 mammals and nests; 4 additional species are recorded from earlier collections.
25082330|The effect of spring burning of the prairie on populations of some Hemiptera and Homoptera was studied. Three Malaise insect traps and 12 biweekly sweeping samples were used to investigate differences in populations between burned and unburned areas. Statistically significant differences between the trap collections were found for Homoptera and Hemiptera in general and for the families Cicadellidae and Lygaeidae, with the greatest number of insects in each group coming from the burned area. However, even though 55.6% of the Fulgoroidea and 52% of the Miridae were collected in the trap on the burned area, no significant differences were detected. The sweeping samples taken on the burned area produced nearly as many Miridae as the other ten areas combined.
25084646|The pathology of a granulosis virus in larvae of the army cutworm, Euxoa auxiliaris Grote, is described based on observations using light and electron microscopy. The disease symptoms and pathogenesis are similar to previously reported granuloses, except for an unusually acute infection of the integument and an abrupt cessation in larval growth. The characteristics of this disease support the possible use of this virus as a viral insecticide for the army cutworm.
20621947|The genus Phrictopyga Caldwell (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) was discovered for the first time in Argentina. Phrictopyga holmgreni (Muir) was collected in Corrientes and Misiones Provinces on Graminaceae. The male holotype of P. holmgreni was reviewed and redescribed; the female was described and illustrated for the first time. A new parasitoid species, Gonatopus concinnus new species (Hymenoptera: Dryinidae) was reared from P. holmgreni in the above provinces. The new species is the first dryinid found to parasitize Phrictopyga. /// Se cita por primera vez en la Argentina al gnero Phrictopyga Caldwell (Hemiptera: Delphacidae). P. holmgreni (Muir, 1931), descripta desde material capturado en Bolivia, fue recientemente colectada sobre gramneas en las provincias argentinas de Corrientes y Misiones. Sobre la base del examen del holotipo de P. holmgreni y de los materiales recolectados, se describen e ilustran otros caracteres anatmicos de valor diagnstico y se da a conocer por primera vez a la hembra de esta especie. Una nueva especie de parasitoide, Gonatopus concinnus nueva especie (Hymenoptera: Dryinidae), criado desde P. holmgreni en las provincias mencionadas, se describe e ilustra, representando el primer registro de Dryinidae parasitoidizando a Phrictopyga.
25084456|The mating behavior of the eastern yellowjacket, Vespula maculifrons, is described. Courtship and copulation are similar to that reported for other vespine species. Behavioral evidence suggests that a queen-produced pheromone attracts males and releases the mating behavior. The duration and significance of queen "nibbling" behavior is discussed in the context of a sperm-transfer signal. Some males are apparently unwilling to uncouple females when this signal is given; such behavior probably serves a mate-guarding function. Queens successfully mate after 48 hours of age but are unable to fly until 4-6 days. Queens prefer siblings as mates when given a choice in mating trials. These results suggest that sibling mating may be common in this species. In the laboratory, mating activity is inhibited by the absence of light. Both males and queens are capable of multiple matings.
25084573|Ceratina japonica is most commonly a solitary bee. About 20% of nests contain more than one female. Multiple female nests are usually reused from a previous season. Ovarian development of cohabiting females is variable and about one-half of them are uninseminated. Artificial induction of multifemale nests was attempted. In 11 out of 12 such nests, the larger females served as guards and the smaller females as foragers. Eggs were laid either by the larger females alone or by both larger and smaller cohabitants. Apparently C. japonica is at an incipient stage of social evolution.
25086207|Economically damaging infestations of Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor Say (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) have been reported in northern Idaho and damage from the pest has been increasing in this region for the last 12 years. Despite the seriousness of this pest, there is no published information on the natural enemy community associated with Hessian fly in northern Idaho. Studies were conducted in 1998 and 1999 to determine the abundance, distribution, and species composition of Hessian fly parasitoids in northern Idaho. Surveys of commercial wheat fields were conducted in eight counties, and samplings were done in spring wheat trials established near Lewiston, Bonners Ferry, Genesee and Greencreek. Seven species of hymenopterous parasitoids of Hessian fly are reported from Idaho for the first time. Parasitoids were collected from flies in all eight counties. Of the species found, Platygaster hiemalis (Forbes) (Platygastridae) was the most numerous, and Homoporus destructor Say (Pteromalidae) and Pediobius epigonus Walker (Eulophidae) the most widespread. Trichomalopsis subapterus Riley, T. americanus Gahan (Pteromalidae), Eupelmus allynii French and E. vesicularis (Retzius) (Eupelmidae) were encountered in lower numbers and only in one or two counties.
25086053|Tamarix ramosissima Ledebour trees were sampled for Opsius stactogalus Fieber eggs unparasitized and parasitized (containing a pupa) by Polynema saga (Girault). Eggs were sampled on stems cut from two branches on each of two adjacent trees at each of four 0.16 km-apart sites every 2-3 weeks during 2 March to 28 December 2000. Egg densities (eggs per stem surface area) during 18 May to 19 October 2000, when two discrete peaks in egg density were observed, varied among trees but not among branches or sites. Parasitism rate of eggs (51%) during 18 May to 19 October 2000 increased with increasing egg density on branches and on trees when branches were pooled within trees. Parasitism rate of eggs during the same period was not related to egg density at sites when trees were pooled within sites. Density-dependent parasitism was strongest at the tree spatial scale, but egg density explained only a small proportion (9%) of the variation in parasitism rate. Parasitism by P. saga of non-overwintering O. stactogalus eggs does not appear to effectively regulate the leafhopper's populations on T. ramosissima.
25085487|Stenoheriades, previously a subgenus of Pseudoheriades, is accorded generic rank with two new species described, S. eingiddicus and S. prionotus. Othinosmia stupenda, a distinctive new species from East Africa is provisionally placed in the genus Othinosmia. New synonymies, new combinations and lectotype designations are presented for the genera Heriades, Hofferia, Protosmia, Noteriades, Othinosmia and Pseudoheriades.
25084111|Combinations of the fungus Nomuraea rileyi Samson with either Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner or Serratia marcescens Bizio were more effective against cabbage looper larvae, Trichoplusia ni (Hbner), than either of the pathogens alone. The mortality-ratio for the 48-hour period of N. rileyi + B. thuringiensis and N. rileyi + S. marcescens to N. rileyi alone were 3.30 and 4.10, respectively.
25082345|The North American aquatic midges of the chironomid subfamily Podonominae are reviewed, with keys to the 4 genera and 13 species, short diagnoses, and new distribution records. Boreochlus longisetus Brundin is a new synonym of B. persimilis (Johannsen) and Linacerus piloala Garrett a new synonym of Lasiodiamesa tenebrosa (Coquillett). Three new species are described, 2 from northern Alaska, Trichotanypus foliaceus and T. mariae, and one from Wyoming, Trichotanypus hanseni.
25084016|Artificial swarms of Italian honey bees selected homesites with volumes of 13.3 l and 24.4 l and an average of 18.9 l. Sites 100 to 200 m from the cluster were more attractive than similar ones closer and farther away. The swarms preferred unsheltered sites and those whose entrance faced downwind.
25083537|The new species ordwayae is tentatively placed in the new genus Laelaspoides within the Hypoaspidinae. The adult female and male, deutonymph, protonymph, and egg within the female are described; the larva is unknown. The variation in the dorsal setation of the mite is discussed. All stages of the mite occur in the nest cells of the ground nesting bees Augochlorella striata (Provancher) and A. persimilis (Viereck) and the young mites eat pollen. The mites overwinter with the bees in hibernation burrows and the adult female mites are phoretic on queen bees in the spring.
25085536|The larva and pupa of Paratendipes basidens Townes, 1945 are described based on material from Kansas and Florida. Data are also given concerning the species' biology.
20621948|The control of the noctuid Helicoverpa armigera Hbner (Lepidoptera:Noctuidae) with Trichogramma evanescens Westwood (Hymenoptera:Trichogrammatidae) on a cotton (Malvaceae) farm in Turkey is reviewed. Helicoverpa armigera has five generations in a year, but only three attack cotton in the East Mediterranean region of Turkey. Releases of T. evanescens are made twice against each of the first three generations of H. armigera in the years of 2004-2005. In each release, 120,000 parasitoids ha were released, resulting in 62.9% and 71.6% parasitism and the numbers of larvae of H. armigera were reduced by 76.8% and 80.6%, respectively. In fields where insecticides were applied, the numbers of larvae of H. armigera were reduced by 57.1% and 77.1%, respectively. Furthermore, it was observed that population of natural enemies was increased in released parasitoid plots, with an average of 33 to 39 Chrysoperla carnea (Steph.) (Neuroptera:Chrysopidae) were encountered in 25 plants. Pollengenerating plants (maize, okra, weeds, etc.) probably increased the density of the predator. The cultivation of okra as a trap plant can be recommended especially in cotton fields where parasitoid release was conducted. The results of biological control of the noctuid H. armigera by T. evanescens appear promising. /// Pamukta (Malvaceae) Yeilkurt, Helicoverpa armigera Hbner (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae)'nn, Trichogramma evanescens Westwood (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) ile biyolojik mcadelesi Trkiye'de aratrlmtr. Helicoverpa armigera Trkiye'nin Dou Akdeniz Blgesinde bir ylda be dl vermekte ancak 3 dl pamukta zarar oluturmaktadr. H. armigera'nn her dlne kar 2004-2005 yllarnda ikier kez T. evanescens salm yaplmtr. Her salmda, 120,000 parasitoids ha salm yaplm ve parazitlenme orannn srasyla % 62.9 ve % 71.6, H. armigera'nn larva saysndaki azalmann ise srasyla % 76.8 ve % 80.6 orannda olduu belirlenmitir. Kimyasal mcadele uygulanan alanlarda, H. armigera'nn larva says srasyla % 57.1 ve % 77.1 orannda azalmtr. Ayrca, parazitoid salm parsellerinde doal dmanlarn poplasyonunda da art gzlenmitir. Nitekim, bu alanlarda genel predatr olan Chrysoperla carnea (Steph.) (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae)'nn 25 bitkideki says 33-39 adet arasnda bulunmutur. Msr, bamya ve yabanc otlar gibi bol polen reten bitkiler (ak tozlaan bitkiler), predatrlerin younluunu artrmtr. Tuzak bitki olarak bamyann kullanlmas, kullanlmas, zellikle parazitoit salm yaplan pamuk retim alanlarnda nerilebilir. Sonu olarak, pamukta H. armigera'nn T. evanescens ile biyolojik mcadelesi ile ilgili sonular mit var bulunmutur.
25082960|This is the first of two papers on Missouri Elateridae. A key to all genera of these beetles occurring in this state is presented. The subfamilies Agrypninae, Pyrophorinae, and Melanotinae are considered in detail, and keys to species of only those three subfamilies are included herein. Fifty-one species, including two subspecies, are represented. The subfamilies Agrypninae and Pyrophorinae are included in Part I, the Melanotinae in Part II to follow.
25083851|Aspects of nest defense, female and male territoriality, intra- and interspecific aggression, copulating behavior, pheromones and nest aggregation in Nomia melanderi, Halictus rubicundus, Sphecodes sp., Hylaeus cressoni, Anthidium florentinum, Chalicodoma spissula, Anthophora occidentalis, Triepeolus dacotensis, Xeromelecta californica, Pithitis smaragdula, Xylocopa virginica and Colletes thoracicus are discussed, with suggestions for the potential use of pheromones in wild bee management.
25084402|Standard-size (10-frame Langstroth) field colonies of honey bees, Apis mellifera L., located in an area of limited natural bee forage were fed long-term, controlled low doses of microencapsulated methyl parathion (Penncap-M) in pollen cake (12 weeks in 1979) or dry pollen (10 weeks in 1980). Colonies fed Penncap-M at levels of 1.0, 0.1 or 0.01 ppm did not differ from the control (no Penncap-M). However, colonies fed 10 ppm had significantly (P < 0.05) fewer frames of adult bees, less sealed brood, and greater mortality of adult bees than colonies fed either lower levels of Penncap-M, or the control. Effects on the bee populations were essentially the same when the insecticide was fed in pollen cake (requiring water to bind the constituents) or dry pollen. However, emulsifiable concentrate of methyl parathion is more toxic than Penncap-M when fed in the hive. Queens did not die from poisoning when 10 ppm Penncap-M was fed to associated workers, but rather from lack of care or feeding by attendants. The glandular food provided the queen by worker bees did not contain the poison, thus the poison was not systemic in workers.
25085305|An inducible resistance mechanism found in soybeans was studied over a range of mite densities. In general, an initial infestation of soybean (var 'Williams') cotyledons with 10 mites/plant yielded the strongest reduction in subsequent mite populations, with reduction varying from 20-80% over controls. This reduction was found to be entirely due to reduced mite fecundity since no differences in immature survival, development time, adult weight, or adult longevity were detected.
25084631|A study of the longitudinal and seasonal abundance patterns of the major insect functional groups (feeding guilds) was carried out in Rocky Creek, a sand-bottom stream (orders 1-3) in the Florida "Panhandle". The results show that the study area on Rocky Creek was taxonomically diverse and dominated by Diptera, especially Chironomidae. Except for filterers, similar functional groups at each study site showed similar seasonal abundance patterns. Except for the abundance pattern of predators, longitudinal patterns of functional groups were similar to those reported for rocky-bottom streams and generally confirmed the predictions of the River Continuum Model. All of these abundance patterns (longitudinal and seasonal) seemed to be related primarily to the quality and quantity of food present but could also be affected by sampling methods and life history patterns.
25084558|Rhyacophila arnaudi Denning is the only nearctic member of the Lieftincki group and is restricted to the Coastal and Cascade regions of the Pacific Northwest; the other species are all Asian. The larva of R. arnaudi is readily recognized by the IXth tergite which has the anterior angles extended ventrally, the apicolateral spur of the anal proleg which arises independently of the lateral sclerite, and the anal claw with its comb-like row of minute teeth ventrally.
25084492|A new species of Hygrotus is described from Florida. It is assigned to Anderson's (1971) species group two. Anderson's (1976) key to Nearctic species groups of Hygrotus and key to species of group two are modified to include the new species.
25084050|Parasites of leafhoppers (Hymenoptera: Dryinidae; Strepsiptera: Halictophagidae; Diptera: Dorilaidae) from Kansas grasslands, life histories of some dryinids, and new hosts for the strepsipteran genus Halictophagus are discussed.
25083812|Baeonotus microps, new genus and species, is described and its probable position in the Nematocera discussed; it is placed in a separate family, Baeonotidae. Its characters include greatly reduced thorax and single-faceted eyes.
25082783|A new species, Nosopon australiensis, is described and illustrated for material from the type-host Uroatus (= Aquila) audax from Australia. A key is given to the 5 recognized species of Nosopon.
25086003|A study was conducted during the summer of 1998 with soybean cultivar Colfax, germplasm line HC95-24MB and susceptible cultivar Williams 82 to investigate induced resistance in soybean. Bean leaf beetle adults were used to induce resistance in field and also in the dual-choice feeding preference tests that were done in the laboratory to assess induction. Pair-wise comparisons of leaflets from induced and control plants demonstrated that induced resistance was present. Preference index (PI) values were similar in the three soybean entries and were not significantly different. Further investigation is necessary to fully understand induced resistance under field conditions in soybean-insect systems.
25082905|Soil applications of aldicarb, Tirpate, carbofuran, and ethoprop to sugar beets caused mortality of earthworms, a complex of annelid species with the night crawler, Lumbricus terrestris L. being the principal species. Mortality of the earthworms increased as the width of the band of pesticide applied increased. The same pesticides and bufencarb, methomyl, oxamyl, Dyfonate, propoxur, and phorate also proved toxic to night crawlers in laboratory tests. Other pesticides tested caused little or no mortality of the night crawlers. As a class, carbamate pesticides were more toxic than organic phosphate pesticides to the night crawlers.
25086140|The subgenus Apocrabro Pate (Crabronidae: Crabroninae: Crossocerus) from China is reviewed. A taxonomic key to the species from China is provided. Two new species, Crossocerus (Apocrabro) medidentatus n. sp. from Sichuan and Guizhou, China, and Crossocerus (Apocrabro) binicarinalis n. sp. from Sichuan, China, are described and illustrated.
25085860|A questionnaire survey of 159 tourists in Suwa City near Lake Suwa was conducted to clarify the "nuisance" for tourists caused by the chironomid midge, Propsilocerus akamusi (Tokunaga), around a hyper-eutrophic lake. More than 30% of respondents answered that they "can not stand any more" massive flights of chironomids. We found that more than 10% of respondents answered that it was these massive flights that they "can not stand any more," when more than 10,000 individual adult midges per night were collected by a light trap. The redirection of the insect flights away from the lake, and decreasing the number of adult midges coming from the lake, are thought to be the most important measures for the solution of this problem.
25082920|The longevity of Loxosceles reclusa is relatively long when reared at room temperatures (21 to 24C). Twenty-five percent of the females survived more than 1,000 days with a maximum of 1,755 recorded. A maximum survival of 897 days for males was recorded. Elimination of high temperatures resulted in low molting mortality; sixty percent of the spiderlings reached adulthood.
25082562|Tanytarsus (Paratanytarsus) dissimilis Joh. (Diptera, Chironomidae) was tested at nine constant temperatures from 10 to 36C. Development from egg to adult occurred in 16 days at 21, 13 days at 25, and 12 days at 28C. Further increase in temperature brought no change in development rates as emergence occurred after 12 days at 30 and 32C also. No adult emergence occurred at 33 or 36C, and no embryonic development in the eggs occurred at 36. Mean total body lengths, not previously determined for this species, were 0.87, 1.5, 2.4, and 3.75 mm for first-, second-, third-, and fourth-instar larvae. Mean head capsule widths for first-, second-, third-, and fourth-instar larvae were 0.07, 0.11, 0.16, and 0.24 mm. Testing of this species at 25C in toxicant bioassays is recommended, because rapid development (13 days) occurs at this temperature without stress due to temperature.
25085207|An ultrasonic procedure is described which facilitates effective cleaning of sticky-trapped arthropods.
25084839|Two female Euparagia scutellaris Cresson were discovered nesting within an active Diadasia nigrifrons Cresson nesting site along the South Fork of the Little Bear River in Cache County, Utah. Both nests were dissected and brood were subsequently reared in the laboratory. Information was obtained on egg placement, hatching, and larval development. Nest architecture, provisioning, and cocoon structure are compared with published reports.
25086109|Seven microsatellite loci from 176 female specimens of the oligolectic desert bee, Macrotera portalis, were analyzed to detect population subdivision among eight geographically distinct localities (17 to 342 km apart) across southwestern New Mexico and southeastern Arizona. In spite of the absence of obvious geographic barriers to gene flow, genic and genotypic frequencies revealed significant genetic heterogeneity among localities. F statistics revealed a high level of inbreeding within populations
25082616|Nominal species of Panorpa are synonymized as follows (valid name first, synonym second): P. anomala Carpenter = P. proximata Carpenter; P. banksi Hine = P. chelata Carpenter; P. consuetudinis Snodgrass = P. elaborata Carpenter; P. isolata Carpenter = P. decorata Carpenter; P. subfurcata Westwood = P. modesta Carpenter. A neotype is designated for P. consuetudinis Snodgrass.
25084112|A new species, Alloperla biserrata, from Virginia is described. This new species most closely resembles Alloperla nanina Banks in the structural details of the epiproct and both species are illustrated. The holotype male, allotype female, three paratype males and one paratype female are designated.
43288240|The oleander aphid, Aphis nerii Boyer de Fonscolombe, feeds on members of the Apocynaceae family. In Kentucky, A. nerii colonizes several Asclepias species and Cynanchum laeve. The prevalence of milkweeds and A. nerii in Kentucky ecosystems allow natural enemies, including the primary parasitoid Lysiphlebus testaceipes, to utilize this aphid as a resource. The efficacy of L. testaceipes when utilizing A. nerii reared on different host plant species was studied in the field and in the laboratory. In the laboratory, the time until first host contact and the number of ovipositional attempts by L. testaceipes did not vary among aphids from different host plant species. However significantly more aphids were mummified and more parasitoids successfully emerged from aphids on C. laeve than from aphids on tested Asclepias species. The successful emergence rates of L. testaceipes from A. nerii colonizing four species of milkweed were also determined in a naturally infested field plot. While no significant differences were detected in 2009, significantly more L. testaceipes emerged in 2010 from A. nerii mummies collected from C. laeve than from mummies on A. syriaca and A. incarnata with numbers emerging from mummies on A. tuberosa being indistinguishable from those on C. laeve or A. syriaca. Five hyperparasitoid species were also recovered from A. nerii mummies over a two year period. A comparison of hyperparasitoid emergence among A. nerii mummies collected from four species of milkweed found that with the exception of one species during 2009, emergence rates did not differ significantly among aphid host plants. Our results suggest that parasitoid development may be affected by aphid host plant and that adverse effects of A. nerii on L. testaceipes are less severe when aphids develop on C. laeve compared to tested Asclepias species.
25082480|The venational nomenclature derived in the previous two parts of this paper is applied to 24 orders of insects and compared to existing terminologies. Important works on the homologies and comparative morphology of the wing parts are listed and briefly discussed. Theories concerning the origins of the ephemeropteran anal brace, odonate triangle, orthopteroid anal fan, homopteran claval suture, and the so-called jugal veins are advanced.
25086257|Caupolicana (Caupolicana) evansi, a new species similar to C. yarrowi (Cresson), is described from the Valley of Zapotitln de las Salinas, in the Tehuacn Desert and from the nearby Cuicatln Valley of Mexico. A key to the six North American species of Caupolicana s.str. is included. /// Se describe a Caupolicana (Caupolicana) evansi, una nueva especie, similar a C. yarrowi (Cresson). La especie descrita se encuentra en el Desierto de Tehuacn y en el Valle de Cuicatln, en Mxico. Se incluye una clave par a las seis especies norteamericanas de Caupolicana s.str.
25082584|The parasite Perilitus coccinellae (Schrank) emerged from 17 adults of 71 Hypodamia convergens (Guerin) larvae exposed during 1st through 4th larval instars. This is the first time anyone has reported P. coccinellae emerging from adult H. convergens exposed as larvae to the parasite.
25083921|Bittacus apicalis is shown to be more like Kalobittacus in several structural and behavioral characteristics than it is like other North American species of Bittacus. Accordingly, the genus Hylobittacus is proposed for this intermediate species.
25083804|Data on seasonal distribution of Pardosa lapidicina Emerton according to sex and stage of life development were obtained from monthly and incidental collections made for a five-year period. Both the mature and immature spiders, with some exceptions, were collected the year around, but mostly from January through July. Some data on internal and egg parasites were obtained. Of captured specimens, 2% were parasitized. Rearing 34 specimens through the life cycle from egg to egg provided data on number and length of stadia, and on width of carapace. From 17 to 30 days of the life cycle were spent in the egg sac. Approximately one-half this time was as the first stadium. From 80 to 299 days were taken to reach maturity after the egg sac was left. Mature females lived an average of 117 days (range 56-171 days), males an average of 76 days (44-120 days). Courtship, mating, sperm web construction and sperm fluid induction, egg sac construction, maternal care, egg eclosion, molting, and dispersal behaviors are described. Both sexes, but predominantly the males, raised and lowered the palpi and skittered their legs during courtship. Typically, courtship of lycosids consists of palpal drumming, leg waving, and abdominal vibrations by the male. In mating, males applied alternately each palpus to the female epigynum 2 to 4 times, but with many insertions of the embolus each application. Females produced from 1 to 4 egg sacs containing an average of 49 eggs each, but with a tendency towards descreasing numbers with successive egg sacs. The total per female approximated 100 eggs.
25568927|Sixty-two species and subspecies of Tipulidae are reported from the Ouachita Highlands of Montgomery and Polk counties of Arkansas. Several constitute new regional records. Habitats at collection sites are briefly described. Dates of collection are provided for each species.
25084117|Distigmoptera foveolata Balsbaugh is newly recorded from the state of Chiapas, Mexico, where it probably is endemic. (It was originally described from South Carolina.) D. texana Blake is newly recorded from the state of Guanajuato, Mexico. (It was originally described from Brownsville, Texas.) Altica nancyae Stirrett is newly recorded from North Dakota. (It was originally described from Iowa.) Comments are made on dispersal flights as related in this case to D. foveolata, and on how to distinguish A. nancyae from other closely related alticines having light colored legs.
25085472|Laboratory studies were conducted on post-diapause development of the sunflower stem weevil Cylindrocopturus adspersus (LeConte) under five temperature regimes. Laboratory studies offered the advantage of precise temperature regulation to describe some temperature dependent parameters of the development and the seasonal biology of C. adspersus. A threshold temperature of 12C and a thermal constant of 365.6  10.9 degree days were derived from the laboratory data. The optimal temperatures tested for development on the basis of lowest mortality and shortest development time were 28 and 32C. Mortality was over 50% at all temperatures. Mortality was 96.4% at 16C suggesting that this temperature was sub-optimal for development. The development of the reproductive organs in adults was described to correlate reproductive physiology with the appearance of adults and egg laying in field observations. A lag time of about 10 days was observed between emergence and subsequent development of the ovaries and mating at 28C.
25086212|The subgenera Micromutilla Ashmead, 1899, Photopsioides Schuster, 1958, Photopsis Blake, 1886, Physetapsis Schuster, 1958, and Xenophotopsis Schuster, 1958 are junior synonyms of Sphaeropthalma Blake 1871. The single species previously placed in the subgenus Xenophotopsis is placed into the Sphaeropthalma orestes species-group. Species previously placed in the subgenus Physetapsis are placed into the Sphaeropthalma clara species-group. Species previously placed in the subgenera Sphaeropthalma and Photopsioides are placed into the Sphaeropthalma pensylvanica species-group and Sphaeropthalma uro species-group, respectively. A review of the males of Sphaeropthalma uro species-group is given. The females of Sphaeropthalma abdominalis (Blake) and S. amphion (Fox) are described. Forty-seven new host records and current distributional data are presented for the species of the Sphaeropthalma uro species-group. A key and illustrations are given for the males and known females of the Sphaeropthalma uro species-group.
25083725|Three new species of the genus Eurytoma are described: E. extremitatis was reared from the moth Rhyacionia frustrana on Pinus taeda and P. echinata shoots from Montgomery Co., Virginia; E. rubrigalla occurs as a primary parasite of the inquiline Synophromorpha sylvestris and as a hyperparasite of an Ormyrus sp. from galls on Rubus sp. caused by Disatrophus nebulosus at Utica, Michigan; E. rubribacca is from a gall on wild raspberry collected in the Moscow Mountains, Latah Co., Idaho.
25083670|Suricatoecus congoensis is described as a new species, the type host being the Congo kusimanse, Crossarchus alexandri. Recently the authors received a collection of Mallophaga from the Congo kusimanse for identification. These lice represent a new species, and are the first to be recorded from the host genus Crossarchus. The species is herewith described and illustrated.
25083750|From an estimated 306 beetles (determined by Lincoln index) on September 24 the adult population of Epicauta pennsylvanica DeGeer decreased to zero on October 23; from 121 beetles counted on September 23 the adult population decreased to zero on October 23. Cold tolerance tests in the laboratory indicate that temperatures of 6C have no apparent effect, while those of 1C, -1C, and -4C induced almost 100% mortality. A positive correlation exists between the number of beetles observed on plants and maximum daily temperature. Temperature and decrease in number of flowers (of both aster and goldenrod) in bloom appear to influence the decline.
25084681|A description is given of the previously unknown male of Neoclytus torquatus, along with information on the larval host, ecology, and a discussion for differentiating N. torquatus from similar species.
25082501|Thirteen species of Folicana are treated; four previously described, F. Nota DeLong & Freytag, F. rogenhoferi (Spang), F. basalis (Osborn), and F. robusta Osborn. Nine species are described as new: F. acuera n.sp. F. digita n.sp., F. guinae n.sp., F. lata n.sp., F. figura n.sp., F. perula n.sp., F. cornea n.sp., F. fucata n.sp., and F. acrita n.sp.
25084554|Structures of the male genital capsule once thought to be homologous in the Podopinae and a member of the Scutelleridae are neither homologous nor similar. The Podopinae (primitive in the Pentatomidae) and the Scutelleridae (primitive in the Pentatomoidea) cannot be considered to be closely related on the basis of this evidence.
25085703|In a field study performed in Switzerland in spring 1994, we examined the mesostigmatic mite fauna associated with four sympatric species of bumble bees (Apidae: Bombus spp.). The bees carried the dispersal stages of 10 mesostigmatic mite species, belonging to four genera: Parasitellus (Parasitidae), Hypoaspis (Pneumolaelaps) (Hypoaspididae), Garmaniella (Ameroseiidae) and Proctolaelaps (Ameroseiidae). The most prevalent mites were Parasitellus fucorum and Hypoaspis bombicolens. In both mites, prevalence depended on host species. P. fucorum was associated with almost 50% of the B. terrestris, B. lucorum and B. lapidarius queens, but only with 22% of the B. pascuorum queens. H. bombicolens infested one third of the B. lapidarius queens and was rare on queens of the other three host species.Choice experiments with the dispersal stages of P. fucorum showed that these mites actively discriminate between host species. The behavioral host preferences matched the host-specific differences in prevalence found in the field study.
25082803|The coccinellid Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer) is reported as a larval predator of the elm leaf beetle, Pyrrhalta luteola (Mueller), and as a probable predator of P. luteola eggs.
25085497|First detection of the blue alfalfa aphid, Acyrthosiphon kondoi Shinji, in Maryland is reported, including information on natural enemies and aphid biotype. Early reports of aphid outbreaks in Maryland were associated with the first detection of the blue alfalfa aphid during 1992. A number of natural enemies associated with pea aphid were observed attacking the blue alfalfa aphid. A biotype test indicated that the entries 'OK 51' and 'CUF-101' are tolerant to the aphid population, while 'Arc' and 'PA-1' are not. 'WL320', a common cultivar adapted for the mid-Atlantic states, was intermediate in tolerance.
25083548|A key is provided to the genera of African Mimetidae: Ero, Mimetus and Kratochvilia. The known distribution of each species is listed and one of the thirteen species, Ero lawrencei n. sp., is described from South Africa on the basis of a male and female.
25083917|Eight new species of Athysanella (Amphipyga) are described. The new species are: beameri, mexicana, obscura, apicala, rotunda, mansa, ladella, and biserrata.
25084869|Spring-planted small grains, wheat, oats, and barley grown under two production systems were mechanically clipped at the soil surface during various growth stages to simulate grasshopper damage. Agronomic characters, heading date, plant height, grain protein content, grain test weight, and grain yield were determined in 1984; in 1985 kernels/plant was also determined. The effect of clipping was more severe in the dryland production system than in the irrigated system. In general, as clipping was delayed in relation to plant development, yield, test weight, plant height, and kernels/plant were reduced and heading date was delayed. Protein content was not influenced by clipping.
25082835|Three new species, Hecalapona bulba n. sp., H. lyrata n. sp., and H. bulla n. sp., are described.
25083886|Skatole (3-methylindole), the compound which gives army ants (Dorylinae) their characteristic "fecal odor," inhibited growth of the bacterium (Escherichia coli) and fungus (Aspergillus parasiticus) in laboratory cultures. Since this compound was also reported to repel insectivorous snakes (Watkins et al., 1969), a dual function is proposed for skatole in the biology of army ants.
25082451|Keys to the North American subgenera of Copromyza Falln and the species related to C. (Borborillus) lacteipennis (Malloch) are given, including besides that species C. frigipennis (Spuler) and C. scripta (Malloch). Additional data and figures concerning C. frigipennis and C. lacteipennis are given, and Borborus (Borborillus) peltastes Spuler is cited as a new synonym of C. lacteipennis.
25085940|New species of Phyllophaga (Phytalus) are described from 28 Mexican localities as follows: P. soctona n. sp., P. yaxbitana n. sp., P. lineatoides n. sp. and P. itsmica n. sp. from northern and southeastern mountains of Chiapas; P. juquilana n. sp., P. lulaana n. sp., P. tejupana n. sp., P. solavegana n. sp. and P. benexonana n. sp. from northern and southern mountains of Oaxaca; P. pameana n. sp. and P. tlanchinolensis n. sp. from the mountains of San Luis Potosi and Hidalgo, and P. tajimaroana n. sp. from eastern mountains of Michoacan. Most of these species are living in pine-oak forests located between 1345 and 3160 m of altitude, but a few were collected in cloud forest (1470-1550 m) or deciduous tropical forests located at 700-900 m. Drawings of male genital capsules, female genital plates, tarsal claws and clypeus are provided. /// Se describen doce especies nuevas de Phyllophaga, subgnero Phytalus, representadas por 163 ejemplares procedentes de 28 localidades mexicanas: P. soctona n. sp., P. yaxbitana n. sp., P. lineatoides n. sp. y P. itsmica n. sp. De las montaas del norte y sureste de Chiapas; P. juquilana n. sp., P. lulaana n. sp., P. tejupana n. sp., P. solavegana n. sp. y P. benexonana n. sp. de las montaas del norte y sur de Oaxaca; P. pameana n. sp.y P. tlanchinolensis n. sp. de las montaas de San Luis Potos e Hidalgo; y P. tajimaroana n. sp. de las montaas del este de Michoacn. La mayor parte de stas habitan en bosques mixtos de pinos y encinos situados entre los 1345 y 3160 m de altitud, aunque algunas otras fueron localizadas en bosque nebular ubicado entre los 1470 y 1550 m o en bosques tropicales caducifolios establecidos entre 700 y 900 m de altitud. Se incluyen ilustraciones de las cpsulas genitales masculinas, de las placas genitales femeninas, de las uas tarsales y del clpeo.
41353878|The small stingless bee, Tetragonula fuscobalteata (Cameron), is widely distributed in Southeast Asia and is used in Thailand to supply honey and to enhance pollination of tropical fruits. A method of establishing colonies in hives without inbreeding is presented. Clusters of cocoons consisting of both workers and males are transferred to a new box, and a queen from another source colony is provided. Mating occurs in the box. Cocoons of workers and males are distinguishable by shape, and can therefore be transferred in the proportions desired. Details of provisioning of brood cells and of oviposition are presented; the egg laying involved one contraction of the queen's abdomen for a male-producing cell, two contractions for a worker cell. The duration of development (egg laying to adult) decreases with rise in temperature; 35 C or higher is destructive.
25085913|The biodiversity of Ephemeroptera in the Kiamichi River watershed is described. Fifty-six species, 29 genera, and 11 families of Ephemeroptera are documented in the Kiamichi River watershed. The family Baetidae accounts for almost one-third of the total number of species collected. Fourteen species are reported for the first time from the Interior Highlands, and thirty species represent new state records for Oklahoma. Seventy-five percent of the mayfly species collected from this watershed have strong affinities with eastern North America.
25086436|Trigonodemus koreanus, new species (type locality: Mt. Odaesan, Korea) is described, and a habitus photo and line illustrations of diagnostic features are provided for its recognition. The differences among T. lebioides (Kraatz), T. schuelkei Smetana, and T. koreanus are discussed.
25085073|Comparative ecological studies contribute significantly to an understanding of how arthropod species interact, and how each adapts to its biotic and abiotic environment. Thus, interspecific comparisons form an important practical basis for evaluating the potential of beneficial species in biological control and integrated pest management programs. Our studies of four indigenous hymenopteran egg parasitoids of the squash bug (Anasa tristis DeGeer) revealed a number of interspecific differences-as well as similarities-in their biological attributes and environmental responses. The scelionid, Gryon pennsylvanicum (Ashmead), developed more slowly over a range of temperatures than did the encyrtids, Ooencyrtus anasae (Ashmead) or O. sp. 'light form'. It also had a relatively lower survivorship at extreme temperatures (18.3 and 32.7C) than did the Ooencyrtus spp. On the other hand, G. pennslyvanicum had the highest fecundity, net reproductive rate, and intrinsic rate of increase at 27C. Gryon females also parasitized the most hosts and produced a relatively higher percentage of female progeny. All parasitoids attacked, developed in, and emerged from a broad range of host ages. However, generally lower rates of parasitization, longer developmental times, reduced survivorships, and fewer females resulted in the oldest (9 day old) host eggs. G. pennsylvanicum and O. sp. 'dark form' showed consistent responses; whereas O. anasae's responses to host age were more variable. The dietary history of adult squash bugs (on resistant or susceptible host plants) did not influence the susceptibility or suitability of their eggs for parasitization by Gryon or Ooencyrtus species.
25084637|The effects of 2-tridecanone and 31 analogues on the reproduction and mortality of stored product insects were determined. The parent compound suppressed progeny development of the granary weevil, Sitophilus granarius L., maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motschulsky and rice weevil Sitophilus oryzae L. with
25082666|Queens of Bombus vosnesenskii and B. edwardsii incubate pollen clumps after ovipositing in them, and incubation continues until the adults emerge. The larvae and eggs are not incubated when removed and placed into or onto another pollen clump. However, the original (empty) pollen clump is incubated for at least ten days after the immatures have been removed from it. The bees locate and incubate their pollen clumps in the absence of visual cues but not when deprived of both antennae. When in the dark, the queens hold no preference for their own pollen clump over another having been utilized by others of their species, but they do not incubate brood clumps of the other species. The observations suggest that the queen deposits scent onto her brood clump. The scent, acting only at very close range or during contact, guides the queen (and subsequently workers) to the site at which her eggs or immatures are buried. The incubation behavior is released at this site in response to the scent.
25082333|Studies on the biology of Liacarus cidarus Woolley, 1968, were conducted in the laboratory. The mites were reared in small Stender dishes completely lined with a mixture of activated charcoal and plaster of Paris (1:9 ratio) to prevent moisture condensation on the lid and sides. Immature and adult instars fed on Cladiosporium mold better than on other food material. The life cycle consists of five active instars: the larva, three nymphal, and the adult. Live larvae could be removed from dead females that had been left in the culture chamber 12 to 18 days. At oviposition females hide their eggs, generally in close proximity. Deposited eggs seem to be covered with a mold inhibitor. Mean incubation time was 14.4 days at 26 C and 17.5 days at 20 C.
25084614|The female of Setodes guttatus (Banks) is described, illustrated and compared with S. oligius (Ross), its nearest relative. Setodes guttatus and S. stehri (Ross) are reported from southern Alabama.
25086033|The use of underground nests beyond a single active season was examined in Lasioglossum (Chilalictus) hemichalceum (Cockerell) a communal halictine bee with an annual colony cycle consisting of two generations. All existing and newly founded nests were relocated or marked for five years. Many nests contain active colonies for more than a single year. As a result of nest reuse, 41% of all active nests were initiated in previous years. This suggests that costs of nest reuse such as invasion by microorganisms or parasites are offset by the advantages associated with use of a previously constructed nest such as reduced nest construction costs or avoidance of risks associated with establishment of new nests.
25082549|A new species of macrochelid mite is described from decaying fresh-water beach debris in New York. Relationships to the subbadius species-group are noted.
25082863|Four species of Tabanidae (Diptera) were collected in Spink County, South Dakota, in 1974. This county will be affected by the proposed Oahe Irrigation Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, which will divert water from the Missouri River for irrigation. The most numerous species was Tabanus similis, which apparently is the worst tabanid pest on cattle in the area. T. similis showed a secondary peak at the check sites, indicating a possible second brood. Chrysops aestuans was second most abundant and the most serious pest of man. Hybomitra illota was more abundant at check sites where the habitat consisted of large glacial lakes. Only 2 specimens of C. fulvaster were trapped.
25085970|Honeybees can use various kinds of information, including color and pattern, in choosing flowers during foraging. We offered free-flying bees a dimorphic artificial patch of radial and bilateral blue/white flowers in order to examine three hypotheses to explain the noted increase in visitation to the flower type offering a lower caloric reward, i.e., optical resolution, dyslectic interpretation, and cognition related to pattern colors. When bees were offered a color pattern rather than a simple color difference to differentiate flower types, they did not always make choices predicted by theory. Honeybees foraged randomly on both flower morphs when rewards were equal and chose the higher caloric reward more often when rewards were different. However, they visited the less rewarding choice more than 33% of the time. Increasing the size of the flower surface by doubling the dimensions did not decrease visitation to the less rewarding flower type, suggesting that visual acuity is not the limiting factor in flower sizes used. When flower colors that increased contrast (yellow vs. blue) were used in the dimorphic patch, visitation rate to the less rewarding flower type did not decline, nor did this 'error rate' decrease when identical patterns were used with only partial color differences. Adding an orientation reference on each flower decreased the frequency with which the less rewarding flower type was chosen from 36 to 26%, possibly because foragers were induced to switch from a global cue (e.g., patch) to a local cue (e.g., flower). The rate with which the less rewarding flower type is chosen appears to be a function of honeybee use of cognitive and sensory modalities, rather than limited memory and correlative abilities.
25085099|The adult progeny production of red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum (Herbst); saw-toothed grain beetle, Oryzaephilus surinamensis (L.); lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.); and rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.)), were investigated at 27  1C and 65  5% RH on samples of sorghum, Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench., having different percentages of sprouted grain. The mean numbers of adult progeny of T. castaneum and O. surinamensis increased significantly with an increase in the percentage of sprouted grain in each sample. In contrast, the percentage of sprouted grain did not significantly affect the adult progeny production of R. dominica and S. oryzae, although the mean numbers of adult progeny of the two species were considerably greater than those of T. castaneum and O. surinamensis. Another study compared susceptibility to germ damage of sprouted to whole, undamaged, nonsprouted sorghum kernels when fed on by individual larvae of T. castaneum or the Indianmeal moth, Plodia interpunctella (Hubner) during their development. Larvae of both species of insect degermed significantly more individual sprouted than nonsprouted sorghum kernels.
25082765|Neutralization techniques can be used to characterize activity of insect nucleopolyhedrosis viruses. Solubilization of inclusion bodies containing virions of Baculovirus heliothis in carbonate-buffer for 15-30 minutes destroys 50% of its activity. Virion activity also was significantly decreased after neutralization with virion antiserum.
25084922|The laboratory biologies of two closely related, little-known species of Diabrotica were studied. One species, D. tibialis Jacoby, is found in southern Texas and Mexico, and the other is an undescribed species from Mexico. Both species were non-diapausing in the egg stage, and both had three larval instars and an inactive prepupal stage; the mean immature period (post hatch) was 26 days for D. sp. and 29 days for D. tibialis. Head capsule sizes for D. sp. were: first instar from 262  to 294  (x = 266.36), second instar from 392  to 458  (x = 411.39), and third instar from 605  to 687  (x = 639.78). As larvae, both species fed on taxonomically diverse plant species, but corn was the preferred host of those plants tested. Males of D. sp. did not mate until 5 to 8 days after emergence, but females were ready to mate within 1 day after emergence. Males were capable of mating more than once, but repeated matings for females were not necessary for the continued laying of viable eggs. Females of D. sp. laid a mean of 3673 eggs and lived a mean of 244 days, whereas females of D. tibialis laid a mean of 1044 eggs and lived a mean of 333 days.
41353880|The southern corn stalk borer [Diatraea crambidoides (Grote)] has become a serious pest to eastern gamagrass [Tripsacum dactyloides (L.) L.]. Managing this insect will be important to the future of this forage crop in the United States. An experiment was conducted to understand the life cycle of the southern corn stalk borer infesting eastern gamagrass. For a two year period, four plant crowns which contained numerous shoots were dug randomly each week from a field plot located in Woodward, OK. All shoots from each crown were dissected and the number of larvae and pupae present was recorded for each shoot type, i. e., reproductive or vegetative shoot. The life stages of the southern corn stalk borer in eastern gamagrass can be described by three distinct populations in northwestern Oklahoma: a) overwintering, b) first generation, and c) second generation. Over-wintering larvae feed within a cavity near the base of the shoot or within the proaxis. Pupation occurred within the feeding cavity. Larvae occurred in reproductive shoots 2.5 times more often than in the vegetative shoots, which suggested an oviposition preference by adult females for reproductive shoots. The life cycle of the southern corn stalk borer in eastern gamagrass was completed in about 911 cumulated growing degree days. Understanding the life cycle of this insect devastating to eastern gamagrass forage and seed production will help formulate methods of control.
25083426|Changes indicated in the title are based on 63 type specimens and a paratype. Fifty species are from Mexico and Central and South America. There are 25 new combinations: Beameromyia cubensis (Leptogaster cubensis Bigot); Beameromyia dorsalis (Leptogaster dorsalis Will.); Euscledia marian (Leptogaster marian Walker); Schildia gracillima (Leptogaster gracillimus Walker); Taracticus geniculatus (Ceraturgus geniculatus [Bigot]; Taracticus dimidiatus (Ceraturgus dimidiatus [Bigot]; Lampria homopoda (Laphria homopoda Bell.); Lampria ichneumon (Laphria ichneumon O. S.); Smerynolaphria numitor (Laphria numitor O. S.); Efferia aper (Erax aper Walker); Efferia interrupta (Erax interruptus Macq.); Efferia maculata (Erax maculatus Macq.); Efferia marginata (Erax marginatus Bellardi); Efferia salomon (Erax salomon Macq.); Efferia sinensis (Erax sinensis Macq.); Eicherax costatus (Erax costatus Schiner), type locality Venezuela (not Colombia); Eicherax culiciformis (Asilus culiciformis Walker); Ommatius megacephalus (Asilus megacephalus Bellardi); Philonicus albospinosus (Asilus albospinosus Bell.); Philonicus fuliginosus (Asilus fuliginosus Bell.); Philonicus infuscatus (Asilus infuscatus Bell.); Philonicus plebius (Nemochtherus plebius O. S.); Philonicus truquii (Asilus truquii Bell.); Promachina lateralis (Promachus lateralis Walker); Ommatius apicalis (Asilus apicalis Bell.); Leptogaster micropygalis (= Psilonyx micropygalis Will.) restored. Eleven synonyms are cited: Philonicus albospinosus (Bell.) (= Asilus taeniatus Bell.; Efferia aper (Walker) (= Erax bicolor Bell.); Efferia aper (Walker) (= Erax comontus Bell.); Efferia interrupta (Macq.) (= Erax concolor Walker); Efferia interrupta (Macq.) (= Asilus perrumpeus Walker); Smerynolaphria numitor (O. S.) (= Panamasilus xylota Curran); Dizonias lucasi Bell. (= Dizonias bromleyi Carrera and D'Andretta); Microstylum nigricauda (Wied.) (= Dasypogon lugubre Wied.); Atomosia rufipes Macq. (= Atomosia soror Bigot); Atomosia rufipes Macq. (= Cormansis eupoda Bigot); Cerotainiops wilcoxi Pritchard (= Cerotainiops pritchardi Hull). Proctacanthus craverii Bell. is restored from synonymy. Four generic synonyms are cited: Ceraturgus Wied. (= Ceraturgopsis Johnson) based on misidentification of the type-species Dasypogon cornutus Wied. Efferia Coq. (= Nerax Hull.), synonymy based on morphology of 100 species; Laphria Meigen (= Bombomima End.), synonymy based on morphology of 29 Nearctic and 24 Palearctic, Oriental, and Ethiopian species; Schildia Ald. (= Shannomyioleptus Carrera), synonymy based on morphology of seven species. ?Metapogon incertus Becker represents an unknown genus. Acronyches Will. is restored to Leptogastrinae from Dasypogoninae. A new species, Ceraturgus johnsoni Martin, is described. Promachus bellardii, new name for Promachus quadratus Bell., preoccupied; Ommatius schineri, new name for Ommatius apicalis Schiner, preoccupied.
25084404|Stylets of adult deer flies (Chrysops fulvaster O.S. and Chrysops sp.) were examined with the scanning electron microscope. Females have a combined labrum-epipharynx with two distinct types of sense organs at the apex; mandibular stylets with both piercing and cutting teeth; a long, slender hypopharynx; and maxillae with retrorse teeth which enable the fly to lock into the edge of the wound for additional cutting of the host tissue or for feeding within the wound. The males have no mandibles and no hold-fast teeth on the maxillae; feeding must, therefore, be strictly of the sponging-sucking type.
25083909|Territorial behavior in the males of Xylocopa micans in southeast Texas is described. Observations on male-female interactions suggest that territorial behavior in the males serves a mating function. The periodicity of territorial activity is directly related to the periodicity of nectar foraging on Verbena hastata. Finally, the general patterns of territoriality in male X. micans are discussed in light of findings from other workers.
25085290|The effects of developmental stage and diet on wheat bran consumption by Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) were examined under controlled laboratory conditions by feeding grasshoppers predetermined amounts of bran in individual vials for 24 hr. In starved (not fed or watered) grasshoppers, the amount of bran consumed increased as a function of developmental stage. However, in fed grasshoppers, the amount of bran consumed increased only through the fourth instar; fifth instars and adults ate significantly less bran than third and fourth instars. Fed grasshoppers in the first, third and fourth instars ate significantly more than starved individuals. It would also appear that three to eight times more bran is applied in grasshopper control programs than could be consumed by a population at the standard treatment threshold (9.6 grasshoppers per
25084815|Studies of Formica subsericea indicate that for two colonies out of three the amount of digging accomplished by an isolated ant in a two hour period was significantly less than that accomplished by an ant working in association with one or more other ants. However, the increase in activity by a given ant was independent of the number of additional ants. This outcome qualitatively confirms similar published results on Camponotus japonicus. Quantitative differences between different species cannot yet be satisfactorily explained.
25084987|Larvae of Anaea andria Scudder reared under a constant photoperiod of 15 hr develop into summer-form adults. The percentage of summer forms decreases with constant larval photoperiods of 14 hr, 13 hr 45 min, 13 hr 30 min, and 13 hr. A 12 hr larval photoperiod results in only winter-form adults. Field observations indicate that at 30 north latitude the transition from summer- to winter-form butterflies occurs in late August. Laboratory experiments and field observations suggest that the critical photoperiod for seasonal form transition in A. andria is slightly less than 13 hr 30 min.
25086025|Dunbaria fasciipennis is one of the few palaeodictyopterid species represented by a sufficient series of specimens to have yielded some data on intraspecific variation. A previously unknown specimen comprising most of the four wings, cerci, and portions of the genital appendages and 11th tergite of a male of the species is described and figured here. Kukalov-Peck's conjecture of sexually dimorphic forewing geometry in the species is further bolstered by the morphology of this specimen. Several morphological parameters are shown to provide quantitative verification of the differences in forewing geometry in male and female D. fasciipennis.
25086128|Bean leaf beetle, Cerotoma trifurcata (Forster) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), flight capacity was measured using a computer-monitored tethered-flight mill. Beetles were collected from soybean (Glycine max (L.)(Fabaceae)) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.(Fabaceae)) fields in 2000 and 2001. The number of individual flights, flight duration, and flight distance were recorded for a 24-hr period. Eighty-nine percent of beetles made at least one flight, and the mean number of individual flights per beetle was 25.59  5.88 (mean  SE). The mean total-flight duration was >9 min, and the longest duration of a single flight was >38 min. Seventy-one percent of beetles flew <51 m and 11.76% flew >301 m. The farthest flight made by an individual beetle was 4.9 km. The mean flight distance of all beetles flown was 166.01  45.38 m. Beetles collected in August flew farther than beetles collected in any other month. There was a strong positive relationship between flight distance and flight duration but not between flight distance and the number of individual flights. The presence of ectoparasitic mites and ovarian stage did not affect flight capacity.
25086083|A persistent sleeping roost is described for male sweat bees, Augochlorella neglectula (Ckll.), occurring on the rootlets of a hanging plant on a 4th story apartment balcony in an urban environment in central Panam. The rootlets were used by the same males consistently within a season, as well as between seasons, although presumably different individuals were involved. Males probably do not use olfactory cues for local orientation to the sleeping rootlet, as inferred from choice tests between an un-used and used rootlet. Brief social interactions among males were generally pacific, although there was kicking and shoving when they first settled. Males became progressively more difficult to disturb further into the night.
25083542|Agapostemon splendens (Lepeletier), radiatus (Say), texanus Cresson and virescens (Fabricius) were collected about 30 miles southwest of Nenzel, Nebraska, June 9 to 15, 1965. Nest architecture and larvae of splendens and radiatus are described.
25568938|The western US bee Osmia aglaia Sandhouse is resurrected from synonymy with O. laeta Sandhouse. Confusion resulted from errors in paratype identification, which are herein corrected. New distinguishing morphological characters are provided that justify the specific status of O. aglaia.
25084152|The black cutworm, Agrotis ipsilon (Hufnagel), when parasitized as 4th and 5th instar larvae by the tachinid Bonnetia comta, lived for a significantly (P < 0.01) shorter period of time than their respective nonparasitized groups. Larvae parasitized as 4th and 5th instars cut, respectively, 53% and 32% fewer corn seedlings than did nonparasitized larvae.
25082311|Manica was long regarded as a subgenus of Myrmica; the differences between these two genera are shown in a table. Keys are given to the species of Manica. M. rubida is Eurasian; bradleyi, hunteri, mutica, and parasitica occur in North America west of the hundredth meridian and north of the thirty-fourth parallel. M. rubida inhabits the mountains of Europe, Asia Minor, northern Asia, and the Caucasus; bradleyi occurs in the mountains of California and adjacent western Nevada; parasitica is known from only two localities in the Sierra Nevada; hunteri is the northern montane species. M. mutica has the most xeric, the most extensive (Great Plains and Great Basin and northward to Alaska) and the lowest (down to 1,100 feet in British Columbia) range; nevertheless it is also found in mountains (above 7,000 feet) in California, Colorado, New Mexico, and Wyoming. Spot maps illustrate the distribution of the four American species. Throughout the ranges distribution is sporadic, but any species may be locally abundant. In spite of the remarkable anatomical similarity among the five species, it is difficult to generalize about their ecology and habits. Since almost nothing is known about Manica parasitica, except that it is presumably a social parasite on M. bradleyi, it is not considered further. M. bradleyi and hunteri are typically found in openings in coniferous forests; mutica and rubida occur in a greater variety of habitats. M. mutica is the most xerophilous; the others prefer moderately moist soil and can even tolerate mud. The basic nest structure is probably the same for all four: a reticulum of chambers and galleries connected with chambers under stones opening to the surface by holes in the bottom of one or more small craters constructed of excavated soil; but great plasticity is manifest in the variations on the basic plan. The nests are usually polycalic and their limits almost impossible to determine. Food is an unsolved mystery. Workers do take insects into the nest; but (in bradleyi and hunteri) only a few are out at any time, for only a few hours during the day and rarely at night; surely they cannot support a flourishing colony. Colonies are small; we would guess a thousand workers to be the maximum for a mature colony. A polycalic colony probably has many queens. Little is known about the nuptial flight. The ants of this genus are not aggressive, but when their nest is disturbed the workers sting promptly and effectively. The sting has been reported to be very painful, but we have found it only moderately so with three of our American species. The gait of workers of three of our American species is characteristic: steady, deliberate and unhurried, but never sluggish. The three common American species-bradleyi, hunteri, and mutica-are treated under the headings: description, nuptial flight, census, relations with other ants, miscellaneous notes, range, records, and literature. The discussion of M. rubida is based on the literature.
25085181|A method is described using a strain gage probe to directly record the instantaneous vertical force and horizontal force on a locust in steady flight in a wind tunnel. The instantaneous forces contain both aerodynamic and wing inertial components. The inertial component is calculated from the wing movement. The instantaneous vertical aerodynamic force is similar in shape and magnitude to that previously reported using a different direct measurement technique, confirming that significant unsteady effects contribute to aerodynamic force production. The instantaneous horizontal recorded force is dominated by inertial forces due to the oscillating wing mass. Because of the wing folding and bending, and because of the phase lag between the fore- and hindwings of the locust, the method used to calculate the wing inertial force was not accurate enough to yield a reliable horizontal aerodynamic force to compare with published data obtained in a stationary airflow.
25083873|A survey of the group composition of primitively social (nest-sharing, casteless) wasps reveals that virtually all are polygynous (have more than one egg-laying female per nest), and that life in groups of genetic relatives is common (except possibly in some species showing only occasional or short-term nest sharing). Furthermore, incipient and well developed worker castes are present in polygynous wasp societies. Therefore polygynous family groups, rather than subsocial groups, matrifilial monogynous groups, or groups of non-relatives, have probably been a major setting for the evolution of a worker caste in wasps. General kin selection and mutualism hypotheses are more applicable as explanations for helping (worker) behavior in such groups than are the haplodiploidy or maternal control hypotheses. Long-term monogyny, which is required by the latter two hypotheses, probably more often followed rather than preceded the advent of sterile castes in the evolution of the social wasps. A "polygynous family hypothesis" is proposed as an alternative to the "subsocial" and "semisocial" hypotheses for the evolution of insect sociality.
25084469|In the spring of 1979, mated females of Polistes annularis began new nests in groups of 1 to 27 natal nestmates (x = 5.1  SD 3.2) in central Texas. Marked females did not switch among sibling nests except in experiments where their own nest was destroyed. Removal of subordinate foundresses on sibling nests did not result in recruitment from other nests. Reproductive competition was great on nests of Polistes annularis and increased with numbers of foundresses. Though queens of new nests were larger than subordinates and had more developed ovaries, 39% of subordinates had at least 1 mature egg in their ovaries. More subordinates had developed ovaries on larger nests (regression y = 0.45  0.04x - 0.89). Since larger groups of foundresses did not produce proportionally more reproductive progeny, egg laying by subordinates may be a critical factor in causing large foundress associations. All females emerging from a given nest were more similar in size to each other than they were to females emerging from other nests. This may indicate that subordinates were not forced into their roles by inadequate larval nutrition.
25082689|A new subspecies of scutacarid mite from commercial mushroom houses in Delaware and Pennsylvania is described in all life stages. The phoretic relationship of females to the phorid fly Megaselia dakotensis Borgmeier is discussed.
25084977|Comparative data are provided for eggs of nine of the 11 recognized genera in the Holarctic tribe, Arcynopterygini, and these data are used to generate a preliminary phylogeny for the group. Four generic clusters (Megarcys/Sopkalia; Frisonia/Perlinodes/Oroperla; Arcynopteryx/Neofilchneria/Skwala and Setvena/Pseudomegarcys) are established primarily from egg data, but resolution of the Frisonia and Arcynopteryx trichotomies required data from other character suites. Detailed illustrations of the epiproct complex are given for six Nearctic genera to provide additional support for the current generic classification of the group and a standardized terminology is proposed for systellognathan Plecoptera eggs.
25084241|A population of Osmia lignaria propinqua Cresson was field-trapped in Utah during 1974 and force-reared in the laboratory in late January 1975. Emerged adults were transported to an almond orchard in California and released on February 24-25 after nest materials were placed in the orchard. The 600 released females produced 640 cells at two experimental sites within the same orchard. Pollen analyses of cell provisions proved that pollen collecting was restricted to two host plant species, with almond pollen averaging 96% of the total volume. Bee behavior at flowers combined with low mortality counts of offspring reared on almond pollen indicated high potential for use of O. l. propinqua as an effective pollinator of almond.
25082639|This paper is a monographic revision of the Holarctic genus Hilarimorpha Schiner. Twenty-seven species are recognized, twenty-two of which are new: Hilarimorpha abuta, bumulla, californica, clavata, cunata, desta, kena, lamara, lantha, loisae, mandana, mentata, modesta, parva, pitans, punata, reparta, robertsoni, sidora, stena, tampa, and varda. Two described species from Asia, Hilarimorpha maculata and orientalis, are removed from the genus. In addition to a taxonomic revision of the genus, this study treats geographical distribution of the species, and the relationship of the genus to other families of brachycerous Diptera.
25084493|Throughout much of its distribution, V. squamosa (Drury) is a social parasite of V. maculifrons (Buysson), and possibly of V. flavopilosa Jacobson. Analyses of nest architecture and colony developmental parameters revealed that V. squamosa appears to be a facultative social parasite in the southeast where about 15% (19/123) of the nests revealed no evidence of host nest construction and the development of these colonies was substantially behind that of unsurped colonies collected concurrently. However, social parasitism appears to be obligatory in the more northern limits of V. squamosa distribution based on a small sample (20 colonies) of usurped nests from western North Carolina and Indiana. A "typical" V. squamosa colony around Athens, Georgia began in late May or early June with the usurpation by a V. squamosa queen of a very small V. maculifrons colony. Colony growth was retarded until late July-early August when V. squamosa worker numbers began to increase. Concurrently collected colonies during their peak in September through October varied greatly in size, but an average colony consisted of about 1500 workers and a nest of 4200 worker cells. Queen cell construction began in early September and continued well into November, with an average colony producing just under 1000 queen cells. The largest colony from Athens, Georgia possessed 4273 workers when sampled, and the largest nest from the same site contained 11,145 cells. Seasonal duration of colonies was much shorter in western North Carolina and Indiana, and average colony size was about half that in Athens, Georgia. The apparently independently founded V. squamosa nests from Athens, Georgia averaged about 1200 worker cells fewer than concurrently collected usurped nests, but colonies building the former persisted later and constructed a higher percentage of queen cells. Discussions of the evolution of social parasitism and the systematic position of V. squamosa are presented.
25082847|Intensive collecting during July, 1974, around several saline areas in northwestern Oklahoma, east of the "panhandle" area, has resulted in the discovery of Lipochaeta slossonae and Mosillus stegmaieri, two species of brine flies not usually found in inland saline habitats. The records also constitute a significant westward range extension for M. stegmaieri. Descriptions of the four major types of saline areas found in northwestern Oklahoma are given.
25082614|Lasioglossum zephyrum, a primitively eusocial bee, was reared in artificial colonies in the laboratory at different temperatures and day lengths, and in colonies of different sizes. The size of the cell and the resultant bee were found to be highly positively correlated. Cell and bee sizes (both sexes) were inversely related to both the temperature and the day length at which the cell was constructed and provisioned. Increasing numbers of adults in the nest also caused the cells to be larger. Larger bees also tend to construct larger cells than smaller bees. Interactions among these four factors (temperature, day length, number of bees in a colony, and size of the adult bees) and perhaps others determine the sizes of cells that the females make and hence the sizes of their progeny, but in L. zephyrum probably do not determine caste. On the other hand they must influence caste bias, for among individuals of about the same age, queens average larger than workers. Males and cells from which they emerge are smaller than females and their cells made at the same temperature. Males develop more rapidly than females. Rate of individual growth varies with the temperature but work rate does not within the range of 21 to 30 C.
25085578|Attraction of adult northern corn rootworms, Diabrotica barberi Smith and Lawrence, to yellow sticky traps baited with one of a series of structurally related phenylpropanoids (100 mg/trap) was examined by sex at four stages of crop development in two commercial maize fields in South Dakota. Attractant treatments were laid out in a randomized complete block design during favorable weather in 1993 when maize stage was late vegetative (V10+, 8/2-8/4, Field 1), silking (R1, 8/11-8/13, Field 1), late blister to early milk (R2-R3, 8/24-8/26, Fields 1 and 2) and late milk to early dough (R3-R4, 9/1-9/3, Fields 1 and 2). Significant attraction to phenylpropanoid-baited traps occurred during all maize stages tested, except silking (R1), when counts of beetles on plants and direct observation of beetle activity nevertheless indicated the continued presence of northern corn rootworm adults. The highest captures occurred late season (R3-R4). Females were generally more responsive than males, considering their lower numbers on control traps. Ranking of the relative attractiveness of the test compounds to females was similar across seasons (silking omitted) and fields: cinnamyl alcohol  3-phenyl-1-propanol and hydrocinnamaldehyde (phenylpropanaldehyde)  trans-cinnamaldehyde  4-propylphenol. Ranking was also similar between sexes, although only the first three compounds attracted significantly more males than did controls. Neither sex found 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-propanol attractive.
25086149|Phylogenetic studies of the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani) (Hemiptera: Aphididae), based on DNA sequences of the mtDNA cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene, have revealed the presence of three sub-specific clades. Each clade has been found to roughly correspond to a host ecotype, i.e., crops or wild grasses. An alternative method to DNA sequencing followed by maximum parsimony (and other phylogenetic analyses) to classify individual greenbugs to a specific clade was developed. Using published DNA sequences a 525-bp portion of the COI gene was found to contain endonuclease restriction sights that were diagnostic for each clade. Greenbug DNA template was PCR amplified and the resulting products subjected to digestion with DraI plus XmnI, or BclI plus XmnI. The resulting RFLP patterns identified COI haplotypes I, II and III, which directly corresponded to clades 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Furthermore, the DraI plus XmnI digest was diagnostic for biotype H. The PCR-RFLP technique is very efficient and will facilitate genetic studies of greenbug populations that involve hundreds to thousands of individuals.
25084004|Host preferences of bruchids that feed in Cassia seeds are useful as taxonomic characters primarily at the species group level. Many species of Cassia bruchids feed in the seeds of only one host but usually the host supports more than one species of bruchid. Thus, few Cassia bruchids have unique host characters. More often, the species groups of Sennius feed in a subgenus, section or series of Cassia in common. Species groups 1, 5, and 6 of Sennius especially show host specificity to a category of Cassia. A valuable character for Pygiopachymerus lineola is that it exhibits remarkable specificity to the subgenus Cassia. Species groups 2 and 3 of Sennius are not classified as well as the other groups using host preferences because several species in these groups have 5 to 10 hosts, have a wide distribution, and thus are less specific in their choice of hosts.
25086245|A comparative overview of flower visiting by non-Apis bees in the semi-arid to arid areas of southern Africa is presented. This is based on a survey of non-Apis bees and aculeate wasps in these areas. Flower visiting records (16,229) were assembled for 420 species of bees, 375 species of non-masarine wasps and 129 species of masarine wasps. Thirty six plant families were included. Of these 34 were visited by non-Apis bees, 28 by non-masarine wasps, and 22 by masarine wasps. In decreasing order, the ten families which received visits from the highest percentages of species of bees are: Fabaceae, Asteraceae, Aizoaceae, Zygophyllaceae, Lamiaceae, Malvaceae, Acanthaceae, Boraginaceae, Scrophulariaceae, and Brassicaceae. Most bee species visiting Fabaceae visit Papilionoideae unlike wasps, of which most visiting Fabaceae visit Mimosoideae. In the analysis bees overall show a high diversity of flower family choice at the specific level similar to that of non-masarine wasps. All bee families show a range from oligophagy or from narrow polyphagy to relatively broad polyphagy. No species are indiscriminately polyphagous. Two bee families, Colletidae and Melittidae, show a diversity of choice at the specific level lower than that of the other bee families and similar to that shown by masarine wasps. This suggests, for these two families, a relatively high incidence of oligophagy equivalent to that shown by Masarinae.
25084161|Nearctic Peltoperlidae are reviewed and six genera, recognized as valid, are characterized in adult male, adult female, mature nymph and egg stages. Generic keys are presented for males, females and nymphs. Tallaperla, new genus, is described and a phylogeny is proposed for Nearctic genera. Viehoperla zipha (Frison) is placed in synonymy with Peltoperla ada Needham and Smith.
25082950|Three-day-old pupae of the pink bollworm, Pectinophora gossypiella, reared as larvae on diets treated with cytoplasmic polyhedrosis virus (1 
25082984|Neosuris is transferred from the Myodochini to the Udeocorini on the basis of the presence of abdominal mesolaterotergites. New records from Texas, Utah, California and the Mexican states of Morelos, Guerrero, Jalisco and Colima document the wide distribution of Neosuris castanea. Over its large range, N. castanea shows considerable color variation within each population but little geographical variation. Neosuris castanea inhabits open semiarid upper Sonoran biotopes and N. fulgida inhabits arid desert biotopes in the Sonoran deserts of Arizona and California. The distribution, ecology, wing polymorphism and small interpopulation variation are supportive evidence that Neosuris is an old Nearctic fauna element (Paleoamerican) derived from an early Cenozoic invasion from South America.
25086035|A faunistic study of the bees (Apoidea) of a semi-desert in the Transverse Neovolcanic Belt of central Mexico was carried out by systematic monthly collecting, during one year. A total of 259 species, 69 genera and seven families were recorded; 44 are undescribed species, 46 are new records for the state of Puebla and, of these, 3 are also new records for Mexico. The greatest diversity, at the familial level, was found for Apidae, with 33 genera and 92 species and, at the generic level, for Lasioglossum Curtis with 29 species, and Perdita Smith, with 20 species. The greatest monthly diversity was observed during September, when 57 genera were active. The main biogeographic elements found, at the generic level, are of cosmopolitan affinity (22%), neotropical affinity (20%) and of neartic affinity (13%). Our results agree with the prediction that the Tehuacn desert would present a number of species intermediate between the xeric regions of the US and the mesic areas of the Mexican Plateau. Also, the number of species common to the deserts of Sonora and Chihuahua, on the one hand, and Tehuacn, on the other, is low, reflecting differences in the floristic composition of the three regions.
25083694|Disonycha glabrata, a striped flea beetle, was reared at 80F in the laboratory and observed in the field. Its most important food plant in Arkansas is Amaranthus retroflexus L. Eggs were laid in clusters at the base of the plant and on the plant itself. The larvae fed on foliage until after the second day of the third stadium, when they entered the ground and pupated. The adults fed on the foliage, causing typical flea beetle damage. In the case of 104 reared specimens, the eggs required 5.9 days to hatch. The first larval stadium lasted 3.6 days; the second, 2.6 days. The feeding stage of the third stadium lasted 2.9 days; an average of 13.3 days were spent in the soil. Of 13 specimens whose prepupal cells could be examined, the entire third stadium lasted 7.5 days, and the pupal stage lasted an average of 8.2 days. The callow adults remained 2.0 days in the soil.
25085662|Sixty nests of Euglossa atroveneta were studied for one year (May 1990 to May 1991). Euglossa atroveneta females build solitary nests or parasocial nests shared by two, or up to 10 female bees (founder + daughters, or only daughters). The solitary nests were constructed throughout the year but parasocial nests occurred only during the rainy season. Some thirteen of 60 nests were parasited by Coelioxys costaricensis, a megachilid bee that oviposited into open and provisioned brood cells.
25082641|Information is presented concerning host-parasite relationships and ecological preferences of 11 species of larval chiggers from northern Michigan. Euschoengastia michiganensis, new species, is described, type host, Microtus pennsylvanicus, type locality, 6.1 mi. W Pellston, Emmet Co., Michigan.
25085973|With the growing interest in pollinator conservation, a need has emerged for a simple, unbiased method to reliably sample local bee faunas. One method, pan-trapping, has increased in popularity without critical evaluation of its efficacy and biases. We compared traditional net collecting at flowers and pan trapping concurrently, sampling the local bee fauna of the dominant desert shrub, creosote bush (Larrea tridentata) growing at the Silver-bell site of the International Biosphere Program (IBP) nw of Tucson Arizona. Pan-traps on the ground yielded a faunal sample depauperate in many of the more common native bee species on creosote bush, particularly its floral specialists. This pan-trap sample also corresponded poorly with the previous four years' faunal samples at this site, with pairs of neighboring net-sampled sites throughout the Southwest, and with all pairs of bee samples from Larrea across the Upper Sonoran desert. The likely causes of this disparity and the utility of pan trapping for bees in faunal and community studies is discussed.
25481820|Based on the examination of type material, we recognize a new synonym for Camelobaetidius warreni [=C. similis, NEW SYNONYM]. Published records of C. similis have been based either on misidentifications of C. mexicanus or are referable to a previously undescribed species, C. maidu Jacobus and McCafferty, n. sp. Camelobaetidius maidu is described based on male and female larvae from the far western United States and Mexico. It is distinguished from congeners by having a combination of osmobranchiae present on the forecoxae and absent on the midcoxae; claws with relatively few denticles; and a labrum with relatively few setae in the dorsal, submarginal anterior line and relatively many sublateral setae. Diagnoses are provided for the larvae of C. maidu, C. mexicanus, and C. warreni.
25084105|Two studies were conducted involving the common cattle grub, Hypoderma lineatum (de Villers) and the northern cattle grub, H. bovis (L.) on native Indiana cattle. One study consisted of a questionnaire mailed to cattle producers concerning the control and economic importance of cattle grubs. The response indicated that a majority (73%) of the cattle producers treated their cattle for grubs. Of those who treated, 75% used systemic insecticides. It was also revealed that 62% of the producers felt that cattle grubs were economically important to them. Another study was conducted in which cattle grub populations were monitored on native Indiana cattle located on 6 outlying Purdue University farms from late December 1976 to early May 1977. In this survey only H. lineatum larvae were found. Highest infestation levels were observed in February. The infestation count over all animals averaged 0.9 larvae/animal.
25085433|Emergence patterns of aquatic insects from Quebrada Prieta in the Luquillo Mountains of Puerto Rico were compared with those from Fourmile Creek near Lake Erie in Pennsylvania. The tropical site, Quebrada Prieta, El Verde, Puerto Rico was dominated by Ephemeroptera, while the temperate site, Fourmile Creek, Erie County, Pennsylvania was dominated by Chironomidae (Diptera). Seasonality is quite apparent in the temperate site, and there is a degree of seasonality in some groups from the tropical site (e.g., Trichoptera and Psychodidae).
25083865|The chiefly Neotropical subgenus Stenoxylocopa of carpenter bees contains five species, two of which (Xylocopa micheneri n. sp. and X. strandi Dusmet y Alonso) occur in North America and three of which (X. artifex Smith, X. lehmanni Friese and X. nogueirai Hurd and Moure) are present in South America. As far as known, all members of this subgenus excavate their nests in the usually dead culms of bamboo and related plants presumably because of the adaptive features of the female mandible. Systematic and biological information together with discussions of their taxonomy and life histories, as known, is presented.
25086330|A 3 yr survey of the bee associates of flowering accessions of Astragalus and Onobrychis species was conducted in open-pollinated field nurseries at Central Ferry, Washington to gain insight into the potential for bee-mediated inter-accession out-crossing in these nurseries. Such nurseries are used by genebank managers at the USDA-ARS Western Regional Plant Introduction Station (WRPIS), Pullman, Washington, to multiply seed of accessions low in viability and/or supply. Fifty-two species of bees (Hymenoptera) in the Andrenidae (4 species), Apidae (18), Colletidae (1), Halictidae (5), and Megachilidae (24) were recorded. Species-rich genera were Bombus (8 species) and Osmia (16). One undescribed species of Osmia was collected. The bee fauna was more diverse on Astragalus (45 bee species) compared to Onobrychis (29 species). Among the 24 Astragalus and 13 Onobrychis species censused, bee diversity was highest on A. bungeanus Boiss. (24 bee species), A. chaborasicus Boiss. & Hausskn. (24 species), A. miser var. serotinus (A. Gray ex J.G. Cooper) Barney (14 species), A. cicer L. (13 species), A. schistosus Boiss. & Hohen. (12 species), A. onobrychis L. (11 species), A. podolobus Boiss. & Hohen. (11 species), and Onobrychis viciifolia Scop. (10 species). The presence of a rich bee fauna in WRPIS nurseries at Central Ferry, including documented pollinators of the allogamous species A. cicer and O. viciifolia, could complicate efforts to prevent hybridization and maintain genetic integrity of genebank accessions of allogamous plant species. Our results support a 1993 decision by WRPIS curators to discontinue the practice of clustering accessions of single species of Astragalus and Onobrychis in open-pollinated nurseries to regenerate seed.
25085825|The SPAD chlorophyll meter was used to assess tolerance to feeding damage by the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). Grain sorghum [Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench] cultivars considered tolerant by the tolerance index (TI) and measurements of proportional dry weight change (DWT) measurements, also were found to be tolerant in terms of reduced chlorophyll as quantified by the SPAD chlorophyll meter. This result indicated that the SPAD meter could be used as a rapid method of assessing plants tolerant to aphids. Damage progression tests, in which SPAD readings taken days after greenbugs were removed, confirmed earlier work that chlorophyll loss continued in the absence of greenbugs; the rate of chlorophyll loss varied among cultivars studied. The susceptible sorghum cultivar 'KS 86' lost chlorophyll twice as fast as the tolerant cultivar 'Cargill 607E' did. The proportional chlorophyll loss, represented by the SPAD Index, at a specified point in time, as well as the rate of chlorophyll loss (damage progression) could be utilized as a method of assessing tolerance. Sorghum germplasm accessions were screened for tolerance to greenbug biotype I using the SPAD Index. Out of 51 accessions screened, 11 were tolerant enough, as compared to 'NC+ 160' (control), to be tested further. The pooled test of these accessions showed that the germplasm accession PI 550610 was highly tolerant to biotype I greenbug feeding damage; PI 550610 only lost 22.9% as much chlorophyll as the susceptible check. Eight other entries also lost significantly less chlorophyll due to biotype I greenbug feeding damage, than the susceptible check.
25082646|Scolopendrellopsis santa Hilton, a symphylan, was found in two cultivated fields and one wooded area in Missouri. Symphyla were found in concentrated aggregates throughout the field. No economic damage was observed.
25086417|The augochlorine (Halictidae) bee genus Xenochlora is the diurnal sister group to the nocturnal Megalopta, both of which are stem-nesting halictid bees. Here we present notes on the nesting biology and social behavior in four nests of Xenochlora nigrofemorata and one nest of X. ianthina from Madre de Dios, Per. All nests contained multiple females and dissections of X. nigrofemorata indicated within nest reproductive differentiation among females that is associated with body size. Size variation among females is conspicuous and a variety of morphometrics are examined to document it. A genal index is used to describe cephalic variation, and results are compared with seven other halictine bees. All morphometrics were investigated for measurement error. Nests of Xenochlora appear to be founded by single females and multifemale nests clearly exhibit parasocial behavior and we hypothesize that they temporally switch between semisocial, eusocial and possibly communal phases. /// El gnero de abejas Xenochlora (Augochlorini, Halictidae) es el grupo hermano diurno del gnero nocturno Megalopta. Ambos grupos son abejas que construyen sus nidos en madera en descomposicin. Aqu presentamos anotaciones sobre la biologa de anidacin y comportamiento social en cuatro nidos de Xenochlora nigrofemorata y un nido de X. ianthina en Madre de Dios, Per. Todos los nidos contenan mltiples hembras y las disecciones de X. nigrofemorata indican que hay diferenciacin reproductiva entre las hembras de un nido, asociada con el tamao del cuerpo. El polimorfismo entre las hembras es evidente y una serie de mediciones morfomtricas son examinadas para documentar la variacin en tamao. Un ndice genal es utilizado para describir el polimorfismo ceflico y los resultados son comparados con otras especies de abejas halctidas. Todas las mediciones morfomtricas fueron analizadas para determinar el error de medicin. Los nidos de Xenochlora parecen ser fundados por hembras solitarias y los nidos con hembras mltiples exhiben claramente un comportamiento parasocial y es posible que temporalmente intercambien entre fases semisocial, eusocial y posiblemente comunal.
25083024|Females of the digger wasp Diodontus franclemonti Krombein were found to hypermalaxate aphids during a heat wave instead of provisioning their nest with aphid prey. It appears such sequential hypermalaxation is a mechanism for gaining moisture and perhaps avoiding dehydration.
25082582|Female Dasymutilla nigripes were marked with model airplane dope and movement of individual insects on a Michigan sand flat recorded through one summer. The average for the greatest distance between recapture sites lay between 30 and 90 feet; average one-day interval distance between recaptures lay between 5 and 65 feet.
25082997|The infectivity of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus of the alfalfa looper (Autographa californica (Speyer)) to larvae of the southwestern corn borer (Diatraea grandiosella Dyar) was investigated. An oral dose of 1.32 
25085351|The entomopathogenic fungus, Pandora neoaphidis (Remaudire and Hennebert) Humber (Entomophthorales: Entomophthoraceae), was identified as the causal agent of epizootics in the green peach aphid, Myzus persicae Sulzer (Homoptera: Aphididae), on spinach, Spinacea oleracea L., in Arkansas. During February and March of 1990 epizootics appeared to cause the collapse of M. persicae populations on overwintering spinach. Prevalence rates of P. neoaphidis were greater than 90% on 20 March 1990 in both adult and immature aphids on spinach at the Kibler Experiment Station, Crawford Co., Arkansas. The fungus was cultured in vitro on egg yolk agar. In vitro-produced conidia were infective to M. persicae on spinach in the laboratory in preliminary experiments.
25084195|The effects of cold temperatures on greenbug populations were studied by checking consecutive rows of wheat in four fields in Noble County, OK. Temperatures < - 12.2C for one night with temperatures <0C the next day caused slight reductions in greenbug numbers while temperatures < - 12.2C for three nights and <0C for two days caused reductions of 75.5%. Nighttime lows at or <0C appear to prevent population increases. Grazing by cattle for nine days caused a 51% decrease in greenbug populations in one field while continuous grazing caused a 98% reduction in another field. Grazing appeared to have prevented damaging greenbug infestations in both fields.
25085611|Honey bee forager use of flower pigment patterns (patterns) was examined in the context of a repetitive decision process of flower choice made within-visits that occurred over several trips to the flower patch (among-visits). The study examined whether foragers can utilize pattern information alone as the basis for a complex foraging strategy, and if they can, which strategy is used (e.g., energy maximization, risk aversion, individual constancy)? Three experiments were performed: 1) Blue-White Radial-pattern versus Blue-White Bilateral-pattern, 2) Blue-White Radial-patterns with reversed color placement, and 3) Blue versus White flowers (control). When rewards were identical in flower morphs bees foraged randomly. When rewards differed between flower morphs, bees utilized flower pattern to restrict flower visitation to the morph offering the greater caloric reward. Forager behavior thus conformed only to expectations of the energy maximization model. Forager error rate (choice of the flower morph offering the lower caloric reward) within pattern dimorphic flower patches, however, was 32 percent-over three times that observed when only a color dimorphism existed. Bees changed flower morph preference usually on their first visit to the flower patch after rewards were altered, often after visiting just one flower with the lower caloric reward. Increasing accuracy in choosing the more rewarding flower morph on return trips was not generally observed, as might be expected with gradual learning or a prolonged conditioning response.
25082877|The effect of Hypera postica density on attack rate by Bathyplectes curculionis was tested using an open-choice experimental design. Host density had no significant effect on the proportion of hosts parasitized. Host mortality not attributable to normal parasite development was positively correlated with parasite density, suggesting some form of host injury by the parasite. Parasite densities of 1, 2, 4, 8 and 16 parasites per experiment (12.25 sq. ft searching area) had no significant effect on the average success per parasite, indicating that little or no interference occurred at these densities.
25085169|Brachypanorpa sacajawea, new species from northern Idaho and western Montana, is described and illustrated. Size variation, habitat and seasonal occurrence of the species are briefly discussed.
25481791|The invasive cerambycid, Anoplophora glabripennis (Motchulsky) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae), is native to Asia, and threatens numerous species of host trees in Europe and North America. The eradication of breeding populations depends on surveys of host trees, but the suitability of potential hosts has not been measured. Our experiment demonstrates a rapid method to assess the suitability of potential host trees. We compared weight gain over one month by 80 larvae reared in freshly cut logs of eight common hardwood species found in the areas of infestation. From the largest percent weight gain to the smallest, the resulting ranking was Chinese elm, Norway maple, American elm, honeylocust, sugar maple, red oak, white ash, green ash. Although comparisons suggested similar growth by larvae taken from diet to those reared on twigs, larvae from China grew at a greater rate than larvae originating from the Chicago infestation. This technique can be used to rapidly quantify host suitability and identify trap trees to be used for replanting after removal of infested trees.
25085509|The structure of nests of Trypoxylon attenuatum Smith is described, together with information on different prey captured by the females and some parasites that attack the species. The predominance of snare-building spiders as preys is reported. An analysis is made of the data referring to the prey of two other species in the subgenus Trypoxylon: T. clavicerum and T. figulus, and their preferential capture of the same type of spiders. The mature larvae of T. attenuatum and of its natural enemy, Trichrysis cyanea (Linnaeus), are described and compared with others known in the subgenus Trypoxylon and in the tribe Chrysidini, respectively.
25084186|Five species of Brueelia from the Meropidae (Coraciiformes) are discussed and a key is provided. Three new species are described: one from Melittophagus bullockoides, one from Nyctyornis athertoni and one from Merops superciliosus philippinus. A lectotype is designated for B. erythropteri.
25083995|Six new species are added to the genus Folicana, along with additional distribution records on four previously known species. The new species described are F. juga, F. zella, F. marra, F. incerta, and F. saltata. New distribution records are given for F. acrita DeLong and Freytag, F. guianae DeLong and Freytag, F. lata DeLong and Freytag, and F. basalis (Osborn). Specimens of this genus have now been seen from Costa Rica south to Argentina.
25085043|Adults and nymphs of the dragonfly Tachopteryx thoreyi (Petaluridae) are reported from east-central Illinois. This is the first discovery of the immature form in Illinois. The reports of adult Cordulegaster erronea and Zoraena bilineata (Cordulegastridae) are state records for Illinois.
25084944|Ropalidia formosa nests gregariously, often in dense clusters of hundreds of nests. Data for several aggregations at different times of the season suggest that mean nest and colony size is unusually small for a polistine wasp. Groups are also unusually inefficient with respect to the number of cells built per foundress during the pre-emergence period. Males may emerge as the second or third offspring on about one-third of the nests. Approximately half the females develop eggs, but they do not defend their nests against destruction or collection by man.
25084136|The following new species are described: Pamphantus pallidoides, P. trimaculatus (Dominican Republic), P. binotatus (Venezuela); Parapamphantus elongatus (Brazil). A new subspecies dominicanus of Pamphantus atrohumeralis is described from the Dominican Republic. The variability of Pamphantus elegantulus Stl on Cuba is described and the macropterous form of Parapamphantus braziliensis Barber (Brazil) described for the first time. Pamphantus binotatus is the first record of the genus Pamphantus from the Continental Neotropics.
40961680|Scaphidium direptum, a new species from Fujian and Guangdong Provinces of China, is described and its diagnostic characters are illustrated.
25083695|The males usually emerge a few days before the females and function only in mating. Both sexes feed on nectar. The males dig short, shallow burrows as shelters for the night and inclement weather. The gregarious females nest in bare sand areas from late May to early September in New York and slightly earlier and later than this in Kansas. Nesting females begin their activities at about 0830 hours (E.S.T.) on bright, sunny days, but stop at about 1630 hours. They provision at air temperatures of from 21 to 32C. The females construct multicellular nests using the mandibles and forelegs. The loosened sand is periodically pushed up and out of the burrow with the forelegs, and, occasionally, the abdomen. Several facets of this behavior are measurable and these data will distinguish this species from species of related genera. After completing the burrow and first cell, the female usually makes an orientation flight before hunting for prey. The prey, with few exceptions, consist of adult and nymphal mirids (Hemiptera) which are paralyzed, presumably by stinging. Large bugs are carried to the nest in a series of short flights, released outside the entrance, and pulled in by the wasp from inside. Small bugs are carried in one or a few, long flights, and taken directly into the open entrance. After the last bug is placed inside, the female often closes the entrance with sand, oviposits, and constructs a second cell. The burrow is unplugged and the same provisioning sequence repeated until three or four cells are made and stocked with prey. A fully-provisioned cell contains from 2 to 24 bugs. In New York, up to 16 genera of Miridae and one species of Coreidae are preyed upon, whereas in Kansas only Lygus lineolaris (Miridae) is stored. The bugs are usually smaller than the wasp and weigh about half as much. The mass of prey in a single cell weighs about four times as much as the wasp. Many bugs are placed in the cell ventral side up and head inward, but some are put in other positions. From one to three prey are sometimes sealed off in the burrow in front of the cell, possibly to mislead parasites and keep them from entering the recently stocked chamber. The wasp often oviposits on the heaviest individual in each cell. The egg, 1.2  0.4 mm, is attached by the wide, cephalic end to the bug's thorax, near the base of either midcoxa. In a few nests, females oviposited only on the left or right such areas. After ovipositing on a bug in the last cell, the female fills the nest with sand. This sand is removed from the walls of the burrow with the mandibles, thrown backwards with the forelegs, and tamped into place with the tip of the abdomen.
25086046|Allodinopsis, an unusual new genus of deinopsine staphylinid, represented by two new species: (Allodinopsis howdeni n. sp., type locality, Panama, Chiriqui Province; Allodinopsis pecki n. sp. type locality, Costa Rica, Osa Peninsula) is described; A. howdeni n. sp. is designated as the type species. Allodinopsis is similar to and closely related to Metadeinopsis Klimaszewski, and characters and illustrations are provided for distinguishing Allodinopsis from Metadeinopsis and for distinguishing the two known species from each other. Characters supporting a sister group relationship between Allodinopsis and Metadeinopsis are discussed. A new species of Metadeinopsis (Metadeinopsis ferox n. sp., type locality, Ecuador, Sucumbios Province), is also described. Characters and illustrations are provided for distinguishing this species from all other known species of Metadeinopsis. A revised key to the World genera of the aleocharine tribe Deinopsini is provided.
25086440|New country records are given for three species of the Neotropical Dohrniphora longirostrata group: D. bicostula Kung and Brown is recorded from Brazil and Peru, D. oricilla Kung and Brown from Mexico, and D. perpendicularis Kung and Brown from Brazil. A further new species in this group, D. protensa n. sp., is described from Brazil, and is compared to the similar D. longirostrata (Enderlein).
25085231|A new mydid fly, Nemomydas hooki, n. sp. is described and illustrated from specimens collected in Bastrop and Bexar Counties, Texas. A holotype male, 10 paratype males and 2 paratype females are designated. This species is most similar to N. solitarius (Johnson), and the characteristics for their separation are summarized. The existing taxonomic key to the group is modified to include the new species. Ecological notes on the habitat of this species is also presented.
25086055|The fine cuticular structures of the wax gland pores in the fourth instar nymph of the dictyopharid planthopper, Scolops abnormis Ball (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha: Dictyopharidae), are described for the first time, based on scanning electron microscope observations. The abdominal tergites 6-8 of the nymph of S. abnormis bear three pairs of wax plates on postero-lateral regions. The wax plates are directed caudad, nearly oval with long axis vertical and are covered with numerous, very small, flower-shaped wax gland pores. Each unit of a wax gland pore is composed of a central, somewhat plum blossom-like disc with four to six "petals" (3.90-6.50 m in diameter) surrounded by four to six hollow tubules (five and six being the more common number encountered; about 1.32-1.66 m long, 0.63-1.18 m in outside diameter, and 0.17-0.48 m in inside diameter), which are bordered by 3-5 nearly rounded, shallow cavities (about 2.20-2.75 m in diameter) with a central dome (cap diameter 1.67-1.81 m). The cavities surrounding the central disc have smooth rims with the side adjacent to the wax pore being distinctly ridged, the length of the ridge being 2.44-3.48 m. The wax gland pores observed in S. abnormis are externally similar to those found in nymphs of species of the Cixiidae and Achilidae.
25084266|Nodules and sensory pits on the abdominal tergites of nine tingid species vary at the levels of subfamily, tribe, genus, subgenus, and species. Variation consists of differences in presence, size, degree of clustering, and distribution, both on different tergites and between sexes.
25085815|The alkali bee, Nomia melanderi Cockerell, is solitary but nests in dense aggregations which may cover many acres and contain millions of individuals. Adult emergence is protandrous with the first males preceding the first females by a day or two to a week or more. Males patrol the nesting site searching for newly emerged, receptive, virgin females. Aggressive interactions between males are rare. Only newly emerged females are receptive to mating. Receptive females are located by males using pheromonal cues. The probable source of the female sex pheromone is the abdomen. Mating takes place on the surface of the bee bed and generally lasts fewer than 30 seconds. Females appear to mate only once after which they become non-receptive. Non-receptive females remain attractive to males for less than a day during which they may be repeatedly pounced upon by a succession of males. By the time females have begun to nest their attractiveness has waned and they are not bothered by males.
25082619|A world sorghum collection was evaluated for resistance to the maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais Motsch., and the 50 most resistant entries were studied. Entries that retained glumes that completely enclosed the seed, were nearly immune. Higher resistance was found among Indian entries than African entries. Among several species and strains of Sitophilus tested, an Arkansas strain of the maize weevil produced the most progeny among the sorghums.
25085971|The miltogrammine fly, Miltogramma rectangularis, is a common and widespread brood parasite of the large Australian native bee, Amegilla dawsoni. Recently eclosed flies emerged from the underground brood cells of the bee and walked rapidly across bare ground to reach cover in the vegetated fringe of the nesting area. While walking, the flightless flies were vulnerable to bird and ant predators, but they may have minimized their exposure by maintaining a constant compass orientation until a perch was found. Once perched inconspicuously, the flies spent about an hour inflating and hardening their wings before they were able to fly. At some sites, males located, courted, and mated teneral females in a scramble competition mating system. Although hundreds of flies emerged from parts of some nesting areas over several weeks, adult females seeking to larviposit on passing bees were generally scarce. The proportion of brood cells lost to the parasite was low (under 5%). As a result, it seems unlikely that parasite pressure by the fly contributes greatly to the male size dimorphism that characterizes A. dawsoni, because even if brood provisions intended for large sons were at greater risk of exploitation by the parasite, the percentage lost would still be too small to outweigh the great mating advantage experienced by the larger males.
25085569|Eggs and late instar nymphs of two endemic Mississippi stoneflies, Alloperla natchez Surdick and Stark and Haploperla chukcho (Surdick and Stark) are described. Nymphs of both species are pale brown with obscure pigment patterns and eggs are elongate oval with short stalked collars.
25083664|Athysanella (Amphipyga) attenuata Baker is illustrated and a new species, Athysanella (Amphipyga) redacta, is described and illustrated. Both species were collected from an upland reseeded western wheatgrass pasture near Hays, Kansas.
25084659|Examination of genetic distances and identities based on enzyme electrophoretic variation at 28 loci provides an independent confirmation that, by normally accepted taxonomic standards, the genus Euphydryas should not be split into several genera.
25086269|Two species of milkweed (Asclepiadaceae) are especially abundant in portions of eastern North America. Common milkweed, Asclepias syriaca L., is most abundant in the northern United States and southeastern Canada, while honeyvine milkweed, Cynanchum laeve (Michaux), is most abundant at central latitudes in the eastern half of the United States. The former is frequently cited as an important host plant for larvae of the monarch butterfly, Danaus plexippus L. (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), while the latter is rarely mentioned in this regard. We compared the performance of monarch larvae on these two plant species. Larvae developed significantly faster on honeyvine milkweed than on common milkweed. Average pupal fresh weights appeared to be slightly greater for individuals reared on common milkweed than those reared on honeyvine milkweed, but the difference was not statistically significant. Similarly, larval survival was about 14% higher on common milkweed, but the difference was not significant. Our results indicate that both common milkweed and honeyvine milkweed are suitable hosts for monarch larvae. Given the abundance of honeyvine milkweed in the east-central United States, this species may be a more important host plant for the monarch than has been generally recognized.
25085103|Male western cicada killer wasps (Sphecius grandis) defend mating territories in nesting aggregations. The territories encompass areas from which receptive females emerge. Most males observed in copula were active on territories when their mates emerged. Large males have an advantage in territorial disputes, and the mean winglength of males found in copula was larger than the mean of the general male population. Residency status had little influence on the outcome of disputes. Age did seem to influence the ability of males to defend and secure territories; most takeovers of territories were by younger males. Small males succeeded in securing and defending territories, but usually on the periphery of the nest aggregation or at times when the primary resident males were absent. Some small males employed a nonterritorial mating tactic.
25085065|The panurgine bee Perdita bradleyi Viereck nests in dry sand near Auburn, Alabama, during late April. Phenology, adult activity, and nesting characteristics are described, representing the first nesting records for this subgenus and the third nesting record for any Perdita species in the eastern United States.
25084533|Female Stictia heros in Costa Rica nested in a large (1500 wasps) aggregation as well as in scattered, small (<20) clusters. They individually provisioned unicellular nests progressively with a variety of flies. Burrows were deep (x = 68 cm) and inner and outer closures were maintained at all times. Cell cleaning and the digging of accessory burrows were observed for the first time in the genus Stictia. These behaviors probably contributed to the low incidence of predation on and parasitism of larvae (2 of 23 excavated cells contained dipteran maggots or puparia). Cleptoparasitism of prey by conspecific females was commonplace.
25084099|Hesperapis (Panurgomia) carinata Stevens is reported for the first time from the eastern United States on the basis of a collection made from Helianthus petiolaris in Henderson County, Illinois in August of 1979.
25084118|Territorial behavior in males of the anthophorid bee Centris adani Cockerell was investigated primarily in 1975, 1976 and 1980 in the Costa Rican dry forest. The study revealed that territories were commonly established in certain dry grassy habitats and to a lesser extent in the crowns of flowering trees that are visited by conspecific females for pollen and/or nectar. Regardless of site there was a high turnover of bees in the territories, which suggested active competition among the males. A citral-like chemical was deposited systematically by males on grass stems that surrounded given territories in grassy habitats. It is suggested that territorial behavior in this bee serves a mating function. Observations and experiments also indicate that an important odor communication exists between male and female bees associated with the territories. This communication may be important in consummating a mating event.
25085726|The non-coding intergenic region of the Apis cerana mitochondrial genome provides a rapidly evolving source of characters for study in intra-specific biogeography. We sequenced the non-coding intergenic region in bees from 110 colonies of A. cerana collected over most of the species' range. We found two major forms of non-coding sequence: a western form, occurring in bees from India, Sri Lanka and the Andaman Islands; and an eastern form, occurring in bees from Nepal, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Hong Kong, Korea, Japan, and India. Thus the eastern and western haplotypes co-occur in India. Within the eastern form, phylogenetic analysis of sequence variation indicated two well supported groups of haplotypes: a "Sundaland group," which was found in bees from peninsular Malaysia, Borneo, Java, Bali, Lombok, Timor, and Flores; and a "Philippine group" which was found in bees from Luzon, Mindanao, and Sangihe. Haplotypes from both the Sundaland group and the Philippine group were found on the island of Sulawesi, suggesting that this island was colonized independently by two groups of A. cerana. In addition, the bees of Taiwan and a third group of Sulawesi bees had mitochondrial haplotypes characterized by absence of most of the non-coding sequence. Variation in the sequence of the remaining non-coding region, as well as comparison of coding sequences with other populations of A. cerana, indicate that these are independent deletions of the non-coding region.
25085475|Yield losses caused by different densities of western bean cutworm, [Loxagrotis albicosta (Smith)], egg masses and young larvae in field corn [Zea mays (L.), Pioneer 3475] were studied in replicated field cages in Perkins County, Nebraska, during 1989 and 1990. Treatments consisted of four egg masses per plant, one egg mass per plant, ten young larvae per plant, three young larvae per plant and an uninfested caged check. Infestations were timed to correspond with the natural occurrence of western bean cutworms each year. Larval density at dent stage and total grain yield were measured. Linear regression equations were calculated to describe the relationship between larval density at dent stage and total yield. Yield losses during the two years averaged 3.7 bu/acre for each western bean cutworm larva per plant at dent stage. Average survival to mature larvae in the field cages during the two years was 3.3  0.4% for eggs and 21.6  2.1% for young larvae. Economic injury levels for western bean cutworm egg masses and young larvae are presented.
25085637|More than 200 chironomid species have been recorded from European cold-water springs. This is about 20% of total chironomids described from Europe. Orthocladiinae dominates with 51% followed by Tanytarsini, Tanypodinae and Diamesinae with 16%, 13% and 11%, respectively. Chironomini makes up only 6%. This proportional distribution is in accordance with the cold stenothermic nature of most Diamesinae and many species of Orthocladiinae and Tanytarsini. Due to very different habitat conditions the numbers of taxa vary from a few species in some limnocrenes and rheocrenes to a maximum of 95 in helocrenes. The high species richness in helocrenes is equivalent to the maximum richness otherwise found in 3rd to 4th order streams, and is caused by high heterogeneity in substrate, temperature and current within small distances. Chironomids associated with springs can be classified into seven groups: (1) crenobiontic species restricted to the spring area, (2) crenophilous species with maximum abundances in springs, (3) lotic species also living in the spring area, (4) lentic species occurring mostly in limnocrenes, (5) ubiquitous species, (6) madicolous species, and (7) terrestrial species.
25083761|Multiple forms of face fly head acetylcholinesterase (AChE) were resolved electrophoretically in acrylamide gel. Three soluble zones were present; however, the major portion of the AChE was associated with various particulate centrifugal fractions and was extractable with the detergent Triton X-100.
25082419|A nesting aggregation of Ptiloglossa guinnae n. sp. was observed in a wet montane region of Costa Rica. The excavated nests are peculiar in the "sink trap" form of the lateral burrows and the lack of cell closures. The construction of cocoons is also peculiar. The pollen probably comes from the Melastomaceae, but the yeasts proliferating in the watery provisions seem to be a major component of the larval diet. The relationships between illumination intensity and activities of the adult bees are described. Maximal and minimal illumination limits for flight initiation are estimated. Males exhibited territoriality at the nest site but were present only in the early morning. Females flew at both dawn and dusk. The nomadine bee Odyneropsis gertschi is a parasite of Pt. guinnae and a mimic of the social vespid Polybia mediamexicana. A laelapid and an anoetid mite were found on immatures and adults of Pt. guinnae.
25082456|The genus Nepenthosyrphus de Meijere is reviewed. It is placed in the tribe Tropidiini of Milesinae. Keys to the world genera of Tropidiini and species of Nepenthosyrphus are presented. The original description of Nepenthosyrphus capitata (Sack), tobaicus de Meijere, and oudemansi de Meijere are translated into English and N. venustus is described new.
25085395|A new Brazilian species of Acherontides Bonet is described and illustrated. Information about its ecology is given and a key to American species is included.
25082484|Insect collections made by an aquatic trap fitted with a black light and an identical trap fitted with a cool white lamp are compared. Collections of insects from these traps and from surface cone traps are also compared. The black light attracted more Chaoborus punctipennis (Say), Diptera adults, and Trichoptera; greater numbers of Hemiptera and Ephemeroptera were attracted to cool white lamps. An improved aquatic trap is described.
25082557|Collections of larvae and pupae of Rhyacionia bushnelli Busck, the western pine tip moth, from various locations in Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Montana yielded 24 species of parasitoids in seven families of Hymenoptera and one family of Diptera.
25083638|The types of 24 Nearctic species are reviewed. This includes Hesperodiamesa and Saunderia, new genera. Eight new generic combinations are given: Diamesa confusa (Garrett), Odontomesa lutosopra (Garrett), Hesperodiamesa sequax (Garrett), Nanocladius distinctus (Malloch), Saunderia clavicornis (Saunders), S. marina (Saunders), S. pacifica (Saunders) and S. nemalione (Tokunaga). Orthocladius (s.s.) currani, new species, is described. Diamesa banana Garrett is listed as a new synonym of Diamesa heteropus (Coquillett); Orthocladius (Trichocladius) distinctus var. basalis is given as a new synonym of Nanocladius distinctus (Malloch).
25084547|Analysis of variance with regression shows that elytral length and width in Eusattus muricatus LeConte are inversely associated with altitude and latitude over a very large geographic area. A sigmoid relationship of body size to environmental variables is indicated. Populations of beetles from northern Baja California depart significantly (P < 0.002) from predictions of regression. Unknown dietary, climatic, or genetic factors may contribute to the small size of Baja specimens.
25085307|Nesting soils of 32 species of fossorial bees were sampled from diverse habitats across the continental United States. These soils classified texturally as sands or loams. Broadly diverse values for bee size, cell depth, soil moisture and texture, and average annual precipitation and temperature were represented in the sample, but each varied independently from the others, and was not predictable from a bee species' familial or tribal affiliation. Bee species secreting markedly different Dufour's gland lipids, which are used to waterproof the walls of their subterranean nest cells, could be found nesting under similar edaphic and climatic conditions.
25083950|Honey bee, Apis mellifera L., colonies equipped with modified Todd dead bee traps had significant reductions in adult worker populations and in sealed brood when compared with colonies not equipped with the traps. The Wardecker waterer, previously shown to be beneficial in certain stress situations, also produced significant reductions in both adult worker populations and sealed brood when used in combination with the dead bee traps.
25085539|The stoneflies of Illinois are reexamined more than fifty years after the classic paper by Frison (1935). Nomenclature in Frison's paper concerning Illinois stoneflies is updated. Four species are deleted and six species are added to the most recent North American species distribution list. Additional species will be added when specimens of three Perlidae species complexes are examined. Extensive collecting will continue in an effort to verify the current status of the Illinois stonefly fauna.
25084293|A comparison was made of 3 insecticides impregnated in cattle ear tags for controlling face flies, Musca autumnalis DeGeer, and horn flies, Haematobia irritans (L.), on pastured cattle. Ear tags tested included 10% permethrin, 8% fenvalerate and 13.7% tetrachlorvinphos. With the permethrin tags 2 herds were used, one with 1 tag installed per head and the other with 2 tags per head. With both fenvalerate and tetrachlorvinphos 2 tags were installed per animal in each respective herd. In both permethrin herds and the fenvalerate treated herd horn fly control averaged better than 95% for the 17 week test while in the tetrachlorvinphos herd control averaged 88%. Face fly control with permethrin using 2 tags and 1 tag averaged 64% for 7 weeks and 73% for 3 weeks, respectively. Face fly control averaged 66% for 7 weeks with fenvalerate and 57% for 5 weeks with tetrachlorvinphos.
25086111|The tribe Fideliini comprises thirteen species in two genera, Fidelia Friese and Neofidelia Moure and Michener. Fidelia includes four subgenera, Fidelia, Parafidelia Brauns, Fideliana Michener, and Fideliopsis Engel (new status), with three, two, two, and five species. All are southern African, except for Fidelia (Fideliana) ulrikei Warncke from Morocco. Neofidelia has two South American species. Three new species of Fidelia (Fideliopsis) have been described: Fidelia fasciata, F. borearipa, and F. hessei; and lectotypes are designated for F. braunsiana Friese, F. aliceae Cockerell, F. paradoxa Friese, and F. friesei Brauns. A key to the species of Fidelia is provided, and for each species a diagnosis is included.
25082413|In Lasioglossum zephyrum, a very primitively social bee, overwintered queens deprived of their workers do not resume cell construction and provisioning, or are long delayed in doing so. Workers, therefore, may not play a role in inhibiting queens from foraging. Workers reared by and living with overwintered queens seem not to differ from those reared in the absence of a queen. The overwintered queen seemingly plays no role in inhibiting ovarial development of at least some of her workers.
25084248|A new winter stonefly, Taeniopteryx nelsoni n. sp. is described and figured from specimens collected in southwestern Virginia. A holotype male, allotype, 22 paratype males, and 16 paratype females are designated. Characters separating adults and nymphs from similar species are summarized and the existing taxonomic keys to the group are modified to include the new species. Other species of winter stoneflies associated with the new species are reported along with observations on its biology and habitat.
25083820|Twenty-three oxidation lagoons in central Missouri were studied from 1964 until June 1967. Eighty-four species of aquatic insects representing 71 genera, 31 families, and 6 orders were collected and identified. The chironomids Glyptotendipes barbipes, Tendipes plumosus, and Tanypus punctipennis comprised more than 94% of the total insects collected from all lagoons. Polyurethane oviposition blocks were found useful in assessing mosquito egg raft production and as an oviposition site for Ranatra fusca P. B.
25083452|The systematic history of the family is outlined. The five genera of the Ephemerellidae are divided into three subfamilies. The new subfamily Teloganodinae includes the genera Teloganodes Eaton, Ephemerellina Lestage, and Teloganella Ulmer; those previously named are Ephemerellinae including only the genus Ephemerella Walsh, and Melanemerellinae with the genus Melanemerella Ulmer. The nominal genus Austremerella Riek is tentatively regarded as a subgenus of the genus Ephemerellina, and the monotypic genus Teloganopsis Ulmer is reduced to a subgenus of the genus Ephemerella.
25084185|Smartweed borers, Ostrinia obumbratalis (Lederer), did not survive on a meridic diet used for rearing the European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner). "Lotus borers," Ostrinia penitalis (Grote), were reared for 2 generations on the meridic diet; all larvae died on the diet in the 3rd generation. Three ECB male moths were observed in copulation with 3 smartweed borer female moths, and one ECB male moth was observed in copulation with one lotus borer female moth. After death, the 4 females were dissected. The bursa copulatrix did not contain spermatophores; thus, matings were not successful. All eggs from crosses were sterile. We think that if the smartweed borer and European corn borer or lotus borer and European corn borer attempt to mate in the wild, the mating is either unsuccessful or if successful all eggs are sterile.
25084072|The cocoon orientation of Osmia (Osmia) lignaria lignaria Say in trap-nests was studied. The hypothesis that provision position had a major influence on cocoon orientation was examined. Manipulation of cell contents showed that provision position did not play a major role in correct cocoon orientation in normal nests of this species.
25083700|Laboratory studies were conducted to determine the potential amount of organic matter returned to the soil, and breakdown rate of hardwood, as a result of the activity of the horned passalid, Popilius disjunctus Ill. Over a 30-week period a decaying oak log was physically broken down to small particles by passalids. The beetles were disturbed each week during the first 12 weeks in order to collect frass. During this period, 509.1 g of beetle feces and debris were produced by seven adult beetles. The average frass production per beetle per week was 6.1 g, with each beetle producing five times its live weight in dry frass per week. During an additional 18 undisturbed weeks, a total of 162.4 g of frass was produced by six beetles.
25084736|Insect samples were collected from guayule, Parthenium argentatum Gray, using a D-Vac vacuum net during 1979-1983. Most of the 107 species of arthropods identified are herbivorous, but may not necessarily be destructive to guayule. Lacebugs, especially Corythucha morrilli Osborn and Drake, Xyonysius californicus (Stl), Nysius spp., Lygus spp., Empoasca spp., and Acanthoscelides pallidipennis (Motschulsky) were the most commonly collected species that could be considered potential pests of guayule, while Orius tristicolor (White), Nabis alternatus Parshley, and Geocoris pallens (Stl) were the most common species generally considered to be beneficial forms. Peak populations of most of the species collected occurred during the warmer months of the year.
25085048|Altitudinal collections on filth and carrion baits during wet and dry seasons in central Peru yielded 724 stingless bees among 33 species. Thirteen meliponine species are herein recorded as new to Peru. Bees were distributed below 1600 m on the wet eastern Andean slope, the majority appearing at 200 m, and were absent on the drier western slope. Fewer bee species were captured at baits during the dry season than wet, and near dense human settlements than pristine jungle sites. Decaying fish proved to be the most attractive filth bait, followed by human feces, liver, dog feces, and fruit in descending order of attraction. The diurnal activity of all bees on such baits in the lower jungle is unimodal, peaking at 1200 hr and 31C under a partly cloudy sky, then declining abruptly at temperatures of 36C in direct sunlight. The staggered succession of diurnal activity of 3 meliponine species is documented at fish bait. Although stingless bees visit foodstuffs and excrement, their role as disseminators of disease pathogens is considered minimal because of their asynanthropic nature, and anti-microbial properties of their glandular secretions and nest building materials. Observations of rapid bee reduction of carrion and aggression towards blowflies (Calliphoridae) suggest that stingless bees are intense diurnal competitors of blowflies for carrion resources in asynanthropic areas of the Neotropical lower jungle.
25084973|The names of some species and subspecies of Chinese fleas are discussed, and Diamanus mandarinus Jordan and Rothschild, 1911, is placed as a junior synonym of D. montanus (Baker, 1895).
25084464|A spitting spider, Scytodes sp. (undescribed), from Texas is the first reported host for the mantisfly, Mantispa fuscicornis (Neuroptera: Mantispidae). The mantispid pupa is figured and the biology of the host and parasite is discussed. This is the first report of any mantispid associated with a haplogyne spider.
43288258|This research considered native Mayan stingless bees, Melipona beecheii, with special attention to decrease in their managed colonies. From a total of 155 beekeepers located in 60 communities, 58 were randomly selected to survey in 2011. Their experience ranged from less than one to 50 years, and initial colonies from one to 100. Both structured and open interviews were conducted. Participants generally reported they believed bees were obtaining less food, which could produce colony loss. The present and a previous survey in the Zona Maya show colony loss averages 4-5% each year. In this study, during an average of 10 years, 27 beekeepers lost none, 9 lost all, and the remainder lost 44% of their colonies. Further analysis revealed colony loss had no association with relative habitat disturbance, presumed Africanized honey bee abundance, or beekeeping experience. However, those initially with more colonies in a meliponary lost them at a greater rate, indicating competition for food. Initial colony number was near 11, but currently is near 4 per meliponary. Little colony propagation (husbandry) was the norm until recently, when initiatives including meliponiculture workshops stimulated more husbandry. Twenty-six percent of beekeepers had less than one year experience and they began meliponaries using wild colonies. Because established meliponicultors were found to very seldom rely on new wild colonies, increased husbandry efforts are necessary to offset natural mortality of managed colonies. Five meliponicultors increased their colonies over 300% in two years (40 to 123 colonies), whereas a 34% loss in nine years (480 to 206 colonies) was found among the individuals randomly surveyed.
25082482|Redescriptions of the adult males of the five nearctic species of the genus Nyctiophylax are given together with descriptions of two new species: N. banksi and N. denningi. Two names used in connection with nearctic species, N. vestitus (Hagen) and N. fraternus (Banks), are designated nomina dubia, while a third, N. zelenus Denning, is shown to be a synonym of N. affinis (Banks). A key to the males and notes on the distribution of the North American species are included.
25083004|The nearctic species of Ammoplanops, including six previously known and six new ones, are revised. Keys are presented to both sexes. Floral relationships are outlined. Distributions, which appear to be all west of the 100th meridian are discussed.
25084390|A survey of resistance by the house fly, Musca domestica (L.), to dichlorvos was conducted in Dawson and Lincoln counties in western Nebraska. Tolerance levels for flies collected from feedlots with a history of dichlorvos use increased through the fly season. Likewise, tolerance levels for flies collected from feedlots where no insecticide had been used showed an increase. The highest tolerance level recorded was 7.82 times that of the baseline Gainesville susceptible fly strain.
25082982|Vespula arctica parasitized 65% of 20 colonies of V. arenaria collected between 1972 and 1976 in central New England. A newly invading parasite queen may be attacked by her host, but within a day the attacks subside and the parasite is accepted as a nestmate. During her first day in a V. arenaria nest the parasite queen grooms her abdomen unusually frequently. The V. arctica queen in the most closely observed colony did not forage for nectar, prey or construction material. She was fed by the V. arenaria queen and later by the workers. She frequently solicited labial gland secretion from the larvae, just as did her hosts, but she fed larvae less frequently than her hosts. When feeding larvae the V. arctica queen did not drum her abdomen on the comb as did the V. arenaria queen and workers. The V. arctica queen frequently dragged her gaster over the nest envelope around the entrance, while the host queen and workers were never seen to do this. The parasite did not contribute to nest construction. Two V. arctica queens dissected in mid-June were found to have Dufour's glands 4-8 times the length of the same organ in a V. arenaria queen.
25082975|Cohabitation of spiders during their reproductive periods has rarely been reported. This paper describes an intraspecific and interfamilial cohabitation of female spiders guarding egg sacs under loose aspen bark.
25084155|The Nearctic species of Banasa Stl (Pentatomidae) are reviewed. Two species, B. rolstoni and B. tumidifrons, are described as new from the western United States. B. imbuta is removed from Banasa and 5 species are placed as synonyms of B. dimidiata. A key to the 11 species is provided with diagnosis, distribution, and host plants given for each.
25082817|The Nearctic Acroneuria are reviewed. Twelve species, placed in seven groups, are recognized. Acroneuria flinti, new species, is described for female and ovum and a female holotype designated; A. petersi, new species, is described for the male and a male holotype designated. Diagnoses of male, female, nymph and ovum are presented for other species and males are keyed. Diagnoses and descriptions are supported by original drawings and stereoscan photomicrographs. Lectotypes are designated for A. arida (Hagen) and A. carolinensis (Banks).
25083701|Range extensions are noted for the comparatively rare flea beetle species Pseudolampsis guttata (LeConte), Distigmoptera pilosa (Illiger), D. apicalis Blake, and D. borealis Blake. The first three of these species are now known from South Carolina, while the fourth species is newly recorded for both North and South Dakota. Distigmoptera foveolata Balsbaugh, from South Carolina, is described as new. While no specific host plants are noted, D. borealis has been collected from among a plant community of the following species: Psoralea argophylla Pursh, P. esculenta Pursh, Artemisia frigida Willd., A. ludoviciana Nutt., Stipa comata Trin., S. viridula Trin. & Rupr., Polygala alba Nutt., Petalosternum purpureum (Vent.) Rydb., and Achillea lanulosa Nutt. The remaining species were collected from black light traps, tanglefoot screens, in hollow trees, or else were washed up on a beach. Size range (length) for the separate sexes is recorded.
25082848|Descriptions and distributions are given for the known Paracymus from the Australian faunal region and P. blandus, P. pacatus, P. desolatus, and P. simulatus are described as new. A key to the species is included.
25084800|Digging workers of Formica pallidefulva, a crater builder, show a marked response to changes in the angle of slope of the surface on which they are transporting and depositing excavated sand particles. With increasing incline ants transport the excavated sand particles over increasing distances. By contrast Formica subsericea, a mound builder, show a weak response or no response to changes in slope. This behavior may be correlated with the absence of a regular crater on the nest entrance.
25085215|The direction of recent research into the use of pheromones and food attractants for detection, monitoring and control of stored-product insects is considered. The value of the moth pheromones has been clearly demonstrated both within premises and outdoors. Further work on the composition of pheromones produced by moths and on trap design may be desirable. Recent progress with the beetle sex pheromones includes the design of a new Khapra beetle trap and further studies on the stereochemical complexity and inhibitory isomers of anobiid pheromones. Promising advances are also being reported with the beetle aggregation pheromones with new trap designs, newly identified components and synthetic material free from inhibitory isomers. Further study is needed to elucidate how species specificity is maintained between species whose pheromones are closely related chemically, and to investigate the synergistic interaction with food attractants. The potential of food attractants alone as non-specific lures is exemplified by work with extracts of crushed carob pods. There is a growing number of examples of the successful use of these attractants but many aspects of their effects on insects are not yet fully understood. Full exploitation of the potential of attractants for stored-product insects still needs further research in virtually every area of the subject from initial characterisation to the development of a suitably simple combination of trap and lure for practical use.
25084702|Field studies were conducted to determine the potential of alfalfa fields as early-season nurseries for biotic agents of green cloverworm (GCW), Plathypena scabra (F.), mortality in soybean. Low levels of Nomuraea rileyi (Farlow) Samson infection in alfalfa GCW populations were detected in June and early July. Inocula from N. rileyi-killed larvae in alfalfa fields may disperse to surrounding areas and contribute to the nearly simultaneous development of N. rileyi epizootics in alfalfa and soybean GCW populations during late July and August. Parasitoid activity and number of predatory arthropods were greater in GCW populations in alfalfa fields than in soybean fields, especially during the early season. Very likely, these biotic mortality agents emigrated from harvested alfalfa fields to nearby habitats, including soybean, where host populations were more abundant or the habitat was more suitable.
25085716|The diversity and abundance of bees foraging on highbush blueberry at two cultivated and two uncultivated sites in central New York was studied in 1989. Species richness was high on both cultivated and noncultivated sites; however, only 6 of 42 species were routinely collected. Bees other than Apidae comprised the majority of collections on all sites, with Andrena species being the most abundant. A Vaccinium-specialist, Andrena carolina, was commonly collected at both uncultivated sites and one cultivated site. Bee abundance was similar among all sites, except that honey bees were more numerous at the cultivated site where colonies had been placed, and total bees foraging per flower was greater at the commercial field. It appears that abundance was less than that seen in other studies on highbush blueberry; however, because of different methods it is difficult to compare the results. The use of a standard method of measuring abundance that includes timed observations on a defined number of flowers is recommended for future studies of this kind.
25085704|During copulation the species-specific male genitalic surstyli of Achisepsis diversiformis and A. ecalcarata grasp the female's abdomen near her 6th abdominal sternite. Variation in the sites grasped by the male and the lack of female structures that limit male access rule out several versions of both mechanical and sensory "lock and key" explanations for the differences in male morphology. Alternative hypotheses for surstylus function are discussed; a combination of physical restraint and stimulation of the female seems most likely.
25085695|Anaphes iole Girault has been reported to parasitize Lygus lineolaris Palisot de Beauvois eggs in several crops but not in strawberries. The ability of A. iole to parasitize L. lineolaris eggs in strawberries was evaluated. A. iole will parasitize and inhibit the development of L. lineolaris eggs in strawberry plants.
25084608|Pea aphids (PA), Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris), were confined separately and with convergent lady beetles, Hippodamia convergens Guerin-Meneville, to stems of two alfalfa cultivars ('Baker'-PA resistant, and 'Vernal'-PA susceptible) under three temperature regimes which represented the average monthly temperatures in Nebraska for May (10 to 23.3C) through August (18.8 to 32.2C). Higher rates of PA fecundity were observed on Vernal plants than on Baker plants at all temperature regimes. Fecundity decreased with an increase in temperature from 7.8 offspring/PA adult at the low temperature to 3.5 offspring/PA adult at the high temperature on Vernal. Increased temperatures also reduced PA fecundity on Baker but reproduction remained below 2.3 offspring/PA adult for all temperatures. The percentage of PA consumed did not differ between adult lady beetle groups (post-diapaused and newly emerged), cultivars, and days. The percentage of PA consumed increased with temperature regime from 29.6%, and 39.0%, to 88.5%. Lady beetle larval development and PA consumption did not differ between cultivars. There was a significant temperature  cultivar  instar interaction and temperature appears to have less effect on feeding rates in the larvae than in the adults.
25083798|Brief descriptions and keys to larvae and adults are given for the African genera of allodapine bees. The following new genera are proposed: Halterapis, Braunsapis, and Allodapulodes.
25082466|A nest of a leafcutter bee, Megachile centuncularis (L.), was found in a larval gallery of the carpenterworm, Prionoxystus robiniae (Peck), in green ash. Damage by this or other species of Megachile is common on trees in shelterbelts.
25085849|Xestochironomus aisenensis n. sp. from southern Chile is described and illustrated as male and female imagines and Xestochironomus laselvensis n. sp. from Costa Rica is described as male imago.
25085677|Two larval Chauliodes (Megaloptera: Corydalidae) were found in a population of the purple pitcher plant (Sarracenia purpurea L.) in Big Run Bog, Tucker County, West Virginia. The dobsonfly larvae, both nearly mature, were recovered in a sample of 107 leaves from plants collected in May, 1995. The alimentary canal of one dobsonfly larva contained chironomid larvae (Diptera: Chironomidae). This is the first report of dobsonflies in S. purpurea.
25082948|Data on the biologies of 7 species of Missouri tingids are presented. Species studied include Corythucha associata, C. bulbosa, C. juglandis, C. pallida, C. pergandei, Gargaphia tiliae, and Leptopharsa heidemanni. Observations on mating, oviposition, and nymphal behaviors, as well as seasonal occurrences and host plants are recorded. C. associata and C. juglandis are here reported as new records for Missouri.
25085096|The effects of density and cannibalism on growth and development of the southwestern corn borer, Diatraea grandiosella, and the European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis, were examined. Larvae were grown on an artificial medium at densities of one, two, or four larvae per cup. D. grandiosella was reared under diapause-inducing and diapause-averting conditions, O. nubilalis was reared under diapause-averting conditions, and equal numbers of larvae of both species were reared together under diapause-averting conditions. D. grandiosella showed a higher rate of cannibalism than did O. nubilalis. In experiments with D. grandiosella, only rarely did more than one individual survive per container. Cannibalism may contribute to the increase in development time with density that was observed in these treatments. The survival of individuals that develop slowly is favored if individuals that grow more quickly have a higher risk of being cannibalized during larval molting cycles or as pharate pupae or pupae than do more slowly growing individuals. Since males develop more quickly than do females of D. grandiosella, this proposed relationship could also explain the low survival of males compared to females of this species. Furthermore, since O. nubilalis develops more quickly than does D. grandiosella, the proposed relationship could explain the low survival of O. nubilalis in mixed cultures. Competitive effects within and between species at higher density may also have contributed to the increased number of days to pupation, even though food was not limiting. A decrease in larval and pupal weights with density was observed in D. grandiosella and in females of O. nubilalis grown under diapause-averting conditions.
25084267|The association between scotocryptine beetles (Coleoptera: Leiodidae: Scotocryptini) and meliponine bees (Hymenoptera: Apidae: Meliponinae) in the Neotropics is reviewed and new information is given for species studied in Panam. The blind and flightless adult beetles were twice found riding on the hind tibia of Melipona interrupta triplaridis, upon which they grasp the fringing setae of the corbicula between two deep mandibular notches. Other scotocryptine mandibles possess such notches, suggesting similar phoretic activity. The phoresy presumably allows dispersal of the beetles to other nests. Nests of Melipona fasciata fasciata and M. interrupta triplaridis without the beetles soon acquired them after transfer to a hive and placement in an area where scotocryptines occupied other meliponine nests. Transfer of phoretic beetles to new hosts probably occurs at the persistent mud collecting areas of stingless bees, where phoretic beetles were observed on hosts. An individual beetle was seen crawling rapidly within a small area at one such site. That a species of scotocryptine is not specific to the nest of a particular meliponine, and several species of Melipona and Trigona use the same restricted areas for mud collection, further support this view. Since the sister group of the Scotocryptini is known to feed on epigeous fungi and slime-molds, adult and larval scotocryptines may feed (in part) on fungi which were seen growing on the fecal masses within a nest of M. f. fasciata. Analysis of the gut-contents of several adult scotocryptines indicates that much pollen is consumed and the presence of some hyphae and spores supports the idea that fungi form at least one part of the diet; we suppose that both pollen and fungi are from the fecal masses of the nests.
25085988|These studies looked at the impact of soil nitrogen (N) levels and wheat, Triticum aestivum L., resistance on the Russian wheat aphid, Diuraphis noxia (Mordvilko). In the first experiment, susceptible 'Stephens' and resistant breeding line '10085-5' were grown in the laboratory and fertilized with 100%, 10% or 1% of the normal concentration of N in Hoagland's solution (Hoagland and Aron, 1950). The second experiment was run simultaneously and was similar, except plants in each fertilizer treatment were infested with 15 fourth-instar D. noxia. In the first experiment, 10085-5 was significantly taller and heavier than 'Stephens' at all N levels. Higher N applications had a positive effect on plant height and wet and dry weights within a wheat type. In the second experiment, aphid-infested wheat plants weighed less and were shorter than wheat in the first experiment. Higher N applications resulted in taller and heavier plants within a wheat type. Aphid-infested 10085-5 weighed more than infested 'Stephens' at all N levels. 'Stephens' and 10085-5 did not significantly differ in height within an N level. D. noxia tolerance in infested 10085-5, as indicated by change in height and final plant dry weight, decreased as N levels decreased. 'Stephens' had significantly more aphids than 10085-5 at all N levels tested. However, N level did not have a significant effect on aphid numbers within a wheat variety. Thus, N levels did not affect antibiosis, as measured by aphid numbers.
25083779|The established genera Adoristes, Liacarus, and Opsioristes are briefly reviewed. Three new genera are erected: 1) Dorycranosus, n. gen., with Liacarus abdominalis Banks, 1906, as type species, and D. frontalis (Banks, 1906), D. columbianus (Berlese, 1908), D. glaber (Ewing, 1909), D. magnilamellatus (Ewing, 1909), D. floridensis (Berlese, 1910) (a lectotype is selected), D. fusiformis (Ewing, 1917), D. aequidentatus (Ewing, 1918) as new combinations from the United States, Dorycranosus paoliensis, n. sp., from Indiana and D. alatus (Berlese, 1903), D. punctulatus (Mihelcic, 1956), D. keretinus (Dalenius, 1963), D. mongolicus (Mahunka, 1964) and D. acutidens (Aoki, 1965) as new combinations cited from outside the United States; 2) Procorynetes, n. gen., with Liacarus nigerimmus Berlese, 1916, as type species, and P. globifer (Kramer, 1897) as a new combination; and 3) Rhaphidosus, n. gen., with Liacarus carolinensis Banks, 1906, as type species, R. carbonaria (Banks, 1906) as a new combination and Rhaphidosus acuminatus, n. sp., from Colorado.
25085512|Two adult male Nepa apiculata Uhler (Hemiptera: Nepidae) were collected from Crawford Co., Missouri. This is the first substantiated report of this species from Missouri.
25085494|Patterns of Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) biology were studied at photoperiods of 16:8, 14:10, 12:12, 10:14, 8:16, and 6:18 (L: D). Aspects of biology studied included flight activity of a lab and field strain, and oviposition, egg hatch, developmental time and larval-pupal survival for the lab strain. Egg hatch and larval-pupal survival were unaffected by photoperiod. The longest scotophase significantly delayed development, increased egg production and reduced flight. Oviposition was highest at 8:16. Young females at all photoperiods had a higher rate of oviposition than older females. Flight occurred primarily throughout the photophase, and the number of flights did not vary with sex. Flight activity of 3- and 6-day-old adults was significantly higher than that of 9-day-old adults. Adults from the field strain flew more frequently than those from the lab strain. Time of day did not affect the flight patterns of lab-strain adults, but field-strain adults flew more frequently in the first 2 hr of the photophase at all photoperiods. Based on photoperiod alone, this study suggests that young R. dominica should tend to fly more in the summer during wheat harvest and oviposit more in the late fall, winter and early spring.
25082886|Coelus is considered to include 5 species of fossorial beetles which inhabit sand dunes in Pacific coastal North America. C. ciliatus Eschscholtz and C. globosus LeConte occur on dunes from Baja California to British Columbia and northern California, respectively. Through most of its range C. globosus is narrowly restricted to foredunes immediately bordering the sea, while C. ciliatus occurs from the immediate coast up to several km inland. These species show a great deal of morphological variation, particularly in body size and cuticular sculpturing. C. pacificus Fall occurs on the California Channel Islands, C. maritimus Casey in central and northern Baja California, and C. gracilis Blaisdell in dunes bordering the San Joaquin Valley of California. These three species are relatively monomorphic. C. globosus and C. gracilis appear to be endangered by increasing habitat destruction by industrial and recreational use. Generic descriptions are provided for adult, larva and pupa. Adults of each species are separated in a key and described. New synonymy: Coelus ciliatus Eschscholtz 1829 = Coelus arenarius Casey 1889; Coelus pacificus Fall 1897 = Coelus remotus Fall 1897; Coelus maritimus (Casey) 1890 = Coelus pallens (Casey) 1908.
25086344|A survey of Formicidae was conducted in the Tombigbee National Forest (Ackerman Unit) in Winston and Choctaw Counties, Mississippi. Collections were made with pitfall traps from 15 March 1999 to 6 March 2000 and with other collecting methods on various dates from the spring of 2002 through the fall of 2004. A total of 27 genera and 72 species representing 7 subfamilies are reported from the Tombigbee National Forest. Seven new state records are given, as well as records of several rare and uncommon species. Habitat and microhabitat information are given for each species.
25085783|A total of 9 ant species were sampled from four sites covering 2000 km in the Amazon Basin using banana fruit baits: two sites on the Juru River, one site on the Xing River and in a dry forest of eastern Amazon, Paragominas. Camponotus abdominalis was present in all sites, and Camponotus sericeiventris, Camponotus sp. and Crematogaster sp. were present in two sites. All other species were present in only one site. Paragominas had the highest species richness because of a higher number of site restricted species. However, Jaccard faunas similarities among sites were not significantly related with distance between sites. Mosaic diversity showed a relatively simple taxonomic composition. The strong differences of the fauna sampled at banana fruit baits from other reported Neotropical ant faunas suggests that the fauna represents widespread fugitive species in an apparently complex environment.
25083456|Investigations of the effects of isotopic irradiation in producing mutations in the wax moth, Galleria mellonella L., required a careful study of the morphological features of this insect in order to detect variants from the normal. This study covers the external morphology from the egg to, and including, the imago. Of the eight larval instars, the last was chosen for this study. The larval stages seem to be morphologically identical, although we have not made a careful study of the early larval stages. The chaetotaxy of the larval and pupal stages is established by the study. Sex distinctions have been determined for the pupa, but not for the larva. In our stocks some differences in larval structure, from that reported by other authors for Galleria larvae, have been noted.
25085708|We investigated signalling behavior in relation to social context in the cicada Fidicina mannifera. Four types of acoustic signals were recorded from males: songs, calls, low-amplitude songs, and disturbance sounds. Signal types were similar in frequency and fine temporal structure, but differed markedly in gross temporal structure. Songs and calls were the most frequently observed signals, and these differed in the social context in which they were used. When inter-male distance were large, males produced songs, overlapping them with songs of neighboring males. As nearest-neighbor distance decreased, males switched to calls, which were typically alternated back and forth between males. Bouts of calls often were followed by a parallel walk display, which apparently was involved in settling disputes over calling sites.
25082807|Oviposition-site characteristics of the elm leaf beetle, Pyrrhalta luteola (Mueller), were studied on Siberian elm, Ulmus pumila L., at Manhattan, Kansas, during 1972, 1973, and 1974. Studies in in-tree egg distribution showed 61.7% of the egg clusters were laid on the lower parts, the remaining 38.3% in the upper parts, of the trees. Significantly more eggs were laid on the east and south sides of trees than on north and west sides. As many as 20.8% of the leaves on a twig studied bore egg clusters (x = 10.9%), but clusters were distributed randomly among leaves of twigs without significant relation to leaf age. Of field-collected egg clusters, 90.3% were on leaf undersurfaces, 9.6% on upper. Egg clusters on upper surfaces were randomly distributed, but 74.8% of those on undersurfaces were placed at least partially in contact with veins; the remainder were placed without any vein contact. Additionally, eggs placed on leaf undersurfaces were grouped significantly toward the petiole ends of leaves. In laboratory-control studies, under even lighting, females distributed eggs randomly, with respect to ends or sides of leaves. Field-collected egg clusters ranged in size from one to 47 eggs. Mode was 22 eggs, and the mean 18.9 eggs per cluster for 1,382 clusters examined.
25083879|This paper is the first in a series that will examine the arthropods associated with live oak, Quercus fusiformis and Q. virginiana, in urban and natural areas in Austin, Texas in 1975. Information on study sites, taxonomy and phenology of the host plants, and on the methods used to sample the arthropods is presented in this paper. Reference is made to subsequent papers in which taxonomic, biological and/or ecological information will be presented on all represented groups.
25084129|The nest site and nest structure of Andrena (Melandrena) dunningi Cockerell is described. The structure of the cells and provisions is discussed. Features of male and female behavior are also discussed. A description of the mature larva is given.
25085491|Comparative results were obtained on in-nest biology, late embryogenesis, and immature development of two leafcutting bee species (Megachile rotundata (Fabricius) and Megachile apicalis Spinola) to determine how these closely related species are partitioned. M. apicalis applied nectar to the nest tube prior to constructing each leaf cell and also added nectar to the lip of the cell prior to cell capping whereas M. rotundata did not. M. apicalis also constructed cells with fewer leaf pieces (6-10 versus 14 in M. rotundata) but used fewer leaf pieces per cell (6-8) near the end of the nesting cycle while M. rotundata utilized the same number of leaves throughout nesting periods. The embryos of both species actively twisted in rotating 180 on their long axis which is similar to rotation methods observed by us in other megachilid taxa but different from other families (i.e., Colletidae). Both species developed through 5 instars even though M. apicalis eclosed from the chorion as a second instar and M. rotundata eclosed as a first or second instar. We conclude that Apoidea undergoes four larval molts and 5 instars and suggest that one or more instars were missed in previous studies reporting fewer than 5 instars. Variability in embryonic and larval developmental rates at constant temperatures indicate genetic plasticity. However, developmental rates were not found to be correlated with diapause induction with either species.
25084192|Female Ixodes scapularis Say, the black-legged tick, were parasitic on cattle between October and April in southeastern Oklahoma; the density of females on individual bovines and the number of infested head/herd were highest in November. Male I. scapularis were observed on the host near feeding females or crawling through the hair coat (but not attached) between October and January; numbers of males per host were greatest in December. On cattle, 78% of all female I. scapularis were attached to the head, ears, dewlap, and neck; males were also most frequently observed on the head (including the base of the ears). Each sex was observed only infrequently from the shoulder area posteriad.
25083603|Anthidium manicatum L., native of Europe, was identified from specimens reared from trap nests near Ithaca, N. Y., in 1963. Additional specimens were taken on Caryopteris in September, 1964 and 1965. Males are distinguished from native species by abdominal hair tufts and carinae; females are separated by characters of the clypeal margin and pattern of abdominal maculations.
25082903|Two new Trombidium species are described, T. hyperi and T. auroraense, both ectoparasites of adult alfalfa weevils, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal). The nymph of T. hyperi was reared and correlated with the larva, supporting the suspected synonymy of the nymphal Acarus holosericeus L. 1758 with the larval A. parasiticus DeGeer 1778.
25084478|The pollen loads of 131 Andrena (Melandrena) dunningi females were studied to determine their pollen preferences during the 1980 and 1981 flight season in Putnam Co., Indiana. The females showed a decided preference for common spring-flowering shrubs (Physocarpus, Viburnum) and trees (Malus, Pyrus, Prunus, Crataegus).
25085414|This study examined the rates of movement and orientation behavior of larvae of a willow flea beetle, Altica subplicata. Mark-recapture techniques were used to determine rates of residency and colonization of Salix cordata host plants growing on sand dunes in northern Michigan. Larvae frequently moved between plants, with over 15% of larvae found on the first day after marking on plants other than the original plants on which they were marked. Larvae moved an average of 43 cm/day in a southerly direction, away from the shore of Lake Huron. Plant height did not affect the proportion of larvae remaining on original plants nor the proportion of larvae moving to other plants. Plants with higher larval densities, however, had a greater proportion of larvae remaining in one of the experiments. Larval size also significantly affected the proportion of larvae remaining on plants for one of the experiments. Larval orientation was tested by placing a larva in the center of a circular arena with an object placed at various positions at the edge of the circle. Larvae did not positively orient to vertical sticks, S. cordata plants or to S. cordata leaves in a mesh bag, indicating a lack of visual or chemical orientation to host plants. However, larvae showed a positive visual orientation and moved faster towards larger objects (simulated by a clipboard).
25084899|A summary of trichodectid records is given for the five species of North American foxes, including finding Neotrichodectes mephitidis (Packard), a common louse on the Striped Skunk, on the Island Gray Fox from three of the off-shore Channel Islands and on the Gray Fox in Santa Barbara County, California.
25085360|We used an X-band radar unit to document honey bee (Apis mellifera) drone flyways and drone congregation areas (DCA's) in a nearly flat desert area. Within an approximate 5.0  2.0 km area adjacent to a commercial apiary, 18 km of flyways and at least 26 DCA's were located. The studies conducted during March and April in each of 4 years (1987-1990) confirmed that the location of flyways and DCA's were re-established day after day and year after year. Based on film records of radar images, our definition of a DCA is that site ( 100 m diam) where drones fly higher and are more numerous than in adjacent flyways. Flyways formed alongside the most prominent structural or physical features-e.g., tree lines formed in washes-but these flyways also branched, particularly when additional tree lines became visible on the near ( 200 to 250 m) horizon. Most DCA's occurred at these branch points; thus, the accumulation of drones at a DCA may be a result of rapid turning and altitude changes as the drones re-orient and select their next flight direction. The maximum height of drones in flyways was 21 m, whereas in DCA's they flew mainly from 30-50 m above ground. Flyways are more predominant than DCA's, and contain large numbers of drones. It is suggested that queens flying within or to the upwind side of flyways should attract sufficient drones to become easily mated.
25083399|The following species of Laelaspis are described: L. dubitatus associated with Aphaenogaster ants, Georgia; L. longipilis from lumber foundation, Arizona; and L. brevichelis associated with Crematogaster ants, Kansas.
25083697|New species of crane flies include Austrolimnophila (Austrolimnophila) byersiana and Limonia (Neolimonia) scabristyla, from Mexico; Limonia (Dicranomyia) borinquenia, Limonia (Dicranomyia) torulosa, Shannonomyia parvicellula, Hexatoma (Eriocera) luteicolor, and Hexatoma (Eriocera) melanonota, from Puerto Rico; Teucholabis (Euparatropesa) angustifascia, from Peru; Teucholabis (Teucholabis) homilacantha, from Ecuador; and Teucholabis (Teucholabis) megaphallus, from Colombia.
20621955|As part of a long-term arthropod biodiversity study, we operated six Malaise traps in Dyke Marsh Wildlife Preserve (DMWP), Virginia from April 1998 through December 1999 and obtained 104 adult mecopterans in five species. They were present in samples from late May through early November. Samples indicate that as a group, the mecopterans were more abundant in the forest than in the marsh and the forest-marsh ecotone, and the mecopterans had a female-biased sex ratio. Two of the trapped species are uncommon or of limited distribution in North America. Malaise traps can be used efficiently to survey and monitor certain mecopteran species in DMWP and similar places. To understand the mecopteran biodiversity and phenology in the Preserve more completely, it would be worthwhile to survey the entire Preserve for at least 10 yr with all appropriate sampling methods.
23356038|Although the world-famous Elmo, Kansas fossil insect beds were discovered by E. H. Sellards at the turn of the twentieth-century, the first entomologist to systematically and critically study the insect fossils collected there was the renowned British scientist Dr. Robin John Tillyard (18811937). Tillyard spent his entire entomological career living in New Zealand and Australia, and most of his work on the Elmo fossils was done with specimens collected by the Yale Peabody Museum and shipped to him in New Zealand. But he also took a number of trips to London and Europe, travelling by steamship to the west coast of the United States, then across the country by rail, and by steamship again from the east coast of the U.S.A. to London, then back by the same route. He stopped in Kansas several times on these cross-country excursions, and was known to have visited the Elmo fossil locality on at least three occasions. Recently rediscovered photographs, taken by Kansas State University entomologist, Dr. Reginald H. Painter on field trips in 1928 and 1933, document Tillyard's visits to the fossil beds in the company of a number of Kansas entomologists.
25082607|Distributional data are presented for the thirty-four species of Plecoptera known to occur in Oklahoma. Of the twenty-five common eastern species found in the state, nine are widely distributed, ranging as far west as the Arbuckle and Wichita Mountains, and sixteen species are more restricted in distribution. The other nine species are local and regional endemics which have descended from eastern lineages. Seven species are new records for the state.
25083842|Fifty chrysomelid species were collected during two summers. Correlations of abundance of Paria thoracica, Ophraella notulata, O. cribrata, Zygospila suturalis casta, and Pachybrachis pubescens with the host plants were made. Suggestions of number of generations, extended distribution records, and seasonal abundance are given for several species.
25083545|Nine species of leafhoppers and three species of membracids were collected at Brookings, South Dakota, in yellow pan water traps that were used in 1960 and 1961 primarily to collect aphids. The occurrence of leafhoppers and membracids in yellow pans is rare. It was not determined if the insects were attracted to the yellow color, carried accidentally by wind, or knocked from surrounding vegetation. Apterous specimens of Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch) were collected in the traps also.
25083477|New species are Graphomya panamensis (females) and cubana (both sexes). Variation in middle tibial bristles of G. maculata are noted. A key to neotropical females is presented.
25082643|A neotype is designated for the lost type of Cylorygmus lineatopunctatus d'Orchymont. Illustrations of the neotype, its distinguishing characteristics, and its biotope are provided. Also, the type-locality and the climatic conditions of the biotope are discussed.
25082559|Three previously described species of Knullana, K. perexigua (Ball), K. huachuca DeLong and K. plummeri DeLong, are illustrated in order to compare the aedeagal structures with the newly described species K. krameri n. sp.
25082595|The topical drop technique was used to establish the
25083940|The genus Xylophagus (Diptera: Xylophagidae) is revised for the Nearctic Region. One new species is described and five species are relegated to synonymy. The relationships among the Nearctic and Palaearctic species are discussed. Keys to species, with descriptions and distributions of each Nearctic species are provided.
25084611|Larvae of Tipula commiscibilis Doane crawl, burrow and swim by waves of muscular contraction that start at the posterior end of the body and pass anteriorly. During crawling and burrowing, contraction of the muscles of the dorsal body wall immediately precedes contraction of those of the ventral body wall of the same segment. During swimming, a wave of dorsal contraction passes completely along the body before the wave of ventral muscle contraction starts.
25086235|Over a five year period, 419 nests of Mischocyttarus collarellus were found on 128 structures in and around La Selva biological research station in Costa Rica. The nest of this species is different from that of many other independent-founding polistines, in that it has a distinctly horizontal petiole and outward-facing cells (rather than a vertical petiole and downward-facing cells). Nests were sometimes situated on vertical surfaces, but were most often attached to the underside of a substrate leaning up to 20 from vertical. A few nests (about 6%) were found on buildings, but most were found on trees with smooth, peeling, or flaking bark. The four tree species found most commonly to bear nests were Psidium guajava, Cecropia obtusifolia, Vochysia guatemalensis, and Bactris gasipaes. Nests were found on tree trunks and primary branches, never on foliage or twigs. Median nest heights above ground were 250-350 cm, ranging from under 50 to over 850 cm. A systematic search of trees in an area of known high nest density demonstrated that even experienced searchers may miss at least 27% of nests in a given area. Nests were never found to reach densities greater than 54 nests/hectare or occupy more than about 12% of apparently possible nesting structures, even in a stand of a preferred tree species.
25082971|The species of the genus Derobrachus Audinet-Serville occurring in the United States are reviewed. D. forreri Bates is reestablished as a species and D. leechi is described as new.
25084429|Female receptivity to mating in Trichadenotecnum alexanderae Sommerman is found to be restricted to the period between an initial teneral state and the onset of oviposition. Females are only able to mate once. Unmated females are able to reproduce by parthenogenesis (thelytoky), but mated females apparently never reproduce by parthenogenesis. Non-teneral males are able to mate at any time and are capable of mating repeatedly. Biparental reproduction in populations of T. alexanderae may be promoted by the males' long survivorship, long duration of mating receptivity, and repeated mating ability. Other promoting factors may include a sex-attractant pheromone produced by females and a patchy distribution of populations. A restriction of mating receptivity must be considered when tests for hybridization are used to determine the reproductive mode of females of a uniparental-biparental species complex.
25084455|Populations of Auletobius cassandrae (LeConte) and Pselaphorhynchites perplexus (Blatchley) associated with the sweet fern, Comptonia peregrina (L.), were studied in Wisconsin, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. Females of both species oviposit in and cut the terminal leaf primordia of the host plant. Larval development and pupation, in both species, occurs within the primordia on the ground. Immature stages are described for the first time and the larvae and pupae are illustrated. In addition, the larvae and pupae are compared with each other and with characters previously established for other known immature Rhynchitidae.
25082365|Populations of Ageneotettix deorum deorum (Scudder) from Kansas and Nebraska exhibited similar food preferences. Big bluestem, Andropogon gerardi, from both states was acceptable, but plants from Kansas were more digestible by both grasshopper populations. Western ragweed, Ambrosia psilostachya, was not acceptable to either population; mixtures of ragweed and bluestem resulted in reduced consumption and digestibility.
25085196|Males of the tarantula-hawk wasp Pepsis thisbe patrol regular routes hundreds of meters in length, often along dry desert washes, where they inspect trees, shrubs, and large cacti in an apparent attempt to locate receptive females. Patrolling males will sometimes approach and mount females foraging at flowering plants on their routes. Many males visit the same plants, particularly flowering Acacia greggii. No apparent aggressive interactions occur among males. It is puzzling that males of P. thisbe have a mating system based on scramble competition whereas the sympatric tarantula-hawk Hemipepsis ustulata employs a landmark-defense mating system. The differences in male mate-locating behavior exist even though receptive females of both species are apparently scarce and widely dispersed both spatially and temporally.
25082439|Inconsistencies between the nomenclatural systems proposed by Fain (1963), Gaud (1965) and Atyeo and Gaud (1966) are discussed, especially those pertaining to the setae of the ventral and terminal idiosoma.
43288259|Four new species of the genus Olidiana are described and illustrated from the southern part of China (Oriental Region): Olidiana clavispinata Fan and Dai, new species, O. dendritica Fan and Dai, new species, O.longa Fan and Dai, new species, O. longiforma Fan and Dai, new species.
25085190|Randomly selected lots of farm-stored Kansas wheat were sampled at 65-day intervals to determine their physical and insect-related quality characteristics. The effectiveness and the total insect-related cost (including possible price discounts) of various recommended insect-control chemicals were determined. In November, lots that had been treated with a grain protectant or fumigant contained fewer live insects/1000 g, on the average, than lots that had received neither treatment. In January, fumigated lots and lots that had received no chemical treatment contained a mean of 1.4 live insects/1000 g, whereas the mean for protectant-treated wheat was 12.1. In the fall, malathion treatment was associated with the lowest, total, insect-related cost. However, in the winter, the lowest cost was associated with lots that had received no chemical treatment.
25085614|Two new parasitoid species, Monoctonus washingtonensis sp. n. and Praon yakimanum sp. n. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae: Aphidiinae), reared from cereal aphids [Diuraphis noxia (Kurdjumov) and Rhopalosiphum padi (L.)] in Washington State are described and illustrated.
43288215|Four new species of Camponotus are described in Turkey: C. (Myrmentoma) aktaci C. Karaman new species, C. (Myrmentoma) anatolicus new species, C. (Myrmentoma) hirtus new species, and C. (Myrmentoma) abrahatmi Forel 1913 and C. (Tanaemyrmex) oasium Forel, 1890 are reported for the first time from Turkey. We reexamined the C. fedtschenkoi material collected in Eastern Anatolia and identified the material as similar to C. buddhae. Therefore, C. fedtschenkoi is a dubious record for Turkish ant fauna. An identification key for all known Turkish species of Camponotus is presented.
25082382|The South American species of Artemita are reviewed, with a key and distributional data. New species are A. latifrons, Peru and Ecuador, and banksi, Canal Zone. A. argentea Osten Sacken is a valid species, not a synonym of convexa (Walker), and A. aureostriata (Enderlein) is a synonym of A. argentea, not of A. convexa. A. podexargenteus Enderlein is a valid species, not a synonym of A. hieroglyphica (Wiedemann).
25084711|The results of field and laboratory observations on the bionomics of Tetralonia hamata Bradley are presented. Nests of 2 bees were discovered in June 1982 at a site in east central Illinois. Observations of female behavior at their nests were made on 4 days. During this time T. hamata females were observed foraging only on red clover (Trifolium pratense). Both nests were excavated and nest and cell structure are described. Information on larval development is presented. The mature larva and the structure of the cocoon are described and illustrated. Parasites of T. hamata were Meloe americanus (Coleoptera: Meloidae) and a parasitic nomadine bee (Anthophoridae). Aspects of the biology of T. hamata are compared with those of other known eucerine bees.
25084315|Ingestion of adult lady beetles (Coleoptera: Coccinellidae) by ring-necked pheasant chicks, Phasianus colchicus L., was rare but when occurring elicited distress symptoms in the bird. Although possessing warning colors, lady beetles without elytra were still avoided but similarly marked bean leaf beetles, Cerotoma trifurcata (Forster), were readily ingested, suggesting olfactory recognition is involved.
25084634|The Bolivian Apista gaullei Vachal and A. limbella Vachal (a probable synonym of gaullei) are transferred from the Diphaglossinae to the paracolletine genus Eulonchopria. A key to the species of Eulonchopria and some North American records of the genus are included.
43288255|Twig girdlers are beetles that girdle branches and trunks of living trees so that they can deposit their eggs in incisions made by their mandibles. There are few studies about the biology and ecology of the girdler Oncideres ocularis Thomson, which is considered a potential pest of forest plantations that can cause injuries to tree species of the family Fabaceae. The objective of this study was to increase knowledge related to the biological phases and the ecological patterns of girdling and oviposition of O. ocularis. Field studies were conducted at four plantations of Acacia mangium Willd located in the cities of Coimbra and Viosa, State of Minas Gerais, Brazil. The incubation period of eggs was 12.1  0.2 (SE) days and viability was 61% (n = 70). The number of egg incisions per girdled branch was 17.27  1.0. The great number of eggs was laid in the mid-basal and middle sections of branch with a mean of 5.80  0.38 and 4.97  0.3 eggs on these portions. The base diameter of the girdled branches was 9.88 mm  0.18 and the mean length was 99.21 cm  2.23. A girdled branch by O. ocularis led to an average loss of leaf area of 4233.05 cm per tree that corresponds to 0.46% of total leaf area. Other beetles that emerged from the girdled branches were Engyum quadrinotatum (Thomson), Orthostema abdominale (Gyllenhal), Nesozineus bucki (Breuning) and Lepturges sp.
25082836|Six morphologically distinct types of epidermal gland cells and their distribution are described from the pterothorax and abdomen of Adranes taylori. Four types are intimately associated with various groups of trichomes possessed by this beetle. All six types of gland cells are variations of class 3 gland cells. Types 1 and 2 resemble in morphology the sex pherome secreting gland cells of male Harpobittacus. Types 3a + b and 4a + b are similar to cells 2a + b in the defense glands of Eleodes and the cells comprising the pygidial glands of Bledius. Cell types 5 and 6 were not investigated in detail. However, type 6 is presumed to have a lubricating function due to its distribution.
25082320|Two new species of Mallophaga, Lipeurus lewisi and Oxylipeurus songprakobi, are described and illustrated for material taken on the ferruginous wood partridge, Caloperdix o. oculea, from the Malay Peninsula.
25083864|A population of Lithurge chrysurus has been established in Phillipsburg, New Jersey for at least three years. Both the bee and its host, Centaurea maculata, are native to the countries bordering the western Mediterranean Sea. These gregarious bees excavate nests in soft and hard wood, causing serious damage. If this bee were to spread, it would become a serious pest of wooden structures in the northern United States. Cells are completely packed with pollen and separated by wood-dust partitions. The partitions are sometimes omitted. Larvae are like those of other lithurgines. The description of the pupa is the first for the Lithurginae.
25085161|European corn borer larvae (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), reared for 22 years (one generation each year on maize, Zea mays L., plants; eight generations each year on a meridic diet) on resistant inbred lines of dent maize did not develop biotypes than can overcome the resistance of inbred lines CI31A and Oh43. Furthermore, ECB larvae reared for 22 years on resistant lines maintained their ability to survive on susceptible inbred line WF9. Resistance in maize to leaf feeding by first-generation ECB is conditioned by eight genes. Polygenic systems should provide protective advantage over monogenic systems against development of insect biotypes.
25083803|A new species, Amyrsidea oculeae, is described and illustrated for material taken on the ferruginous wood partridge, Caloperdix o. oculea, from the Malay Peninsula.
25084913|Eleven species of Collembola are reported from two localities close to Buenaventura, Colombia: Cangrejal in Punta Arenas and Punta Soldado in Isla Soldado. The following new species are described: Xenyllodes palaciosi (first record of the genus from the Neotropical Region), Lepidocyrtus nilatus, Salina dedoris, S. hermana, and Sphaeridia aserrata. The following represent new records for Colombia: Brachystomella agrosa Wray, Cryptopygus thermophilus (Axelson), Isotomurus cf. yamaquizuensis Winter, Lepidocyrtus nigrosetosus Folsom, Calvatomina rufescens (Reuter), and Calvastomina discolor (new combination and status for Dicyrtomina rufescens v. discolor Schtt).
40783243|The first termites in Early Cretaceous (Albian) amber from Spain are described and figured. Morazatermes krishnai Engel and Delcls, new genus and species, is described from an imago (and wings of a second specimen) preserved in fossiliferous resin from Moraza, Burgos Province. A second termite species, Cantabritermes simplex Engel and Delcls, new genus and species, is also recorded from the same deposits but is presently known only from the forewing. Similarly, an isolated forewing in amber from San Just, Teruel Province is described as Aragonitermes teruelensis Engel and Delcls, new genus and species. Lastly, the first termite in Late Cretaceous (Campanian) amber from Grassy Lake, near Medicine Hat, Canada is described from a fragmentary imago lacking wings or much of the body. All of these taxa belong to a primitive grade of unassigned termites between Mastotermitidae and the families Termopsidae, Hodotermitidae, and Archotermopsidae (sensu Engel et al, 2009). Notes are appended on the recently described "Kalotermes" burmensis Poinar, from the latest Albian of Myanmar (Burmese amber), and the species transferred to Kachinitermopsis Engel and Delcls, new genus, resulting in the new combination, Kachinitermopsis burmensis. These new taxa highlight the diversity of primitive termites during the Cretaceous.
23355952|Lissagria foveolata Eldredge n. sp. is newly described from Mexico. A habitus photograph, illustrations of the male reproductive organ and a species diagnosis are provided.
25084867|Gynes of the hornet Dolichovespula maculata discriminated between a fragment of their natal comb and a fragment of a foreign comb; this discrimination did not depend on the presence of viable brood in the comb fragment. Gynes of the paper wasp Polistes fuscatus discriminated between their natal comb and the comb of an unrelated colony, regardless of whether the combs contained brood. The isolation of gynes from combs for 14 to 24 days did not prevent gynes from later recognizing their natal combs, suggesting that comb recognition cues, as well as the memory of these cues, are extremely persistent.
25085246|The Mantispidae of Colorado includes Climaciella brunnea (Say) and three species of Mantispa: M. interrupta Say, M. pulchella (Banks) and M. sayi Banks. Additionally, two species known from neighboring states, Plega dactylota Rehn and M. scabrosa (Banks) may occur in the state. The following synonyms are established: Mantispa brunnea occidentis Banks = C. brunnea and Mantispa cincticornis Banks = M. interrupta. A key is provided to distinguish the adults of these species.
25086127|The antennal receptors of the soybean stemborer, Dectes texanus texanus LeConte, were examined with a scanning electron microscope. Male and female antennae have nine segments, and have a dense covering of sensilla chaetica. Structurally, there are three types of sensilla chaetica: I, II and III. Types I and II protect the underlying sensilla basiconica located on the distal eight segments, while type III appears to limit antennal movement at the junctions of flagellomeres. Blunt, curved basiconic pegs are found on both sexes and are the main olfactory sensilla. Morphologically distinct contact chemosensilla are also located on the tips of male and female antennae. The putative function of these sensilla is discussed.
41262783|Two new species of the genus Baeocera, B. pulchella n.sp. and B. gutierrezberaudi n. sp., are described based on specimens collected in Jalisco, Mxico. Both were found on rotten logs with mycelia of Ganoderma australe (Friese) Patouillard and unidentified species of Poria Persoon (Fomitopsidaceae) and Trichia Haller (Trichiaceae). A key for the identification of the Mexican species of Baeocera is provided. Se describen dos espcies del gnero Baeocera. Baeocera pulchella y B.gutierrezberaudi, con base en especmenes colectados en de Jalisco, Mxico. Ambas espcies se colectaron asociadas a troncos en descomposicin con micelio de Ganoderma australe (Friese) Patouillard y espcies no determinadas de Poria Persoon (Fomitopsidaceae) y Trichia Haller (Trichiaceae). Se proporciona una clave para la determinacin de las espcies mexicanas de Baeocera.
25084497|The female sweat bee Halictus (Seladonia) hesperus lines her nest entrance with a whitish material which originates in large part from her Dufour's gland and possibly from the salivary glands. The lining is formed from the same macrocyclic lactones and alkanes that together compose 88% of the total female's Dufour's gland extract. A possible function of the nest entrance lining is to reinforce the walls of loose excavated tumulus.
25086435|The first Cretaceous fossil of the wasp family Rhopalosomatidae (Aculeata: Euaculeata: Vespoidea) is described and figured from a male preserved in Burmese amber. Eorhopalosoma gorgyra Engel, new genus and species, is the first rhopalosomatid discovered in amber and the second-but first definitive-member of the family from the Cretaceous. The new species is distinguished from its modern counterparts. The modern genus Olixon Cameron is transferred to a separate new subfamily, Olixoninae.
25083793|Venation, abdominal scent glands, labium, and pretarsus are briefly considered. The Thaumastocoridae appear most closely related to the Plokiophilidae and less close to the Anthocoridae-Cimicidae. The family is probably not related to the Reduvioidea.
23355949|The Braconidae fauna (Agathidinae and Doryctinae, excluding Heterospilus Haliday) of the Ria Lagartos Biosphere Reserve in Yucatan, Mexico are recorded. Eighty-three species and 29 genera were found; of these 62 species are new records for Mexico. The general distribution and flight period of the taxa collected are provided.
25084804|The nearctic Agnetina (=Phasganophora) are reviewed and three valid species are recognized. A. annulipes (Hagen), n. comb. and A. flavescens (Walsh), n. comb. are removed from the A. capitata (Pictet) synonymy and the three species are redescribed. Keys for imagoes and nymphs are provided and a lectotype is designated for A. flavescens.
25083584|Fine structure of a sensory hair and a neurocyte bundle with several new characteristics is reported for the cockroach, Periplaneta americana (Linn.). Mechanoreception is indicated by direct linkage of the hair base to the apex of the underlying neurocyte structure via a stout cuticular rod. Depressing the sensory hair moves the rod, the proximal end of which then initiates impulses within the neurocyte bundle through displacement of cytoplasmic extensions. A possible chemosensory function is also indicated by the presence of a dendritic tubule within a number of the cuticular rods.
25082759|Fourteen species of Gypona (Homoptera:Cicadellidae) are described. Four species, G. berela n.sp., G. axena n.sp., G. nigrena n.sp., and G. tascoi n.sp. are placed in the subgenus Gypona. The other ten species, G. aliqua n.sp., G. sarisa n.sp., G. adora n.sp., G. nexa n.sp., G. aneta n.sp., G. crocea n.sp., G. nasua n.sp., G. rustica n.sp., G. evadera n.sp. and G. costana n.sp are placed in the subgenus Marganalana.
25082735|Flowers of Cassia fasciculata are visited by an array of polylectic bees but the primary pollen vectors are species of Bombus, Xylocopa, and Svastra. Halictid bees are pollen thieves. The numerically significant bee visitors collect pollen by vibrating and milking the apically opening anthers. Anther placement in conjunction with petal form and arrangement forces larger pollen collecting bees over the upturned stigma, thus effecting pollination. Early morning anthesis, lack of nectar, and anther structure requiring vibratory behavior of the insects may favor the bumble bees. Convergence in pistil position, anthers with apical pores, corolla color, and synchrony of anthesis between C. fasciculata and Solanum rostratum results in sharing of bee species which can vibrate and milk the anthers to release pollen.
25086439|A new genus and species of primitive termite (Isoptera) is described and figured from the remains of an imago preserved in middle Eocene (Lutetian) Baltic amber. Idanotermes desioculus Engel, new genus and species (near to Mastotermitidae), is distinguished from related genera as well as all other termites known as inclusions in Baltic amber. In addition, the genus Heterotermes (Rhinotermitidae: Heterotermitinae) is newly recorded from Baltic amber and Heterotermes eocenicus Engel, new species, is described. A revised key to Baltic amber termites is provided so as to accommodate the newly discovered species.
25084449|Two new species of leafhoppers, Noritonus solus and Noritonus bispinosus, are described from Brazil, with a revised key to the six known species in the genus.
25084584|A dose of 4.8 krad of gamma radiation applied at a rate of 2.1 krad per min effectively sterilized 0- to 1-day-old male western corn rootworms in a helium atmosphere without significantly reducing their longevity.
25085329|The behavior of Trypoxylon (Trypargilum) monteverdeae was observed at Monteverde, Costa Rica, in wet montane forest. Like other species in this subgenus, male T. monteverdeae guarded the nests that females built and provisioned. In general the behavior of this species was similar to that of the larger, North American, pipe-organ mud-dauber, T. politum, but there were intriguing differences. Females constructed and provisioned one brood cell at a time, and they filled the holes left in nests by their emerging offspring. Males assisted females with nest construction by smoothing the wet inside walls of the nest, a behavior not observed in females of this species. Both the male and female remained together in their nest overnight, or the male spent the night in a nearby nest returning in the morning to guard the female's nest. Males guarded nests not only by biting at intruders at the nest entrance but also by walking on the outside of the nest. Courtship and the sequence preceding oviposition involved much more overt biting than in T. politum. These and other differences are discussed along with possible explanations for the evolution of paternal care behavior.
25085579|The effective range of the binomial sampling technique for determining densities of rangeland grasshopper assemblages from the proportion of samples containing grasshoppers was extended by relating the proportion of 0.1
25085379|A technique was developed for collecting, handling and utilizing a flea beetle, Phyllotreta cruciferae (Goeze), for laboratory studies. Beetles were collected by sweeping wild hosts or canola and held in cardboard cartons with tops made of 1.76
25082969|The sex pheromone of the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana, is an effective attractant for luring male cockroaches into pheromone-impregnated traps. Experimental results suggest that the pheromone has potential in biological control of cockroaches.
25083679|Data were gathered in Iowa on the evening crepuscular activity of nine species of mosquitoes by utilizing biting catches, light traps, and suction traps. Beginning 45 minutes before sunset, collections were made each 15 minutes (biting catches ran for the middle 5 minutes only of each 15-minute period) for a total of 12 periods. In general, peak activity for those species taken in biting collections was between 15-30 minutes after sunset for Aedes and Anopheles species and about 75 minutes after sunset for Culex species. Although abundant in both suction trap and light trap collections, C. pipiens was never taken biting.
25083520|Dissections show that in nearly half of the pollen-collecting females of Exomalopsis solani the largest developing egg is less than two thirds of the maturation length, and in some it is only one fifth that length. In ordinary solitary bees only about 7% of the pollen-collecting females have the largest egg less than two thirds of the mature length. E. solani and other Exomalopsis nest with several bees in each burrow, and presumably pollen collectors with undeveloped ovaries help to provision cells in which pollen collectors with enlarged ovaries oviposit.
25085965|In Missouri, 177 specimens of the ectoparasitoid Elasmus polistis Burks (Hymenoptera: Elasmidae) were reared from nests of two paper wasp species: Polistes exclamans Viereck and Polistes metricus Say (Vespidae). This represents the first record of E. polistis in the state. Herein, we also report the coincidental emergence of 87 individuals of the polyphagous parasitoid Dibrachys cavus (Walker) (Hymenoptera: Pteromalidae) and E. polistis from the same P. metricus nest. Other parasitoids reared from Polistes nests are also reported, including Pachysomoides fulvus (Cresson) (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), and Chalcoela iphitalis Walker (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae).
25083595|A new genus and species in the family Oribatellidae is described and the genus compared with existing genera. Adoribatella punctata n. gen., n. sp., is most similar to Anoribatella but differs from the latter in the absence of the prominent custodium, has areae porosae instead of sacculae, and a finely striated notogastral integument. Fifteen specimens were collected in moss east of Deadman Pass, Colorado; two other specimens were taken from lichens at Cameron Pass, Colorado. A key to the genera is included.
25085082|Diel activity of the swamp inhabiting gyrinid, Dineutus emarginatus (Say), was assessed using two measures: the distance traveled in 3 min periods and the number of inter-individual touches in 3 min periods recorded hourly. Daytime behavior was characterized by moderate activity with frequent touching. At night, more distance was covered but with significantly less touching per distance traveled. Quiescent periods occurred at dusk and dawn. These results fit well with existing knowledge of whirligig behavior. Touching behavior could be related to group cohesion dynamics in daytime and reassembly of the raft in early morning.
25084310|The meloid Epicauta atrata (Fabricius) was reared to the coarctate phase of the larval stage on diets consisting of the eggs of E. pestifera Werner, E. vittata (Fabricius), E. immaculata (Say), E. occidentalis Werner, and E. atrata itself. Eggs of all five species are equally acceptable to E. atrata larvae and equally suitable as food. The effect of temperature on development rate is considered in some detail. The only discernible effect of prey species on developmental timing is a tendency for lengthening of the last feeding instar in larvae preying on species having large egg masses. Effects of geographical source of parental adults of E. atrata, age of larvae at the beginning of rearing, and developmental status of the prey eggs were insignificant. Of 105 larvae completing the FG phase, 102 followed the pattern
25085763|Surveys were conducted to determine biotypes of the greenbug, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani), in Oklahoma wheat and sorghum fields in 1991 and 1992 and again in 1995 and 1996. Biotypes B, C, F, and G were present in wheat fields surveyed in March 1991, but 87% of the greenbugs were biotype E. In 1992, biotype I was detected in survey samples, but 88% of the greenbugs were biotype E. During the summer of 1995 greenbugs collected in sorghum fields in the panhandle counties of Oklahoma were 58% biotype I, but only 32% biotype I in the southwestern Oklahoma counties sampled. In the spring of 1996, only 29% of greenbugs from wheat fields in 35 counties were biotype I. Field sampling and laboratory techniques for identifying greenbug biotypes are discussed.
25082716|A new species of Paracymus is described from Baja California (Norte), and correlation is made with earlier keys to Nearctic species and Mexican and Central American species.
25085334|Dominiperla antigua is proposed as a new genus and species for the first stonefly specimen known from Dominican amber. The headless female specimen is placed in the Anacroneuriinae based on details of wing venation and egg morphology.
25084607|Pupae and fifth instar larvae of Eudiagogus pulcher Fahraeus and E. rosenschoeldi Fahraeus are described for the first time. The immature stages of the two species are similar morphologically. The fifth instar larva of E. pulcher may be distinguished from that of E. rosenschoeldi by the length and location of frontal and epipharyngeal setae on the head capsule as well as by the sculpturing of the outer apical area of the mandibles. The pupa of E. pulcher may be distinguished from that of E. rosenschoeldi on the basis of the relative lengths, color and stoutness of the posterolateral and discal pronotal setae and tubercles. Diagnostic characters of the larvae and pupae are illustrated.
25083981|A survey of paper wasp (Polistes) nesting sites was conducted at 88 selected houses and yards in Bryan-College Station, Texas during the summers of 1976 and 1977. The survey method consisted of a structure search conducted 3 times during the summer and a vegetation search conducted once during the survey period. Over half of the houses had at least one nest of Polistes metricus Say, P. carolina (L.) or P. exclamans Viereck. The three species were almost equally represented. Over 90% of the nests located were on or in buildings and other man-made structures and less than 10% were situated in adjacent vegetation. Nests of each species were distinguishable according to nest orientation and petiole type. P. carolina generally preferred concealed, dark nesting sites, whereas P. exclamans preferred exposed, well-lighted sites. P. metricus built in sites with variable light intensities and competed with P. carolina for nesting habitats. Nest destruction by homeowners was the primary agent affecting nest survival. This may tend to favor paper wasps which build nests in hidden sites as nests in exposed sites were destroyed more often and also had a lower survival rate (many were abandoned).
25082435|Two new species of Paracymus apparently restricted to the Antillean chain are described. They are Paracymus acutipenis and P. delatus. A key to the known species of the region is included.
25082958|Allodape mirabilis Schulz was based on a male and "female" of two different species, the latter being in reality a male of the group of A. interrupta. The first described (lectotype) male of mirabilis is close to or a senior synonym of A. derufata. A male specimen is illustrated and described. The male of Allodapula jucunda is described, as is a new species of Macrogalea from Zanzibar. New records of Compsomelissa are also included.
25084080|A key to the eight species of America Eumenes is proposed together with notes.
25083822|Nests of Agapostemon nasutus in an aggregation contained from 1 to 15 females, all of which had developed ovaries and spermathecae containing sperm, and were presumably functional reproductives. Most nests were communal groupings with the number of mature females equaling the number of cells under construction, although in some nests there were more females than open cells. Data suggest that females may enter burrows dug by other females and construct and provision cells there, and that all bees in a burrow may not be closely related. Nests extended inwards and downards as much as 1 m into a nearly vertical, vegetation-clothed, alluvial bank of evenly textured sandy silt. Larger nests were branched. Entrances were not distinctly narrowed, and bees entered without landing. Cells were constructed singly at the ends of laterals from 1.7 to 8.0 cm long that were filled with soil after oviposition. Nest cells were provisioned and adults emerged continuously through July and August of 1965; 68% of the pupae were males. The conopid fly Zodion americanum attacked female bees in flight at the nest site. The phorid fly Phalacrotophora halictorum entered nests to oviposit and its larvae fed on the provisions in the cells. Nest entrances were often guarded by female bees, which were effective in repelling phorids. The pyemotid mite Parapygmephorus sp. developed in pupal cells and was phoretic on adult females. Immature stages developed as in other halictines, the pupal stadium lasting 21 to 22 days. The first descriptions are given of pupa and mature larva for a member of the genus; the larva is characterized by large dorsal thoracic tubercles and an apical row of fine, close, parallel teeth on the mandible.
25086112|The mature larva of Osmia (Helicosmia) fulviventris (Panzer) is described and compared with the other described larvae in the genus. The intersegmental and intrasegmental lines and the sensillae of the maxillary palpi are features that permit characterization of the species studied.
25086445|Pan traps (colored plastic bowls) are frequently used as an efficient standardized method of sampling bee faunas. We explored the utility of pan traps in three colors compared to net collecting using simultaneous sampling at biweekly intervals throughout the flowering season (May-Sep) at 11 sites in the eastern Great Basin Desert. Pan traps deployed for one day (9:00-16:00) on average captured significantly larger samples than net collections (2 hr.) at all intervals except the latter half of May. Average species richness for net collections exceeded pan traps only during late May and late September, periods with abundant floral resources. Capture rates were similar between colors. The composition of bees was also similar; Srensen's similarity values exceeded 0.7. Color preferences for pollen specialists did not match flower color of their hosts. There were significant differences in species composition between net collections and pan trap collections. Almost one-third of the species showed a strong bias toward one method and in some cases between pan trap colors. The methods appear complementary: Halictinae and Perdita were predominantly collected in pan traps (85%); three genera, Anthidium, Colletes, Epeolus were largely or entirely detected by netting. Net collecting should be used in addition to pan traps if comprehensive inventories are desired. Though pan trapping constitutes a standardized method that avoids collector bias, it may not be unbiased; capture rates were lowest when flowering plant richness was greatest.
25085728|Oligochlora, new genus, is described from Oligocene or Lower Miocene Dominican amber and two species are recognized-O. eickworti, new species and O. micheneri, new species. Comments are made on the phoretic mites preserved with the specimens and on the overall age of the tribe Augochlorini in which Oligochlora is placed. A summary of described fossil Halictidae is presented. All are restricted to the subfamily Halictinae and none are older than the Lower Oligocene.
25083949|Male assemblages of the crane fly Helius flavipes (Macq.) are described. During peak activity periods, males exhibit a characteristic bobbing motion. Marking reveals that some individuals will remain on a leaf or stem overnight. Observations of 14 matings are provided.
25085216|Methods available for interpretation of trap catches of stored-product insects are discussed. Trap efficiency must be determined to convert trap catches into absolute densities. Much of the variation in trap catch may be attributable to variation in trap efficiency in response to environmental factors rather than to actual changes in insect population density. Therefore, regression equations for calculating trap efficiency over a range of environmental conditions may be needed to convert the number of insects caught to absolute densities. Calculating the probability of detection or the accuracy of estimation insures that trap catches are not extrapolated beyond the limits of their resolution. Insect population dynamics models are useful in predicting future insect population densities from trap catches and in relating trap catches to developmental stages not trapped. Interpretation of trap catch must begin with careful planning of a trapping program if these three methods of interpreting trap catch are to be fully utilized to provide correct conclusions in research programs and appropriate decisions in management programs.
25083593|Eighteen new species of the dira complex of Erythroneura are described as new. Unlike most other complexes, few, if any, of these utilize oaks as hosts. Where known, the host plants are given.
25084100|A taxonomic description of the larva of the white grub Phyllophaga fimbripes (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) is provided. Rangeland at the Pawnee National Grasslands in northeast Colorado was surveyed for P. fimbripes damage to blue grama grass, Bouteloua gracilis (H.B.K.), and damaged areas mapped. Soil beneath brush plants, and soil in transition zones between beetle-killed and non-killed areas contained the largest populations of first-instar larvae. Soil is less dense in brush areas, and it was hypothesized that beetles find it easier to burrow in these areas. The adults were observed on several nights, and appeared to be weak fliers, flying only for a brief period each night. The flight season in 1978 and 1979 lasted from mid-July to early August. The population declined sharply between fall, 1977 and spring, 1978.
25085229|Native species of sunflower are resistant to major insect pests of cultivated sunflower. The density of trichomes has been implicated as a factor in this resistance. The putative role of trichomes in the deterrence of feeding by Cylindrocopturus adspersus LeConte, a sunflower stem weevil (SSW), was examined. Nineteen native and hybrid sunflower were tested against a hybrid routinely fed to a laboratory colony. SSW feeding on 5 wild sunflower was significantly lower and on 3 hybrid sunflower it was significantly higher than on the control hybrid (F  7.67, P  0.025). Feeding on the remaining 11 varieties was not significantly different from the control. The number of trichomes was randomly associated with feeding activity. The morphology and feeding behavior of this insect enables it to avoid sunflower trichome defenses. The results of this study indicate that selective sunflower breeding for increased trichome density would have minimal benefit for increased resistance to C. adspersus feeding and oviposition.
25085727|For most of this century scientists have generally accepted that the genus Apis is comprised of only four well recognized species: A. mellifera in Europe and Africa and A. florea, A. dorsata, and A. cerana in Asia. Recent biological studies indicate that the genus is more diverse than indicated by this traditional view, with evidence supporting at least an additional five species in Asia: A. andreniformis, A. laboriosa, A. koschevnikovi, A. nigrocincta, and a species from the highlands of Borneo.Using morphological characters that are well defined and consistent for each of these species, museum specimens from numerous collections were examined and identified. Detailed collection localities from specimen labels and literature sources, distribution maps, and situations that deserve further study are presented for each of these newly recognized species.
25084677|Mortality responses of third-stage northern corn rootworm (NCR) larvae, Diabrotica barberi (Say), were determined for seven insecticides using a soil bioassay. Mean
25085524|Dietary samples from brook trout, Salvelinus fontinalis Mitchell, were analyzed to obtain information on the life history of the caddisfly, Glossosoma verdona Ross. The 220 samples that were obtained from brook trout from mid-May through mid-August contained 14,220 dietary items. Of these, 44 samples contained a total of 541 pharate, teneral, and mature adults of Glossosoma verdona. Analysis of the samples indicates that brook trout feed on G. verdona at a minimum of two periods in its life history, emergence and oviposition. The former occurs at a peak period during mid-June, whereas the latter occurs from late June to mid-July. The absence of G. verdona larvae in the diet of the brook trout is attributed to the absence of this stage in the stream during the sampling period.
25085028|The responses of rangeland grasshoppers to variously prepared grasshopper cadavers in the field were studied using videotape records. Grasshoppers were attracted to cadavers in significant numbers within 10 min of placement. Single cadavers were frequently removed by scavengers within an hour of their placement in the field. Grasshoppers were most highly attracted to frozen/thawed cadavers, followed by fresh cadavers and dried cadavers. Feeding by grasshoppers appeared to increase the attractiveness of cadavers. Dried, fresh and frozen/thawed cadavers attracted significantly more grasshoppers than control sites which contained no cadavers. Moisture was an important component of attraction to cadavers. Dynamics of grasshoppers at the cadavers and in the surrounding area indicated that both visual and olfactory stimuli are important to attraction.
25084352|Two parasitoids, Bracon hebetor Say and Venturia canescens (Gravenhorst), and a predator, Xylocoris flavipes (Reuter), were evaluated as control agents against the almond moth, Ephestia cautella (Walker), infesting food debris contained within a 1500 cu ft room. Greater suppression of E. cautella was exhibited by either parasitoid than was exhibited by the predator.
25083843|Aphids were intensively collected throughout Oklahoma from September, 1958 through August, 1961, with supplemental collecting continued through August, 1964. Over 1,500 individual samples were examined from all 77 counties in the state. Previous records for each species are also included. A total of 40 genera and 68 species of aphids were recorded in this study of the family in Oklahoma, from 65 different host plants, with the majority of the aphid samples being taken from plants of some economic importance.
25085455|The genus Podocampa in North America (north of Mexico) is composed of five species previously recorded from south Louisiana and west Texas. A new species, Podocampa inveterata, is described from the Interior Highlands of Arkansas. The new species appears to be most closely related to P. vicina known from Austin and Kerrville, Texas. The two species differ in several distinct taxonomic characters, including the presence of median anterior setae on abdominal segments I-VII, which are absent in P. vicina.
25086325|A 327 bp region of the mitochondrial DNA NADH dehydrogenase 4 subunit (ND4) was analyzed for genetic variation in 43 wheat midges (Sitodiplosis mosellana) from 12 different areas of China. Nucleotide sequencing revealed 21 polymorphic sites and 22 distinct haplotypes. Haplotypes was closely related with geographical distribution based on Neighbor-Joining analysis. The haplotypes from the spring wheat region samples clustered into one group, and the majority of winter wheat region samples clustered into another group. However, the haplotypes in the Chang'an population in Shaanxi Province (SC) appeared synchronously in each group. Thus, the distribution area of the SC population became a transition place of haplotype distribution. The genetic distances among geographic populations of the wheat midges were 0.000~0.0180 and those within each populations were 0.0000~0.0145.
43288213|The genus Nulapona DeLong and Freytag, new status, was first described as a subgenus of Hecalapona DeLong and Freytag. Characters are given to separate this genus from the genus Hecalapona. Eight previously described species are included in the genus, including N. crinata (DeLong and Freytag) new status, N. decora (DeLong and Freytag) new combination, N. incisura (DeLong) new status, N. inflamma (DeLong and Freytag) new status, N. Iutea (DeLong and Freytag) new combination, N. quina (DeLong and Freytag) new status, N. sinata (DeLong) new status and N. spinara (DeLong and Triplehorn) new status. Also twenty two new species are added to the genus, including N. calliota, N. clavata, N. dista, N. guberna, N. kalota, N. liota, N. ornata, N. panicula, N. spinata and N. supera from Colombia, N. acrita and N. petiolata from Colombia and Ecuador, N. compta, N. heterosa, N. lobata and N. tega from Ecuador, N. bidens, N. jucunda and N. radiata from French Guiana, N. oncota from French Guiana and Brazil, N. egeri from Brazil, and N. acuta from Peru.
25085737|Swarm raiding army ants consume most of the arthropods that they are able to catch. I report observations indicating that some species of dung beetle (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae) are immune to these army ant raids. Implications of these findings are discussed briefly.
25082952|A color variation of the green cloverworm female was observed in Iowa during 1975. Studies showed a similarity in coloration between the female color variant and the male green cloverworm. Observations of the normal female (brown phase) and the variant female (black phase) showed a lack of mating in both during the fall.
25083571|Twenty-nine species are discussed, completing the study on the types of Tephritidae described by Francis Walker. The following are new combinations: Rioxaptilona meritoria (Walker) for Helomyza meritoria; Phasca ortaloides (Walker) for Helomyza ortaloides; Curvinervus vagaria (Walker) for Stymbara vagaria; Clusiosoma vittifera (Walker) for Psila vittifera. Phasca bidens Hering is a new synonym of P. ortaloides (Walker).
25084960|The genus Trachusa is used in a broad sense to include the following subgenera in the Western Hemisphere: Trachusomimus, Ulanthidium (of which Olmecanthidium is a new synonym), Legnanthidium (new subgenus for Anthidium ridingsii Cresson), and Heteranthidium. The subgeneric status is new for these groups. Trachusa manni Crawford is transferred to the subgenus Ulanthidium. T. (U.) interdisciplinaris (Peters), described from Mexico, is recorded for the first time from the U.S.A. That species, T. mitchelli (Michener) and all species hitherto placed in Heteranthidium are new combinations in Trachusa. Tetranthidium, Melanthidium, and Stenanthidium are regarded as synonyms of Anthidium s. str. Callanthidium is placed as a subgenus in the genus Anthidium and Nananthidium as a subgenus in the genus Anthodioctes. Species hitherto included in Nananthidium are new combinations in Anthodioctes. Dianthidium is recharacterized to include the following subgenera: Adanthidium (new status), Deranchanthidium (new subgenus for D. (D.) chamela, n. sp. and bohartorum, n. sp. from Mexico), and Mecanthidium (transferred from Paranthidium). The subgenus Adanthidium is recharacterized because of the distinctive features of D. (A.) discophorum, n. sp. and anophrys, n. sp. from Mexico. Saranthidium is raised to generic status; Epanthidium is retained at the generic level. The genus Paranthidium is recharacterized because of removal of Mecanthidium to the genus Dianthidium. Hypanthidiodes is recognized as a genus with Anthidulum (transferred from Dianthidium) as a subgenus (new status); Dicranthidium is a new synonym of Anthidulum. Hypanthidiodes (Anthidulum) currani (Schwarz) and gregarium (Schrottky) are new combinations. Odontostelis is a new synonym of Hoplostelis and the genus is expanded to include the group of Stelis aliena Cockerell and its relatives. Stelis cornuta Bingham, described from Burma, appears to be based on a mislabelled specimen of tropical American Hoplostelis. Heterostelis is a new synonym of Protostelis. The species hitherto included in Odontostelis and Heterostelis are new combinations in their respective genera. Several species-level synonymies in the genera Anthidium, Anthodioctes, and Dolichostelis are also presented.
25084411|The response of a colony of Pogonomyrmex barbatus to bait depends on the activities of the colony at the time bait is offered. Colony activities are temporally patterned within the morning activity period. Both the peak of nest-maintenance work and the onset of the peak of patrolling occur earlier than the peak of foraging. The rate of recruitment to bait is positively correlated with the numbers of ants engaged in nest-maintenance work and patrolling, but, surprisingly, it is not correlated with the number of ants foraging. Thus the stage in the activity period when bait is offered affects recruitment rate.
25084518|A new species of riffle beetle, Dubiraphia harleyi (Elmidae), is described from Coulee des Grues, Avoyelles Parish, Louisiana. It is distinguished from previously described Dubiraphia by elytral length, male genitalia shape and length, and very dark coloration. A couplet modification is provided for insertion of the species into an existing key. Dubiraphia harleyi occurs in remarkably different types of aquatic habitats but was collected almost exclusively from roots of riparian trees.
25085911|In Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, five species of Ancyloscelis bees occur. The females of A. gigas, A. ursinus and A. turmalis are oligolectic on tristylous flowers of Pontederiaceae. The proboscides of these females are covered ventrally with hooked hairs, which serve to collect pollen out of the long corolla. The other two species (A. fiebrigi and A. apiformis) are specialized on flowers of Convolvulaceae and Cactaceae. The morphology of their proboscides and their function in pollen uptake is described.
25084590|Contarinia prolixa Gagn and Byers, a new cecidomyiid from Venezuela, is described and illustrated. This species is unique for its greatly elongated cervix and mouthparts. Comparisons are made between these and other extraordinary neck and head modifications in Cecidomyiidae.
25082767|The discovery in Illinois of Prionosoma podopioides is reported.
25084398|Worker bees of Trigona capitata and Melipona fasciata were released at a range of distances from their nests in mature forest on Barro Colorado Island, Panam. Prior to release, a small ferrous tag was glued on the thoracic notum, and this tag was removed from foragers returning to nests by a magnet, placed above the nest entrance. Maximum distances from which bees found their nests were near 2.1 km for Melipona and 1.5 km for Trigona, and regression analysis indicated probable maxima of 2.4 km and 1.7 km, respectively. The proportion of tagged foragers returning to the nest decreased arithmetically with increasing distance of release. This study provides the first information on maximum flight ranges of highly social bees within lowland tropical forest.
25084995|The taxonomic history of the Himalayan honey bee, Apis laboriosa, is summarized, and the morphological and biological characters that distinguish it from A. dorsata are reviewed. The male genitalia of A. laboriosa are described and figured. The genitalia of A. laboriosa and A. dorsata appear identical, although the two taxa are considered to be distinct species on the basis of other traits.
25083962|During the 1974-1975 dry seasons in the Costa Rican dry forest, we examined experimentally the apparent tendency of certain medium to large sized solitary bee species (mostly Anthophoridae) to forage primarily at high levels in the forest canopy. Experimentation involved the recording of bee visits to flowering individuals of the leguminous second growth shrub, Cassia biflora, that had been placed at top and bottom levels of wooden towers in second growth forest. Overall, the study revealed that when given a choice of equal floral resources at each level, most preferred to forage at the top tower levels. Information on bee foraging at Cassia biflora in natural second growth habitat (1975-1976) complemented that which had been obtained from the tower study. Suggestions for future studies that involve manipulations of floral resources on towers are offered.
25084134|Female beetles and eggs of both the western and northern corn rootworms (Diabrotica spp.) were found in earthworm burrows. The eggs were laid in galleries in the burrows, either embedded along the wall or cached in indentions in the walls. Beetle entrance to the burrows apparently occurred at night.
25082541|Augochlorella edentata built isolated nests in a nearly vertical, vegetation-covered, moist bank in eastern Costa Rica during July and August in the wet season. About 43% of the nests contained 1 or 2 (rarely up to 4) uninseminated workers in addition to the inseminated queen. The queen and workers differed only slightly in size and wear, and were probably of the same generation. The nests did not appear to be reused and were probably founded by these queens and worker-like auxiliaries which thus formed semisocial associations. We found no eusocial nests with queens belonging to an earlier generation than the workers. The long turret of a typical nest led to a short sloping burrow which opened into a roughly spherical cavity. A cluster of 1 to 8 cells was supported by thin soil pillars in the cavity. Cells were subhorizontal and closely arranged in 1 to 3 parallel rows opening in the same face of the cluster. Nest structure, except for orientation of the turrets and burrows, closely resembles that of other North American Augochlorella. The mature larva and pupa of A. edentata are described. Males patrolled the nesting area and congregated for "sleep" on a dead fern frond suspended from the bank. A mutillid wasp attacked the immature bees. The mites Anoetus sp. (Astigmata: Anoetidae) and Parapygmephorus sp. (Heterostigmata: Pyemotidae) were phoretic on the adult bees. Collembola were numerous in the nest burrows and cavities. A species of Dialictus (Halictidae) also nested in the bank and constructed turrets.
25083902|Nymphs of Dermacentor variabilis were acclimated to 5 humidities (20%, 40%, 60%, 80% and 100%) for 5 days, and then placed inside feeding capsules secured to guinea pigs. Both attachment and engorgement phases were observed. Those nymphs exposed to 20% and 40% RH died before the end of the 5 day acclimation period, and 52% of the ticks from the 60% RH treatment died during the same time. However, 91.0% of the ticks which survived the 60% RH exposure attached within 24 hrs. On the last day of data collection for the attaching phase, the 60%, 80% and 100% RH treatments allowed for attachment rates which were greater than 90% and were not significantly different from each other. The engorgement data showed that the nymphs from the 60% RH treatment had rates of engorgement which were significantly different (lower) from the observed rates for the other two groups at each observation time.
25084510|The gregariously nesting Anthophora abrupta (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae) was observed, 1976-1982, constructing nests in an adobe farm building in Baltimore County, Maryland. Use of three clay filled wooden nesting boxes, a Plexiglas observation box, and a screen cage aided field observations and laboratory analyses. Also recorded were plant species visited by bees and climatic data including ambient and nest temperatures, relative humidity, and light intensity. Emergence, mating, pheromones, intra- and interspecific aggregation, nest aggregation, nest construction, cell provisioning, juvenile developmental stages, and adult female diurnal activity rhythm are discussed.
25083581|Termitomyces spp. form the spherules on combs in nests of three species of Odontotermes and a species of Microtermes, but growth of numerous other fungi is suppressed. Observations in the field and laboratory experiments indicate that, in Odontotermes gurdaspurensis, the defensive oral secretion of soldiers and soil that has been recently manipulated by workers exerts a fungistatic effect. Large nymphs, workers and alates, but not soldiers and reproductives, of Odontotermes and Microtermes ingest Termitomyces spores or spherules and plant debris.
40961683|Hypomachilodes forthaysi, new species, is described along with a review of other species and the elucidation of characters within the family Meinertellidae and order Microcoryphia.
25085937|A new species of zorapteran from Junin Province, Peru, is described and figured from apterous males and females as Zorotypus juninensis. The species is most similar to Z. manni but differs in the absence of a terminal cleft on the eighth female sternum, the broad separation of the basal processes on the ninth female sternum, the pattern of metafemoral spines, and the setation of the cerci, among other characters. Brief notes on Z. manni, Z. huxleyi, and Z. barberi are presented with new distribution information as well as a summary of the world species and their general distribution.
25083424|In laboratory and field infectivity tests at the University of Missouri, the DD-136 nematode, an undescribed species of Neoaplectana and an insect parasite, entered and killed insects as follows: 27% of the available Trichoplusia ni larvae, 46% of the Heliothis zea larvae, and less than 10% of the Acheta domestica adults. The nematode, under stress, lived 1 1/2 hours on an exposed leaf surface and up to 24 days in moist soil. Although the nematode requires a damp environment to survive, the possibility of using it in the biological control of insect pests is evident.
25082386|Original descriptions of queens of two species, Neivamyrmex moseri Watkins and N. pauxillus (Wheeler), and revised descriptions of workers of those species and N. leonardi (Wheeler) are given. A table of known castes, new distribution records, and revised keys to workers and queens of Neivamyrmex from the United States are presented.
25083427|Bittacus maculosus (from Trinidad), Kalobittacus hubbelli (Honduras), and Nannobittacus tjederi (Colombia) are described as new. Male of Anabittacus iridipennis Kimmins is described. Distribution and biology of some other species are discussed.
25083013|Nests of 15 species of the bee genus Proteriades Titus are described. These descriptions include the nesting site, cell structure, provisions, sex ratios, supercedure, cocoons, and nest associates. One specific name, P. mazourka (Michener), was synonymized with P. mojavensis (Michener), as they were male and females of the same species. Nests of 11 species are described for the first time. Nesting habits of Proteriades are compared with those of related genera.
25082409|The mature larvae of fifteen species of aquatic insects (Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera) and the scud (Amphipoda) were tested to determine their relative sensitivity to heated waters under laboratory conditions. The temperature at which 50% died after 96 hours
25085031|Studies were conducted during 1984 and 1985 to determine the efficacy of chlorpyrifos 4E at reduced rates compared to the highest labeled rate when applied through center-pivot irrigation systems for reduction of European corn borer (ECB), Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner), larvae in whorl stage corn. In 1984, the application of 1.12 kg AI/ha resulted in significantly fewer ECB cavities than the 0.56 kg AI/ha (applied twice) treatment, but numbers of ECB cavities resulting from the single application at 0.56 kg AI/ha were not significantly different from the cavities resulting from the 0.28 kg AI/ha rate applied twice. In 1985 there was no significant difference in ECB cavities/plant between plots receiving 1.12 kg AI/ha compared with the average of the two lower insecticide treatments, however, there were significantly fewer ECB cavities/plant in plots receiving 0.56 kg AI/ha than in plots treated with the lowest rate, 0.28 kg AI/ha.
25085310|Nomenclatural notes are given as follows. New synonymies: Hydrometra wileyae Hungerford 1923 = Hydrometra beameri Mychajliw 1961; Hydrometra okinawana Drake 1951 = Hydrometra yasumatsui Miyamoto 1964; Ptilomera tigrina Uhler 1860 = Ptilomera harpyia Schmidt 1926; Telmatometra panamensis Drake & Harris 1941 = Telmatometra acuta Kenaga 1941; Tenagogonus pravipes Bergroth 1915 = Limnometra brevis Lundblad 1933 = Tenagogonus robustus Hungerford & Matsuda 1958; Tenagogonus maai Hungerford & Matsuda 1962 = Tenagogonus quinquemaculatus Miyamoto 1967; Esakia ventitoides Lundblad 1933 = Esakia kuiterti Hungerford & Matsuda 1958; Esakia fernandoi Cheng 1966 = Esakia hungerfordi Miyamoto 1967; Rhagovelia pallida Lundblad 1936 = Rhagovelia ulugurui Sallier Dupin 1976 = Rhagovelia perplexa Sallier Dupin 1976. New name proposed for homonym: Rhagovelia reitteri poissoni Polhemus proposed for Rhagovelia reitteri femorata Poisson 1942, primary homonym of Rhagovelia femorata Champion 1898. New combinations, with previous genus in brackets: Neoplea semipicta (Horvath) [Plea]; Rhagovelia saotomae (Sallier Dupin) [Angilia]; Rupisalda uichanchoi (Drake & Viado) [Saldula]; Rupisalda subsolans (Drake & Hottes) [Saldula]. Miscellaneous notes as follows: Tenagobia peruana Egbert 1949 chosen as correct name for species given 2 names in original publication; Anisops breddini Kirkaldy and Anisops exigua Horvath given as correct names for species incorrectly emended; Ochterus barberi Viets Schell given as correct citation for species whose holotype is incorrectly labelled; Laccotrephes chinensis (Hoffmann) listed as available name; Hydrometra greeni var. suensoni Hungerford & Evans listed as unavailable name.
25084833|Energy consumption and food utilization for the Indian meal moth (IMM), Plodia interpunctella (Hbner) feeding on three corn genotypes was determined. IMM larvae that were reared on A619, B37, and a sweetcorn hybrid Earliglow E. H. Yellow showed significant differences in development time, pupal weight, amount of frass produced, approximate digestibility and conversion of ingested food for growth, pupal moisture content, energy consumed, excreted, and total energy in pupal tissues. These differences generally showed that the more nutritional the food source (in terms of energy) the greater the food consumption and growth rate. It is suggested that studies of the bioenergetics of stored product insect pests can contribute a more efficient selection of resistant material to different types of stored product damage.
25083568|Nest sites and host plants of Xylocopa fimbriata in southeastern lowland Mexico are recorded. In addition to male behavior, female-female interactions at a nest site are described for the first time among carpenter bees. Such competitive interactions may be significant in promoting maximum utilization of natural nest sites.
25084674|Males of Dendrobias mandibularis fall into two discrete classes with respect to mandible length, minors and majors. Minors' mandibles are between 13.1% and 17.5% of their elytra length; majors', between 21.7% and 41.1%. There is some overlap between the classes in elytra length, but none in mandible length. Slopes of the regression lines of the log mandible length versus the log of elytra length are significantly different. Preliminary observations indicate that the mandibles are used in intrasexual territorial conflicts, and that winners are determined by size and morph.
25085289|Using two methods of presenting choices to adult female flies, the oviposition responses of Phaenicia sericata (Meigen) to different meats, levels of putrefaction, and chemical mixtures were studied. Results indicate that the flies preferred beef muscle and beef kidney over beef liver. Early putrefaction increased the level of oviposition observed, but too much putrefaction and the associated increase in the concentration of skatole and other putrefactive amines inhibited oviposition.
25084238|Details concerning the immature biology, development, adult longevity, fecundity and behavior of Goniozus emigratus (Rohwer) are provided. Evidence is given to suggest that there are at least two biological forms of this species. Studies show that this parasite attacks Microlepidoptera and is not host specific. Laboratory studies during 1978 show that inseminated female parasites which are continually provided hosts lived 52.6  7.3 days (n = 20) and mate-deprived males lived 45.2  3.8 days (n = 14) at 25.6  1C and uncontrolled RH. Under the same conditions, host deprived females lived 37.1  12.4 days (n = 35) while mate-provided males lived 17.2  9.8 days (n = 14). During 1979 females parasitized 9.1  4.2 hosts and laid 118.8  58.3 eggs. During 1980, inseminated female parasites provided hosts with about one day of host deprivation between ovipositional episodes lived 64.1  19.7 days (n = 20), parasitized 15.6  5.6 hosts and laid 232.9  91.5 eggs at 26.7  1C and 40  5% RH. Eggs hatch within 24 hours of being deposited on the host; larval development requires about three days; cocoon construction requires about one day; prepupal period requires about 1.5 days and pupation lasts 6-7 days when developing on the navel orange orange worm, Paramyelois transitella (Walker). The sex ratio of the progeny of G. emigratus is strongly skewed towards females, and increases in a female bias with larger clutch size. There is a tendency for broods to become male biased as a female ages and her sperm supply is depleted. Males are protanderous and enter their female sibling cocoons to copulate with preemergent females. Alternatively, males will copulate with females that have emerged from their cocoons. Oviposition sites on the host are not random, and the female strongly prefers the middle segments and dorsal and lateral aspect of the host's body. The above information is collated with existing data on other species of Goniozus and some other genera of bethylids.
25082318|Craspedorrhynchus robustisetosus sp. n. is described and illustrated. This species of philopterid Mallophaga is parasitic on the Bateleur Eagle, Terathopius ecaudatus (Daudin), from Africa.
25082620|A new species of cheyletid mite, Bak ozarkensis, from Missouri including both sexes, two nymphal stages and the larva, is described and illustrated. These stages were collected from the basal bark, stump wood and root wood of dead American elm, red oak, shagbark hickory and Osage orange material. This is the first time that all the life stages exclusive of eggs has been described for any species of the genus. A revised key to the known world species is presented.
25083566|Bees of the tribe Euglossini (Apidae) are of particular significance as agents in the pollination of many tropical American orchids. The ethology of these bees, however, is not well known. Nests, nest construction, mating behavior and flower relationships are described for Eulaema cingulata and Euglossa ignita. Nests and flower relationships are also described for Eulaema meriana, Euplusia surinamensis, Euglossa dodsoni, Euglossa hemichlora and Euglossa brullei. Lists of flowers visited by several other species of Eulaema, Euplusia and Euglossa are appended. Nest construction by members of this group of bees may provide a clue to the way in which social behavior was established among bees. A series from strictly solitary to gregarious to species in which more than one bee may cooperate in the construction of cells is described in the genus Euglossa.
25083517|Each of four systemic insecticides (Bayer 25141, Bayer 37289, Niagara 10242, and Shell SD9129) was applied in a 6-inch-wide band along corn furrows in 1/20-acre plots at the rate of one pound actual per acre. The corn seed was planted through the band to a depth of 4 inches. Foliar treatment at the whorl stage was also given one of the soil-treated Shell SD9129 plots. At midseason all treated plots had significantly fewer live larvae of the south-western corn borer than did untreated plots, and no live larvae were found in Niagara 10242-treated plots. At harvest, however, only Niagara 10242 controlled third-generation larvae and showed a significant reduction in total number of tunnelled stalks. Niagara 10242, Bayer 2514, and Bayer 37289 showed significant increases in corn yield, over 50% in the case of Niagara 10242. Yield was significantly reduced in plots of Shell SD9129.
25084506|Twenty-three tabanid species in seven genera were collected in a four year survey in the Postoak-Blackjack Forest Type vegetation area of north central Oklahoma. Tabanus abactor Philip was the most abundant species and the most severe pest of livestock. Seven other species, T. atratus Fabricius, T. equalis Hine, T. mularis Stone, T. subsimilis Bellardi, T. sulcifrons Macquart, T. trimaculatus Palisot de Beauvois and Hybomitra lasiophthalma (Macquart) were the most abundant species. One or more of these species were present from mid-April to October. The peak population of all species combined occurred in June and July.
25084484|Field studies utilizing natural infestations of the European corn borer Ostrinia nubilalis (Hbner) were conducted in three areas of eastern S.D. during 1981 and 1982. In 1981 2nd generation infestation accounted for a grain yield reduction of 4.1% per cavity while losses associated with the combination of 1st generation and 2nd generation were 7.6% per cavity. Infestation by 1st generation borers resulted in silage yield (dry matter) reductions of 3.5%, 4.9% and 8.2% per cavity for three fields in 1982. Also in 1982, grain yields were reduced by 9.0% and 9.2% per cavity when plots infested by the 1st generation were compared to plots treated with cypermethrin at 0.11 kg AI/ha.
25082861|The New World species held in Velia Latreille 1804 are not congeneric with the Old World species and are removed to Paravelia Breddin 1898, the next available name. Stridulivelia Hungerford 1929 (stat. nov.) is elevated to generic rank and its included species are removed from Paravelia. Distributional notes are given for Paravelia willei (Drake and Harris). P. watsoni (Drake) 1919 and P. paulineae (Wilson) 1953 are synonymized with P. stagnalis (Burmeister) 1835. A check list of the 41 species in Paravelia is given.
25086331|A new Chinese species, Willowsia shiae, from Tibet is described here. It is similar to the Chinese species W. guangxiensis Shi and Chen 2004 and the Vietnamese species W. pseudosocia Stach 1965. A key to the Chinese species of the genus was provided.
43288242|The Leptosaldinae (Leptopodomorpha: Leptopodidae) are considered an isolated subfamily, possibly the sister group to the remaining species of the bug family Leptopodidae. Until now the subfamily consisted of two species: Leptosalda chiapensis Cobben, in Miocene amber from Chiapas, Mexico; and Saldolepta kistnerorum Schuh and Polhemus, a Recent species from Ecuador and Colombia. The new species, Leptosalda dominicana Grimaldi and Engel and L. niarchos Grimaldi and Engel are described from Miocene amber of the Dominican Republic (a third species is recorded but undescribed since it is based on a very fragmentary specimen). Archaesalepta Grimaldi and Engel, new genus, is described for A. schuhi Grimaldi and Engel, new species, preserved in Early Eocene Cambay amber from western India, and which appears to be a sister group to the New World leptosaldines. Unexpected discovery of a leptosaldine from the Old World greatly expands the known distribution and emphasizes the perils of biogeographic scenarios in the absence of fossil data. Archaesalepta schuhi reveals that leptosaldines were once more widespread and that their present-day distribution is relict.
25082955|The activity spectrum of the thermostable toxin of Bacillus thuringiensis Berliner was extended to a free-living nematode, Panagrellus redivivus Goodey, a plant-parasitic nematode, Meloidogyne incognita (Chitwood), and a fungus-feeding nematode, Aphelenchus avenae Bastian. The
25083992|Both western and northern corn rootworms, Diabrotica spp., entered drought cracks and oviposited in the moist soil beneath the bone-dry surface layer. They did not excavate but utilized minute indentions and hairline cracks already existing on the ped face. No eggs were found where the beetles had no access to this moist subsurface soil.
25085632|Springs are known for uniformity of their abiotic conditions, yet they have annual fluctuations in primary and secondary production. A spring in the Arbuckle Mountains of Oklahoma was sampled for 17 months to document population fluctuations and to determine the possible community level interactions. There was a distinct annual variation in the amount of algae, macrophytes and dead leaves within the spring. There was also an annual variation in the abundance of crayfish Orconectes virilis, amphipods Hyalella azteca, and snails Physella virgata. The amphipod fluctuation is hypothesized to reflect the fluctuation in food. Crayfish numbers are a result of annual reproduction. The snail fluctuation is hypothesized to be a combination of fluctuations of food and predation by crayfish.
25086135|Konza Prairie Biological Station is a native tallgrass prairie preserve in Riley and Geary Counties, Kansas, where seventy-eight species of butterflies (Lepidoptera) were collected or sighted from 1997 through 1999. Based on known larval hosts, 65% were from prairie or open field habitats with 24% grass feeders, 25% from woodland or woodland borders and approximately 10% from mixed or unknown habitats. There were 11 new records for Riley County: Northern Cloudy Wing, Thorybes pylades (Scudder) (Hesperiidae), Funeral Dusky Wing, Erynnis funeralis (Scudder & Burgess) (Hesperiidae), Little Glassywing, Pompeius verna (W. Edwards) (Hesperiidae), Byssus Skipper, Problema byssus kumskaka (Scudder) (Hesperiidae), Hobomok Skipper, Poanes hobomok (T. Harris) (Hesperiidae), Dusted Skipper, Atrytonopsis hianna turneri H. A. Freeman (Hesperiidae), Coral Hairstreak, Harkenclenus titus (Fabricius) (Lycaenidae), Banded Hairstreak, Satyrium calanus falacer (Godart) (Lycaenidae) and Hickory Hairstreak, Satyrium caryaevorum (McDunnough) (Lycaenidae), Summer Azure, Celastrina neglecta (W. Edwards) (Lycaenidae) and Northern Pearly Eye, Enodia anthedon A. H. Clark (Satyridae). The larvae of Reakirt's Blue, Hemiargus isola alce (W. Edwards) (Lycaenidae) were found feeding on the flowers of Catclaw Sensitive Briar, Shrankia nuttallii (DC.) Standl. (Mimosaceae), a new host record. A checklist is given for species found during the survey period and those whose host, habitat or distribution make it likely they may be found on Konza Prairie in the future.
25084740|Nine visual or olfactory cues potentially used in host nest selection were presented in artificial burrows to cleptoparasitic Metopia campestris females flying at an aggregation of nests of digger wasps, Crabro cribrellifer. These flies are visually attracted to holes in ground, with subsequent discrimination among nests mediated by chemical cues probably derived from the host female.
41262855|A new species of webspinner, Eosembia apterosa Poolprasert and Edgerly, n. sp., from Chiang Mai Province in Thailand, is described and illustrated. The new species is distinguished from previously described Eosembia by the occurrence of winglessness in the males. Beyond just winglessness, other morphological characters of the unidentified specimens when compared to E. auripecta Ross and E. aequicercata Ross suggest that they represent a new species. We present the description of the new species, along with a distribution map and key to the currently known species of SE Asian Eosembia.
25084254|A review of current knowledge about Friesea in Mexico is made: new records are given for F. sublimis. A new species from Morelos State is described and differentiated from its closest relatives. Comments are made on the chaetotaxy of the new and allied species of Friesea.
41681234|The lesser chestnut weevil, Curculio sayi (Gyllenhal), is a key pest of chestnut in the eastern and central United States. Y-tube bioassays and electroantennogram (EAG) studies were conducted on adult C. sayi regarding their behavioral and EAG responses towards odors from different chestnut tissue types (leaf, catkin, bur and nut) to determine the possibility of using host-plant volatiles in monitoring this highly host-specific pest. In behavioral trials, spring emerging weevils (of both sexes) were significantly attracted to odors emanating from catkins (flowers) and burs, with males also attracted to the odors from the nut. In the late-summer, weevils (of both sexes) emerging or returning to chestnut trees were again significantly attracted to the odors from bur and catkin tissues, with females also being attracted nut tissue. Odors emanating from leaves were not attractive to either sex. The EAG trials revealed that weevil antennae responded significantly to odors from bur spikes and the inner bur tissue layer, as well as to odors from catkin and leaf tissues; however, the weevils (regardless of sex or season of collection) were not significantly responsive in EAG tests to odors from the nut tissue (site of oviposition). This study provides key initial data that strongly suggests that chestnut plant volatiles can be successfully utilized as attractants in a semiochemical-based monitoring trap for C. sayi adults.
25084763|A checklist of 64 tabanid species that occur in Oklahoma is presented with a description of the geographic range and inclusive collection dates for each species. Nine species are reported as new state records. Range extensions of more than 150 km are presented for 16 species. The state ranges of eight previously listed species are described for the first time.
25082657|Descriptions of 12 new species of caddisflies from South Africa and Southern Rhodesia are given, one of which is the type species of the new sericostomatid genus Aclosma. The new species include Dolophilodes natalensis, Chimarra crocifera, C. aciculata, C. uncata, Tinodes pollicaris, Parecnomina resima, Catoxyethira veruta, Athripsodes corniculans, A. discatus, Oecetis townesorum, Pisulia austrina, and Aclosma bispinosum.
25083703|Nests are built by individual females in the soil adjacent to plantings of Cucurbita spp. They consist of groups of four to five vertical oval cells surrounding a vertical main shaft from which the provisioned cells are cut off by filling of lateral galleries. A short diverticulum from the main shaft just below the nest entrance serves as "antechamber." The life history stages and cocoons resemble those of other eucerine bees that have been described. This bee winters over as a prepupa, and pupation occurs in late June and early July. Emergence of adults is closely synchronized with the onset of blossoming of Cucurbita spp. Nest construction begins about two weeks after adult emergence, and continues into early September. Individual females probably construct more than one nest per season. A large perennial aggregation of nests can develop in favorable soil if Cucurbita sp. is planted perennially and the nesting area is undisturbed.
25086106|Liphanthus sabulosus is a small solitary bee whose length ranges from about 4 to 7 mm and is strongly sexually dimorphic. There are some taxonomic studies about this bee, but little known about its biology. In October 2001 a nesting site was discovered on both sides of a dirt roadway on an steep slope in El Pangue, a locality 25 km south of Vicua (Elqui Province) in northern Chile, where field observations on the nesting habits and behavior of L. sabulosus were made. The area contained a great number of nests. A female was observed beginning nest construction, while other females in the area were apparently more advanced in their work. The activity period of the species, female foraging time, and time of female activity inside the nest were established. Several nests were excavated but cells were not found, perhaps reflecting the early stage of construction of those nests. The precise association of L. sabulosus with a particular plant was not established, but pollen load analysis indicates the species may be oligolectic. Males were observed behaving territorially. A male's territory seemed to correspond with the presence of a stone. Males behaved aggressively when other males approached the area. Males spent the night in holes made by females at the nest site.
25085394|Using controlled infestations, the efficacy of progeny from laboratory-reared Diabrotica virgifera virgifera was compared with those from field collected D. v. virgifera over three seasons. Efficacy was determined through corn root damage ratings. Root damage ratings indicated that progeny from field collected adults and from laboratory-reared adults produced similar damage. Survival to adulthood was determined with emergence cages. Emergence for each egg density by origin was the same. This study demonstrates that: 1) larvae from laboratory reared eggs are as damaging as those from field collected origins; and 2) that studies using controlled infestations of corn rootworms should evaluate adult survival.
25084762|Family-group names for all taxa of bees are listed with dates and sources; there are 133 entries in the list. The survey revealed several cases (listed at the end of the paper) in which currently accepted names must be changed unless they can be retained by giving them precedence over older names. The International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature will be asked to conserve Colletidae, Paracolletini, Halictidae, Anthidiini, and Anthophoridae.
25084251|Adults and larvae of Siphlonurus minnoi sp. n. and Pseudocloeon cestum sp. n. are described, and the larvae of Siphlonurus typicus (Eaton) and Isonychia sicca (Walsh) are described for the first time. Distributional and habitat information for the species are included.
25084047|A new species, Homalictus silvestris, is described from the Philippines.
25083786|Although the poison apparatus of Leptogenys (Lobopelta) elongata (Buckley) is well developed, workers produce relatively mild sting reactions in man as compared to the effects of stings of other species in the subfamily Ponerinae. Slight morphological variation from the typical ponerine poison sac has been found in this species.
25084029|Studies were conducted to ascertain the effects of temperature, relative humidity (r.h.) and length of exposure on the survival capacity of all life cycle stages of Tenebrio molitor. Embryological development is successful at 25C/75% r.h. Development is more rapid at 35C (15 days) than at 25C (19 days). Arid conditions (12% r.h.) result in a progressive loss of water from the egg and eventual mortality due to dessication. A temperature of 25C is not stressful for the larvae, pupae and adults of this species even at extremes of r.h. and long periods of exposure. Extremes of temperature (10 and 35C) do not result in significant mortality under r.h. conditions of 52% and 75%. Under dry conditions, cold temperature extremes result in a higher mortality rate for young larvae than do high temperature extremes. The converse is true for older larvae. The pupal stage is the most resistant to temperature and r.h. extremes whereas the egg and young larval stages are the least resistant.
25084403|Arthropod species composition, density, biomass, and diversity were studied in areas damaged and undamaged by white grubs in pastures in northern Colorado under different grazing regimes during spring and summer of 1979. There were no significant differences in total arthropod density or species diversity between damaged and undamaged areas, or between pastures exposed to different grazing pressures. However, acarine, araneid, and collembolan densities were significantly higher in undamaged areas of ungrazed and moderately grazed pastures than in damaged areas of the same pastures. Coleopteran densities were significantly higher in damaged areas of ungrazed pastures than in undamaged areas of the same pastures. Hemipteran, homopteran, and dipteran densities as well as total arthropod biomass, were significantly higher in moderately grazed pastures than in heavily grazed or ungrazed pastures. Significant differences in the densities of a variety of insect families and species also occurred between damaged and undamaged areas and between differentially grazed pastures. Most differences in herbivore composition probably can be attributed to differing floral composition.
25084041|An emergence trap was designed to make use of the negative geotactic behavior of adult corn rootworm, Diabrotica spp. This trap has the following advantages: efficiency, nondisturbance after placement, speed of collection, and easy interpretation of beetle counts for population dynamics and pest management programs. It was used successfully in establishing patterns of beetle density and emergence for artificially infested and natural populations.
25083836|This paper lists 10 families and 28 species of spiders, some rare, collected from nests of Sceliphron and Trypoxylon throughout Mississippi. Hunting environment of the wasp, its size, the prevalence of the spiders, and the season influenced prey collected by Sceliphron. Individuals of Trypoxylon collected spiders among foliage or on flowering plants in open areas.
25082376|A new genus and species of termitophilous Staphylinidae from Sarawak, Havilandoxenus emersoni, is described from nests of Havilanditermes atripennis (Haviland). This new genus belongs to the subtribe Termitozyrina, and its closest relatives in South America are noted.
25086399|Although there is a worldwide concern about anthropogenic causes of pollinator declines, little is known about how specific land use practices, such as agriculture, urbanization, and logging, influence the diversity and abundance of native bees. We investigated the impact of logging on native bees (Apoidea) in the Adirondack Mountains of New York State (USA) in an area isolated from the effects of both agriculture and introduced honey bees. Specifically, we measured midsummer bee abundance and diversity on matched 5-acre plots two and three years after experimental logging cuts to remove 30, 60, and 100% of the trees. We obtained additional data on floral abundance and weather in relation to bee abundance. We found that bee abundance and diversity was highest in areas where the most trees had been removed. Also, we found little difference in diversity between the two study years, despite major differences in weather. The observed diversity patterns were best explained by the observed increase in abundance of flowering plants such as Rubus and Solidago. Despite the overall relationship between logging and bee diversity, the abundance of four species of Lasioglossum were significantly greater in the 60% tree removal plot than the 100% removal clear cut. Overall, our results suggest that a small-scale tree removal within a northern hardwood forest increases diversity and abundance of many bee species in the short term.
25086282|The spittlebug genus Anyllis Kirkaldy (Hemiptera: Aphrophoridae), endemic to Australia, is redefined and new autapomorphies are proposed to support the monophyly of the genus. A new sensillum found on the expanded flagellar base of antennae of Anyllis species, named as 'conical sensillum', and a new male genitalic structure, named as 'basal anal processes,' are named. Anyllis is moved from the tribe Locrisini Lallemand of Cercopidae to the tribe Aphrophorini of Aphrophoridae. A new species, Anyllis spinostylus Liang sp. nov., is described and illustrated from Tasmania, Australia.
