25009353|The pathogenicity of Entomophthora culicis for the mosquitoes Anopheles stephensi and Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus was determined by exposing healthy adults to conidial showers from cadavers of naturally infected Chironomus decorus and from cultures grown in vitro. While 100 percent of the A. stephensi succumbed to infection, only 20 percent of the C. pipiens quinquefasciatus did so. Explanations for these differences are suggested. Some morphological characteristics of the E. culicis used in this study are presented.
25009310|The larva of Trichordestra tacoma (Strecker) (Lepidoptera; Noctuidae) has been misidentified in the past, resulting in a discrepancy in the phylogenetic placement of this species in separate works based on adults and on larvae. Both larva and adult prove to be similar to T. rugosa (Morr.) and T. liquida (Grote). The larva is described and illustrated, and a host list is presented.
25009502|The Western Hemisphere species of Cosmopepla Stl are revised and a key provided for identification. Eysarcoris intergressus Uhler is transferred to this genus. C. humboldtensis Bliven is a junior synonym of C. intergressa (Uhler).
25010295|A new species of Ephemerellidae, Crinitella permkami sp. nov., is described from southern Thailand. Illustrations of the dorsal habitus and mouthpart structure are provided. This is the first species of Crinitella and only the fifth species of Ephemerellidae reported from Thailand.
25010415|The new stilt bug Hoplinus paulai is described from Minas Gerais, Brazil. Habitus photographs, scanning electron micrographs of selected structures, illustrations of male parameres, and a revised key are provided to help distinguish this species from other members of the genus. New distribution and/or host records are given for Hoplinus scutellatus Henry, Oedalocanthus ornatus Henry, and Xenoloma princeps Harris, and a discussion pertaining to the rediscovered name-bearing type of Neides spinosissimus Signoret, the type species of Hoplinus Stl, is provided.
25010405|Two new monotypic genera of stactobine microcaddisflies (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae), Orinocotrichia, and Tizatetrichia, are described and illustrated from Venezuela and Costa Rica, respectively. Keys are provided for males and females of the New World genera comprising the tribe Stactobiini.
25005955|This paper presents the first description of the anatomy and histology of the male reproductive system for this doryline ant. Anatomical descriptions of the eighth and ninth sterna are included. The male system consists of the testes, the vasa deferentia, the accessory glands and ducts, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct, and the genitalia. The testes, situated in the third gastral segment, lie between the proximal arms of the U-shaped vasa deferentia and are covered with a single capsule. Each testis has about 22-25 tubular follicles. The vasa deferentia are packed with spermatozoa, and a granular mass fills their posterior ends. The coiled acessory glands lie on either side of the fourth gastral segment, and they contain a dense, homogeneous, basophilic secretion. Their ducts meet medially and become surrounded with circular muscle to form the bound accessory gland duct; two lumina are present throughout the length of the bound accessory gland duct. At the posterior end of this duct, the two lumina unite into one to form the ejaculatory duct in which a sclerotized wedge is located. The position of the wedge in the duct and the unicellular glands at the posterior end of the duct are described. The ejaculatory duct opens on the dorsal, posterior region of the aedeagal bladder, which empties between the inner valves of the genitalia. The aedeagal bladder contains a granular, basophilic secretion. Three pairs of valves and a basal ring constitute the genitalia. Sperm gutters are present on the inner valves. Comparisons are made with the male systems for two dorylines previously reported, Dorylus labiatus and Eciton hamatum, which place Neivamyrmex anatomically closer to Eciton than to Dorylus.
25009505|Acetropis americana Knight, from the Willamette Valley of Oregon, is compared with A. longirostris Puton of eastern Europe and they are recognized as sister species. The male, female and nymphal habitus and male and female genitalia of americana are presented.
25008940|A diagnosis is given for the genus Holcostethus and descriptions are provided for six species. A new species is described from Arizona and a key is provided for the identification of all North American species.
25009291|Colonies of the grass-cutting ant, Acromyrmex landolti fracticornis, ranked potential fungal substrate in field preference bioassays as a function of the dominant grass species in the field in which they were located. Mahalanobis distances between and among colony preferences between and among habitats revealed that there was less variability among colonies within any habitat than between habitats. These results suggest that fungal substrate preferences are environmentally induced, probably as a result of early experience of workers.
25010054|A new species, Oligembia vetusta, is described on the basis of a male in lower Tertiary amber from the Dominican Republic. The new species is the first fossil representative of the family Teratembiidae. The systematic position of the new species is discussed, as is the paraphyletic nature of the genus Oligembia. A cladogram of teratembiid genera is presented.
25009970|Using external and internal adult morphology, clarification of status and determination keys are provided for Blepharida Chevrolat and the eight New World genera either related to it or placed near it in recent catalogues. The morphological reasons (e.g., pattern) for maintaining Blepharida and Notozona Chevrolat as separate genera are discussed. The Afrotropical genus Blepharidina Bechyn is lowered to subgenus status within the genus Blepharida in light of morphological similarities and differences with New World Blepharida. Blepharida haitiensis Blake is transferred to Acrocyum Jacoby. Morphological evidence (e.g., metatibial emargination, eye shape, and metafemoral spring shape) for placing the monotypic Euplectroscelis Crotch close to Blepharida is given. Blepharida franclemonti is described as a new species known to date only from the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico.
25010100|Two new species, Atractotomus bicolor and A. teopisca, are described from the state of Chiapas in southern Mexico. The male genitalic structures of both species are illustrated, and scanning electron micrographs are provided for the dorsal vestiture, femoral spines and pretarsus of A. teopisca. The relationship of these species to other New World members of the genus is discussed.
25009571|Protesilaus illuminatus (Niepelt), unrecorded since its 1928 description, is given species status based on study of recent specimens from the Rio Putumayo valley of Colombia, syntypical material and wing and genitalic characters of congeners. A lectotype is designated.
25009150|From 1974 to 1978, we released 14 species of European parasites (ca. 82,000 insects from 3 agromyzid host species on alfalfa) as part of a biological control effort against the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), in the USA. A list of release locations, dates, and parasite numbers is presented. Techniques for rearing 4 of the species are briefly described. Two species, Dacnusa dryas (Nixon) (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) and Chrysocharis punctifacies Delucchi (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae), have been established in Delaware. Sufficiently large field populations of these species were present in 1978 so that insects were collected by sweeping and moved to other release locations.
25009615|Cochylis caulocatax Razowski was previously known only from the type series, 2 males, from Venezuela. The adults, male and female genitalia, larva, and pupa are described and illustrated. Larvae feed on stamens of Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinners (Gentianales: Gentianaceae) in early instars, then burrow into ovaries feeding on developing seeds and supporting tissues. The moth is known from north central Kentucky, southeastern Texas, eastern Mississippi, south central Florida, and central Venezuela. Two generations per year occur in the Nearctic: 1) mid-June through July and 2) September to mid-October. Collections from Venezuela were in mid-February. Two parasites were reared, a braconid, Bracon sp., and a chalcidid, Spilochalcis sanguiniventris (Cresson).
25009635|Contract rates between individual stream-dwelling gyrinids increased with increasing temperature, while those for pond-dwelling gyrinids remained fairly constant. In aggregated pond beetles, interindividual distance increased with increasing temperature up to 21C, and then declined. These observations may be explained by the different constraints of the two habitats, and the function of whirligig beetle aggregations.
25006091|The holotype of Harpaphe telodonta (Chamberlin) has been relocated and is redescribed herein. Illustrations of gonopods of the male and shape of body segments are presented. The present location of the holotype is in the United States National Museum, Washington, D. C.
25009062|Huckett, H. C., Long Island Vegetable Research Farm, Cornell University, Riverhead, New York 11901.-A survey of the Anthomyiidae and Muscidae occurring on the upper region of the Presidential Range in New Hampshire was made during the early summer of 1954, 1955, 1956, from bases at the Lakes of the Clouds and at Madison (Maps 1 and 2). The collections of adults included 62 anthomyiid species and 1 subspecies and 117 muscid species and one subspecies out of a total of 5,667 specimens. To this has been added separately a number of specimens in the collections of Mrs. A. T. Slosson, made at the turn of the century, and that I have been able to identify. The names cited in her records as Coenosia albicornis and Aricia vagans are misapplied. I regard these specimens as belonging respectively to the species Coenosia (Limosia) compressa Stein and Lasiops albibasalis (Zetterstedt) new synonymy.
25010344|Twelve species in eight genera of the New World subfamily Larginae are discussed. The following species are redescribed and/or compared with their original descriptions: Acinocoris calidus (F.), A. decoratus Brailovsky and Barrera, A. includens Walker, A. lunaris (Gmelin), A. stehliki Van Doesburg, Astemma nigrocapitata Brailovsky and Barrera, Fibrenus bullatus White, Stenomacra marginella Herrich-Schaeffer, Therenais constricta Stl, and Vasarhelyecoris ophthalmicus Brailovsky and Barrerra. The measurements of the following species were compared with published measurements: Acinocoris calidus, A. decoratus, A. lunaris, A. stehliki, Astemma nigrocapitata, and Fibrenus bullatus. Instars of the following species are described: Largulus parallelus Hussey (third and fifth instars), and Thaumastaneis montandoni Kirkaldy and Edwards (fifth instar); the fifth instar of Largulus parallelus is figured. The following are new country records: Acinocoris elegans Van Doesburg: Peru; A. includens: Venezuela; A. lunaris: Bolivia; A. stehliki: Venezuela; Therenais constricta: Ecuador; and Thaumastaneis montandoni: Bolivia.
25009880|Stictolethaeus slateri, new genus, n. sp., is described from Argentina and Uruguay. A new type of sexual dimorphism suggests male pheromone production. Coleopteroid forewings and the lack of hind wings apparently preclude flight.
25005866|The genera of the family are listed and the synonomy of Oribatodes Banks 1895 is discussed briefly. Sphodrocepheus tridactylus, n. gen., n. sp., is described and figured. Distribution records of the species are indicated for Utah, California, Oregon and Washington.
25010038|A new species, Acroneuria kosztarabi is described from Tazewell County, Virginia. The new species is distinguished from related species in the male by the penial armature, and in the female by the completely punctate egg and subgenital plate shape.
25009089|Rolston, L. H., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803.-The genus Odmalea is redescribed and a key provided to distinguish among the closely related genera Brepholoxa, Dendrocoris, Odmalea, and Thoreyella. Odmalea norda n. sp. from Venezuela and O. vega n. sp. from Colombia are added to the genus, the other four members are redescribed, and a key is provided for the separation of the species. NEW COMBINATIONS are Odmalea basalis (Walker) from Euschistus, Odmalea concolor (Walker) from Thoreyella, and Odmalea pallida (Jensen-Haarup) from Thoreyella. NEW SYNONYMY recognized is Thoreyella pulchra Jensen-Haarup as a junior synonym of Odmalea basalis (Walker), Odmelea quadripunctula Bergroth and Odmalea quadripunctula modesta Ruckes as junior synonyms of Odmalea concolor (Walker), and Odmalea olivacea Ruckes as a junior synonym of Thoreyella brasiliensis Spinola.
25009272|The catalog lists 272 generic-group names previously associated with the family Glyphipterigidae auctorum of the world and segregates these generic names to Glyphipterigidae sensu stricto (Copromorphoidea), Immidae (Immoidea), and Brachodidae and Choreutidae (Sesioidea), as well as 21 other families. Transfers to other families are based on examination of the type-species of each genus, in some cases only on literature references and notes from colleagues. Generic synonyms, homonyms, and type-species, with their designations, type localities and depositories, are given when known. Lectotypes are designated for 19 of the generic type-species listed. A complete bibliography is given for all included taxa, as well as an index to cited species. V. O. Becker contributes the new name, Rectiostoma Becker, replacing Setiostoma Zeller, 1875 [not Setiostoma Felder and Rogenhofer, 1875] in Oecophoridae (Stenomatinae).
25009790|The five North American species of the genus Neottiglossa are reviewed. Diagnoses are provided for the genus Neottiglossa, for the two subgenera, and for the North American species. Neottiglossa trilineata (Kirby) and N. undata (Say) belong in the nominate subgenus, while N. cavifrons Stl, N. sulcifrons Stl, and N. tumidifrons Downes belong in the subgenus Texas Kirkaldy. Neottiglossa coronaciliata Ruckes, 1957 is placed as a junior synonym of Neotiglossa cavifrons Stl, 1872; and N. californica Bliven, 1958 is placed as a junior synonym of N. undata (Say, 1832). A key is provided for the identification of species.
25010022|Evidence is given to support the discovery of type material for Aelia spiniceps Herrich-Schffer, 1840 and Pentatoma scabricorne Herrich-Schffer, 1844. A lectotype designation is made for Aelia spiniceps. Platistus and P. spiniceps are redescribed.
25009163|156 species of phytophagous and pollinating insects and 3 phytophagous mites are associated with the introduced Eurasian chickweeds, Stellaria media L. (Cyrillo) and S. graminea L. in the northeastern United States. Among these are 16 crop pests, including three known vectors of crop viruses that also infect S. media. Pollinators are primarily Apoidea, Syrphidae and Formicidae. The collection of Tmetothrips subapterus (Haliday) on S. graminea represents the first Western Hemisphere record. Stellaria media ranks among the ten most important weeds in the United States. A biological control program is possible, although it may be difficult due to the habit and habitat of this winter annual.
25009188|Nocturnal observations and excavations of honey ant colonies in the vicinity of Colorado Springs, Colorado provided information on pre- and post-nuptial behavior and the seasonal appearance of the reproductive brood. The mating flights of three different nests were observed on the evenings of July 24, 25 and 28. The nuptial activity at one formicary lasted an hour and a half and peaked between 7:26 and 7:36 PM when the sexuals took wing. During this period 56 queens and 100-110 males were counted. Dealated queens were observed after the nuptial flights. Queen larvae were uncovered in nests between October and February and queen cocoons were unearthed in May and June. Winged queens and males were taken from nests approximately one month prior to swarming and were noted outside colony entrances several days before and after the nuptial flights. A single wingless queen was recovered from each of the three completely excavated colonies.
25006147|Information is given on the life history of the cuckoo bee Thyreus lieftincki and on its host, Anthophora braunsiana Friese. Biological data are also presented on Anthophora krebsi Friese, the nests of which are attacked by the cuckoo bee Coelioxys (Liothyrapis) lativentris Friese. The adults of T. lieftincki, new species, are described.
25006200|Six species and two subspecies are reported from North American rodents including the new species Sciurocoptes tamias from the Eastern Chipmunk, Tamias striatus. Synonymies are given.
25010007|A key and diagnoses are provided for the 21 described species in the incurvia species-group of the nominate subgenus of Antiteuchus Dallas. Three new species are described: A. rufitarsus from Venezuela, A. englemani from Ecuador and A. rideri from Brazil. Antiteuchus ratcliffei Engleman, 1983, is placed in the synonymy of A. marmoratus (Erichson, 1848). Lectotypes are designated for A. pallescens Stl and in the parallela species-group, A. sepulcralis (Fabricius).
25010325|The taxonomy of the creeping water bugs belonging to the genera Sagocoris and Aptinocoris, which are endemic to New Guinea and nearby islands, is revised. The following new species are described: Sagocoris intermedius from central Irian Jaya, Sagocoris irianus from northern Irian Jaya, Sagocoris flavinotum from northern Irian Jaya, Aptinocoris sogeri from southeastern Papua New Guinea, Aptinocoris minutus from northern Papua New Guinea, Aptinocoris boikiki from northeastern Papua New Guinea, and Aptinocoris ziwa from northern Irian Jaya. The following new generic assignments are proposed (new combinations given second): Sagocoris fenneri = Aptinocoris fenneri; Sagocoris sedlaceki = Aptinocoris sedlaceki; Sagocoris cheesmanae = Aptinocoris cheesmanae; Quadricoris asymmetrica = Sagocoris asymmetricus. The following new synonyms are proposed (junior synonyms listed first): Quadricoris La Rivers = Sagocoris Montandon; Truncocoris La Rivers = Aptinocoris Montandon; Sagocoris browni La Rivers = Aptinocoris papuus Montandon. The supergenera Margodes and Margallus proposed by La Rivers are considered invalid names since they refer to a taxonomic category that has no official status under the present Code. Illustrations are provided for the male genital structures and female pregenital structures for all Sagocoris and Aptinocoris species, along with maps detailing the distributions of these species within New Guinea.
25005939|A living, nonflashing firefly begins to flash intermittently when ozone is added to ambient air. A firefly may stop intermittent flashing because of apparent fatigue or because the air contains insufficient ozone. Intermittent flashing is triggered by a chemical, ozone.
25009591|The diagnostic characters of Epipedus Spinola, 1837, are enumerated and Calagasma Bergroth, 1914, synonymized with this genus. Epipedus histrio Spinola, 1837, type species by monotypy, is redescribed and a lectotype designated.
25009611|A description is provided for Acrosternum (Chinavia) cubensis, n. sp. New locality records are given for A. wygodzinskyi Rolston from Puerto Rico. A key to the eight species of Acrosternum known to occur in the West Indies is provided.
25010370|A total of 173 species of mayflies, representing 15 families and 45 genera, are reported from the state of New York. First state records for 43 species and 891 new county reports for 129 species are included. Previously published reports are summarized, and pertinent remarks on species are annotated. The occurrence of Dannella provonshai, Heptagenia julia, and Plauditus gloveri in New York represent significant range extensions. The discovery of Epeorus frisoni in New York represents only the second report of the species. Species potentially of environmental concern are noted.
25008948|The initial part of this short series of papers concerning the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal 82: 279, 1974 and concerned the tribe Pediciini. At this time I am discussing the Eriopterine genus Gonomyia and provide descriptions of seven undescribed species, Gonomyia (Idiocera) curticurva, G. (I.) laterospina, G. (I.) orthophallus, G. (I.) spinistylata, G. (Gonomyia) basilobata, G. (G.) elburzensis, and G. (G.) oxybeles, from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran.
25008887|For the first time a complete description, including photographs, of the life cycle of Temenis laothe liberia Fabricius is presented, as well as a record of the foodplants in Central America. Behavior during early and adult stages is described and compared with behavior of closely related species. The findings are discussed with relation to the possibility that this species is protected against predators as a result of the poisonous properties of its foodplants.
25009199|Epistylis cambari was found attached to the dorsal abdominal surface of 30% of the dragonfly nymphs examined. Colonies ranged from 20-30 individuals with but one colony attached to each dragonfly nymph.
25009426|Compsidolon (Coniortodes) salicellum is recorded for the first time from in the United States, feeding on aphids on cultivated filberts in western Oregon and Washington.
25006000|This paper describes the mature larva of Panurgus dentipes Latreille and compares it with the previously published accounts of other species in the genus.
25008807|The occurrence of Cheiridium museorum (Leach) and Allochernes peregrinus Lohmander in North America is recorded for the first time.
25009735|Froeschnerana mexicana, a new genus and new species, is described from the Mexican states of Aguascalientes, Guerrero, Jalisco, Oaxaca and Puebla. Its relationship to the genus Bothynotus (Clivinemini) is discussed.
25010080|Ambrysus relictus, n. sp. is described from thermal springs in Ash Meadows, Nevada, and compared to Ambrysus amargosus La Rivers, another thermally endemic species occurring in the same area. The warm spring habitat of the species is discussed, and figures are provided of the dorsal habitus, male abdominal terminalia, and female subgenital plate.
25000072|Geary (1959) listed 42 species of Siphonaptera from New York. The present list includes numerous additional distributional records, and adds three species to Geary's list: Peromyscopsylla h. hamifer (Rothschild), Ceratophyllus diffinis Jordan (previously reported but missed by Geary), and Epitedia (cavernicola Traub?). Geary also removed from the state list Echidnophaga gallinacea (Westwood), but we consider the published record to be a valid one.
25009993|A new genus of Neotrichiini, Kumanskiella, and new species K. karenae, from the Greater Antilles are described and illustrated. Mayatrichia aliena is transferred into this new genus. Keys to the genera of Neotrichiini are provided and a proposed phylogeny of the tribe presented. Kumanskiella appears most closely related to Neotrichia with Taxatrichia the sister group to Mayatrichia, Kumanskiella and Neotrichia.
25010120|Pseudevoplitus Ruckes is revised on the basis of morphological characters with emphasis on the genitalia of both sexes. Four species are recognized, three of them new: P. paradoxus Ruckes, 1958, P. costalimai, n. sp., P. peruvianus, n. sp., and P. vittatus, n. sp. The species P. longicornis Ruckes, 1959, P. casei Thomas, 1980, and P. mexicanus Brailovsky and Barrera, 1982 are transferred to a new genus, described in another paper.
25009950|The spider genus Zavattarica Caporiacco, and the monogeneric subfamily Zavattaricinae, were based on the supposed presence of a reduced number of spinnerets. However, both described species actually have the normal gnaphosid complement of six spinnerets, and Zavattarica Caporiacco is placed as a junior synonym of Zelotes Gistel.
25010416|The genus Plinachtus (Heteroptera: Coreidae: Gonocerini) from Madagascar is revised and two new species are described. A key to the known species is provided, as well as illustrations of antennal segments, pronotum, male genital capsule and dorsal view. Gonocerus madagascariensis Kiritshenko is transferred to the genus Plinachtus and new distributional records are given.
25009642|A new species of dung feeding Scarabaeidae, Aphodius aenictus, is described from southeastern Canada and northeastern United States. It is integrated into the existing key to eastern species of Aphodius, and pertinent diagnostic characters are illustrated.
25009776|The male, female, and pupa of Piezosimulium jeanninae are described and illustrated. These specimens (consisting of various portions of 2 males, 1 female, and associated pupal parts) represent a new genus and new species in the family Simuliidae. The new genus is readily distinguished from all other genera of the family by the presence of a conspicuous sperm pump, and a distinct, sclerotized, setose plate situated ventrally between the bases of the male gonocoxites. This is the first record of such structures in the family Simuliidae. The sclerotized plate is of unknown homology, but it might be a remnant of sternite 9 (hypandrium). A combination of several other characters, especially the slender katepisternum, the erect to semi-erect pile on the scutum, the large calypter, and the small eyes of both sexes are also characteristic. Under the present family classification this genus is a member of the tribe Prosimuliini, and is possibly the sister group to the other taxa in this assemblage, and possibly the sister group to all known black flies.
25009659|The new species differs from the six other nearctic members of the genus by the strongly developed ventral lamella of the mucro. Epitoky is reported in reproductive males. The nearctic distribution of Agrenia appears to have two components: A western montane species complex and a corresponding eastern complex which is still largely unknown. The new species is the first verified eastern species. A second undescribed species was seen in an old sample from North Carolina.
25010205|To document the life history of Brachymeria intermedia in the U.S., we monitored the presence of reproductively active wasps in the field using trap hosts over an 8-week time period in early summer. The overall level of recovery of wasps was low (8% peak parasitism on average), yet, all parasitism occurred within one week. Reproductively active B. intermedia seemed to be fairly synchronized with gypsy moth pupation, suggesting that they might be univoltine and monophagous. However, we cannot conclude unequivocally that B. intermedia is monophagous, because these wasps appear to disperse readily to other habitats where their behavior is unknown.
25009054|Lanham, U. N., University of Colorado Museum, Boulder 80309.-The position of the stigma relative to the rest of the venation in the forewing of Apoidea offers a diagnostic character of generic and higher rank. This new character is strongly correlated with the relative sizes of the jugal and vannal lobes of the hind wing.
25009595|The biology of Stobaera concinna (Stl) was studied in south Florida from 1 June 1985 to 1 February 1986; it was reared in the laboratory and the immature stages described. Stobaera concinna feeds and reproduces on Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and is polyvoltine. Field collected adults were returned to the laboratory and allowed to lay eggs on potted A. artemisiifolia. Upon emergence nymphs were separated and reared to adults. Durations of the five nymphal stadia were 4.57, 3.72, 4.00, 4.45, and 6.50 days, respectively. Nymphal instars differed in body size, number of pitlike sensoria, development of wingpads, number of metatibial and metatarsal spines, and shape and dentition of the metatibial spur.
25009325|Cool spring temperatures suppressed the activity of predatory stinkbugs (Podisus spp.) but did not prevent the bugs' prey, tent caterpillars (Malacosoma americanum (F.)), from feeding and developing rapidly. Thus a cold snap in 1977 temporarily reduced the number of stinkbugs at caterpillar tents near Ithaca, New York, and enabled the prey to escape predation by growing to large sizes before warm weather returned.
25009653|Thamiaraea americana Bernhauer, an athetine aleocharine staphylinid rarely encountered in North American collections, is redescribed; illustrations of structural features are provided; and lectotype and paralectotype designations are made. Thamiaraea lira is described as new from Pennsylvania. Male members of North American Thamiaraea are distinctive due to a setiferous sex patch on the dorsum of the head and the structural modifications of the eighth tergite.
25005996|Six new species of the Eriopterine genera Ormosia and Erioptera are described, including Ormosia (Oreophila) licina n. sp., from Kashmir and Kumaon, and Ormosia (Parormosia) atrotibialis n. sp., Ormosia (Ormosia) subpulchra n. sp., and O. (O.) umbripennis n. sp., from Sikkim: Erioptera (Ilisia) diadexia n. sp. and E. (I.) epicharis n. sp., from Sikkim.
25009779|The genera Rhicnocoelia Graham and Callimerismus Graham are delimited and their relationships with other genera of the Pteromalidae are discussed. Both genera are reported from the Nearctic region for the first time. Rhicnocoelia has two North American species-R. punctifrons n. sp., and the Holarctic species R. constans (Walker). A key to separate these species is given. The first host record for Rhicnocoelia, from a puparium of the chloropid Meromyza americana Fitch, is presented. Callimerismus has one Nearctic species, C. inusitatus n. sp. Callimerismus latipennis (Ashmead) is removed from the genus, but its correct generic placement is uncertain.
25010309|Asteliamiris johnpolhemi, a new genus and new species of stenodemine Miridae, is described from the island of Maui, in the Hawaiian Islands. Unlike most members of the Stenodemini which breed on grasses or sedges, both nymphal and adult stages of A. johnpolhemi are associated with Astelia menziesiana Smith, a member of the Liliaeceae. Dorsal habitus photographs, scanning electron micrographs of the head, scent gland efferent system, and pretarsus, illustrations of the male and female genitalia, and a distribution map are provided.
25000065|Descriptions are given of the egg and larvae. The mature larva is figured. The mature larva is strongly aposematic in coloration.
25010141|A population of Orchelimum silvaticum (Tettigoniidae: Conocephalinae), previously unknown east of Ohio, was discovered on Long Island, Suffolk Co., NY. Available information on disjunct distributions for the entire genus Orchelimum is briefly summarized and discussed. Information on the history and current status of two introduced katydids previously reported from Long Island is also summarized.
25010057|Two new North American species (Aradus froeschneri and Neuroctenus unistellatus) are described.
25004435|Ethylene oxide is used at the rate of 2 pounds per 1,000 cubic feet for two hours at 75 F. destroyed adults and larv of the Japanese beetle, adult Colorado potato beetles, and adult Mexican bean beetles. Ethylene oxide may be used as herein described without any appreciable damage to raspberries and blackberries, but is slightly injurious to blueberries and severely injures wet green bananas. When used at the rate herein mentioned, ethylene oxide is injurious to the foliage of Azalea and Hydrangea. Since the development of a method for fumigating fresh fruit with carbon disulphide to destroy the adult Japanese beetle, experiments have been underway to develop a fumigant for this purpose which would be equally effective as an insecticide and as non-injurious to the fruit, but which in addition would be less inflammable and explosive than carbon disulphide. The preliminary experiments with different compounds indicated that ethylene oxide, a chemical whose insecticidal properties were discovered by Cotton and Roark might be substituted for carbon disulphide for this purpose. Cotton and Roark have shown that a dosage of 1 pound per 1,999 cubic feet of space for 20 hours proved to be 100 per cent lethal to specimens of the webbing clothes moth, Tineola biselliella Hum.; the black carpet beetle, Attagenus piceus Oliv., and the furniture carpet beetle, Anthrenus vorax Csy.; the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryza L.; the Indian meal moth, Plodia interpunctella Hbn.; the saw-toothed grain beetle, Oryzphilus surinamensis L.; the red-legged ham beetle, Necrobia rufipes DeG.; and the confused flour beetle, Tribolium confusum Duv. Ethylene oxide, according to Back, Cotton, and Ellington, has been used as a fumigant with success in destroying infestations of the webbing clothes moth, the furniture carpet beetle, the confused flour beetle, the rice weevil, and the saw-toothed grain beetle.
25010500|Five new synonyms and ten new combinations are proposed for taxa in Elaphidiini. Brief characterizations of the genera involved (Anelaphus Linsley, Anopliomorpha Linsley, Elaphidion Audinet-Serville, Parelaphidion Skiles, Stizocera Audinet-Serville, Trichophoroides Linsley, Xeranoplium Linsley) are included to provide bases for these taxonomic decisions. The following new combinations are proposed, all transferred from Elaphidion: Anelaphus cinnabarinum (Fisher); Anelaphus crispulum (Fisher); Anelaphus mutatum (Gahan); Anelaphus fasciatum (Fisher); Anelaphus hispaniolae (Fisher); Anopliomorpha antillarum (Fisher); Trichophoroides dozieri (Fisher); Trichophoroides signaticolle (Chevrolat); Trichophoroides variolosum (Fisher); Xeranoplium gracilis (Fisher). The following new synonymies are proposed: Elaphidion truncatipenne Fisher with Anelaphus fasciatum (Fisher); Elaphidion monticola Fisher and Anopliomorpha xylebora Cazier & Lacey with Anopliomorpha antillarum (Fisher); Elaphidion jamaicensis Fisher with Elaphidion tuberculicolle Fisher; Stizocera punctiventris (Cazier & Lacey) with Stizocera insulana (Gahan). A checklist of the 55 species of Elaphidion is provided.
25010023|A new genus and species of tubuliferan Thysanoptera is described, Domatiathrips cunninghamii, which seems to be related to a group of moss-feeding species. With an adult body length of scarcely 1 mm, all life stages of the thrips were found living solitarily inside leaf domatia of a Rubiaceous under-story rain-forest tree in Costa Rica. The literature on the significance of leaf domatia and their relationships to arthropods is discussed.
25005877|The abdominal nervous system in the nymph of Pteronarcys proteus Newman, and in the adult of P. californica Newport is described. The ganglia of segments 3 and 4 are coalesced. The transverse nerves of segments 4, 5 and 6 arise from the ganglia of the immediately-following segments. Only the first three segments contain both dorsal and ventral nerves. The muscles and nerves of the genital segments are described.
25009846|Two new species of the Polycentropus confusus species-group are described. Polycentropus alabamensis, n. sp. is found in small streams primarily in northeastern Alabama and P. vernus, n. sp. was collected from small headwater and intermittent streams of the Cumberland Plateau. Also included is a checklist of the P. confusus species-group. This group comprises 14 species in addition to the new species described herein. All species of this group occur in eastern North America.
25009773|The tenebrionid subfamilies Tenebrioninae and Coelometopinae are diagnosed. The tenebrionine tribes Tenebrionini and Alphitobiini are defined, and most genera previously included in Tenebrionini are transferred to Coelometopini. Centronopini and Acropteronini are proposed as new tribes of Tenebrioninae. The coelometopine tribes Coelometopini, Strongyliini and Talanini are defined. Cnodalonini, Misolampini and Nodotelini have been based on superficial characters which primarily reflect loss of flying ability. Each of these groups consists of paraphyletic assemblages derived several times independently from Coelometopini, and they are placed as junior synonyms of that tribe. Keys are provided to the genera of these beetles for North and Central America.
25010247|New distributions are given for Thasus neocalifornicus Brailovsky and Barrera, T. gigas (Klug), T. acutangulus (Stl), T. luteolus Brailovsky and Barrera, and T. rutilus Brailovsky and Barrera. Measurements of several instars and a key to the last three instars of the first three species are given. These new country records are given: T. acutangulus, El Salvador; T. luteolus, Panama; T. rutilus, Bolivia. The distribution of T. neocalifornicus is discussed, as are differences among its populations and between them and T. gigas. We conclude, tentatively, that T. neocalifornicus from the United States-Mexican landmass more closely resembles the neocalifornicus-gigas common ancestor than do T. neocalifornicus populations from Baja California Sur.
25010382|The four new species Hyalochloria apicata, H. bispina, and H. marginatus from Brazil, and H. baranowskii from Panama and Trinidad, are described; H. rondoniensis Carvalho is synonymized under H. scutellata Henry; males of H. antilleana Carvalho and H. araripensis Carvalho are described for the first time; confusion pertaining to the identity of H. caviceps and H. unicolor is clarified; a lectotype for H. caviceps Reuter is redesignated; and numerous new distribution records are given. Photographs of adults, illustrations of male antennae, and a revised identification key to the 20 known species are provided to facilitate recognition.
25010421|Netechma similis, new species, from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and Netechma caesiata (Clarke), new combination, from Venezuela, is redescribed and illustrated. Netechma Razowski belongs to a group of genera in Euliini characterized by one or more sparganothine-like features of the male genitalia, including a spiny transtilla; a long, slender, hooklike uncus; and densely scaled socii. Adults of the two treated species are superficially most similar to species of Icteralaria Razowski, with a forewing that features a broad, dark, medial band on a pale yellow ground color.
25009897|First, third, fourth and fifth instar nymphs of Pissonotus delicatus Van Duzee collected from camphorweed (Heterotheca subaxillaris (Lam.) Britt. and Rusby: Asteraceae) in Florida are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions; spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, and metatarsomeres; and number of metatarsomeres and body pits.
25009225|The predacious mite species Phytoseiulus persimilis Athias-Henriot and Neoseiulus californicus (McGregor) (Acari: Phytoseiidae) were reared on potted red clover, Trifolium pratense L., in the greenhouse at ambient temperatures (min. 12C). Twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus urticae Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae), were placed on the plants as prey. Red clover leaflets, on which were predators and prey, were removed and placed on potted alfalfa, Medicago sativa L., in the same greenhouse. One pot of red clover produced 5,000-8,000 predators per year, sufficient for satisfactory control of T. urticae on 50 pots of alfalfa. The technique requires minimal time, greenhouse space, and expense.
25009215|Bees are generally supposed to be descendants of sphecid wasps, largely on the basis of similarities in thoracic structure. If it be assumed that these similarities are convergent, resulting from independent evolution for high-precision flight, then an argument can be made for a close relationship between bees, ants, and scolioid wasps.
25010140|The potential of using Agistemus exsertus to control Panonychus citri was studied in both laboratory and citrus grove. Functional response studies showed that A. exsertus adult females had the highest instantaneous rate of discovery (a = 1.430) and shortest handling time (Th = 1.67 hr) when provided with P. citri eggs as compared to other prey stages. In comparison with adults of both sexes, A. exsertus deutonymphs had the lowest a (0.102) and longest Th (4.32 hr) when P. citri eggs were provided as prey. A. exsertus females clearly exhibited a prey-stage preference; an average of 75.2% of prey consumption consisted of eggs as compared to 16.6 and 8.2% nymphs and adult males, respectively. The intrinsic rates of natural increase (rm) of A. exsertus were higher at 20 and 25C, but lower at 30 and 35C than that of P. citri. A. exsertus demonstrated a satisfactory control of P. citri in the greenhouse release study. Under natural conditions, the population of A. exsertus was very low in the winter and increased steadily from May through October.
25009050|Third instars of Lymantria dispar (L.) reared from egg masses collected from eight field locations covering northern, central and southern New Jersey were compared for susceptibility to insecticides by topical application. There was no difference in acephate tolerance for three widely separated populations nor in DDT tolerance in the two populations (northern and southern) tested. Significant differences in carbaryl susceptibility were detected for several of the eight collections but the differences were small (2-fold, or less) and were not considered indicative of incipient resistance.
25006062|Experiments were conducted to determine the influence of various horizontally orientated textured surfaces on the congregating behavior of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.). Various grades of sandpaper and sheets of sandpaper with the sand removed were used as testing surfaces. When these sheets were stacked in battery jars with spaces between them for the cockroaches to congregate, and the jars contained no food or water, the cockroaches showed a preference for the smoother surfaces. However, when food and water were supplied to these same jars, strong preferences for a surface of any one texture no longer existed. When, instead of being stacked, the textured surfaces were placed on the same horizontal level and the food and water were added, this species showed a strong tendency to congregate on the smoother surfaces.
25009361|A study of the relevant types in the genus Cerceris has resulted in the following synonymy (junior subjective synonyms in parentheses): C. acanthophila Cockerell (=C. chilopsidis Viereck and Cockerell), revised synonymy; C. cockerelli Viereck, revised status (=C. minax Mickel), new synonymy; C. gandarai Rohwer (=C. micheneri Scullen), new synonymy. Two species are left without names and are described as C. grisselli Ferguson n. sp. (=C. minax, sensu Bohart and Grissell, nec Mickel) and C. rohweri Ferguson n. sp. (=C. gandarai, sensu Scullen, nec Rohwer).
25008877|The present and future use of polyhedral insect viruses for biological control justifies extensive tests for their safety, not only as possible disease agents of various hosts but also as possible inducers of other virus infections, transforming factors, and causes of allergies. This paper describes the retention of an insect polyhedral virus in cultured human cells. No deleterious effects of this virus on growing cells was observed. Polyhedral inclusion bodies (PIB) and free virions of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of Heliothis zea (cotton bollworm) were studied to determine their effects on several human cell cultures. No cytopathic effect (CPE) was observed in cultures of primary human amnion (PHA), foreskin (HF), embryo (EM), lung (WI38), and leucocytes (LEU) inoculated with both PIB and virions. Cell viability studies employing HF and LEU cultures revealed no difference between controls and cultures inoculated with PIB over a 3-week period. PHA and WI38 cultures inoculated with virions and stained with hematoxylin and eosin showed no presence of inclusion bodies or other cytopathic effects. However, virus was recovered from PHA, WI38, and LEU cultures by bioassay 4 weeks after inoculation. Immunofluorescence of PHA cultures inoculated with the NPV failed to detect antigen over a 5-week period. DNA synthesis of LEU cultures was unaffected by exposure to the virus as assessed by autoradiography, nor did such cultures ever transform. PHA cultures inoculated with NPV did not show the presence of any transformed foci over a 4-month period. A neutralization test whereby antiserum could be tested for its neutralizing capacity in a bioassay test was developed.
25010286|Two new species of Laccotrephes are described from Indonesia, L. celebensis from Sulawesi, and L. sondaicus from Sumbawa and Flores. Nomenclatural and distributional notes are given for Laccotrephes species occuring in the Malay Archipelago.
25006117|The male genitalia of eight species is described: S. crandalli Curran, S. fusca Loew, S. hamifera Loew, S. interrupta Williston, S. kahli Snow, S. liturata Williston, S. longicornis Loew and S. quadrifasciata Say. A key based on the terminalia is provided for the species studied.
25009581|The hemerobiid, Micromus remiformis is described as new from western North America. Illustrations of the male genitalic structures of M. remiformis and the closely related Nearctic M. montanus are presented.
25009686|The establishment of Tetyra bipunctata (Herrich-Schaeffer) in Qubec is reported. Associated plants and overwintering sites of the species are determined for the province.
25008857|Fifty-six more species, subspecies, and named aberrations with given foodplant, where known, are here added to the Supplemental List of Lepidoptera of New Jersey (1965).
25004501|The phylogenetic relations of twenty-five North American genera have been studied. The data for this study have been derived from the following characters: wings, genitalia, gills, and mouth parts. Intensive study of the wings supports Lameere's view of the primitive insect wing structure. By boiling the wings in KOH, it has proved possible to separate the two surfaces, and thus show that the mayflies possess every major vein that was to be found in the Dictyonurid. Apparently the Ephemerida have the most primitive wings of all living insects. The genitalia and mouth parts have been interpreted in accordance with the findings of Crampton and Walker. The gills have been of great value as phylogenetic indicators. Four distinct lines of development are recognized within the family. Two of these are monotypic and are represented by Caenis and Baetisca, respectively. The Heptageniid, the Batid, and the genus Siphlonurus make up the third branch. The Ephemerid, Blasturus, Leptophlebia, Choroterpes, Tricorythus, and Ephemerella constitute the fourth evolutionary stem.
25009091|Woodiel, Neil L., and Tsai, James H., Postdoctoral Research Associate and Asst. Professor of Entomology, respectively, Agric. Res. Ctr., University of Florida, 3205 SW 70th Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33315. Present address of senior author: Arrowhead Drive, Box 422, McMinnville, Tenn. 37110.-A rotary flight trap was successfully devised to sample flying insects associated with the palm community in south Florida. This machine consisted of a triangular support unit, and a boom and net assembly powered by an electric motor. Traps were operated three weeks per month for 12 months during 1974-1975. Although over 50 species of insects were periodically collected, Haplaxius crudus (Van Duzee) was trapped throughout the year. The flight activities of this insect appeared to be high in March, May, September and November. While in operation, the nets sampled 4,741 cu m of air per hour for insects. A list of materials necessary to construct this sampling unit is presented.
25009243|A breeding program of Morpho peleides insularis Fruhstorfer in Trinidad led to successful rearing of large broods of this butterfly on Paragonia pyramidata (Bignoniaceae). Crossing with M. achillaena Hbner from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, gave good fertility to the F4, while crossing with Morpho achilles Fruhst. from Belm, Par, Brazil did not lead to generations beyond the F1. The appearance of melanic forms of peleides, which occurred on two separate occasions in captivity, was followed by means of selective breeding; this revealed that the melanism had a genetic basis but was probably also influenced by the physical environment (especially excessive sun and heat exposure of juveniles in the breeding cage), and that at least two melanic characters (and possibly three) were segregating independently.
25010308|The micropterous Promiorrhynchus polhemusi new genus, new species from Veracruz, Mexico, is described and figured. The new taxon is related to but distinguished by a combination of characters from the macropterous Neotropical genera Miorrhynchus Usinger & Matsuda, Rhynchomirus Kormilev and Saileriessa Usinger & Matsuda. The only micropterous Neotropical genera known to date are Delnocoris Kormilev and Kelaino Kormilev, which show a similar alary reduction but are distinct different taxa.
25010362|The intrinsic rate of increase of a population in terms of fecundity, developmental time, and longevity, is known to affect the colonizing ability of species. We present evidence that Polistes dominulus, an invasive European paper wasp introduced to the United States, exhibits life-history traits that predispose it to successful colonization. This predisposition is not simply due to the more frequent pleometrosis of P. dominulus. Many authors have speculated, based on cursory observations, that P. dominulus is replacing native species including P. metricus. The possibility of replacement in light of the data is discussed.
25009539|The new pyrrhocorid genus Froeschnerocoris and new species F. denticapulus, are described from Assam in northeastern India. Its relationship to the genus Dysdercus is discussed, with special significance given to the structural differences in the metathoracic scent-gland ostiole and male and female genitalia.
25009470|Late instar larvae of a Neotropical species of Scotocryptus, tentatively identified as S. meliponae Girard and associated with adults determined as that species (Coleoptera: Leiodidae) are described from the nest of a stingless bee (Hymenoptera: Apidae: Meliponinae) in Manaus, Brazil. Habitus drawings and illustrations of selected characters are given to facilitate recognition of scotocryptine larvae and several characters are suggested to be adaptive apomorphs related to inquilinism, including dorso-ventral body compression, loss of stemmata, presence of stout spines, porelike cuticular structures, and an inverse c-shaped curvature of the body.
25008966|Part II of this series of papers concerning the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal (82: 279-284, 1974). In that report various species of the Eriopterine genus Gonomyia were considered and in the present paper further new species and records in the Eriopterini are provided. The species here described are Lipsothrix iranica, Cheilotrichia (Empeda) gnoma, Erioptera (Pseuderioptera) schmidi, E. (Psiloconopa) cancriformis, and Molophilus (Molophilus) pallidipes, all from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran. Additional to the above novelties, 13 further previously described European species are added to the list of species of Tipulidae from Iran.
25009796|Two apomorphic features of the larval mouthparts in Notodontidae (Lepidoptera are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic distribution within the family is documented. One hundred and fifty-four species of notodontid larvae were examined. These represent 90 genera and all currently-recognized subfamilies and tribes. The stipital lobe, a membranous projection on the dorsoposterior portion of the maxillary complex, varies in size and shape but occurs in 143 of the species studied. It does not occur in the Noctuidae, Lymantriidae, or Arctiidae. The majority of notodontid larvae exhibit a distinct developmental change in mandibular morphology, from a serrate cutting edge in first instars to a smooth edge in later instars. A serrate mandible is typical of all instars in other noctuoids. Like the stipital lobe, presence of a smooth mandibular margin is broadly distributed among notodontids. Speculations concerning the functional significance of these mouthpart modifications are presented, and their potential use as synapomorphies for the family is discussed.
25009849|The pupa of Pararhophites orobinus (Morawitz) (Pararhophitinae) is described, illustrated, and compared with the known pupae of other Megachilidae. The pupa is distinct from those of the megachilid subfamilies Fideliinae, Lithurginae, and Megachilinae. The similarities and differences of the pupae of the four subfamilies of the Megachilidae are discussed.
25005964|Collections of Ceratopogonidae were made in Salem County, New Jersey by means of mosquito light traps operated daily at five locations from June through August. Species of Culicoides collected in order of decreasing frequency were C. variipennis, C. venustus, C. stellifer, C. hollensis, C. crepuscularis, C. biguttatus, C. sanguisuga, C. arboricola, C. melleus, C. piliferus, and C. villosipennis. Collection of C. arboricola, and C. piliferus are new records for New Jersey. Detailed analysis of taxonomic features are given for the first eight of these species.
25010417|Three genera and 15 species of Vietnamese wasps belonging to the subfamily Vespinae of the family Vespidae are recorded. Among them, one genus and three species are new records for Vietnam, and the record of one species is doubtful.
25009203|Small colonies of Polistes fuscatus can suffer significant mortality due to attacks by house wrens. The wrens apparently compete with the wasps for nest sites.
25010501|Cryptobates Esaki, 1929 (Gerridae: Heteroptera) is a junior homonym of Cryptobates Fairmaire, 1882 (Tenebrionidae: Coleoptera); Lathriobates nom. nov., is proposed as a replacement name, with type species Gerris raja Distant, 1910. Cryptobatoides J. Polhemus, 1991 (Gerridae: Heteroptera) is a junior homonym of Cryptobatoides Kaszab, 1941 (Tenebrionidae: Coleoptera); Lathriobatoides nom. nov., is proposed as a replacement name, with type species Cryptobatoides brunneus J. Polhemus, 1991. Hydrometra akekawati Sites and J. Polhemus, 2003 is a junior synonym of Hydrometra okinawana Drake, 1951.
25006174|A new notation is proposed for the naming of complex venational dendroids in insect wings, in which is incorporated an objective summary of structural branching characteristics. The notation is designed for statistical comparison of fragmental and whole specimens. Although developed for use with fossils, the notation may facilitate determination of insects in modern fecal and stomach samples, and may prove useful for primary description in some taxa.
25006209|A new subspecies, Oeneis alberta capulinensis, has been found in the grassy patches at the crater rim of Capulin Mountain, New Mexico. The butterfly is on the wing in mid-May and the flight is over in early June. This is essentially the same flight period as that of O. a. oslari Skinner, although the locality is about 1,000 feet lower and well over a hundred miles southeast of the nearest known oslari colony. The Capulin subspecies is quite variable but seems to approach alberta alberta closer than it does any other subspecies. The types and type series are deposited in the American Museum of Natural History.
25010039|The monotypic genus Pentacanthoides Metcalf, 1952, is synonymized with the genus Sinophora Melichar, 1902. A diagnosis is given for the genus. One new combination, S. brunnea (Lallemand), is established. Evidence is given to support the placement of Sinophora in the tribe Aphrophorini.
25009811|A new genus and species of myrmecomorphic phyline Miridae, Myrmecomiris madecassus, is described from the spiny forest region of southwest Madagascar. The new genus is most closely related to the myrmecomorphic genera Pangania and Systellonotopsis which occur in southern Africa. The new Malagasy taxon was collected on several plant species, including an Acacia and a succulent Euphorbia.
25009360|A study of the type material of the 52 species-group taxa of Cerceris and one species of Eucerceris described by Nathan Banks is reported. Lectotypes of 25 species-group taxa of Cerceris are designated. Banks designated holotypes in his original descriptions for two species of Cerceris, and the types of the remaining 25 species-group taxa of Cerceris and one species of Eucerceris are accepted as holotypes since the original descriptions state or imply that only one specimen was involved and only one specimen was found.
25009309|The age at which females first become phonotactic to conspecific calling song, and the age at which females first mate were studied in the house cricket, Acheta domesticus L. (Orthoptera: Gryllidae). The average age at which virgin females first showed positive phonotaxis to tape recorded male calling song was 5.4 days after the last molt. In another group of adult female A. domesticus, the average age at which females first mated was 6.9 days, a significantly later age than that for phonotaxis. Early onset of phonotaxis may function to increase mate availability when females become sexually receptive.
25009538|Ligyrocoris barberi new species is described from southeastern United States. A key is presented to the nine species of Ligyrocoris sensu stricto in eastern United States. In Texas L. barberi, a pterygopolymorphic species, inhabits dry prairie communities where the bug feeds on ripe seeds of Rudbeckia hirta L. (Compositae). L. barberi is shown to be reproductively isolated by behavior from its nearest relative, the more northern L. diffusus.
25009134|The nest of the Neotropical social wasp Clypearia weyrauchi Richards is described for the first time. It consists of a single comb of sessile cells built directly on a tree trunk and covered by a domed envelope with an entrance below the center. The envelope does not contact the comb and is not thickened. It is unusual in having its outer surface coated with a layer of transparent film, probably a glandular secretion. This film serves to strengthen the crumbly, granular carton, which consists primarily of stone cells. The same film coats and strengthens the cell walls. Despite the fact that one of the two colonies examined appeared to be completing its cycle, its nest had not been enlarged beyond its initial size, a rare phenomenon among social wasps.
25009339|The genus Lincus is redefined and Minilincus Ruckes, 1958, placed in synonymy. The 30 known species of Lincus are described or redescribed and a key provided to assist in their recognition. New species are: anulatus, breddini, convexus, croupius, fatigus, incisus, laminatus, leviventris, manchus, modicus, operosus, repizcus, singularis, sinuosus, substyliger, tumidifrons, vallis, vandoesburgi and varius.
25009797|A new species of the Neotropical spider genus Leprolochus, L. stratus, is described from inland Venezuela; records and illustrations are provided for related species.
25005997|The activities of the parasitic bee Stelis (Odontostelis) bilineolata (Spinola) in specially constructed box nests of its host Euglossa cordata (Linnaeus) are reported. The female enters the nest, forces the attendant Euglossa female to abandon the nest, and remains in the nest for several days. She opens those cells containing eggs or small larvae, seals, removes, and destroys them and after depositing her own egg reseals the cell. Cells with older stages of Euglossa are not opened but the larva or pupa contained therein is killed. Feeding behavior of the small and large larvae and construction of the cocoon are described.
25010391|One new species of Copris Geoffroy with two subspecies is described from the mountains of Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. Copris boucardi Harold is redescribed. Drawings of the dorsal habitus, pronotum and a distribution map are provided.
25010378|The new riodinid genus Dachetola, tribe Riodinini, is described and illustrated from Central and South America. Four species are recognized: azora Godart, [1824], and virido Lathy, 1958, are transferred from Chalodeta Stichel to Dachetola (comb. novs.), and caligata Stichel, 1911, and pione Bates, 1868, are transferred from Calospila Geyer to Dachetola (comb. novs.). Dachetola is hypothesized to be most closely related to Metacharis Butler.
25010129|Kukalov-Peck (1991) and Kukalov-Peck and Lawrence (1993) proposed new characters to support a sister-group relationship between Strepsiptera and Coleoptera based on hind wing venation. Through the use of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy, we have examined these putative synapomorphies in multiple strepsipteran taxa and find discrepancies between the author's presentation of strepsipteran venation and those veins we could observe on the specimens themselves. We find that most of the authors' putative synapomorphies are defined imprecisely and do not consist of discrete character states. While the authors have expressed their results in cladistic terminology, they have failed to use standard cladistic methodology in character evaluation. We object to the authors' use of hypothetical groundplans for defining synapomorphy prior to formal cladistic analysis, the heavy reliance on evolutionary scenarios in phylogenetic inference, the lack of adequate outgroup comparison, and the absence of a simultaneous parsimony analysis of the character data. Based on observational discrepancies and methodological improprieties, we conclude that the authors' putative synapomorphies as currently constituted provide no evidence to support a sister-group relationship between Strepsiptera and Coleoptera.
25009641|Meluchamixia olea (Costa Rica) and Vivianadema magna (Peru) are described as new genera and new species and included in the Tribe Nematopodini. Beutelspacoris sanchezi (Argentina) is described as a new genus and new species and included in the Tribe Acanthocerini. Three new species Eubule sandaracine (Colombia), Spartocera melas (Brazil) and Sephina quintanarooana (Mxico) belonging to the Tribe Spartocerini are described. Dorsal view illustrations are provided for all new species, as is a key to the genera of Nematopodini.
25009093|Shapiro, Arthur M., Department of Zoology, University of California, Davis, California 95616.-The egg, larva, and pupa of Tatochila xanthodice from moderate elevations in the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes are described. There are numerous suggestions of affinity to the Holarctic Pieris callidice group. The pupa is unusual in the reduction of the frontal prominence and concomitant enlargement of the supraocular ones, and in the reduction of the dorsolateral prominences.
25006084|Reducing compounds, expressed as glucose, increased in weight in both groups. In eggs from young mealworms, the weights were 0.13, 0.15, and 0.18 mg. on 0, 1, and 2 days, respectively. Corresponding values for eggs of old beetles were 0.13, 0.15, and 0.19 mg. A reduction in trehalose occurred from 0.36 on 0, to 0.29 on 1, and to 0.22 mg. on 2 day eggs of young beetles, and from 0.37, to 0.29 and to 0.23 mg. on corresponding days in those of old beetles. Trehalose may be converted to glucose for use by the developing embryo. Neither reducing carbohydrates nor trehalose can account for differences in rates of larval growth between offspring of young and old beetles.
25009200|The concentration of free amino acid (FAA) pool in relation to the various morphogenetic events occurring during embryogenesis of Chilomenes sexmaculata Fabr. was determined at different incubation periods. During the first 12 hours of embryogenesis, when the zygote undergoes an active cleavage, the concentration declines gradually. However, it rises sharply at 15 hours of development when the cleavage energids undergo an active migratory activity. The amount of FAA decreases at 24 hours and remains almost steady up to 35 hours of incubation when the embryo starts elongation and segmentation. From then on there is a continuous increase in FAA up to 75 hours followed by a declining trend towards hatching as the yolk gets depleted.
25009752|Two new species of the baetid genus Pseudocentroptiloides Jacob are described: P. usa from the Nearctic, and P. christineae from the Orient. The genus and its type species P. shadini (Kazlauskas) are redescribed in a comparative format, and larval keys to species are provided. The Oriental species P. christineae and P. ceylonica Glazaczow are sister species with several synapomorphies. The Palearctic species P. shadini is the most closely related to this pair, sharing certain other apomorphies with them. The most basally derived species is P. usa. Neither cladistic nor phenetic relationships of species support subgeneric classification as previously proposed.
25010150|Austrotinodes texensis, new species, from the Edwards Plateau region of Texas, is described and illustrated. The new species appears most closely related to Austrotinodes sedmani Flint from Central America, but differs primarily in the aedeagus having only two pairs of lateral processes and in the shape of the intermediate appendages. The genus now is represented in North America by five species. A checklist of the 34 known species of Austrotinodes and their distributions is presented.
25010496|A remarkable new cylapine genus and species, Rhyparochromomiris femoratus, is described from specimens taken in canopy-fogging samples in Orellana Province, Ecuador. This new myrmecomorphic taxon is unique in the Miridae in having greatly enlarged forefemora, five-segmented antennae in both sexes, and unusual male genitalia. A description, dorsal and lateral photographs of the adult male and female, antenna, foreleg, and claw, and illustrations of the male genitalia are provided to help distinguish this new mirid from other Cylapinae.
25005851|The following new species are defined: Gonomyia (Progonomyia) bisiculifera; G. (P.) protensa; G. (Gonomyia) tanaocantha, from Sikkim; G. (Lipophleps) kama; G. (L.) varsha from Kumaon and West Bengal, and G. (L.) mizoensis from the Lushai Hills, Assam.
25009869|Scaptomyza australis Malloch is a common species widespread throughout Australia, and most recently reported as well from Norfolk Island, ca. 900 miles off the east coast of Australia. It is reported for the first time from Pitcairn Island and Tanna, Vanuatu, which extend the range considerably east and north, respectively. Male genitalia of the Pitcairn specimens is described, and slight variation in sternite 8 of the female is documented. The distribution and monophyly of the subgenus Bunostoma is briefly discussed, with particular regard to the endemic Hawaiian fauna.
25009282|Nine cultivars and selections of the Kentucky bluegrass, Poa pratensis L., were examined for susceptibility to a natural infestation of the larvae of the bluegrass billbug, Sphenophorus parvulus Gyllenhal. There was a significant correlation (r = 0.767, df = 7, P < 0.05) between larval infestations and percent damage to the bluegrasses. 'Kenblue' was among the least damaged entries and had minimal infestation. This established cultivar is characterized by narrow leaves, an upright (taller) posture, and high susceptibility to the leaf spot and melting-out disease incited by Drechslera poae (Baudys) Shoem. The other cultivars and selections had broader leaves, lower growth, and showed less disease damage. Possibly, these characteristics render these other bluegrasses more apparent than Kenblue and, thereby, are preferred over Kenblue for oviposition by the adult billbugs.
25006194|Daily records were kept on the numbers of individuals of the tropical, day-flying moth Urania fulgens (Uraniidae-Heterocera) migrating on a large scale as seen at three different localities located in the central part of Costa Rica. Less regular observations made at several other localities indicated that the migration was a widespread phenomenon in Costa Rica. This migration of Urania, studied from its very early phase and on through its termination, lasted from 12 August to 24 September 1969 and was carefully studied for 30 of these 42 days. On the basis of the 54,625 moths counted using one method of sampling the migrating population, flight activity pattern on a daily basis was found to be bimodal. The peaks of most flight activity (largest numbers of moths flying) were equal and these occurred between 7:00 to 11:00 AM and between 3:00 and 6:00 PM (C. S. T.) with very few moths flying between 11:00 AM and 3:00 PM. Samples of several hundred netted individuals taken at various times over the course of the migration, revealed that sex ratio in the population was always unity and with females carrying large numbers of eggs. That the migrating population was composed of young adults was indicated by the fresh appearance of these moths; an assay was conducted to estimate life expectancy and for males, it was 28 days and for females, 34 days. Traffic rate, speed, and density of the migration were estimated to describe the consistency of the population on a day-to-day basis. A brief discussion is given concerning ecological experimental approaches that could be used to study insect migrations in general.
25009847|Macrochlidia, new genus, is described from Colombia and Venezuela; it includes two species: M. major, new species, and M. minor, new species. Females of M. major are the largest moths in the Chlidanotinae (Tortricidae). The male genitalia of Macrochlidia are characterized by fusion of the hami and socii; the characteristic chlidanotine "asteroid" signum of the female is greatly reduced. The Neotropical fauna of Chlidanotini currently includes 25 described species placed in six genera; over half of the Neotropical Chlidanotini species represented in major collections worldwide are undescribed.
25010156|The painted grasshopper Poecilocerus pictus F. feeds on the poisonous milkweed Calotropis gigantea. Cardenolide content in the various tissues of gravid females of this insect has been analysed and significant differences in the levels of cardenolides have been found in different tissues. The metathoracic scent gland, ovary and egg have been found to sequester higher concentrations of cardenolides. The accessory salivary system (reservoir), that is closely associated with the crop and the midgut, has been found to excrete the cardenolides, as evidenced from the analyses of the spittle emitted as droplets by satiated life stages.
25010293|Aphodius kiowensis, n. sp., from Kansas and the Texas panhandle, is described and illustrated. Its biology and habitat are discussed, as are the species of rodents having Aphodius associates in collecting areas in southern Kansas. The pertinent Kansas habitats and possible biological scenarios are discussed.
25010239|Heliothrips zucchi is described as a new species from south eastern Brazil. It is very similar in structure to H. haemorrhoidalis, the greenhouse thrips. Because nearly all known males of H. haemorroidalis have been found in the western part of the Amazon basin, it is suggested that this is the area of origin of this worldwide pest. The only other member of the genus is from southern Africa, and a key is provided to distinguish the three species.
25009486|Anthrenus pimpinellae F., a widespread Palearctic dermestid, is reported from Delaware and Pennsylvania, the first confirmed records of this species for the Western Hemisphere. Anthrenus lepidus LeConte and A. occidens Casey, considered junior synonyms of A. pimpinellae since the early 1900's, herein are removed from synonymy with A. pimpinellae. A table of external morphological characters separating these 3 species is given. The biology and habits of this introduced dermestid are reviewed and summarized from the European literature. A diagnosis and illustration of the adult are provided, along with a new key to the species of Anthrenus occurring in North America east of the Mississippi River.
25008768|Field observations of the rarely collected ant, Cheliomyrmex morosus (F. Smith), are recorded. The ant is hypogaeic with a majority of its burrows appearing in the upper 6 inches of the soil. Internal and external features of the abdomen considered to be of importance in understanding the phylogeny of this ant are discussed. Included are descriptions of portions of the gastral digestive system, the reproductive system, and the sting apparatus. Malpighian tubule counts in C. morosus and 6 other New World dorylines are compared.
25010117|Ten species of caterpillars in the genus Dichomeris were collected on Solidago and Aster spp. in the northeastern U.S.; an eleventh species was collected on Solidago in Florida. New host records are presented. Most species fly in summer and overwinter as partly grown larvae. Some species are restricted to open habitats; others occur in both forest and field. Larvae can be distinguished by color pattern. All but one of the species are leaf folders; some species fold leaves tightly and others loosely. Overall forms of leaf folds vary among host plant species, reflecting differences in position of natural bends in the leaves which larvae always choose as starting points for leaf folds. Ovipositing adults D. leuconotella and D. ochripalpella prefer tall ramets, so that eggs and summer-hatching larvae are concentrated on the tallest host plant species (S. altissima). Partly grown caterpillars redistribute themselves more evenly among host species in the following spring. Adults of at least four species avoid ovipositing on S. caesia, although S. caesia is much used by the single apparently spring-hatching species, D. bilobella. Parasitoids are shared among the summer-hatching caterpillar species; D. bilobella is attacked by a different set of parasitoids.
25009506|The genus Idiocarus is reviewed based on recent collections in Papua New Guinea. Three new species, I. isolatus, I. sepikanus, and I. papuus are described, distribution notes are given for three previously described species, and a key to all species is provided, accompanied by figures of the male and female genital structures. Idiocarus litus La Rivers is reduced to a junior synonym of I. elongatus Montandon.
25005864|Descriptions of the nests of two African subterranean meliponid species, namely, Meliplebeia tanganyikae medionigra (Cockerell) and Plebeiella lendliana (Friese) are given. In both species, the nest proper consisted of brood area, area of old cerumen layers, and of pollen and honey pots. The combs are horizontal in both species, the mode of building is concentric in M. t. medionigra while clockwise-spiral in P. lendliana. In both species, the nests are connected to the exterior by means of an entrance burrow, of which the uppermost section forms a turret protruding above the soil surface. An interesting lower blind burrow was observed in M. t. medionigra apparently for the drainage of excess moisture. Both species can be transported to artificial hives, but the maintenance of the colonies under this condition is difficult.
25005888|Geographic distribution of stingless bees and the number of species per continent are given. South America is considered the center of origin and dispersion of stingless bees because it has: a) 183 species against 32 in Africa, 42 in Asia plus Indonesia West of the Wallace-Weber line, 20 in Australia, New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands; b) primitive species with n = 9 chromosomes etc; c) highly specialized species. Possible migration of stingless bees since the Paleocene is studied. Their progress can be followed through six maps included in the paper. The fossil Meliponorytes succini Tosi is considered close enough to Meliponula bocandei (Spinola) to justify joining them in one genus. Meliponorytes devictus was re-studied and found to be a valid Trigona, close to T. iridipennis of the subgenus (Tetragonula) and renamed Trigona (Tetragonula) devicta (Cockerell). Methods of dispersal in the stingless bees are briefly discussed.
25008979|The amount of blood ingested by the female stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans, was studied in all combinations of 23, 32, and 38C and 7, 43, 75, and 97% relative humidity. No significant differences existed in the amount of blood ingested between the 12 temperature-humidity combinations. Data show that the percentage of flies which feed is dependent on temperature-humidity relations. The percentage of flies feeding is greatest at high temperature and low humidity and lowest at low temperature and high humidity.
25006033|The incidence and size of the larval tapeworm burden in young, middle-aged, and old confused flour beetles was studied. The influences of sex and length of starvation period were also observed. Virgin beetles from young parents were permitted to feed for 24 hours on whole gravid proglottids and then returned to the medium for at least fourteen days prior to being preserved, dissected, and examined for cysticercoids. A quantitative approach to feeding eggs to the beetles was unsuccessful. Old females generally had a significantly smaller burden and incidence of cysticercoids when compared with young or middle-aged females, whereas middle-aged males generally had a significantly higher incidence only when compared with young or old males. Apparently an age resistance to the establishment of H. diminuta in T. confusum occurs in the females only.
25009568|The larvae of six species of ants in the genera Acromyrmex, Orectognathus, Oxypomyrmex, Procryptocerus, Rogeria and Zacryptocerus are described. The larva of Oxyopomyrmex is characterized for the first time. Included also are references to the larvae of myrmicine ants found in the literature.
25009816|The new genus Orcya is described to include a monophyletic group of twelve species distributed from Mexico south to central Argentina. Nine species are transferred from Thecla, ahola Hewitson, anthracia Hewitson, aunia Hewitson, bassania Hewitson, catharina Draudt, cordelia Hewitson, larseni Lathy, marmoris Druce and orcynia Hewitson, and three new species described, O. hewitsoni (northwest Andes), O. obliqua and O. supra (Argentina). Lectotypes are designated for T. ahola and T. anthracia. Numerical cladistic analysis (PAUP) indicates Orcya is the sister group of Noreena Johnson, MacPherson and Ingraham and Contrafacia Johnson (Theclinae, Eumaeini).
25006235|Seven new species from Neotropics are described and the male characteristics of Stenus postnotatus L. Benick are described for the first time.
25009234|Ocherini is proposed as a new tribe of Discocephalinae. The tribe is characterized and 23 genera assigned to it.
25009463|The orientation behavior of Polyergus breviceps was studied in an oak-juniper woodland in southeastern Arizona. Target colonies of Formica gnava were scattered in all compass directions around the Polyergus nests. Tests conducted at the front of the slave-raid swarm showed that optical stimuli, especially polarized light, are the principal cues for worker orientation. There was no evidence that the ants were following a chemical trail previously deposited by a successful scout. After the slave raid, workers of Polyergus returned to their home nest by responding simultaneously to optical cues and to a chemical trail that they had deposited during the outbound raid. Although it is possible that naive individuals, scouting for the first time, may indeed rely more heavily on a chemical trail, all evidence to date indicates that experienced scouts utilize optical orientation.
25005926|The three journals involved are Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 13, 14; Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila. 1-6; Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. 1-11. The content and publication dates of each of E's. articles is discussed and a summary in the form of an alphabetical list containing 224 species names given. For each name the date of release of the preprint and the date of publication of the volume part containing the name is given. An informal opinion of the Commission on Zoological Nomenclature establishing the validity of preprints for purposes of priority is quoted.
25010229|Holdings of Lepidoptera type material in the Tepper collection at Michigan State University are completely evaluated and annotated. Acquired in 1889, the collection contains types of 180 nominate Lepidoptera, predominately noctuids described by H. K. Morrison. A brief curatorial history of the collection as well as handwriting examples for authors of the type material in the collection is presented. The types are completely annotated with bibliographic citation, type locality, condition, and a complete discussion of the status of each type. The following Morrison lectotypes are also designated: Tarache crustaria, Agrotis decolor, Calocampa germana, Hadena congermana, Agrotis acclivis, Segetia orbica, Tarache patula, and Eurois astricta.
25006104|This list reports 86 species not previously reported from western Pennsylvania, and contains additional records for species reported from Carnegie Museum's Powdermill Nature Reserve.
25009915|A new genus, Orphnotrechus, and new species, O. slateri, are described. Orphnotrechus is placed in the tribe Rhyparochromini and is most closely related to Peritrechus. A key to the genera of North American Rhyparochromini is provided.
25008791|Phonotaxis occurs in males of two Orchelimum species. Conspecific male song transmitted by a speaker elicited rapid direct approach over distances up to 2 meters. Certain individuals responded repeatedly as the speaker was relocated, the latency of their response decreasing in successive trials. This taxis is interpreted as the approach phase of male aggression.
25005988|The musculature and innervation of the thorax, sound mechanism, and the fourth abdominal segment of the male annual cicada, Tibicen chloromera (Walker) are described. The ventral nerve cord consists of a subesophageal ganglion, prothoracic ganglion, and a thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass. There are no ganglia present in any of the abdominal segments. The prothoracic ganglion supplies innervation to some of the muscles of the cervical area and the muscles of the prothorax. The thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass provides innervation to the posterior tergo-sternal muscles of the prothorax, the muscles of the prothorax, the muscles of the mesothorax, metathorax, and all of the abdominal segments. The abdominal segments are innervated by lateral nerve branches which arise from a pair of nerves that originate from the posterior portion of the thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass located in the mesothorax. No median nerves are visible between the subesophageal ganglion, prothoracic ganglion, and the thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass. The median nerves are probably included within the interganglionic connectives.
25009625|The sensilla and setal patterns of the antennae of the goldenrod gall fly were investigated by scanning electron microscopy. Sexual dimorphism is clearly evident on the first flagellomere and arista of the flies. On the flagellar surface, the female exhibits only one type of trichoid sensillum while the male exhibits three types; a trichoid type like that of the female and two sizes of basiconic sensilla. The point of attachment of the arista of the female bears an additional cup-like articulation that is not present in the male and the female also has an obvious button-like protuberance on the lateral border of each arista near the distal end, which is absent in males.
25009697|Hepialus gracilis Grote [1865], is transferred to the genus Korscheltellus Brner, 1925, a palearctic genus previously unrecognized from North America. Hepialus furcatus Grote, 1883, H. mustelinus Packard [1865], and H. labradoriensis Packard [1865], are synonymized under Korscheltellus gracilis. K. gracilis is redescribed, illustrated and its distribution and biology reviewed. The interception in Florida of a related species K. fusconebulosus (De Geer, 1778) is noted.
25009587|Information is presented on nest architecture, provisioning, ontogeny and certain other aspects of the natural history of the squash bee Peponapis utahensis (Cockerell) and compared with what is known about other species in the genus. /// Se presenta informacin sobre la arquitectura de los nidos, aprovisionamiento de la celda, ontogenia y otros aspectos de la historia natural de la abeja de la flor de calabaza Peponapis utahensis (Cockerell). Estos datos son comparados con la informacin conocida para otras especies de este mismo gnero.
25009632|A total of 310 birds of 41 species were examined for ticks during a 1 year study in a Lyme disease endemic area located in Westchester County, New York. Ticks were found on 28% (88) of the birds and 46% (19) of the species sampled. All of the 231 ticks found were immatures and all but 4 were either Ixodes dammini Spielman, Clifford, Piesman, and Corwin (51%) or I. dentatus Marx (47%). From May until September, I. dammini parasitized 36% of the birds of species found to host ticks and I. dentatus parasitized 26% from September to June. Based on the prevalence and seasonal distribution of ticks on birds at this site, we suggest that birds may be important in local and long-distance dispersal of I. dammini and thus also possibly important in the dispersal of the etiologic agent of Lyme disease.
25006229|The present research on the life history of Oppia nitens C. L. Koch adds another species of oribatoid mite which has been successfully reared under standard laboratory conditions. For the first time culturing was carried through the
25005893|The eight genera of the cerambycid tribe Methiini presently known from Mexico and Central America are treated. These genera, Atenizus, Tristachycera, Malacopterus, Sphagoeme, Pseudomethia, Styloxus, Methia, and Placoeme, new genus, are separated in a key. Keys are also presented for Styloxus and Methia. New species include: Placoeme vitticollis, Styloxus oblatipilus, S. parvulus, S. fuscus, Methia subvittata, M. maculosa, M. vittata, M. dentata, and M. accidentalis.
25005880|The growth and development in size and weight are given for four tarantulas. Tarantulas reach maturity in from 8 to 13 years. Mature males usually live for 2-3 months; mature females may live ten or more years. Very young tarantulas may be fed on termites; older ones on grasshoppers and June beetles.
25009636|During 1983-1985, females of Atylotus bicolor were collected in dry-ice baited canopy traps at 4 sites in Connecticut. Parity and stage of follicle development were determined for 52 females, all of which completed at least one gonotrophic cycle and had terminal ovarian follicles in early stages of development. Nearly half of the females contained detectable amounts of fructose. It is suspected that females produce eggs without blood meals during the first ovarian cycle and metabolize sugars for survival and dispersal.
25006131|Seven specimens of Paleacrita vernata Peck, 1795, which have male and female structures combined in single specimens, are described.
25006075|The genus Termitodiscus Wasmann is redescribed, illustrated, and a key differentiating this genus from the other two genera of the tribe is provided. All of the previously described species of the genus are redescribed and new characters illustrated. Six new species are herein described, T. coatoni from South Africa, T. emersoni from the Congo Republic, T. krishnai from Burma, T. latericius from South Africa, T. sheasbyi from Southwest Africa and T. vansomereni from Kenya. Distribution maps are presented which show the distribution of all species. Diagrams are presented showing the relationships among the species using both the phylogenetic and the phenetic approach. A summary of the host relationships is presented showing 100% host specificity to species of Odontotermes of the species now known. Observations on the behavior and distribution of selected species within the nests are presented which support the interpretation of the species as integrated termite guests whose principal adaptation to life within the nest is that of avoidance. The relationship of the tribe Termitodiscini with the Myrmedoniini is documented and discussed.
25009322|Varying densities (0, 8, 15, 23 or 30) of newly eclosed first generation Colorado potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata larvae were maintained on eggplant to describe their effects on vegetative growth, flowering and yield. Significant depression of height and leaf area was detected 5-6 weeks post-infestation only for 30 larvae/plant. However, all densities temporarily disrupted flower production. Densities above 8 larvae/plant temporarily reduced yield. Beetles were excluded in all treatments during the second generation during which the plants compensated for early yield losses. Total yield for the season was the same in all treatments.
25008929|The mites here described were collected from Long Island, Lake Champlain region, and the Mohawk Valley area, New York, in June-October of 1973. The new species described are: Tarsocheylidae, Hoplocheylus similis, H. americanus; Paratydeidae, Scolotydaeus simplex; Pseudocheylidae, Anoplocheylus transiens. Twenty-six figures are presented. The genus Neotydeus Baker is synonymized with Scolotydaeus Berlese.
25010230|A structurally complex patch of forest canopy in Manu National Park (Peruvian Amazonia), consisting of two trees and eleven associated vines, was sampled using insecticidal fog. Approximately 62,000 ants were collected and sorted to species. The total biomass (dry weight) of adult ants in the sample was close to 49 g. Dolichoderus bispinosus, the dominant species in the sample, made up 64.2% of the ant biomass and 69.0% of the individual ants. The four most abundant species (Dolichoderus bispinosus, Dolichoderus decollatus, Azteca sp. 1, and Paraponera clavata) together comprised nearly 95% of the biomass and individuals in the sample. In spite of the clear dominance of the sample by a few species, a total of 85 species in 29 genera were found, making this the most species-rich point sample of a canopy ant fauna ever documented. Sampled at the level of a small number of trees, the rainforest canopy ant fauna reveals a pattern of remarkable species richness accompanied by strikingly low equitability in the rank-abundance distribution, or ecological diversity. A small number of species overwhelmingly dominate the ant assemblage but fail to exclude other ant species. Competition appears to limit the number of dominant species that can coexist in small areas, but a large majority of species present do not compete with the dominants and exist to a greater or lesser extent independently of them. The low ecological diversity observed in the sample may be in part a function of the spatial scale of sampling, and increased sampling should lead to a change in this pattern. The extent to which the species abundance distribution would become more equitable cannot be determined at this time. Finally, the structural complexity of the canopy may promote high species richness by creating microhabitat-linked species associations that effectively function as separate, non-competing ant assemblages.
25009263|Many dipterous prey records exist for Stictia carolina (F.). Only one study reports the use of hesperiids and cicadas in addition to flies as prey items. The present study confirms the use of hesperiids as prey of S. carolina; of 9 unicellular nests examined, 4 contained hesperiids in addition to dipterous prey.
25010201|A slight dimorphism between queens and, workers and intermediates was found in a colony of Protopolybia exigua exigua collected in Pedregulho, southeastern Brazil. Mean sizes of all nine measured body parts of queens (n = 30) were statistically larger than those of workers and intermediates. Canonical discriminant analysis also showed some differentiation among them, with Mahalanobis' intercaste distance (
25010074|The definition of Procleticini is broadened to include a total of eleven genera: Aleixus McDonald, Brepholoxa Van Duzee, Dendrocoris Bergroth, Lobepomis Berg, Neoderoploa Pennington, Odmalea Bergroth, Parodmalea, new genus, Procleticus Berg, Terania Pirn, Thoreyella Spinola, and Zorcadium Bergroth. Characters which unite these genera into a homogeneous group are those involving both the male and female genitalia. Parodmalea rubella, new genus, new species is described from Brazil (Mato Grosso). Neoderoploa willineri Kormilev, 1955 is placed as a junior synonym of N. bruchii Pennington, 1922. Diagnoses are given for the tribe Procleticini and for all previously described procleticine genera. Redescriptions are provided for several relatively rare species: Lobepomis peltifera Berg, Procleticus corniger Berg, Terania guachipasi Pirn, and Neoderoploa bruchii Pennington. A key to aid in the identification of the included genera is provided.
25010188|Adevoplitus, n. gen. is proposed for the previously described species Pseudevoplitus longicornis Ruckes, P. casei Thomas, and P. mexicanus Brailowsky & Barrera. Two new species are also described Adevoplitus venezolanus, n. sp. and A. costaricensis, n. sp. from Venezuela and Costa Rica respectively. Previously known species are redescribed herein, and a key is provided for the identification of all known species.
25005794|The genus Megachile is divided into three genera, Megachile, Chelicodoma, and Creightonella, differing in their nesting habits as well as structure. The following subgenera are described: Callomegachile, Chalicodomoides, Chelostomoda, Callochile, Chalicodoma (Callomegachile) mystaceana is described from Australia; this species has usually been called mystacea Fabricius, a name properly used for Megachile (Callochile) mystacea Fabricius (=M. ustulatiformis Cockerell).
25010053|A new species of Saica is described from eastern United States. The forewing, male genitalia, and apex of the male and female abdomen are illustrated. A key to the Saicinae in America north of Mexico is provided and notes are provided for the other members of the subfamily in this geographic area.
25009216|Many insects are known to communicate with percussive vibration and vibrations transduced with acoustic songs via plant tissue. Artificial percussive vibrations degrade in acceleration and velocity away from a vibration source along plant stems; the free and distorting and loosing energy faster than the fixed end. Woody stemmed plants vibrate within a narrow frequency band and thus transmit signals further than fleshy ones.
25010250|The total number and distribution per antennal flagellomere of sensilla placodea (olfactory disks), sensilla coeloconica, sensilla ampullacea and sensilla campaniformia were determined in workers of Nannotrigona testaceicornis Lepeletier a stingless bee species quite common in Brazil. The distribution of the sensilla was uniform, with the largest number occurring in flagellomere 10 and gradually decreasing in the direction of the basal flagellomeres in a way similar to that observed in Scaptotrigona postica Latreille. Nannotrigona testaceicornis had a larger number of sensilla ampullacea and a smaller number of sensilla coeloconica and sensilla campaniformia than Scaptotrigona postica. Although Nannotrigona testaceicornis does not communicate through the formation of pheromone trails, this species presents a larger quantity of sensilla placodea (relative to the length of the flagellum) than Scaptotrigona postica.
25006120|Known distributions of three northeastern woodland Pieridae argue against the occurrence of Pieris napi oleracea Harris in southern New Jersey.
25010395|The distributions of the 6 genera and 23 species of Helotrephidae now known from Thailand are summarized and additional records given. Fischerotrephes is recorded from Thailand for the first time. Distributions of the individual genera within Thailand are discussed and a maps depicting collection records of all species known from Thailand are presented.
25009503|Oncideres santarosae and Lochmaeocles tessellatus costaricae are described as new from Costa Rica. Known hosts are listed and a dorsal view figure of O. santarosae is provided.
25009313|The 5 immature stages of Myndus crudus Van Duzee, an apparent vector of lethal yellowing disease of palms, are described and illustrated and a key for separating nymphal instars is provided. Features useful in distinguishing nymphal instars include the number of metatarsal segments (2 in first through third instars, 3 in fourth and fifth instars), the presence of a tooth on the profemora of fourth and fifth instars, and the increase in body size, wingpad size, and number of pits during nymphal development.
25005795|Notes are presented on the nesting behavior of A. bicolor Say and A. leuthstromi Ashmead. Two papers are added to the bibliography presented in review of the ethology of this genus published in the same Journal in 1957.
25010509|Species diversity and abundance of scarabaeoid dung beetles (Coleoptera) attracted to fresh cow dung were studied in three habitats of New Jersey: Hutcheson Memorial Forest (HMF) disturbed field, HMF old growth forest, and Rutgers University Bovine Farm. Over a one year period, baited pitfall traps yielded a total of 15,206 beetles representing at least 26 species. Onthophagus hecate was a dominant species in all three sites, accounting for 55.1% of all individuals collected. Onthophagus pennsylvanicus and Copris minutus were present in high numbers in the field, comprising 25.1% and 3.8%, respectively, of specimens collected in that habitat, while O. orpheus and C. minutus were numerous in the forest (20.8% and 13.3%, respectively). Two introduced species, Aphodius lividus (68.5%) and O. taurus (9.6%), were the most numerous species on the farm. Nine species accounted for more than 96% of all scarabaeoid dung beetles collected during the year-long study. The majority of the beetles were collected during the warmer months (May-September), with general peaks appearing to be correlated with temperature. A total of five introduced species were collected: five in the farm site, two in the field site, but none in the forest; 80% of the individuals collected on the farm were introduced.
25010052|The genus Meleon Wanless is restricted to three African species: M. guineensis (Berland and Millot), M. solitaria (de Lessert) and M. kenti (de Lessert). Linus guineensis Berland and Millot is removed from the synonymy of M. solitaria and re-established as a valid species. Portia falcifera Wanless is placed in the synonymy of M. solitaria, while a male previously assigned to M. solitaria is considered the male of M. guineensis. Portia oreophila Wanless is placed in the synonymy of Portia madagascarensis Wanless. Meleon madagascarensis and M. russata (Simon) are shown to be misplaced in Meleon.
25005983|Collecting areas have been determined from which the type locations should be selected for the material described by Kirby from the "Upper Canada" collections of Bigsby.
25010354|A revision is presented of the water treaders in the genus Mesovelia Mulsant & Rey occurring on New Guinea and nearby islands. A key to species is provided, followed by a taxonomic treatment and distribution of the species. The following new species are proposed: M. melanesica J. Polhemus & D. Polhemus from Papua New Guinea and Irian Jaya, and M. stysi J. Polhemus & D. Polhemus from southern Papua New Guinea. The following new synonymy is proposed: M. horvathi Lundblad 1933 = M. japonica Miyamoto 1964.
25006038|Eleven species are transferred from the subfamily Tortricinae to other groups.
25009660|An experimental investigation of the host discrimination of Monodontomerus obsoletus, a gregarious parasitoid of immature alfalfa leafcutting bees, Megachile rotundata, was conducted. Naive or experienced parasitoids distinguished two classes of parasitized hosts from unparasitized hosts, based on the time interval since initial parasitization. Hosts parasitized 72 or more hours before exposure to a second female were rarely superparasitized. Hosts parasitized 24 hours prior to exposure to a second female were usually superparasitized but fewer eggs were deposited in second broods than in first broods. A significant inverse correlation was observed between the size of first and second broods in 24-hour hosts. This suggests that superparasitizing females were able to approximate the size of first broods and adjusted the size of their own broods accordingly.
25008794|This paper summarizes various studies on the biology of Morpho polyphemus (Lepidoptera: Morphinae) in El Salvador. Emphasis is placed upon the interpretation of observed life cycle, larval host plant specificity, parasitism of eggs and larvae, larval behavior, and adult behavior in terms of a generalized adaptive evolutionary strategy that accounts for the ability of this butterfly to successfully colonize isolated patches of second-growth forest. In Central American countries the butterfly is generally confined to the canopy of undistributed primary-growth rain forest (Costa Rica). In El Salvador, where virtually all primary-growth forest has been destroyed through land-clearing agricultural practices (slash-burn systems), the species has survived in small second-growth habitats where a major larval host plant, Paullinia pinnata (Sapindaceae), is abundant. Comparisons of development time with two subspecies of Morpho peleides, indicate that the ability of Morpho polyphemus to survive in second-growth forest communities is a relatively recent event. Various hypotheses are advanced to account for observed seasonal differences in adult abundance since the dry season is pronounced at the study site.
25008917|The poison gland secretion is the source of the trail pheromones in the myrmicine genera Myrmica, Manica, Pogonomyrmex, and Veromessor. Transposition studies demonstrate that poison gland products of Myrmica, Manica, and Pogonomyrmex species lack intra- and intergeneric specificity. The unpredictable lack of trail specificity identified with myrmicine venoms is discussed in terms of common trace natural products which may be utilized as trail pheromones by species in unrelated taxa. The persistence of chemical trails is discussed as a function of the foraging strategies employed by myrmicine species.
25009845|The first U.S. record of the Palearctic Psallus lepidus Fieber is given. Previously known in the Nearctic region only from the Canadian Maritime Provinces, this phyline is reported from Massachusetts on Old World species of ash, Fraxinus. The deraeocorine Deraeocoris piceicola Knight and mirine Dichrooscytus latifrons Knight are recorded from spruce, Picea spp.: the former in Connecticut, Maine, New York, and Vermont and the latter from Maine, New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont. These are the first records of the western Deraeocoris piceicola in eastern North America and the first northeastern U.S. records for Dichrooscytus latifrons, not previously known east of Michigan in the United States. Psallus lepidus is adventive in eastern North America, whereas Dichrooscytus latifrons and Deraeocoris piceicola are considered indigenous in the East.
25006237|Scanning electron microscopy is used to demonstrate the possible use of antennae of Anoplura for taxonomic purposes. Of the five Haematopinus studied there are sensilla coeloconica, one on the distal posterior aspect of the fourth, and one on the posterior aspect of the fifth antennal segments. There are two pore organs that appear associated with the sensilla coeloconica of the fifth segment. The sizes of the atria of the sensilla coeloconica and the location and distinctness of the pore organs are found to vary considerably and thus may be of taxonomic significance.
25010136|Baryscapus megos, a new species of tetrastichine Eulophidae, is described and illustrated. This species is unusual in having a very large mouth opening. A key is presented to separate it from other species of North American Tetrastichinae with such a large mouth.
25010507|Arcofaciella verrucosa Fennah, 1956 (Hemiptera: Fulgoroidea: Delphacidae) is here reported from Fujian in southeastern China and Tibet in southwestern China for the first time. This represents the first record of the genus Arcofaciella Fennah, 1956 in mainland China. These new species records extend the range of Arcofaciella westward considerably, the genus having been previously known only from Hong Kong and Taiwan. Identification characteristics, dorsal habitus and diagnostic and male genitalic illustrations of Arcofaciella verrucosa Fennah are provided for the recognition of the species in China.
25009728|Formerly monotypic Noreena Johnson, MacPherson & Ingraham (Theclinae, Eumaeini) is revised to comprise a monophyletic group of nine species distributed from east-central Mexico to northwestern Argentina. Four new species are described, N. guianivaga (Guyana Shield), N. luxuriosa (Maraon area of endemism, Ecuador), N. pritzkeri and N. galactica (Rio de Janeiro area of endemism, Brazil), and four species are transferred from Thecla, T. cambes Godman and Salvin, T. comana Hewitson, T. molena Jones and T. lemona Hewitson. Lectotypes are designated for T. lemona and T. molena. From ten eumaeine out-groups studied by numerical cladistic analysis (PAUP, Swofford), the sister genus Contrafacia is described, including four new species, C. rindgei (Sonora, Mexico), C. mexicana (montane central Mexico), C. australis (Paraguay/eastern Bolivia), and C. minutaea (Rio de Janeiro area of endemism, Brazil). The "orcynia" and "orios" species complexes of thecline grade genus Thecla are indicated as the sister group of Noreena/Contrafacia and their species composition further defined.
25008762|A new species of Sphecoid wasp, Cerceris rozeni, is described from Florida. Structures of the male and female are illustrated.
25010381|The water strider species of the genus Ptilomera occurring in Indochina are reviewed, and two new species are described and figured: P. fang from northern Thailand, and P. burmana from northern Burma. Keys to species for both males and females are provided for all taxa found in the region, accompanied by detailed distributional records and range maps.
25009483|A list of names proposed and a bibliography are presented for Herbert Ruckes.
25009639|Recent studies of bumble bee foraging (Bombus spp.; Hymenoptera: Apidae) stress the importance of examining this behaviour from a colony standpoint. The possible advantages of this approach are demonstrated, employing a methodology which allows repeated measurements of individual pollen and nectar loads brought back to the nest, without disturbing the bees.
25009292|A new species of fungus-growing ant, Trachymyrmex kempfi, is described from the Chaco Basin of Paraguay. This species necessitates an expansion of the concept of the generic limits of Trachymyrmex.
25010430|Papeocoris frontalis n. gen., and n. sp., and Viklundocoris humerosus n. gen., and n. sp., belonging to the New World tribes Nematopodini and Coreini respectively, are described from specimens collected in Peru. An adult dorsal habitus, antenna, and head are illustrated for each.
25010392|Xanthonia dentata from Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico and Texas and X. pilosa from Arizona and Utah are described as new, illustrated, and compared to known species.
25006215|Observations were made on several populations of red-banded leaf rollers exposed to high levels of granulosis virus within forty-eight hours after the larvae had hatched. Not only is the adult population decreased in size, but the sex ratios are different from those found in healthy pupal and adult populations.
25009770|Ten species of whiteflies (Aleyrodidae) representing seven genera are reported from Bermuda. One species, Aleurodicus cocois (Curtis), has not been found since its original collection and apparently is not established in Bermuda. Nine species were introduced from eastern United States or the Caribbean region, and one species, Aleyrodes proletella (L.), was apparently introduced from Great Britain. Collection data, hosts, and general distribution are presented for each species, and comments are made about the economic importance of several species.
25009230|Since 1954, the United States Department of Agriculture has maintained a high containment biological research laboratory on Plum Island, New York, involved with research and disgnoses of exotic communicable animal diseases. Isolation from the Long Island mainland provides a physical barrier to foreign disease transmission to mainland livestock and of domestic animal diseases to Plum Island livestock. At the request of the Plum Island Animal Disease Center administration, this survey was conducted to define the entomological fauna of medical and veterinary importance and to determine potential vectors of both native and migrating species. In addition to the insect survey, mosquito pools were used for native virus isolation attempts, sera from mammalian and avian specimens were used for detection of antibodies to arboviruses and engorged mosquitoes were used for blood meal identification. Twenty native culicid and fifteen tabanid species predominated in the collections in addition to at least three species of migrants from the Orient Point, New York salt marshes. All mosquito pools and avian sera were negative when screened for CEV, EEE, SLE, WEE and POW viruses or antibodies. Two mammalian sera reacted by HI to California and St. Louis encephalitis viruses at low titers. Mosquito blood meal analyses showed an avian host preference for the Culiseta species and a rodent host preference for the Aedes species.
25009132|Laccobius reflexipenis and L. spangleri are described from eastern North America. Holotypes and paratypes are designated. Male genitalia and pronotal maculation are figured. Distribution maps are included.
25010497|Micronecta minajerwi, new species, from western New Guinea, is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Micronecta Kirkaldy occurring on New Guinea is provided.
25009654|The family Cydnidae (Heteroptera) is represented by 2 known specimens in fossil amber from Chiapas, Mexico. One is an immature which cannot be placed with certainty; the other is in the Amnestinae, Amnestus guapinolinus, new species. The specimens are approximately 24 million years old and are the first fossil Cydnidae reported from amber.
25005950|This is a supplement to the recorded Lepidoptera of New Jersey, Smith's List of 1910, and Comstock's Butterflies of New Jersey 1940. Additional species, subspecies, and named variations are listed.
25009793|Platynus prognathus Van Dyke is redescribed and reinstated in Platynus Bonelli. Shared-derived characters indicate that it is most closely related to other North American species of a redefined hypolithos group; P. hypolithos (Say), P. angustatus Dejean, P. cincticollis (Say), and P. mannerheimii (Dejean). The American hypolithos group can be diagnosed by spermathecal configuration, and the species are consubgeneric with the European Batenus Motschulsky (=Platynidius Casey NEW SYNONYMY). The American decentis group members share a fundamentally different spermathecal configuration that is also present in Platynus assimilis (Paykull), the type species of Platynus sensu stricto (=Limodromus Motschulsky). This spermathecal configuration is also present in other Neotropical lineages of the genus.
25009384|Unusual cuticular marks on the yellow regions of the gastral terga of worker yellowjackets of two species (Vespula vulgaris and V. maculifrons) were studied. These resembled marks found on the gastral terga of physogastric Vespula foundresses. The marks were associated with ovarian development among workers of queenless V. vulgaris colonies, and the change in structure of pigment granules was similar to that occurring in physogastric queens. Cuticular marks of V. maculifrons workers from queenright colonies were not related to ovarian development and the constituent pigment of the marks differed from that of foundresses and laying workers. The evidence presented supports the hypothesis of Ishay and Shimony that changes in structure of the pigment granules of ovipositing wasps are due to components of the granules being shunted to the production of nucleic acids.
25009606|Zapada katahdin, n. sp. male, female and nymph are described from Baxter State Park, Maine. Descriptions are enhanced by original drawings. Paratypes are recorded from Maine, New Hampshire and Quebec. Zapada katahdin, n. sp. is univoltine and emerges during late April. Nymphs were collected only from cold, permanent streams and appear to be restricted to the headwater regions.
25008985|Type specimens representing some of the binomina proposed by Dallas, Distant, Walker and Westwood for Pentatomini from the Americas were examined for generic placement. These names are listed and synonymy or generic misplacement noted where recognized. The following new combinations are proposed: Acrosternum grave (Walker) from Nezara; Acrosternum montivagum (Distant) from Chlorochroa; Acrosternum scutellatum (Distant) from Nezara; Acrosternum sparnium (Dallas) from Nezara; Banasa parvula (Dallas) from Thyanta; Chloropepla luteipennis (Westwood) from Loxa; Rio politulus (Distant) from Holcostethus; Tibilis fulvicornis (Walker) from Brachystethus; and Tibilis piceola (Walker) from Brachystethus. The following new synonymy was recognized: Acrosternum montivagum (Distant) = Nezara majuscula Distant; Chloropepla vigens (Stl) = Dichelops pulchricornis (Walker); Euschistus integer Stl = Trichopepla dubia Distant; Mayrinia curvidens (Mayr) = Dichelops mutabilis (Walker); Mormidea cubrosa (Dalls) = Mormidea punctifer (Walker); Oebalus poecilus (Dallas) = Mormidea prominula Dallas; Pharypia generosa Stl = Arocera nigropicta (Walker); Placocoris viridus Mayr = Mentisa smaragdina Walker; Thyanta antiguensis (Westwood) = Crato urbicus Distant; Thyanta Stl = Crato Distant. The generic placement of Padeaus bovillus Distant is incorrect and that of Pellaea panamensis (Distant) is suspect, but new combinations are not proposed for these species. A lectotype and paralectotype(s) are designated where synonymy involves syntypes.
25006155|Three experiments were conducted on a variety of bark-like geometrid and noctuid moths, using an experimental apparatus which allowed a choice between black and white backgrounds. These experiments indicated that the appropriate background selections of the moths studied in this apparatus were not the result of (1) simple photo-tactic escape responses, (2) "imprinting" processes occurring shortly after emergence, or (3) reflectance-matching mechanisms, involving comparisons of wing and background reflectances. These results are viewed as additional evidence for genetically fixed reflectance preferences in bark-like cryptic moths.
25009409|Amaurochrous cinctipes (Say) was reared in the laboratory under a 16L:8D photoperiod and constant temperature. Egg and first instar development averaged 6.13 and 4.98 days, respectively. The second through fifth stadia for nymphs reared on Sagittaria latifolia Willdenow averaged 15.91, 16.80, 15.33, and 20.00 days, respectively; and on green beans averaged 14.20, 18.67, 15.67, and 17.00 days, respectively. The external anatomy of the egg and each of the 5 nymphal instars is described.
25009264|Two closely-spaced individuals of the woody composite Vernonia patens H.B.K. were severely defoliated by the brightly-colored, gregarious larvae of the moth Pericopus leucophaea Walker (Lepidoptera: Pericopidae) in northeastern Costa Rica. Although many other individuals were examined, no other V. patens were found to be defoliated. A group of 66 larvae was found on the larger tree and 20 on the smaller one. At the beginning of a three-day period of observation, about 70% of the larger tree and 40% of the smaller tree was defoliated. Defoliation apparently begins on the lower leaves and spreads towards the top. No larvae disappeared during the study period, suggesting high survivorship. Although individuals of the social paper wasp Polybia simillima Smith (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Polistinae: Polybiini) made repeated attempts to capture larvae, all were unsuccessful. When disturbed by wasps, larvae drop from the plant, either suspending themselves on silken threads or falling into the dense undercover. Larvae thus dislodged successfully relocate the plant as they are capable of very rapid locomotion. When prodded with forceps, larvae exhibit strong thrashing movements and exude droplets of a clear fluid which may have a defensive function. Both the aposematic appearance and behavior of the larvae (and adults) suggest unpalatability. Unusually attractive conditions of individual plants, and high survival of egg masses and larvae, probably promote defoliation. Various factors are predicted to determine intensity of defoliation and comprise a basis for further study of this interesting system.
25009109|Messina, Frank J., Section of Ecology and Systematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 14853.-The mirid fauna associated with oldfield goldenrods (Solidago spp.) was sampled from May 10 to October 25, 1977 in Ithaca, N.Y. Twenty-three species belonging to 16 genera were recorded; 97% of all individuals (1,099) belong to 6 genera (Lygus, Slaterocoris, Lopidea, Plagiognathus, Adelphocoris and Polymerus). The tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris, was the most common species. The dominant mirids can be divided into 2 fairly distinct guilds, Lygus lineolaris, 2 Plagiognathus spp. and Adelphocoris rapidus feeding primarily on goldenrod flowers, and 3 Slaterocoris spp., Lopidea media and Polymerus venaticus feeding on the immature foliage. The phenological pattern exhibited by these species can be broadly explained by this difference in resource utilization. Observations on the biology of certain species are presented.
25006101|The homologies of three medial structures are established: the triangulin is the fused first valvulae; the arcus is the fused second valvulae; and an unnamed more posterior structure is the fused second valvifers. The eighth paratergites are connected by an "inter-paratergal bridge," as are also the ninth paratergites.
25010349|The taxonomy of the masarine genus Ceramiopsis is reviewed, and two described species are separated: gestroi Zavattari and paraguayensis Bertoni, revised status.
25009588|The following species are described as new: Prepopsoides jaliscoensis from the state of Jalisco, Mexico; Prepops bicoloroides from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico; Prepops englemani from Panama; Prepops nicaraguensis from Nicaragua; Prepops nuevoleonensis from the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico; Prepops vittatus from the state of Campeche, Mexico; Oncerometopus mexicanus from the states of Zacatecas and Mexico, Mexico; Platytylus binotatus from the state of Jalisco, Mexico; Platytylus rubriventris from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico; and Platytylus veracruzensis from the state of Veracruz, Mexico.
25009709|A new species of Isometopinae, Magnocellus madagascariensis, is described from the spiny forest of southwestern Madagascar. This is the first actual record of Isometopinae from the island. Comparison is made between this species and other members of Magnocellus. Habitat notes, a habitus illustration, and a distribution map are provided.
25009913|An inventory of the Miridae associated with scrub (bear) oak, Quercus ilicifolia Wangenh., was conducted in northeastern pitch pine-scrub oak barrens and related natural communities from Maine to Virginia, nearly the complete range of this plant. Samples were taken throughout the season in an extensive pine barren near Frackville, northeastern Pennsylvania. Accounts of the 44 species collected (33 at Frackville) include a review of known distribution and biology, new state records obtained during the study, and data on seasonal history and habits on scrub oak. Three patchily distributed, rarely collected antlike (myrmecomorphic) mirids were discovered: Pilophorus furvus Knight, Schaffneria davisi Knight, and S. schaffneri Knight. These were collected only in or near aphid colonies tended by the ant Dolichoderus taschenbergi (Mayr), and they may be Batesian mimics gaining protection from predators because of their resemblance to ants. The rich fauna of Q. ilicifolia consists of phytophagous and predacious mirids, including early-season specialists on staminate catkins, and appears to be more diverse than that occurring on some larger (canopy) oak species. Faunal composition varied among the communities inventoried and, at a given site, changed with seasonal progression. Species richness was greatest in larger pine barrens; few Miridae were collected in remnant pine barrens or in most ridgetop barrens. Several plant bugs are abundant on (but not restricted to) scrub oak, and may be considered indicator species of pine barrens and similar communities.
25010094|The neotropical coreid genus Thasus is revised. Of the eight species, five (carchinus, luteolus, neocalifornicus, odonnellae, and rutilus) are described as new. One of these, T. neocalifornicus, extends into the southwestern United States, where it has been misidentified as T. gigas or acutangulus. The species are keyed and analyzed cladistically, their distributions are discussed, and aspects of their morphology are illustrated.
25005961|This paper lists 29 species of jumping spiders collected in the five boroughs (counties) of New York City giving locality, sex, date, and collector of the specimens examined. A new jumping spider, Sitticus barnesi, is described.
25009417|The neotropical genus Arocera Spinola is revised and two keys are provided to species, one based on color the other on the male genitalia. Two new species are described, A. colombiana from Venezuela and Colombia and A. verdana from Panama and Costa Rica. The following new synoymies are recognized: A. spectabilis (=A. apta Walker, =A. jalapensis Distant, =A. patibula Distant, =A. melanopygai Stal, =A. crucigera Haglund); A. nigrorubra (=A. affinis Distant, =A. altivola Distant, =A. chiriquensis Distant, =A. contralineata Piran, =A. placens Walker, =A. protea Distant); A. elongata (=A. repleta Van Duzee).
25009058|Jones, Tobin K., Department of Zoology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003.-Field studies were undertaken to determine the nature and extent of melanism in two populations of the cryptic moth, Panthea furcilla. Melanic frequencies significantly increased over a three year period in both populations of P. furcilla sampled. Predation experiments showed that melanics suffer less predation than typicals. However, life expectancies for typical and melanic morphs were nearly equal as computed from mark-release-recapture data. Accordingly it is suggested that one advantage melanics enjoy is their greater vigor prior to the imaginal stage. Acid-rainfall, as a Northeast regional problem, is advanced as a possible cause for the increase in melanic frequencies.
25006041|During embryogenesis of the mealworm, total nitrogen remains constant at 1.27 mg./100 eggs. Approximately 24% of the total was converted from water soluble to water insoluble material. The utilization of albumin accounted for almost 50% of this material. An increase in globulin accounted for 25% of the change in water insoluble protein, while synthesis of scleroprotein accounted for 30%. The remaining materials were not defined by the procedures employed.
25009100|Twenty-one species of Tarsonemus known from New York are keyed. Five new species are described and illustrated: Tarsonemus acerbilis and T. edwardi found associated with eriophyid mites in galls, and T. blakemorei, T. socius and T. vulgaris taken from bird nests and stored grain. Five tarsonemid mites previously reported from nest habitat are newly recorded from stored grain; these are: T. ascitus Delfinado, T. confusus Ewing, T. granarius Lindquist, T. imitatus Delfinado and T. waitei Banks.
25010206|A single season (1995) of ground beetle collecting on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts yielded 102 species in 18 tribes (Coleoptera: Carabidae). Fifty-seven species not previously recorded from the island were taken, including five species not currently listed for Massachusetts. Globally rare habitats including Maritime Heath/Grasslands, Morainal Frost Bottoms and Coastal Plain Ponds were intensively assayed. A high species turnover rate is implied by this preliminary analysis.
25009777|The myrmecophilous butterfly caterpillar of Thisbe irenea is shown to gain growth benefits from not only feeding on leaf tissue, but by also drinking the extrafloral nectar of its hostplant. Since both the plant and caterpillar use ants as defenses, it is suggested that a conflict is generated between plant and herbivore for the attentions of ants, and that such conflicts may be widespread in ant-plant, and ant-herbivore systems. It is further suggested that this study points to the possibility that in such systems, 2-species mutualisms may be susceptible to invasion and exploitation by a third species.
25009327|We investigated the thermal requirements for development and survival in the giant silkworm, Hyalophora cecropia (L.) (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae) at 5 temperatures (L:D 16:8). The developmental times ranged from an average of 50 days at 15.6C to 17 days at 26.7C. Males developed slightly faster than females at all temperatures except 26.7C. In females, the lower thermal threshold, t, and the thermal constant, K, were 10.4C and 276 degree days (d), respectively. In males, the respective t and K values were 9.2C and 301d. The percentage mortality (pupal to adult) was very low (0 to 11%) at all temperatures. The sex ratio was approximately 1:1.
25006202|The tribe Chiloini of the pyralid subfamily Crambinae is characterized and its North American genera and species listed. The North American species of the chiloine genera Eoreuma Ely and Xubida Schaus are characterized and discussed, and their male genitalia figured. The following new species are named: Eoreuma evae (Arizona), confederata (Texas), callista (New Mexico), and crawfordi (Iowa); and Xubida relovae (Florida) and lipan (Texas). A neotype is designated for Spermatophthora multilineatella Hulst, here placed in Xubida.
25008764|Three species of Brueelia from the Picidae are recognized and discussed; two of which are newly described: B. goertae from Mesopicos goertae; and B. guatemalensis from Phloeoceastes guatemalensis. Nirmus superciliosus Nitzsch, is placed in Picicola not Brueelia, in which it was included by Hopkins and Clay (1952:62). Specimens from 8 genera and 15 species of Picidae were examined. A key is given and all species are illustrated.
25009547|This article describes the five species of formicine larvae that have accumulated since the publication of our 1982 supplement to our 1976 monograph. The genus Aphomomyrmex has not been described previously; the other genera are Paratrechina and Dendromyrmex. Also included are references to formicine larvae in the literature.
25008848|Seven varieties of the eggplant Solanum melongena L. were selected for an evaluation of resistance to the two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae Koch. The Sinompiro variety which was observed in the field to be highly resistant to mites did not exhibit a high level of resistance when tested in the laboratory. The Black Beauty and Sinompiro varieties exhibited some resistance to the mites. The Dingras #1 and #3 varieties showed a lower level of resistance than the Black Beauty and Sinompiro varieties.
25010006|The biogeographical and ecological characteristics of Melanocoris pingreensis (Drake and Harris), M. nigricornis Van Duzee, and M. longirostris Kelton are examined (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Anthocoridae). A key to species, distribution maps and habitus figures are included. Although predaceous, each bug species usually is found on a particular species of conifer. Sometimes more than one bug species is on the same host species. Past migrations of these hosts, chiefly in response to climatic changes, may have influenced the present distribution of Melanocoris. The hosts included P. contorta, P. flexilis, P. jeffreyi, P. monticola, P. ponderosa, and P. strombiformis. Host species movements may have resulted in the species formation of M. pingreensis, presently known only from southeastern Wyoming and central Colorado. Melanocoris nigricornis occurs from southern British Columbia south through the Rocky Mountains to Colorado and south through the Cascade Mountains and Sierra Nevada Mountains to northern Baja California, Mexico. Melanocoris longirostris has a similar distribution but also occurs in southern Utah, Arizona, and southern New Mexico.
25009865|Anisostena testacea Pic, 1934 from Argentina is redescribed and transferred to Sumitrosis Butte, 1969. A revised key of Sumitrosis occurring in Argentina is presented.
25009512|The genus Barylaus is proposed for 2 endemic West Indian species of Carabidae; Colpodes estriatus Darlington (type species) from Puerto Rico, and Colpodes puncticeps Darlington from the Dominican Republic. The genus is described, and diagnoses and distributions of the species are presented. Barylaus is placed in the subtribe Caelostomina (tribe Pterostichini), based on synapomorphies shared with the genera Mallopelmus Alluaud, Caelostomus MacLeay, and Hemitelestus Alluaud. Cyrtolaus Bates is also transferred to the Caelostomina, making the subtribe pantropical. Based on an amphi-Atlantic vicariance hypothesis, the origin of the Caelostomina is estimated at 75-100 million years ago. A cladistic analysis is presented which supports the new subtribal limits. Recognition of the Caelostomina in the new sense results in the recognition of Pterostichini and Platynini as sister taxa.
25008968|Part III of this series of papers that concern the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal. In this paper species belonging to the tribe Eriopterini were treated. In the final report here provided I am treating species in the major tribes Limoniini and Hexatomini. The new species here described are Limonia (Dicranomyia) nigritorus, L. (D.) schmidiana, L. (D.) subdidyma, Dicranota (Dicranota) ophidia, and Limnophila (Elaeophila) albofascia. In addition to the above novelties about a score of other species in these two tribes are added to the previous limited list of crane flies presently known from Iran.
25009645|Detailed character analysis has allowed a more natural classification in the Baetidae as follows. Pseudocloeon Klaplek must presently be restricted to the type species, P. kraepelini Klaplek, a species known only from adults. Certain Pseudocloeon species are placed in the genera treated here. Liebebiella, new genus, includes: L. orientale (Mller-Liebenau), new combination (type species); L. ambigua (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. atoki (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; Liebebiella deigma, n. sp.; L. difficila (Mller-Liebenau); L. klapaleki (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. proxima (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. siveci (Braasch), new combination; and L. vera (Mller-Liebenau), new combination. Acentrella Bengtsson is revised to include: A. lapponica Bengtsson (type species); A. ampla Traver; A. carolina (Banks), new combination; A. chantauensis (Kluge), new combination; A. fenestrata (kazlauskas), new combination; A. gnom (Kluge), new combination (=Pseudocloeon ultimum Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy); A. insignificans (McDunnough), new combination; A. lata (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; A. sibirica (Kazlauskas), new combination; A. sinaica Bogoescu; A. tonneri (Braasch and Soldn), new combination; and A. turbida (McDunnough), new combination. Baetiella Ueno (=Neobaetiella Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy) is revised and includes: B. japonica (Imanishi) (type species); B. aino (Matsumura), new combination; B. armata Braasch; B. ausobskyi Braasch; B. bispinosa (Gose), new combination (=Neobaetiella macani Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy); B. imanishii Braasch; B. innotata (Braasch), new combination; B. ladakae Traver; B. marginata Braasch; B. muchei (Braasch), new combination; B. tuberculata (Kazlauskas), new combination; and B. ursina (Kazlauskas), new combination. Neobaetiella imanishi Mller-Liebenau is a nomen nudum, and Neobaetiella uenoi Mller-Liebenau is an unavailable name.
25009125|Three species of subfamily Pyraustinae referable to the unrevised genus Pyrausta Schrank were collected from North-West India between November 1972 and November 1974. A critical examination of these species leads to the erection of a new genus Rattana with type species P. euryphaea Meyrick and the description of a new species, Coclebotys mutuuri. The characterization of the new genus and the description of the new species are recorded.
25008903|The mature larva and pupa of Dione juno andicola Bates are described from Baos, Ecuador, and compared with those of other subspecies of juno. The differences are sufficient to cast doubt upon the assignment of andicola to the species juno. The egg and five larval stages of Agraulis vanillae lucina Felder & Felder are described from Baos, Ecuador. Although the imago of lucina is quite different from those of other subspecies of vanillae, the larval stages support assignment of lucina to vanillae.
25006086|On the authorship of the generic name Tagalis and the invalidity of the family-group name "Tagalidae" (Hemiptera, Reduviidae). Tagalis must be credited to Stl (1860); it is a nomen nudum in Dohrn (1859) and Baerensprung (1860). Tagalidae Dohrn (1860) was a nomen nudum when published, and has been a nomen oblitum ever since.
25009283|Various aspects of the natural history of the Neotropical butterfly Morpho granadensis polybaptus Butler (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Morphinae) in a zone of geographical overlap with M. peleides limpida Butler in Costa Rica are reported for the first time. The work reported is part of a long-range study on the comparative natural history of Central American Morpho, represented in Costa Rica by at least five valid species. Of particular interest is the comparison of M. granadensis with M. peleides since both species are closely related forms in the South American achilles "superspecies" complex. Morpho granadensis is exceedingly rare in museum collections and the type specimen is from Costa Rica. The species is narrowly restricted in Costa Rica to a band of tropical rain forest within about 100 to 600 meters elevation along the Caribbean watershed of the Cordillera Central and adjacent highlands. The early stages are strikingly similar to those of M. peleides, including various aspects of caterpillar behavior. Oviposition is single. Although the caterpillars are legume-feeders, either the scope of food plant suitability is narrower or different between this species and M. peleides, since the former cannot survive on at least one common food plant (Mucuna urens) of the latter. Morpho peleides has a much wider geographical range that M. granadensis, and probably utilizes a greater range of food plants. The species is also sympatric with M. amathonte Deyrolle; baiting studies indicate that M. granadensis is about half as abundant as the other two species. A model for further comparative study of the two species is presented.
25010289|Microvelia cavicola sp. n. and Microvelia karunaratnei sp. n. are described from water-filled treeholes in Panama and Sri Lanka respectively. Distributional and synonymical notes are given for other veliid species inhabiting treeholes.
25008863|Hymenarcys aequalis (Say) seems to have a phylogenetic origin different from that of H. nervosa (Say), H. reticulata Stl and H. crassa Uhler. A diagnosis of Hymenarcys Amyot and Serville and a key to the four included species is given. Parts of the genitalia of both sexes of these species are figured.
25008850|The geographic distribution of the immature stages of aquatic lepidopterans (genus Parargyractis) was studied in 43 streams throughout the American section of the Lake Erie and Lake Ontario watersheds. Parargyractis populations were commonly distributed throughout the watersheds, but the distribution was somewhat localized. In 64% of the streams where Parargyractis were found, larvae and/or pupae were relatively abundant. The immature stages were frequently encountered within the same community of insects that usually require clean stream conditions for survival (Plecoptera, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera).
25010173|The genus Aradacrates Slater has been previously known only from a single species from Madagascar. Aradacrates malayensis is described and illustrated as a new species from Malaya. Included is a discussion of the possible function of shining raised abdominal plates and notes on an early instar nymph. The second species of Praetorblissus Slater, Praetorblissus brailovskyi is described from bamboos in Costa Rica.
25006170|Experiments were conducted to investigate the stimuli used by the American Copper Underwing moth Amphipyra pyramidoides Guene in selecting its daytime resting place. Light seemed to be the primary factor and tactile stimuli are important, also, because the moths preferred to rest in a dark crack, offering positive tactile stimuli, over a dark flat surface. Likewise, grouping in the same crack, or under the same substrate, occurs.
25008916|The genus Basiceros is expanded to include Aspididris due to the finding of a new species, B. conjugans (Amazonian Ecuador and Colombia), which connects them. Basiceros is redefined and the male caste formally described, and keys are provided for the known forms of both sexes. The known distribution of B. singularis is extended to northern Mato Grosso and of B. discigera to Espirito Santo State, Brazil, and to subandean Colombia. B. singularis is confirmed as a termite predator.
25010055|Aphelocheirus bengkulu n. sp. is described based on collections from southern Sumatra. Illustrations are provided of the dorsal habitus and the male and female genital structures. Supplemental couplets are given to incorporate this species into the key of Polhemus and Polhemus (1988) to species occurring in tropical Asia. Addenda are noted for the checklist of world Aphelocheirinae, based on recently published works.
25009590|Two new monotypic genera, each based on a new species, are described from eastern Peru and western Brazil. These genera are among those of the Pentatomini tribe that do not have a median spine or tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter, and among the few South American genera of this group with much elongated ostiolar rugae. A key to these genera is provided.
25010435|Records of seventy four species of scarab beetles are summarized from nine of Massachusetts' offshore islands. The scarab fauna of these areas is characterized through a combination of recent collections from over 30 locations on eight of the islands, museum specimens and the literature. Though the bulk of recent collecting effort has been devoted to the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, scattered species records are also collated from Naushon, Nashawena, Pasque, Tuckernuck, Muskeget, Penikese, and Cuttyhunk Islands. With 56 documented species, Martha's Vineyard, the largest of the islands, appears despite sampling bias to support the most diverse scarab fauna, followed by Nantucket, with 46 species. These two faunas account for 71 of the 74 species known from all the islands. A subset of these data consisting of scarabs from 2,700 pitfall trap samples is used to compare species richness and relative abundance at five sites on the two islands under varying degrees of conservation management. Although recent conservation has focused on grassland habitats, these represent a minority of the communities that occurred historically on these landscapes, and shrubbier habitats appear to support greater species richness than the less structurally complex grasslands.
25006241|Based on a detailed morphological study of the family Ephemeridae, a new genus, Litobrancha, is erected to include Litobrancha recurvata (Morgan) comb. n. which was previously placed in the genus Hexagenia Walsh. The description is based on several previously unstudied characters along with some heretofore regarded as being of only specific importance. Both nymphal and adult stages of Litobrancha are compared with those of Hexagenia. The relative phylogenetic position of the new genus is discussed, and the distribution and biology of L. recurvata are reviewed.
25009610|Ischnodemus variegatus (Signoret) is resurrected from synonymy with Ischnodemus oblongus (Fabricius). Important differences between the nymphs of the two species and differences in genitalia and meristic characters of the adults are discussed. Ischnodemus oblongus appears to be chiefly Central American in distribution and I. variegatus South American. Trinidad records of I. oblongus are referred to variegatus. Host plants are mentioned. Figures include the fifth instar nymphs, parameres, sperm reservoirs and male genital capsules of both species.
25009598|Color-marked house flies (Musca domestica) with advanced infections of Entomophthora muscae were added to a test group of healthy young adult flies within a poultry building. About 6 to 8 days after the flies in the marked-infected group died, those in the test group also died. Cadavers of flies that succumbed to the infection were found on various surfaces within the building. This probably serves to promote the distribution of infective conidia within the general environment. Deaths attributable to the mycosis in the test group probably approached or reached 100%. It is suggested that E. muscae can be used to control house flies in the field.
25005951|The nervous system of the pregenital abdominal segments of the male nymph of Acroneuria sp. is described. The ganglia of the first two abdominal segments are coalesced with the metathoracic ganglion. The transverse nerve in segments 2 through 8 arises from the ganglion with the dorsal nerve, splits off in the area of the ventral internal lateral muscles, and terminates in the alary muscles of the heart. Ventral nerves are present in all segments. The musculature of the pregenital segments is described.
25010473|Additional distributional records are given and discussed for Thasus gigas (Klug), T. acutangulus (Stl), and T. neocalifornicus Brailovsky and Barrera. In particular, we emphasize the almost certain absence of T. neocalifornicus from New Mexico, and we discuss its population centers near Tucson, Arizona, and at the southern tip of Baja California Sur. Sinaloa and Chihuahua (Mexico) are new state records for T. gigas, and Chihuahua is a new state record for T. neocalifornicus.
25010132|Protopolybia bituberculata, a new polistine species from the Neotropics, is described and the nest illustrated.
25010347|Salamancaniella, new genus, is erected to include one species originally described in Meropachus De Castelnau and later transferred to Hirilcus Stl as the binominal H. alternatus (Dallas 1852); new distributional records are given; and habitus illustrations and drawings of male and female genitalia, hind leg, metathoracic peritreme and thoracic mesosternum and metasternum are provided. The genus is compared to Hirilcus and Meropachys.
25009390|Thirty-seven lectotype and two neotype designations are made for Nearctic species of Phytocoris (Hemiptera: Miridae) described by O. M. Reuter, P. R. Uhler, and E. P. Van Duzee. One holotype is identified, and eight species are considered as new synonyms. Species are listed alphabetically; and for each, year of publication, original page number, exact label data, type depository, pertinent body measurements, and discovered paralectotypes are given. Comments are provided on distributions, hosts, identification keys, and male genitalia.
25009731|The seasonal history, nesting activity and other aspects of the biology of Andrena (Plastandrena) crataegi Robertson are described. This species is the second North American species of Andrena known to nest communally. Nest structure, orientation by females to the nest and nest site, and parasitism are discussed.
25010092|Three new fossil species of burrower bug (Heteroptera: Cydnidae) are described based on four specimens from Tertiary Dominican amber. The three new species, Dallasiellus succineus, Amnestus electricus, and Amnestus priscus, are assigned to extant genera.
25000076|The gross morphology of the male reproductive system of Pachycondyla harpax (Fabr.), Eciton hamatum (Fabr.), Neivamyrmex sp., Pogonomyrmex barbatus (F. Smith), Crematogaster laeviuscula Mayr, Solenopsis invicta Buren, Atta texana (Buckley), Iridomyrmex pruinosum (Roger), Conomyrma insana (Buckley), Formica canadensis Santschi, F. subintegra Emery and Polyergus breviceps Emery was studied. As the ants matured the spermatozoa descended into the vas deferens and were retained there while the testes progressively decreased in size. The dilated vasa deferentia where mature spermatozoa are retained should be called "seminal vesicles" and what was formerly called "seminal vesicle" should be referred to as "accessory gland." Two types of accessory glands were found in ants. In the first type which is found so far only in the Ecitonini, the glands are long, coiled and both enclosed in a single capsule. In the second type the glands consist of two distinct bodies and are either ball-shaped, bean-shaped, or elongated.
25005796|A new species, expolitum is described from Colombiana Farm, Santa Clara Province, Costa Rica from workers and a dealate female. In addition, the four other known species are briefly redescribed: diversum Mann of Honduras; felixi Mann of Mexico, Honduras and Costa Rica; manni Wheeler of Mexico; schmidti Menozzi of Costa Rica. A key is furnished for the identification of the workers of the five species.
25009405|The previously unknown nymphs of the planthopper Oecleus borealis Van Duzee were found in the subterranean nests of the ant Paratrechina arenivaga (Wheeler). The nymphs appear to associate only with this ant species. Food plants of the O. borealis nymphs are suspected to be the roots of sand pine Pinus clausa (Engelm.) Sarg., saw palmetto Serenoa repens (Bartr.) Small, or turkey oak Quercus laevis Walter, although radioisotope experiments to establish this were inconclusive.
25010290|Data and observations from 1995, 1996 and 1997 wet season surveys of natural and artificial tree holes suggest that hole morphology and size are important predictors of the distribution and abundance of Microvelia cavicola Polhemus. The bugs occurred in 42% of the natural holes sampled and <3% of artificial hole censuses. The distribution of M. cavicola was not associated with holes in particular tree species or with hole height above the ground. Abundance increased with hole size and decreased with hole height. Analyses of presence/absence data showed significant within- and between-year microhabitat fidelity in this species. Microvelia cavicola reduced the emergence success of mosquitoes in a laboratory experiment, but their quantitative effect on mosquitoes in natural conditions is unknown.
25006100|The earwig Forficula auricularia is reported as prey of a Nearctic vespine wasp, Vespula maculifrons, for the first time. Ten percent of 120 prey collected from provisioning workers on 7 August 1967 proved to be adult earwigs. Most individuals had parts of their head, legs, and cerci amputated by the wasps. Some of the captured dermapterans exhibited rhythmic movements of the appendages.
25006144|The recent discovery of the first human case of onchocerciasis in Colombia has prompted this review of the entomological literature related to simuliid black flies in this country. Fifteen named species and two other forms distinguished by letters are recorded as occurring in Colombia. For each species published data on geographic distribution and hosts are given.
25004364|Certain robber flies frequently feed on honey bees and have been known as "bee-killers." In North America, Promachus fitchii O. S. and in the Argentine, Mallophora ruficauda Wied. have been recorded as causing losses to bee-keepers. In the United States five genera, Stenopogon, Deromyia, Promachus, Mallophora and Proctacanthus, contain species which commonly kill bees, while two genera, Bombomima and Erax, contain species which occasionally do so. A control measure is suggested in the rare cases where economic losses are caused.
25005952|A brief account of the nesting habits of Neolarra (Neolarra) pruinosa Ashmead is given and the resting position of the adult is described. The following details are discussed in relation to Holcopasites (Trichopasites) insoletus (Linsley), H. (Odontopasites) arizonicus (Linsley), H. (Holcopasites) knulli (Linsley): daily activity period of adults, host associations, nesting habits, sleeping position, and activities of larvae.
25006173|Seven new species of eriopterine crane flies from Nepal, Sikkim, and Assam are described, all belonging to the genus Cheilotrichia Rossi, subgenus Empeda Osten Sacken. These are Cheilotrichia (Empeda) apemon, C. (E.) cheloma, C. (E.) fuscoapicalis, C. (E.) fuscostigmata, C. (E). melanostyla, C. (E.) nigristyla, and C. (E). tumidistyla.
25009902|Gelotia lanka n. sp. is described from Sri Lanka based on both sexes and is distinguished from its close relative G. syringopalpis Wanless of Malaysia. The new taxon represents a significant extension of the range of the genus Gelotia, previously known only from Southeast Asia.
25010498|Two new species of Stalius are described from Guatemala and Costa Rica. The new species are illustrated and a key provided to separate the members of the genus. /// Dos especies nuevas son descritos e ilustrados de Guatemala, Mxico y Costa Rica. Se da una clave para la separacin de las especies del gnero.
25010244|Probolomyrmex guanacastensis (n. sp.) from Guanacaste, Costa Rica is described from a queen and worker collected from sifted leaf debris in a riparian habitat. This is the fourth known species of Probolomyrmex in the New World extending the northern distribution limit from Barro Colorado Island, Panama to Guanacaste, Costa Rica. It is also the first record of an ergatoid queen in the Probolomyrmex. A revised key to the species is given.
25010357|Two species of Pseudacteon are described from parasitoids attacking fire ants, Solenopsis saevissima from Gois and So Paulo states, Brazil. Pseudacteon disneyi new species, is closely related to P. arcuatus and P. pradei while P. fowleri new species, is a very singular species. A modification of Borgmeier's original species key is given for species identification, as well as for the insertion of P. lenkoi.
25010461|The effect of the sexually dimorphic face color as a visual stimulus during courtship was tested by painting male faces of laboratory-reared Ceratitis capitata. Experimental males were less successful copulating, due to their lower courtship activity. However, female responses in all the courtship steps were similar to both experimental and control males. Dimorphic face color may have lost relevance in sexual selection by the females of this species during courtship. Examination by scanning electron microscopy and a light stereoscope suggest that this sexually dimorphic character is caused by differences in cuticle color between males and females and is not related to structural differences or microtrichia density of the male face.
25009063|Batra, S. W. T., Beneficial Insect Introduction Laboratory IIBIII, Agr. Res. Serv., USDA, Beltsville, Maryland 20705.-Larvae of Acentropus niveus (Olivier) on watermilfoil in Lake St. Lawrence, N.Y. overwintered in water-filled cocoon-like hibernacula attached to host propagules. Feeding from newly constructed summer shelters on fresh plant growth commenced in June, they produced a single generation of short lived rudimentary-winged aquatic females and winged males which reproduced in July-September. After some feeding, the resulting small larvae entered hibernation in October. In the laboratory, larvae fed on Myriophyllum spicatum L., M. spicatum var. exalbescens (Fernald) Jepson, Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, Elodea canadensis Michx. and Ceratophyllum sp. Since diapause apparently is caused by low water temperature rather than by short daylength, this insect may adapt to Florida conditions for possible Hydrilla and Myriophyllum control. Behavioral details are given, damage to host plants is evaluated and additional host-specificity testing is recommended.
25010034|The morphology, natural history and behavior of Morpho cypris immature stages are described for the first time. The location and use of two secretory glands, one that was previously undescribed, are noted and discussed with respect to glands found in other groups of Lepidoptera. A comparison of Morpho cypris early stage development, behavior, defenses, and host plant use within the context of the genus Morpho, and the subfamily Morphinae is provided.
25009277|The insects associated with the gall of Asphondylia helianthiglobulus Osten Sacken (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) were reared during the summer and winter of 1979-1980. Only those galls formed on the flower disc of Rudbeckia laciniata L. (Compositae) were investigated. From the gall cells of A. helianthiglobulus three hymenopterous species were reared: Rileya americana Girault (Eurytomidae), Torymus advenus O.S., and Torymus sp. (Torymidae). Dipterous larvae associated with the gall were represented by the families Agromyzidae, Cecidomyiidae, Chloropidae, and Drosophilidae.
25010315|Cleotopetalops new genus, and three new species, C. bicolor, C. cyanocephalus, and C. polhemi, collected in Ecuador and Peru, are described, illustrated, and included in the tribe Acanthocephalini (Coreidae). Each species is compared with the closest one.
25009043|Adults and cephalic structures of the final instar of a new species of Gelis from eastern Canada are described. The adults and the cocoon from which each had emerged were found in the egg sac of the spider Schizocosa saltatrix (Hentz.). The cephalic structures were extracted from the cocoons. Adults and final instars are compared with those of other species of Gelis.
25009404|The historical background to Fitch's and Emmons' publications on Homoptera is discussed. Correct publication dates and authorships of new taxa described in Fitch's Homoptera catalogue and Emmons' report on injurious insects are established using information derived from recently discovered Fitch manuscript notes and correspondence and from obscure government documents. Collecting data and specimen numbers are provided for types of new species of Membracidae described in Emmons' report. Types of Homoptera described in Fitch's catalogue are discussed briefly.
25009843|The new genus Pseudosaica is described to accommodate Saica florida Barber and the new species P. panamaensis from Panama. Forewings, male genitalia, and other structures are illustrated. Its relationship to the genera Saica and Polytoxus (Saicinae) is discussed.
25008827|The color dimorphism of pupae of the swallowtail butterfly Papilio polyxenes is thought to be an adaptation to variable surroundings in which the insect pupates. Laboratory experiments suggest that pupal coloration is determined by an interaction between photoperiod during larval development and background color immediately before and during pupation. Short photoperiod evokes brown pupal color regardless of background, a result consistent with the situation in nature, where short photoperiod presages a long overwintering period. Long photoperiod permits flexibility of pupal color development, allowing green or brown pupal color depending on the background color, or on the intensity of light reaching the underside of the larva just before pupation. Some "mistakes" occur, and the failure of natural selection to have eliminated all such inappropriate responses may be due to their selective advantage in some years.
25010521|The Mecyclothorax (Sharp) fauna of isolated forest habitats in and near Polipoli State Recreation Area, Kula Forest Reserve, Maui Island, Hawaii comprises eight species, five of which are newly described: Mecyclothorax aeneipennis, new species; M. consobrinus, new species; M. cordithorax, new species; M. giffardi, new species; and M. superstriatus, new species. An identification key to Mecyclothorax species of Polipoli is presented along with diagnoses, distributional maps and illustrations. Lectotypes are designated for M. laetus (Blackburn), M. ovipennis Sharp, and M. perstriatus Sharp. Four species-M. aeneipennis, M. consobrinus, M. giffardi and M. superstriatus-are precinctive to Polipoli, and constitute respective adelphotaxa to four allopatric species distributed from the Waikamoi region thence eastward along the windward face of Haleakala Volcano. The Polipoli endemics define the forest regions of Kula Forest Reserve as an area of endemism distinct from the windward forest to the northeast. Incorporation of adelphotaxic distributional information into the delimitation of these areas of endemism provides a cladistic foundation that is lacking from most other previously proposed definitions, though it harkens back to Wallace's (1855) "Law which has regulated the introduction of new species." Native Mecyclothorax beetles occur in both native and non-native forest microhabitats at Polipoli, illustrating the ability of these geographically restricted island endemic taxa to colonize and persist in novel situations populated by alien plants.
25009609|Based on fieldwork and study of collections, Hemisphaerodella mirabilis Reuter is shown to be the immature stage of Cyrtocapsus caligineus (Stl). The monotypic genus Hemisphaerodella Reuter, therefore, is considered a junior synonym of Cyrtocapsus Reuter, and H. mirabilis, a junior synonym of C. caligineus. A key to the species of Cyrtocapsus is provided to help workers recognize and associate adults with the respective nymphs.
25010175|Zenoria roberti, new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated. This new taxon and five more (Gordon, 1972) are integrated into the existing key to species.
25005891|Lists 33 species of fleas collected in Vermont by locality, date, host and numbers of each sex. Seven additional species taken adjacent to Vermont from hosts known to occur in Vermont are included. It is indicated that the distribution of Hoplopsyllus glacialis lynx may be influenced by the presence or absence of the cottontail rabbit Sylvilagus. H.g.lynx has not been found on the varying hare Lepus or the bob cat Lynx where Sylvilagus is found.
25008922|For a period of three years eggs, larvae and pupae of Pyrrhogyra hypsenor Godman & Salvin have been collected, reared, observed, and photographed in El Salvador. In this paper the results of the observations are published for the first time, placing emphasis on the morphological and behavioral similarities existent with other Catonephelinae and at least with some Callicorinae. Record is made of the larval food plants of the species in Central America. The strong probability that the species is protected against predators is inferred from the conspicuous coloration of the larvae and adults and from the known poisonous properties of the food plants. Finally it is noted that apparently there is a preference for parasitizing Diptera and Hymenoptera to deposit their eggs on the larvae of species protected against predators by the unpalatable and/or poisonous substances sequestered from their food plants, probably to ensure the safety of their own eggs and larvae.
25004552|House flies (Musca domestica) and several blood sucking Diptera are repelled by unsaturated cyclic esters, including certain substances which are without odor to man. Acetates of terpine alcohols are in every case superior to the corresponding alcohols.
25009438|The genus Horridipamera Malipatil is revised. Two new species H. medleri from West Africa and H. compacta from South India are described. A key to species, a cladogram, and discussion of phylogenetic relationships are included. All species are diagnosed. Extensive distributional data are included. A dorsal view drawing of H. medleri and 33 drawings with details of genitalia are given. There is a discussion of the relationships of Horridipamera to other genera.
25010549|The apparently aposematic immature stages of a tropical shining leaf beetle, Lema insularis, are described, the host plant is revealed to be Dioscorea mexicana, and observations on the camouflaged larvae of a co-existing herbivore, the sawfly Acorduloceridea compressicornis, and the adults of a co-mimic, Diabrotica godmani, are made.
25006105|Information is recorded (1) on the nests and larval development of Colletes c. compactus Cresson and (2) on the female searching behavior, egg deposition, larval activity, and development of Epeolus pusillus Cresson. This information is compared with similar data concerning some related bees.
25009911|A cladistic analysis of the Cimicomorpha is conducted, including 19 family-level terminal taxa and 51 characters with 127 states. The literature is reviewed and found to contain much relevant character information on gross morphology and attributes of reproduction. Previous classificatory efforts, individual characters, and new morphological information are discussed. The following sequenced classification is proposed: CIMICOMORPHA-Reduvioidea (Pachynomidae, Reduviidae); Velocipedoidea (Velocipedidae); Miriformes (Microphysoidea: Microphysidae; Joppeicoidea: Joppeicidae; Miroidea: Thaumastocoridae, Miridae, Tingidae); Cimiciformes (Naboidea: Medocostidae, Nabidae; Cimicoidea: Lasiochilidae, Plokiophilidae, Lyctocoridae, Anthocoridae, Cimicidae, Polyctenidae).
25010517|Studies were conducted on the biology and behavioral ecology of sympatric populations of spider wasps, Pepsis cerberus and P. mexicana from the Chihuahuan Desert. Females selectively hunt the theraphosid spider Aphonoplema steindachneri as their host. Adult body size was related to the size of the host spider that larval wasps fed upon. Mean body length and head capsule width for males and females of P. cerberus was 18.9 and 21.9 mm, respectively, as compared to 19.8 and 22.8 for P. mexicana. There were no significant interspecific differences in fecundity, and fecundity was related to female body size. Number of eggs in ovarioles ranged from 5 to 26 (P. cerberus) and 4 to 20 (P. mexicana). Mean values for length (mm), width (mm) and weight (mg) of eggs for P. cerberus were 4.25 mm, 1.31 mm, and 7.21 mg, as compared to 4.31, 1.23, and 7.14 for P. mexicana. Both species exhibited five larval instars (L1-L5). Under laboratory conditions (22  0.5C, 60-70% relative humidity), 1st-instar larvae of both species emerged within 3.2-4.1 days after oviposition. The amount of time required from oviposition to cocoon formation for P. cerberus and P. mexicana ranged from 19 to 22 and 20 to 24 days, respectively. The duration of the pupal stage ranged from 14 to 18 days. First-instar larvae (L1) fed initially on the cuticular lamellae and underlying connective tissues in the area of the host's book lungs, then proceeding to medial regions of the midgut, and finally to the heart and cerebral ganglion ingested. Peak period of activity for P. cerberus and P. mexicana were between 1,000 to 1,359 and 1,400 to 1,759, respectively. Adults of each species exhibited differences in the plants visited to obtain nectar.
25009879|Two new genera and one new species of Trepobatinae (Gerridae) are described from South America. The new genera are compared with other American genera of the subfamily Trepobatinae. The new taxa described are: Telmatometroides new genus, monobasic, from estuarine habitats in the eastern tropical Pacific region, type-species Telmatometra rozeboomi Drake and Harris 1937; Cryptobatoides new genus, monobasic, from small headwater streams near Manaus, Brazil, type-species Cryptobatoides brunneus, n. sp.
25009844|The Palearctic species of Anthocoridae, Brachysteles parvicornis (Costa), is newly recorded from two localities in North America. It is considered an accidental introduction from Europe.
25009551|Heraclides matusiki, new species, is described from a unique specimen collected in Sucre State, Venezuela, in 1912, based on an analysis of wing and genitalic characters of the Heraclides anchisiades species group.
25009575|The Miridae associated with chaparral shrubs in the genus Adenostoma were collected throughout 1983 at two sites in southern California. Six species were taken from Adenostoma fasciculatum H. & A., and two from A. sparsifolium Torr. Although both shrubs commonly occur together their mirid associates overlap minimally. Only the widespread Rhinacloa forticornis Reuter occurs on both.
25010242|A new species of the paper wasp genus Metapolybia Ducke is described, and its similarities to other species of the genus are discussed.
25005840|The wax glands of bees of the subfamily Apinae are actually specialized hypodermis which internally covers the exoskeleton in certain abdominal areas. Characteristics of glandular tissue are distinct only during the period of active secretion, and is difficult to distinguish from unspecialized hypodermis during the inactive period. These glands are situated in sterna IV to VII in honeybees (Apis) and from terga IV to VII in the meliponids (Melipona and Trigona). In the bumblebees (Bombus), the most primitive social Apinae, they are found both in terga (IV to VII) and sterna (IV to VII), though more developed dorsally. In Euglossa, a unique non-social group of Apinae the wax glands are restricted to tergum VII. There is no marked difference in the histology of these glands among the species observed. Glandular tissue, histologically similar to the wax glands, was confirmed within the mandibles of Apis and the meliponids. The scent glands were studied in Bombus workers, Apis workers, and meliponid queens. Scent glands were situated in the anterior part of tergum VII and showed no histological difference among species examined.
25009774|Pityogenes bidentatus, a widespread and abundant bark beetle in Europe, has been intercepted numerous times at U.S. ports of entry. It now has become established in the northeastern United States. A recent collection was made of this beetle from dying specimens of Bosnian pine, Pinus leucodermis, in a nursery plantation in Livingston County, New York, in April 1988. North American interception records, host plants, and habits of this bark beetle are summarized from the literature. An existing key to the North American species of Pityogenes is modified to include this newly detected immigrant, and scanning electron photomicrographs of diagnostic male and female structures are provided.
25010506|A new genus of Epipsocidae, Rogojiella, is described and illustrated. This new genus is close to Goja Navas and Ianthorntonia Garca Aldrete, and was collected near Chuspipata on the descent to Coroico in the Yungas area, Department of La Paz, Bolivia. The holotype is deposited in the National Insect Collection, Instituto de Biologa, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico, Mxico City.
25009813|A key and diagnoses are given for the 14 genera of the tribe Discocephalini that have the interocular width equal to or greater than the length of the head, the basal segment of the rostrum reaching onto the prosternum, and the base of the abdominal venter unarmed. The genus Beroaldus Distant, 1890, is recognized as a junior synonym of Phoeacia Stl, 1862. The male of Placidocoris bivittatus Ruckes, previously known only from the female holotype, is described.
25005999|This paper describes taxonomically the first and last larval instars and the pupa of this species. It compares the mature larva with that of other known Stelis, and although there is considerable intrageneric variation, the larvae of Stelis cannot be distinguished as a group from those of other Megachilidae. The pupa of this species agrees in most respects with those of other megachilid bees.
25009554|Descriptions are provided for Acrosternum (Chinavia) dubium, new species; A. (C.) solitum, new species; and A. (C.) triangulum, new species, all occurring in Mexico. A key to all eight species of Acrosternum known to occur in Mexico is given.
25006063|Crambus bigelovi (type locality Pinedale, Wyoming) and C. harrisi (type locality Guadalupe Mts., New Mexico) are described as new, characterized and differentiated from related species. The male and female genitalia of both species are figured.
25009994|The external morphology and chaetotaxy of first instar Korscheltellus gracilis (Grote) and Sthenopis auratus (Grote) are described. The larvae of K. gracilis are smaller and have fewer microtrichia than S. auratus. The only difference in chaetotaxy involves the absence of pore Va from the head of S. auratus. The setal nomenclatures of Hasenfuss (1969) and Wagner (1987) are evaluated and used for description. The classifications of Hinton (1946) and Hasenfuss (1969) are compared for the homology of cranial setal groups. In a comparison of the P and V setae we suggest that homologies are treated as apomorphies by Hasenfuss, while Hinton's setal homologies represent plesiomorphies. Hasenfuss's (1969) nomenclature renders the cranial chaetotaxy of Hepialidae identical to the Ditrysia. We suggest that the prothoracic association of SD1, SD2 and D2 may represent an exoporian apomorphy. Cladistic criteria provide a useful technique for resolving homology problems and choosing between alternative systems of chaetotaxy.
25008831|Adult males of Platypus rugulosus Chapuis and adult females of Xyleborus ferrugineus (Fabr.) were found in the trunks of stem bleeding diseased coconut palms (Cocos nucifera L.) at Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico. The stem bleeding disease organism, Ceratocystis paradoxa, was recovered from the tissues of affected palms. The role of P. rugulosus, common on the island, and of the very rare X. ferrugineus in the decline of palms is obscure. Bud rot caused Phytophthora palmivora as well as water logged soil were also found to be affecting palms of various ages at the same location.
25008911|Few comparative studies in functional biology have been made at the genus level. In the tribe Myrmicini, the latest morning hour the workers are aboveground was compared for 58 species in 9 genera and the hour of mating flight for 40 species in 13 genera. In each case there is more difference in phase of rhythm among than within genera. When the possible influence of season, altitude, latitude, average rainfall, and average temperature is statistically removed by analysis of covariance, the generic diversity remains significant. This evidence suggests a taxonomic explanation of the diversity (as opposed to a strictly ecological or geographical explanation).
25008847|Only 5% of this country's total crop acres receive insecticide treatment, and about half of this is applied to cotton and tobacco acres. Despite the large increases in insecticide use, crop losses due to insect pests are also increasing and are now estimated by the USDA to be nearly 13%. In part, these trends are due to the practice of substituting insecticides for sound bioenvironmental pest controls (e.g., crop rotation and sanitation) and also to higher consumer standards. If pesticides were not used, crop losses, based on available data, were estimated to increase 7% (representing $2.1 billion). Overall, except for supplies of crops such as apples, peaches, and onions, most food crops would not be seriously affected by discontinuing use of pesticides. Although pesticides should not be eliminated, a need exists to treat only when necessary, to reduce aircraft spray drift, and to reactivate sound bioenvironmental controls. Also, additional acreages of some crops could be profitably planted to offset crop losses due to pesticide reduction. Concerning the toxicity of pesticides, the prime danger appears to be to those who apply these poisons. Unfortunately, the available data on long-term, low-level effects of pesticides to public health are inconclusive. Existing levels of pesticide pollution already have been responsible for kills of some species of beneficial insects, fishes, and birds. This serious pollution has occurred when only a small percentage of the crop acres are being treated with pesticides. A systems approach to pest management, in which the multiple factors of pests, crop culture, costs, benefits, and risks to environment and health are evaluated, is suggested as meeting the needs of agriculture and society as a whole.
25009712|The species of the genus Sympherobius of America North of Mexico are revised. Two species groups containing seventeen species are recognized. Two species, S. constrictus, from California, and S. quadricuspis, from Arizona, are described as new. The previously unknown male of S. pictus is also described. Four new specific synonyms are proposed (junior synonym(s) first): S. brunneus Nakahara and S. stangei Nakahara = S. angustus (Banks), S. gracilis Carpenter = S. umbratus (Banks) and S. texanus Nakahara = S. killingtoni Carpenter. A lectotype is designated for S. perparvus (McLachlan). Annotated synonymical listings summarize the existing literature on each species. Species ranges are summarized and mapped, including known records from regions extralimital to the continental United States and Canada. The relative relationships among the treated species are inferred from a cladistic analysis. An integrated key using forewing and male genitalic characters is presented. The following new terms are proposed for male genital structures or their subdivisions: gonopons, hemigonarcus, extragonarcus, intragonarcus, intrahemigonarcus, extrahemigonarcus, gonopleuron, gonoplax, paragonarcal membrane, pseudomediuncus, basipseudomediuncus and distopseudomediuncus. The monobasic Neotropical genus Sympheromima Kimmins is proposed as a new synonym of Sympherobius. A synonymical listing of the world species of Sympherobius is appended. In this list two new combinations, Sympherobius marginata (Kimmins) [from Sympheromima] and Sympherobius exiguus (Navs) [from Micromus] are proposed.
25006251|Listed are 102 aphid species arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 128 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. Sixteen species of the aphids and 44 of the food plants have not been previously recorded from New Jersey. At present 237 aphids on 311 food plants are now known to occur in this state.
25005991|This study of a series of midgut whole mounts of larval and pupal Aedes aegypti shows that basal or regenerative cells first appear as a distinct cell type in the mosquito midgut at about the ninth hour of larval life. These cells seldom take part in forming the epithelial lining of the larval midgut. After their appearance, frequent mitotic divisions occur in the basal cells throughout the larval instars resulting in the presence of a large number of these cells in the prepupal midgut. During metamorphosis in the pupal stage, the basal cells remain to form the epithelial layer of the imaginal midgut.
25006019|A study of mites of the Trombiculidae, Myobiidae, Pyemotidae, Tetranychidae, and Acarinae collected from mammals in New Jersey included 26 recognized species and 3 probable new species. New records for the state and host and date-locality records are included.
25009964|The genus Hypsoropha (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is revised and two new species, H. franclemonti, and H. baja are described. Male and female genitalia and adult habitus are illustrated for all known species in the genus. Character states and resulting cladogram are presented.
25009616|Six new species of Tenthredo are described from India: garhwali, manganensis, flatopleura, muchei, corrugatocephala and valvurata. The genitalia are illustrated and the new species are separated from previously described related taxa. The population variation is also discussed.
25009583|Carabus auratus L. and Clivina fossor L. are newly recorded from Maine. The Pacific Coast distribution for C. fossor is extended to southern Oregon.
25006098|Two areas in a sand pit at Groton, New York, each 105  50  15 cm, were excavated and sifted through a screen. The nest contents of digger wasps, their cocoons, and their parasites were sorted and identified. In both areas, nests of the sphecid Oxybelus bipunctatus were more numerous than those of other digger wasps and parasitic flies combined. Puparia of at least two species of miltogrammine sarcophagids, Phrosinella fulvicornis and Senotainia trilineata, were next most abundant. Nests of the digger wasp Tachysphex terminatus were third most numerous.
25009729|Aphaenogaster punctaticeps, n. sp. is described from the northern Chihuahuan Desert of south-central New Mexico, USA. It is closely related to Aphaenogaster texana (Emery). The workers of the two species can be easily distinguished in that the posterior border of the head of A. punctaticeps is moderately pointed (rounded in A. texana) and the dorsum of the head is primarily punctate (rugose with punctures in the interrugal spaces in A. texana.).
25008878|Since the paper of Malcolm and Chamberlin (1960) on "The pseudoscorpion genus Chitrella," a number of new specimens have come to hand, giving further support to the idea that this genus is widely represented in the eastern United States. In 1963 the present author redescribed the tritonymph holotype of Obisium cavicola Packard and assigned the species to Chitrella. This paper describes, for the first time, adults of Chitrella cavicola (Packard) and extends our knowledge of the range of that species, describes a male of C. regina Malcolm and Chamberlin, describes a new cavernicolous species, C. superba, from Virginia, and discusses the relationships of C. transversa (Banks) from New Mexico.
25006172|Data are presented on 28 species of Siphonaptera which have been collected in the counties of Clinton, Essex, Franklin, Hamilton, St. Lawrence, and Warren in northern New York.
25010204|A key is given that allows identification of either live or alcohol preserved first and second instars of Coccinella septempunctata Linnaeus, Coleomegilla maculata (De Geer), Cycloneda munda (Say), Harmonia axyridis Pallas, Hippodamia convergens Guerin, and H. parenthesis (Say). These six species are the most commonly collected Coccinellidae in alfalfa fields in Montgomery County, Virginia. The main emphasis in this key is on the relative placement and characteristics of the most prominent setae on the tergum of the abdomen. This is the first key ever written specifically for early instars, and the first that does not rely on color patterns of live larvae.
25009126|I examined the effect of different host densities at low host: parasitoid ratios (1:1-6:1) on parasitism by four larval parasitoids of the alfalfa weevil in the laboratory. The mortality inflicted was independent of changes in host density. This is due to the short handling times (<5 sec) of the Bathyplectes spp. and to the ability of Tetrastichus incertus (Ratzeburg) to parasitize only 4-5 hosts/day.
25008884|"Niche breadth" as reflected by occurrence in nine ecological regions of New York State is examined by family for the 142 species of butterflies recorded in the state fauna. Species/genus ratios are also examined by families and regions. Data on voltinism and immigration are presented. It is concluded that "niche breadth" is smallest in the Lycaenidae and Hesperiidae and that the ecological distribution of species in these families in the regions with the largest faunas (excluding immigrants) tends to increase the species/genus ratio.
25009812|Gigantometopus rossi, a new genus and species of Isometopinae from Sumatra, which is almost three times the length of any previously known isometopine, is described and illustrated.
25009646|A new species Metatropiphorus alvarengai (Surinam, Brazil, Argentina) is described.
25009929|A purebred "spotless' line of Nicrophorus orbicollis was produced by inbreeding. Spotless beetles completely lack orange markings on the basal portion of the elytra. The spotless trait appears to be largely under the influence of a single gene and is an excellent genetic marker for paternity or maternity in a variety of competitive breeding situations. In the laboratory, individuals possessing the spotless trait were as reproductively successful as normally marked beetles. The spotless marker was used to demonstrate that males which pair with a female achieve a high level of paternity. Paternity remained high in a second brood even when the male was separated from the female in the interval between reproductive attempts.
25009814|Cryphia galva (Strecker) 1898, described from Clyde, New York, is identified as a Colorado species, Cryphia olivacea Smith, 1891, NEW SYNONYM. The adult moths and dissections of the male and female genitalia are illustrated.
25006057|A new species of liphistiid spider, Heptathela bristowei, is described on the basis of a female from Szechuan, China. In a discussion the author concludes that the family Heptathelidae cannot be maintained and that the species with a posterior colulus (Heptathela) be given only generic ranking.
25010484|Eleven species of Heteroptera in seven families, including the first record of the family Alydidae, are reported from the Galpagos Islands. The first Galpagos Island records are given for the following: Alydidae [Neomegalotomus parvus (Westwood)]; Coreidae [Vazuezitocoris andinus Brailovsky = Anasa mimetica Brailovsky]; Miridae [Halticus bractatus (Say)]; Pentatomidae [Mecidea minor Ruckes, Nezara viridula (Linnaeus), Piezodorus guildinii (Westwood), and Podisus distinctus Stl]; Reduviidae [Heza ephippium (Lichtenstein)]; Rhopalidae [Niesthrea ashlocki Froeschner, Niesthrea sidae (Fabricius)]; and Tingidae [Leptobyrsa decora Drake]. For each species, we give a diagnosis, dorsal photograph, a summary of the distribution and host plants, and provide information to facilitate identification. With the discovery of these new taxa and the correction of several misidentifications, the number of Heteroptera known from the Galpagos Islands is increased from 20 families, 71 genera, and 131 species to 21 families, 76 genera, and 140 species.
25010078|Octotoma puncticollis, new species, is described. A partial revised key to Octotoma species is presented.
25009423|Pollen foraging Halictus ligatus and both pollen and nectar foraging Ceratina calcarata were timed on early-summer flowers on Long Island in New York State. Pollen-collecting H. ligatus worked inflorescences of Erigeron annuus (Asteraceae) more rapidly (ave. time 9.7 sec) than did C. calcarata (ave. time 18.3 sec). Handling time by nectar foragers did not differ significantly from pollen collectors of C. calcarata. Handling time was longer on young inflorescences of E. annuus that had numerous florets presenting pollen than on older inflorescences with fewer florets. Halictus ligatus worked inflorescences of E. annuus faster than the larger inflorescences of Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (Asteraceae). In addition to working inflorescences faster, H. ligatus flew between inflorescences faster than did C. calcarata. This suggests that handling time reflects the general pace of bee movement, which differs among bee taxa.
25006022|The occurrence in New Jersey of Pieris narina oleracera recorded by earlier entomologists but ignored by later authors as misdeterminations has been verified by the capture of a male specimen near Springdale, Sussex County, New Jersey on July 8, 1966.
25009586|The larva and cocoon of an undetermined species of the eucerine bee Thygater are described and the larva illustrated and compared with those of other eucerine genera. The conservatism in morphology exhibited by eucerine larvae extends to this genus.
25010534|Blackburnia riparia, new species is described from the summit of Mt. Waialeale, Kauai, Hawaii, incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of Blackburnia Sharp, and thereby placed as the adelphotaxon to two other allopatric Kauai species, B. lata Liebherr and B. atra Liebherr. The new species occurs in riparian habitats, including vertical rock-faced seeps and algal mats, and is documented to feed on aquatic larvae of Micropsectra Kieffer (Diptera: Chironomidae). Blackburnia elegans (Sharp) adults also occur in streams on Waialeale summit where they were found walking under water on the undersides of large, flat rocks. Based on documented prey and observed behavior, both species appear to forage under the waterline. The abdominal and elytral anatomy of adult B. riparia and B. elegans is suitable for retention of a subelytral air bubble, suggesting these species respire underwater. Adults and associated larvae of Blackburnia mandibularis Liebherr inhabit moss-mats along falls' margins at Waipoo Falls, Kokee State Park, Kauai, indicating that this species' active life stages also reside in the riparian zone. Attributes of the larval head capsule and mandibles for B. riparia and B. mandibularis are associated with homologous characters expressed in adult anatomy, ontogenetically linking larval and adult head and mouthpart specializations. The various evolutionary origins of riparian habits are examined across Blackburnia. Via one route, occupation of the montane riparian zone has evolved from terrestrial moss-mat habitation, with concomitant evolutionary reduction of adult compound eyes. A second evolutionary route to the riparian zone is based on occupation of open, disturbed or ephemeral habitats, in some cases assisted by adult winged dispersal.
25008846|The capture of two females of a black fly species of the subgenus Simulium (Ectemnaspis) in the foothills of the Catskill Mountains, in Ulster County, New York, is reported. The females are indistinguishable, in color and structural characters, from bicoloratum, the type of Simulium (Ectemnaspis), and two very closely related species. The subgenus has previously only been reported from South America.
25009419|A total of 955 specimens came from 39 nests in 34 localities west of the Yukon Territory, 1974-1978. Two Holarctic species were Ornithophaga anomala Mikulin with 371 specimens from 21 nests (mostly Downy Woodpecker and Three-toed Woodpecker) in 20 localities and Ceratophyllus zhovtyi Emel'yanova and Goncharov with 28 specimens from three nests (two Flicker and an unknown species) in three localities. Two Nearctic species were C. adustus Jordan with 168 specimens from 15 nests (mostly Three-toed Woodpecker) in 13 localities and C. rauschi Holland with 388 specimens from eight nests (seven Flicker) in six localities.
25008965|Observations on the nesting behaviors of the Nearctic Lindenius armaticeps, L. buccadentis, and L. columbianus errans are presented and the world literature on the ethology of the Palaearctic L. albilabris, L. panzeri, and L. pygmaeus is reviewed. Behavioral features shared by all species include construction of nests 3-12 cm deep in firmly-packed sand or fine gravel, presence of a vertical main burrow leading frequently to a short horizontal passage, absence of a temporary nest closure during provisioning, attachment of the egg to the neck of a prey along the ventral midline, and distribution of the prey remains evenly over the surface of the cocoon. Valuable characteristics for separating species or species groups include the kinds, proportions, and stages of the prey, chronological placement of cells in the nest, method of prey storage, absence or presence of impalement of the prey during transport, exiting behavior, and number of prey per cell.
25010468|Nerthra tuberculata (Montandon), an enigmatic species of toad bug (Heteroptera: Gelastocoridae), is redescribed, with a detailed description of its morphology, and novel information on its habitat. A discussion of its systematic position within Nerthra is provided, and it is placed in its own species-group.
25009982|Three new species of Pterostichini from North America are described: Pterostichus enodis (type locality: Texas), and P. mutoides (type locality: Georgia) which belong to the subgenus Gastrosticta Casey, 1918, and P. spathifer (type locality: Isabella Creek, Clearwater Co., Idaho) which is a member of the subgenus Pseudoferonina Ball, 1965. Three species of Gastrosticta are redescribed: P. obesulus LeConte, 1873; P. punctiventris Chaudoir, 1878; and P. ophryoderus Chaudoir, 1878. Pterostichus amnicola (Casey, 1918) is listed as a new junior synonym of P. punctiventris (Chaudoir, 1878). A key to all known species of Gastrosticta is included.
25010265|The last instar larva and pupa of Rhyparonotus altarensis (Olliff) (Curculionidae: Molytinae: Anchonini), from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Larval characters are compared with those of other Molytinae, e.g., Molytini, Hylobiini, and Phrynixini, and their phylogenetic value is discussed.
25009197|An episode of simultaneous utilization of a foraging trail by two attine ants, Acromyrmex versicolor (Pergande) and Atta mexicana (F. Smith), is described. No aggressive behavior between the two species was noted, except near an Acromyrmex nest entrance. This observation of simultaneous trail use is of particular interest because both species have similar habits and they overlap in selection of food plant species in the Sonoran Desert.
25010420|Paraminota is revised and Chabriella Medvedev, 1990 and Schawalleria Medvedev, 1990 are synonymized with Paraminota. Chabriella minuta Medvedev, 1990 is synonymized with Schawalleria lamprosomoides Medvedev, 1990. A new species, P. lauribina from Nepal is described. A key to species of Paraminota and illustrations of all these taxa are provided.
25008901|A five-month study of the Sphinigidae at Turrialba, Costa Rica, was made. A total of 565 specimens of 66 species was collected, of which Errinyis ello was the most common. A monthly record of these data is presented. Selected data from other Costa Rican sites are included; they bring the total number of species discussed to 80. The known distribution of ten species is extended. Statistical data on the times of flights are given for the Turrialba species, particularly for those that are common. Differences in temporal activity of closely related species may be the result of competition.
25006065|In this paper twelve new species are described: adversa, alabama, aviceps, barri, bruneri, diablo, floirdana, frosti, heteracantha, howdeni, pullata, sericeoides, and one new subspecies: perigonia eremicola. Ten previously described species are figured: alleni, anthracina, castanea, ensenada, mackenziei, oliveri, peregrina, pilifera, rossi, and sericea. Four species names are reduced to synonymy: joaquinella to oliveri; mendota to pruinipennis; michelbacheri to fimbriata; and searli to alleni. The spelling "atricapilla" is corrected to atracapilla, and trociformis blatchleyi is given specific standing. Supplementary distribution notes are given beyond those recorded in paper #IX of this series.
25010191|New data are presented concerning the morphology of the monobasic genus Tahitocoris, especially its female genitalia and the distribution of its abdominal trichobothria. It is concluded that the subfamily Tahitocorinae should fall as a synonym of Podopinae.
25010307|A new species of the New World waterscorpion genus Curicta Stl from Brazil is described. This species is dedicated to the eminent heteropterist, John T. Polhemus, in celebration of his 70th birthday.
25009042|A number of properties of hemolymph were determined on two major forest pest insects: the gypsy moth and the European pine sawfly. The parameters measured include: pH, visible absorption spectra, sedimentation coefficients, electrophoretic patterns of proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and isoenzymes, and amino acid analyses.
25006180|Nine species and a possible tenth are now known in the genus Kaestneriella. Eight of these are here described as new and are named as follows: K. guatemalensis, K. maculosa, K. mexicana, K. minor, K. obscura, K. occidentalis, K. pacifica, K. setosa. An augmented diagnosis of the genus is presented. Figures of genitalic and forewing characters for all of the new species are included. A key to the known species is presented. The taxonomic treatment is based on examination of 185 adult specimens. The location of the major types of each new species is mentioned in its description. A brief discussion of phylogenetic relationships within this genus is included and is summarized with a dendrogram. The genus Kaestneriella is now known to occur from Costa Rica north to southern Arizona.
25009928|Four new species of Theraneis Spinola, collected in Venezuela, Brazil and Peru are described and illustrated. Theraneis is reported for the first time from Venezuela. The distribution pattern of the silvery pubescence as well as the color of the hemelytra are shown to be good characters to distinguish the species. A key for the separation of most of the species is included.
25009294|Larvae hatching from unchilled egg masses of a "non-diapause" gypsy moth strain (Lymantria dispar Linnaeus) were reared to determine the hatch sequence of males and females. Males tended to hatch from non-diapause egg masses before females, which is the reverse of the hatching sequence of chilled wild egg masses. These results were obtained with an outcrossed non-diapause strain as well. The reversed hatch sequence is not due to a skewed sex ratio or to differential mortality.
25006133|A study of the food gathering behavior of a single colony of Camponotus noveboracensis (Fitch) revealed that its food sources, during the period studied, were the honeydew produced by the membracid, Vanduzea arquata (Say), the sap exudate flowing from a wound in the trunk of a common lilac, Syringa vulgaris, and the carcasses of dead insects. The behavior of the worker ants in exploiting each of these sources is discussed in detail.
25008989|Twenty-one species of mites belonging to eight families are reported found in nests of birds from New York; three are new to science: Cheiroseius hurlbutti n. sp., Lasioseius tridentatus n. sp. and Pellonyssus nidicolus n. sp. The fauna includes important biting and stored products species, and those associated with house-dust allergy. Tyrophagus longior (Gervais) (Acaridae) and Dermatophagoides evansi (Fain), Hughes & Johnston are the two most common mites found in birds' nests. The male of Sturnophagoides bakeri (Fain) is described for the first time. Notes and information on distribution and habitats are provided, together with illustrations of certain species. Gamasellodes americanus (Garman) is a new synonym of Gamasellodes bicolor (Berlese).
25009027|Parachipteria travi, Achipteria catskillensis and Achipteria clarencei from the Catskill Mountains of New York State are described and figured and comparisons in size and morphological features are made with described species of similar features.
25009966|The sibling species Pontia protodice and P. occidentalis occur on altitudinal gradient across the Sierra Nevada in California, with a mid-elevation belt on the west slope in which neither is a permanent resident. A similar pattern occurs in a variety of unrelated butterfly genera. Studies of the occurrence and breeding of the two Pontia across the Sierra for 20 years fail to demonstrate any association (positive or negative) between them in the "no man's land" on the west slope, thus arguing against competitive exclusion as the mechanism maintaining the separation. Occurrence of P. protodice at 1,500 m and 2,100 m is also independent, implying that its presence in the montane Sierra is not simply an epiphenomenon of outflow from a single source in the lowlands. 1991 was an unusual year in which the entire region was colonized, seemingly in a wave emanating from the east. Sporadic competition between the species is not ruled out by these findings, but is unlikely to be important.
25009976|The Anthocoridae fauna found on the widespread western North American pine, Pinus contorta, is reviewed. Ten genera and 18 species are reported. Three of these species (Anthocoris spp. and Orius tristicolor) are considered casual visitors to the tree. Biological, ecological, and taxonomic information is presented for each species and the pertinent literature reviewed.
25009204|Over 350 females of the social wasp P. fuscatus were found overwintering in southern Ontario in two old D. arenaria nests. Most of the wasps were in a damaged nest that was attached to the southern side of a building and fully exposed to the sun. Mid-winter mortality was 2.8% or less. A test nest fitted with thermistors and placed in the original location of nest A showed that although the overwintering wasps can occasionally gain a moderate amount of protection (2.5C) from low ambient temperatures in the intact nest, there was essentially no protection in a damaged nest. This study presents further evidence that adult P. fuscatus can survive nearly complete exposure to the midwinter temperature regime of southern Ontario.
25009817|A drosophilid specimen in Dominican amber, Protochymomyza miocena Grimaldi, has phoretic macrochelid mites attached to it. This find is compared with extant phoretic associations between macrochelid mites and adult drosophilids.
25009293|Seventeen-year cicada nymphs feed on xylem sap of most species of deciduous trees. They attain very great densities in apple orchards and are known to damage apple trees during oviposition. Newly hatched nymphs were removed from certain apple trees in 1979 and the growth of these trees was compared to trees where the nymphs had not been removed. During 1980, trees without cicada nymphs experienced significantly increased annual wood accumulation compared to control trees with cicadas. There was no difference in growth between the 2 treatments in 1979 (the emergence year). Despite the small sample size, these results suggest that cicada nymphs reduce apple tree wood increment in the years following the emergence.
25010187|A mirid genus, Rolstonocoris, and four species are all described from Mexico as new. The type species is R. arteagensis n. sp. from the state of Michoacan. Additional species are R. totolapanus n. sp. from Oaxaca, R. xochipalensis n. sp. from Guerrero and R. colimai n. sp. from Colima.
25009860|Six new species of Toonglasa are described from Mexico and one from Venezuela. A revised key to all known species is included, together with habitat and host plant data. Most species live upon various species of bamboo with several instances of more than one species occurring on the same host plant. Additional distributional data are given for Toonglasa barrerai, forficuloides, tumorosis, tylosis, munda, thackstonae and umbrata. A dorsal view is included of T. elegans and figures of the genitalia of T. bifida.
25010422|This study was conducted to determine if early feeding experience can affect subsequent prey choice in lynx spiderlings (Oxyopes salticus). After emergence from the egg sac, three groups of 10 spiderlings were each fed exclusively for a one-week period on one of three naturally-occurring prey species (crickets): group 1 fed on nymphs of Oecanthus californicus; group 2 (Neobarrettia spinosa); group 3 (Ceuthophilus conicaudus). Following this, they were tested for subsequent prey preference in choice tests conducted in a plastic arena. Each spiderling was presented simultaneously with one individual of each prey species in a randomized design. Spiderlings exhibited a significant first preference for the original diet. Thus, experience with certain foods encountered by newly hatched spiderlings can affect subsequent prey preference in this species.
25009484|The genus Tanystoma Motschulsky is revised, with a key to species, synonymies, and descriptions provided for T. maculicolle (Dejean), new combination, T. cuyama, new species, T. striata (Dejean), and T. sulcata (Dejean). Lectotypes are designated for the Dejean species. The cladistic relationships of Tanystoma are analyzed, and speciation events within the clade are attributed to Pleistocene oscillations of California grassland-chaparral. The vicariance pattern hypothesized for Tanystoma is compared to that exhibited by other groups of plants and animals and is found to represent a general pattern. This pattern entails sequential south to north vicariant events; the first isolating the Southern Coastal and Peninsular mountain ranges in California from coastal areas north of Monterey; the second event separating coastal mountain habitats in the Northern Coastal range of California from those in Oregon.
25008914|The present known ranges of the imported fire ants Solenopsis richteri and S. invicta in North America and South America are shown. Hypothetical answers are given to the questions of how far the species will spread in North America, why both species first became established in the Mobile, Alabama, area, why S. invicta has an extremely elongate, narrow, north-south range in South America, and why it is absent from areas of South America which appear ecologically favorable.
25009059|Vasey, Carey E., Biology Department, State University College of Arts and Science, Geneseo, N.Y. 14454.-Xylomya terminalis, n. sp. collected from Allegany County, New York is described. Three specimens, two from New York State and one from Kalamazoo County, Michigan are included in the type series.
25010540|In 2001 Brood VII of the periodical cicada in central New York emerged over a reduced geographic range, as predicted by Pechuman (1985). We found no evidence in Livingston or Cayuga Counties of periodical cicadas emerging in the populations studied by Pechuman during the 1984 emergence, and the majority of the brood is now limited to populations in Onondaga Nation Territory. The decline of Brood VII during the 20th century has occurred in spite of an increase in the total area of potentially suitable habitat across New York and specifically in the counties in which the cicadas were historically present. The observed reduction in range is discussed in terms of a historical spatial bottleneck followed by fragmentation of historically-occupied habitat combined with the poor abilities of these cicadas to disperse to new habitat.
25006230|The seasonal occurrence and ecological distribution of five Pterostichus species were analyzed by pitfall trapping. Two species, melanarius and coracinus, exhibited one activity-abundance cycle per year which extended from May or June to September or October. Reproduction occurred throughout most of this cycle. These species apparently overwinter both in the larval stage and as teneral adults. The remaining species, pensylvanicus, lucublandus, and mutus, each showed two cycles per year. The first extended from April to July during which reproduction occurred. A period of decreased abundance and activity in midsummer was followed by a second cycle of varying length and intensity between September and November. This was a non-productive cycle composed of progeny of the spring reproductive period. These three species apparently overwinter almost entirely as teneral adults. P. pensylvanicus was taken mostly in wooded areas, while lucublandus occurred almost entirely in non-forested areas. The remaining species were found both in forest and open areas: coracinus principally in forest or forest edge, mutus also mainly in forest but also in some open areas, and melanarius mostly in grassland with some woods. No temporal or sexual difference in distribution was noted.
25010189|Rolstoniellini and Rolstoniellus are proposed as replacement names for Compastini Distant, 1902 and Compastes Stl, 1867, respectively. Genera and species currently placed in Rolstoniellini are listed, including the following new combinations within Rolstoniellus: Rolstoniellus boutanicus (Dallas, 1851); R. exstimulatus (Distant, 1902); R. javanicus (Yang, 1935); R. malacanicus (Yang, 1935); R. minor (Atkinson, 1888); R. neoexstimulatus (Yang, 1935); R. spinosus (Distant, 1887); and R. taurus (Distant, 1911).
25010469|Rhagovelia nigranota n. sp., is described from southern Mexico, and represents the first species in the robusta group to be recorded from that country. Figures of the male and female dorsal habitus and male genitalic structures are provided, accompanied by a distribution map.
25005889|The emergence of Brood 11 of the periodical cicada in Connecticut in 1962 provided an opportunity to add some data on the biology and ecology of this insect. Nymphal patterns, the effects of soil temperature, and bird predation are discussed in relation to emergence. Also noted is a prolonged period of emergence, daytime adult transformation, and distribution in Connecticut.
25006167|Carrion-baited ground cans were used to collect carrion beetles during the summers of 1961 through 1965. Fresh chicken legs were used as bait and were left in the cans for two-week periods of time. Practically all of the flesh was eaten or decomposed by the end of this period. All collected beetles were identified to family, all Silphidae to species, and all Leptodiridae to genus or species. The members of the Silphidae, Leptodiridae, Histeridae, and Staphylinidae were consistently attracted to carrion and accounted for the bulk of the beetles that were trapped. The Silphidae was the dominant family and the seven species collected accounted for almost half of all the beetles collected. The numbers of individuals of this family were maintained at about the same level throughout the seasonal periods of study in 1961 and 1963. There was no apparent succession of Silphidae species on carrion during the period of time required for total decomposition. The carrion seemed to be most attractive to these beetles from the fifth to the tenth days when it was in the fresh-bloated, bloated, and decay stages. There was a seasonal pattern of change in dominant populations of Silphidae during the six-week summer periods of study. Silpha noveboracensis, the dominant species of early summer, decreased steadily and virtually disappeared by middle summer. Nicrophorus sp., on the other hand, was present in small numbers in early summer but increased steadily and became the dominant species in middle summer. Silpha noveboracensis was the dominant species in three shrub areas during early summer. It was most abundant in the Maple-leaved Viburnum shrub area.
25010004|Frankliniella brunnea Priesner, F. fuscipennis Moulton, F. inopinata Moulton, and F. tridacana Hood are junior synonyms of F. reticulata (Crawford), NEW SYNONYMY. The lectotype of F. adadusta Moulton is a junior synonym of F. simplex Priesner, NEW SYNONYMY, and the paralectotype is a different species, F. reticulata.
25009440|Pellaea candens (Distant, 1890) is placed in the synonymy of Pellaea stictica (Dallas, 1851), and Pellaea santarosensis, a new species from Costa Rica, is described. A lectotype is designated for Rhaphigaster sticticus Dallas, 1851.
25009898|Males of Tachiona deplanata Sharp and T. nitida Ashe are described and illustrated. Specimens of Tachiona were collected from the inside of larval excavations of Hepialidae (Lepidoptera) in Buddleja parviflora.
25010456|The phyline genus Platyscytisca Costa and Henry is reviewed and one new species, P. nelsoni, is described from Bahia, Brazil. Platyscytisca nelsoni, the second species recognized in the genus, represents a considerable northern range extension for the genus from the state of So Paulo. Provided for P. bergmannae Costa and Henry and P. nelsoni are illustrations of the adults, figures of male genitalia, and a key to help separate these two species.
25010021|The new species most closely resembles Lestes tenuatus, L. pictus, and L. henshawii, but it is distinctive in color pattern, in the form of the male cerci, and in the form of the ovipositor. Brief notes on its ecology and probable relationships, as well as a key to regional species, are provided. /// La nueva especie se parece a Lestes tenuatus, L. pictus, y L. henshawi, pero es distintiva en su coloracin y en la forma de los cercos del macho y del ovipositor. Se provee, adems, breves notas acerca de sus ecologa y probables relaciones especficas, as como una clave para identificar las especies de la regin.
25010318|Three new species of Micronecta are described: M. drepani n. sp. and M. lemnae n. sp. from Thailand and M. polhemusi n. sp. from Thailand and Vit Nam. A key for identification of Micronectinae of Thailand and adjacent areas is presented.
25005833|O. schwarzi n.sp. is described. This species has the mandible broadly expanded and obliquely truncated at its apex and it is provided with a basal, inner tooth. The tegument of the abdominal terga is entirely black and here in the males the green metallic luster is almost completely lacking in the marginal depressions.
25010266|A new Mexican species of Anopsiostes Paulian is described and illustrated; this monotypical genus was previously known only from Ecuador. The distinctive characters of both species and the Antillean genus Nesopalla Paulian and Howden are commented.
25008763|The number of cysticercoids of the tapeworm Hymenolepis diminuta established in the insect intermediate host, Tribolium confusum, were found to be significantly influenced by the temperature at which the beetles were maintained, the number of days starvation of the beetles before infection, the period of exposure to the parasite eggs, and the age of the beetles. The higher the temperature in the range 20-35C., the longer the period of starvation up to 8 days, the older the beetles up to 15 days, and double the period of exposure to the parasite eggs, all resulted in an increase in the average parasite burden per beetle. In heavily parasitised hosts the effect of crowding resulted in smaller cysticercoids. Infectivity was not impaired.
25009424|The male of Cheliferoides segmentatus F. O. P.-Cambridge is redescribed and the female is described for the first time; Cambridge's hypothesis that these spiders mimic pseudoscorpions is supported by the discovery of specimens living with chernetids.
25006193|Continuous Malaise trap collections at four sampling stations yielded 40,348 individuals over 13 weeks in summer 1967. Greatest numbers of insects were collected in early June, fewest in late July. Diptera comprised 44.7% of the catch, followed by Plecoptera (20.8%), Hymenoptera (14.7%), Lepidoptera (7.2%), Hemiptera (7.1%), Coleoptera (2.4%) and other orders (3.1%). The majority of Diptera were Nematocera; in contrast to other reports, mosquitoes and Tabanidae were seldom collected. The unusual abundance of Plecoptera was due almost exclusively to one species, Nemoura albidipennis Walker, which swamped collections of one trap during the first four study weeks. Thirty-five families of Hymenoptera exclusive of the Chalcidoidea were taken, Ichneumonidae and Tenthredinidae being most abundant. Lepidoptera were almost exclusively moths, those less than 3.0 mm in body length comprising 49-69%. Cicadellidae and Cercopidae accounted for nearly all of the Hemiptera taken. Seasonal occurrence patterns of selected taxa are discussed.
25006148|Six new species of eriopterine crane flies are described, all from Assam and Sikkim. These are Trentepohlia (Mongoma) fuscogenualis, Teucholabis (Teucholabis) diperone; T. (T.) eremnopoda; Baeoura aka; B. latibasis; and B. obtusistyla.
25008898|The genus Pterallastes Loew is reviewed, its phylogeny and distribution discussed, the key to and figures of its species are given, Pseudozetterstedtia Shiraki is synonymized under it, and bomboides (China) is described as a new species of it.
25008829|A preliminary survey was made of the anthomyiid and muscid flies on the upper regions of Mt. Katahdin during the early summer of 1957, 1958, 1959, from a base on Chimney Pond at 2,914-feet elevation. Sixty-nine species and one subspecies were recognized as belonging to the family Anthomyiidae sens. str., and 112 species to the Muscidae, a total that included the unpublished records of 3 muscid species that were not found during the foregoing visits. The species Chirosia setifer, Spilogona broweri, S. concomitans, S. katahdin, Lispocephala aemulata, Mydaea grata, and Phaonia cauta are described as new to science, and Delia tarsifimbria (Rondani), as newly recorded from North America.
25010363|Peristenus digoneutis was discovered in one new state (Maine) and in 15 new counties in Maine, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, and Vermont during 1997-1999. These new records increased the number of counties where this parasite has been found by 42%, to a total of 51 counties in eight states. No permanent establishments of P. digoneutis have been found south of New York City, which suggests that high summer temperatures are limiting its spread southward. A good agreement was found between the parasite's southernmost establishment locations and a maximum summer temperature/duration of 30C (86F) for 14 to 30 days. This temperature limit suggests that P. digoneutis can disperse westward both north and south of Lake Erie, across southern Ontario and northern Ohio, to Michigan and Wisconsin. Establishment south of New York City (latitude 40.5N) is unlikely, except possibly along the higher/cooler elevations of the Appalachian Mountains.
25006121|Information associated with the nesting behaviors of 10 species of Crabro is reviewed. An additional prey record for C. latipes is given. Observations on the nesting behavior of C. advenus, particularly nest structure and contents, are detailed. Females of C. advenus nested in sand and provisioned their cells with adult flies of the families Otitidae, Anthomyiidae, Muscidae, Calliphoridae, and Sarcophagidae. Two unfinished nests contained 5 and 16 cells. The cells, in clusters of 3-7, were constructed near the horizontal burrows. From 2 to 6 prey, usually of mixed species, were stored in a cell. A wasp's egg was laid on the innermost, but usually not the largest, fly in the cell, across the ventral side of the neck.
25005879|Population characteristics are described for approximately 400 mound nests of Formica opaciventris censused over a 3 year period in Wyoming. During this period of observation, density remained stable at 0.007 nests/sq. meter with a maximum density of 0.4 nests/sq. meter. Mounds are categorized into size and activity classes and yearly changes are noted. Only a portion of the population releases sexuals, and on a statistical basis these fertile mounds are more likely to be found among the larger, more active segment of the population, and in the NW quadrant of this study area. Mortality rate for the total population was 8%-9%, increasing regularly at lower activity levels. Nest birth rate was 5%-13% during the period of observation. These rates are compared with those of closely related species of Formica.
25009469|The genus Baeriella Simon is transferred from the Cybaeodinae (Clubionoidea) to the Laroniinae (Gnaphosidae) and newly synonymized with Eilica Keyserling; its type species, B. myrmecophila Simon, is placed as a senior synonym of Eilica puno Platnick and Shadab. Three new species are described: E. amambay from Paraguay and E. daviesae and E. bedourie from Australia. The male of E. contacta Platnick is described for the first time.
25009471|Papilio xanthopleura var. diaphora is given species status based on examination of the holotype male and other specimens. Former usage applying diaphora only to a dimorphic aberration of the female is shown to be in error.
25009257|A destructive and time-consuming limb-tap sampling method was demonstrated to be 88% efficient for capturing adult and 2nd larval stage Leptothrips mali. This sampling method was compared to a simple, non-destructive, but inefficient, visual sampling technique through regression analysis. A significant relationship was found which indicated that the visual technique may be a practical sampling method.
25005835|Data are presented concerning the reproduction in Bombini, Apini and Meliponini. 1-Melipona quadrifasciata. All queens of this species mated only once and outside the hive. A queenless colony continues to kill virgin queens for almost 100 hours after being dequeened. Queens return from the mating flight with the male genitalia. A queen, marked on her return from her only mating flight, lived for three years and one month. Males average 1,156,850 spermatozoa. A recently mated queen had, in oviducts and spermatheca, 1,018,333 sperm. Since she returned with the male genitalia we concluded she mated with only one drone. Another queen which had laid only 30 eggs had 950,000 in the spermatheca indicating that about 97% of the sperm from the drone had reached the spermatheca: an efficiency of the ejaculation much greater than in A. mellifera. A spermatheca examined immediately after the queen returned from her mating flight showed spermatozoa moving at a speed of 11.4 to 16.0 mm per minute. 2-Trigona (Tetragonisca) jaty. Males gather in resting groups close to the entrance of the hive during swarming. These 3,000 males dispersed a few days after the queen was mated. More than one virgin flies from the mother colony to the new one during swarming. After a virgin is successfully mated remaining virgin queens are imprisoned in isolated waxy cells and die there. Spermatheca were found to contain 108,260 sperm. 3-Trigona (Plebeia) droryana. Males of this species, attracted by the smell of the orchid, Trigonidium obtusum, tried to mate with this flower. An anaesthetized queen placed on the flower (whose scent is believed to resemble that of the virgin queen) attracted males which tried to copulate with her in the normal position of solitary bees, male above female. 4-Trigona (Scaptotrigona) postica. During swarming as many as three virgin queens flew to the new home. A day later only one queen was found. A virgin queen born in a normal hive, but not mated, is tolerated for about 15 days, then she is persecuted by the bees and killed. Up to 8 virgin queens were found in a queen-right hive. Males leave the hive after a few days and then congregate in groups within 20-250 cm of the hive entrance. Greatest flight activity is between 1:00 and 3:00 P.M. Males feed directly from flowers within a flight range of about 600 meters, which is comparable to the flight range of workers. Males gathered in groups before a hive, may belong to several different colonies. 5-Apis mellifera. Sperm counts of male ejaculations varied from 1,600,000 to 9,610,000 with an average of about 6,000,000. No correlation was found between body weight of drones and sperm count. Drones from one hive lacked spermatozoa. A queen which had been laying for 40 days had 5,600,000 sperm in her spermatheca. Two queens dissected on their return from the mating flight showed 43,440,000 and 69,590,000 sperm in their oviducts and spermatheca suggesting matings with 7-12 drones on a single flight. Sperm in the spermatheca were actively motile for approximately 60 minutes before becoming non-motile. Their motility was slower than sperm of M. quadrifasciata quadrifasciata. There is a noticeable tendency, increasing as you move up the scale of social behavior, towards an increase in the genetically active population among social bees.
25008943|Two new acanthosomatid genera, each with one new species, are described: Mazanoma, new genus, M. variada, new species and type species, type locality Guardia Vieja, Los Andes, Aconcagua, Chile; and Tolono, new genus, T. decoratus, new species and type species, type locality Loja Province, Ecuador. A key to the acanthosomatid genera of the Western Hemisphere is given. Sinopla bicallosus Stl is transferred to Acrophyma.
25009771|Blissus breviusculus Barber is a poorly known blissine lygaeid that is rare in collections because of its cryptic habits; nymphs and adults live deep within crowns of little bluestem, Schizachrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (Graminiae). Known previously from Connecticut, Maine, and Massachusetts, B. breviusculus is recorded form a serpentine barren in southeastern Pennsylvania. A suction-sampling machine (D-Vac) was used to extract specimens from crowns of its host plant. A New York record, based on a specimen collected prior to Barber's original description and housed in the U.S. National Museum of Natural History collection, is given; two additional Massachusetts localities, based on USNM specimens, are also cited. Parshley's (1917) record of "Blissus hirtus Montandon" from Maine is referred to B. breviusculus.
25009198|The aphid Pemphigus populitransversus produces galls of two distinct morphs on cottonwood petioles. There are pronounced between-morph differences in both the number and maturity distribution of aphids within the galls. The progress of gall maturation was followed over the summer to determine whether these life history differences are explainable solely by the fact that galls of the "globular" morph are initiated some seven weeks later than those of the "elongate" morph or whether qualitative differences exist in the pattern of gall maturation. It was found that the pattern of maturation for the two morphs was similar, with globulars being always seven weeks behind. However, the number of nymphs and mature alates was about three times greater in globular galls.
25010186|Heisshygia rolstoni n. sp., H. amplissima n. sp., and H. cephalota n. sp., are described from New Guinea. A key is provided to distinguish the known species. The presence of ocelli in Heisshygia is shown to correct the original description.
25010009|The relation between weekly patterns of percent occurrence of dominant ant species in litter and soil samples from a Bahian (Brazil) cocoa plantation and climatic factors was examined. No significant lagged correlations were found for the litter dominants, however the soil dominant Acropyga cf. paramaribensis showed significant lagged correlations with temperature, rainfall and leaf flush, probably in response to increases in the populations of their mutualistic root mealybugs. Population fluctuations of A. cf. paramaribensis were found to be highly associated with those of the other soil dominant Tranopelta sp., which we believe to be a predator of the dominant and its mutualistic mealybugs.
25009901|Calathotarsus pihuychen, a new species from San Antonio Province, Regin de Valparaso (V), Chile, is described and illustrated. Its burrows are described and compared with the burrows of other Chilean Migoidea.
25008883|Ten thousand acres of a balsam fir forest severely infested by Choristoneura fumiferana Clemens was treated with a Bacillus thuringiensis + chitinase formulation by means of Avenger aircraft. In the 70% of the territory that was properly sprayed mortality averaged 88% and foliage protection 70% as determined by visual observations. The results of this experiment were sufficiently good to recommend the use of B. thuringiensis + chitinase formulation for the control of spruce budworm outbreaks.
25008990|Apochthonius moestus (Banks) is redescribed from the holotype female and from numerous specimens taken in and near the type locality, Ithaca, New York. The species seems to be restricted to western New York and adjacent parts of northern Pennsylvania.
25010379|The genus Calociasma appears to be polyphyletic and contains members that belong to all three currently recognized subtribes of the Nymphidiini. Only the type species, ictericum, and laius are retained in Calociasma, which belongs to the subtribe Nymphidiina. The taxa pulcherrima, comparata and felicis are removed to Juditha (n. combs.) in the Lemoniadina, and lilina (n. comb.) and its newly described sister species from Panama, robbinsi n. sp., are placed in the new genus Calicosama n. gen. in the Theopeina. Calicosama is characterized, and its biology and systematic position discussed.
25009975|The families Ochteridae and Hebridae are recorded for the first time from the granitic Seychelles, based on collections from mountain streams on the island of Mahe. Two new species, Ochterus seychellensis and Hebrus seychellensis, are described, with dorsal habitus and male genitalic figures.
25008776|Pupae of C. pipiens, collected from a swamp, were separated into two groups. One group of adults engorged on a guinea pig, the other on a canary. Hosts remained with mosquitoes for 12 hour periods (overnight) for 30 consecutive days. Engorged females were counted daily and transferred to ovipositing containers. Results indicate that C. pipiens are highly ornithophilic, but will engorge on a mammal when the latter is the only host available. Furthermore, a peak feeding period is confirmed when the avian is the host.
25010485|Twenty individuals diagnosed with delusory parasitosis participated in a single site clinical study under the auspices of the National Pediculosis Association (NPA) and the Oklahoma State Department of Health. The objective of this study was to determine if there were any common factors in skin scrapings collected from this population. These individuals, whose symptoms were originally attributed to lice or scabies, were part of a larger group reporting symptoms of stinging/biting and/or crawling to the NPA. Multiple skin scrapings from each person were microscopically examined. Any and all fields of view that appeared incongruous to normal human skin were digitally photographed. When the photographic images were initially evaluated, no common factor was identified. However, more extensive scrutiny using imaging software revealed evidence of Collembola in 18 of the 20 participants.
25009556|Recent collections of Ioscytus Reuter in the United States have revealed the first known member of the genus from the eastern United States, described here as Ioscytus chapmani, new species, and a new distributional record for the United States and first recorded submacropterous form for Ioscytus tepidarius (Hodgden), heretofore known only from Mexico. The various habitats of Ioscytus species are described, and a key to species and distributional map are included.
25006253|The alboguttatus group of the genus Peripsocus is defined on the basis of genitalic features of both sexes and forewing-marking pattern. Ten species are included, seven of which are described as new and are named as follows: P. alachuae, P. australis, P. maculosus, P. minimus, P. monticola, P. potosi, P. teutonicus. The forewing-marking pattern common, with minor modifications, to most species of the group is departed from by P. monticola n.sp., but this species is obviously very close to another included member, P. australis n.sp., as shown by genitalic features of both sexes. The taxonomic treatment is based on examination of 543 adult specimens. The location of the major types of each new species is mentioned in its description. A neotype of P. madescens Walsh is designated. A brief discussion of probable phylogenetic relationships within the species group is included. The alboguttatus group is represented in eastern United States by five species, one of which enters southeastern Canada. P. alboguttatus Dalman occurs throughout Europe as well as in North America. In Mexico there are two species in the group, one of which ranges south into northern South America and occurs on Trinidad, Puerto Rico, and Jamaica in the West Indies. Another species is known from Jamaica. Two species are known from southern Brazil, and one occurs in West Africa.
25009385|Whirligig beetles prey on a variety of small soft-bodied invertebrates that enter their surface film habitat from above or below. They also act as scavengers on dead floating invertebrates. Deficits in prey capture ability were produced by experimental deprivation of visual, tactile, or surface vibration cues. Visual deprivation and deprivation of surface vibration cues produced statistically equivalent deficits in whirligig predatory behavior. When tactile and surface vibration cues were both unavailable to the beetles, the deficits in their predatory behavior were more pronounced. These sensory systems are similar to those of Hemipteran predators that live in the surface film.
25009410|A key is provided for those North American, Central American and West Indian genera of Pentatomini that do not have a basal tubercle or spine on the abdominal venter. Pentatoma antiguensis Westwood, Thyanta bimini Ruckes, T. elegans Malloch and T. elegantula Jensen-Haarup are transferred to Cyptocephala Berg from Thyanta Stl. Tepa Rolston and McDonald, new genus, is proposed for 6 species transferred from Thyanta: Pentatoma rugulosa Say, type species, Thyanta brevis Van Duzee, T. jugosa Van Duzee, T. panda Van Duzee, T. punctiventris Van Duzee and T. yerma Rolston. Caribo Rolston, new genus, is proposed for C. subgibbus Rolston, new species from the Bahamas, and C. fasciatus Rolston, new species from Jamaica and St. John, Virgin Islands. Neurohalys Bliven, 1960, is placed in the synonymy of Prionosoma Uhler, 1863, and N. bucculatus Bliven, 1960, in the synonymy of P. podopioides Uhler, 1863. Thyanta subgenus Parathyanta Jensen-Haarup, 1928, is a junior synonym of Cyptocephala Berg, 1883. Phacidium euchlorum Breddin, 1912, whose type locality was erroneously reported as Costa Rica, is a junior synonym of Thyanta aeruginosa Berg, 1878, a species known only from Argentina and Uruguay. A lectotype is designated for Phacidium euchlorum Breddin.
25009566|Information on the nesting biology is reported for Caupolicana ocellata Michener (Colletidae: Diphaglossinae) and Martinapis luteicornis (Cockerell) (Anthophoridae: Eucerini). These species collect pollen from Psorothamnus scoparius (Gray) Rydberg (Leguminosae). Nests of both species were found near one another close to the Willcox playa in southeastern Arizona. Details of nest architecture, provisioning and a description of the egg of Martinapis are presented. This information is compared and contrasted with related bees. Also provided is casual information on the early matinal flight periods of the two species and of Caupolicana yarrowi (Cresson).
25010277|The species of Physocoryna are reviewed and a key to the three species is presented. A lectotype is designated for P. parvula Weise.
25009992|Two new Mexican species of Diplotaxis from Veracruz state are described. Modifications to Vaurie's keys to the genus are included to allow their identification.
25009378|Novomessor cockerelli uses coordinated behavior to subdue large orthopteran prey. When a partially disabled grasshopper is encountered, the first worker finding it mounts the dorsum of the grasshopper and clamps its mandibles over the wings, thus preventing escape by flight. Workers which arrive subsequently systematically remove or subjugate additional appendages. Behavioral coordination allows N. cockerelli to efficiently exploit large orthopteran prey which would otherwise escape if workers attempted to capture these individually.
25010528|Experiments were conducted to determine whether previous encounters with host spiders would affect hunting behavior in females of the spider wasp, Pepsis mildei. Each wasp was subjected to 3 encounters with a different spider (Aphonopelma steindachneri) in an experimental chamber. The mean time required for wasps to orient their bodies and approach the host decreased significantly by the second encounter (546.1 sec  15.2 SD) as compared to that required by naive wasps on their first encounter (972.4 sec  19.3). In a similar fashion, mean time required to paralyze the host decreased from 198.5 sec  13.3 SD on the first encounter to 156.7 sec  10.2 by the second encounter. The mean number of movements of the antennae by these wasps for various time intervals during the hunting sequence (interval between the initial orientation of wasp toward the spider, and first contact; and between last bout of antennation of host and insertion of stinger) also decreased significantly between the first and second encounters, suggesting that the time required to assess the suitability of a host decreased as a function of experience as well. These results indicate that the hunting behavior of pepsine wasps is characterized by a certain degree of plasticity that may contribute to the survivorship of these wasps. This plasticity may be due learning processes or timing-events associated with sensitization.
25009968|Evidence for monophyly of the Tribe Licinini is found in synapotypic character states of mouthparts (mandibles, primarily reduction of occlusal ridges and grooves) and the head capsule of larvae, with a distinct ventral apotome. Illustrations of mouthparts of adults of representative licinines show four basic types, which distinguish four subtribes: Dicaelina, Dicrochilina (new subtribe), Lestignathina (new subtribe) and Licinina (including the South American genus Eutogeneius). Structure of the mandibles and of the fore coxal cavities indicate relationships as follows: Dicaelina + ((Dicrochilina + Lestignathina) + Licinina). A review of the genus Diplocheila Brull reveals for the subgenus Diplocheila new synonymy: Pterostichus (Platysma) karikali Jedlika, 1969 = Diplocheila distinguenda LaFert, 1851. A review of the geographical history of subgenus Isorembus Jeannel indicates that the striatopunctata group was divided in two by opening of the Atlantic Basin, isolating one monophyletic segment in the Nearctic Region, and one in the Palaearctic Region, the latter withdrawing subsequently from Western Europe, and surviving in Western China. Review of recently collected material of the subgenus Liodicaelus (gen. Dicaelus Bonelli) reveals a new species-D. franclemonti (type locality-MEXICO, state of Nuevo Leon, Cerro Potosi, a mountain northwest of Galeana). Reexamination of the type material of D. laevipennis dicaeloides Ball suggests that this taxon is consubspecific with D. l. laevipennis LeConte. The names are synonymized accordingly. Reconstruction of the geographical history of Liodicaelus suggests that this lineage is of Late Miocene origin (ca. 12 million years before present), and that differentiation has been the result of vicariance and dispersal, with the oldest barrier between the Sierra Madre Oriental and the Sierra Madre Occidental. Study of the mouthparts of Badister reflexus LeConte reveals that, in the West Indies, the mandibles are dimorphic, with either the right or left mandible deeply notched dorsally. This feature of asymmetry was used to diagnose subgenera: left mandible notched, Baudia Ragusa; right mandible notched, Badister (sensu stricto) Clairville. Because it seems clear, now, that the genetic basis for mandibular difference is simple, the groups based on this feature alone should be reassessed.
25008942|Comparisons of morphological characters between successive generations of males and females of Tachysphex terminatus (Smith) in upstate New York were made. Significant differences were found for the samples of females but not for those of males. However, the males showed greater variability within a generation than did the females.
25006141|Mature larvae of Cerura scitiscripta multiscripta Riley reacted strongly and defensively to relatively low pitched sounds of the human voice, but showed no reactions to higher pitched sounds such as those of a Galton whistle.
25010123|Catogenus slipinskii Thomas, n. sp., is described from the Dominican Republic. It is illustrated and compared with other species of the genus. Catogenus cayman Slipinski is also recorded from the Dominican Republic. These are the first species of Catogenus to be recorded from Hispaniola.
25005831|Every colony of the stingless bee, T. compressa, found by the author had surrounding it a colony of the ant, C. stolli. When the bee colony is broken into to obtain the honey, these carnivorous ants swarm out to attack the invader. However, the ants do not feed on any of the spilt honey nor do they attack the bees. The original arrangement is restored after a period of reorganization.
25010168|A new genus, Ewartithrips, and four new species, E. californicus, E. dispar, E. flavidus and E. salviae, are described from California. Tenothrips ehrhornii and Taeniothrips longirostrum are reassigned to Ewartithrips (NEW COMBINATIONS). A key is proved for identifying eight genera to which former nearctic Taeniothrips species were reassigned.
25009279|Males of Mischocyttarus flavitarsis and M. drewseni possess a large mass of ducted exocrine gland cells on each of the fifth, sixth, and seventh (terminal) gastral sternites. The epidermal cells in the region of these glands are elongated, suggesting that they also have a secretory function. Males of a third species, M. mexicanus, have relatively few ducted gland cells on the fifth and sixth sternites and none on the seventh sternite. In M. flavitarsis (but not in M. drewseni or M. mexicanus), the gland cell ducts of sternites five and six open into a dense brush of long hairs.
25009612|Six new species of Phyllophaga from Cuba are described and SEM micrographs of the male genitalia are given.
25010434|The dryophthorid genus Rhinostomus Rafinesque (=Yuccaborus LeConte, new synonym) is a monophyletic taxon, defined by a combination of the following characters: mandibles exodont, antennal scape passing hind margin of eye, postocular lobes absent, abdominal punctures present, tibiae usually dentate, and third tarsal segment bilobed. It belongs to the pantropical tribe Rhinostomini Kuschel and is comprised of eight species. A cladistic analysis was carried out using 28 characters from external morphology, body vestiture, and male genitalia. The analysis yielded a single most parsimonious cladogram, with 59 steps, consistency index of 0.61, and retention index of 0.75, which was stable to successive weighting. According to this cladogram, the species follow the sequence: R. frontalis (LeConte, 1874) [=R. frontalis sharpi (Casey, 1892), new synonym] new combination, R. thompsoni Vaurie, 1970, R. quadrisignatus (Boheman, 1845), R. meldolae (Pascoe, 1887), R. oblitus (Jacquelin du Val, 1857) plus R. scrutator (Olivier, 1807), and R. barbirostris (Fabricius, 1775) plus R. niger (Drury, 1773).
25010447|Our studies of the Ephemeroptera family Ephemerellidae have revealed new synonyms and a new combination for species that have been placed in the genus Crinitella Allen and Edmunds. The type species, Crinitella coheri (Allen and Edmunds), is variable in color, and the shape of the left mandible is the same as that of C. permkami Wang and Sites, indicating that C. coheri (Allen and Edmunds) 1963 = C. permkami Wang and Sites, 1999, new synonymy. Drunella nasiri (Ali), new combination, was included in Crinitella previously. All other species previously included in Crinitella are synonyms of species in different genera, as follows: Cincticostella levanidovae (Tshernova) 1952 = Crinitella swatensis (Ali) 1971, new synonymy, and Torleya nepalica (Allen and Edmunds) 1963 = Crinitella wahensis (Ali) 1971, new synonymy.
25009418|The genus Parathroscinus is characterized. A new species, P. orientalis, is described from the Philippine Islands and P. oculatus (Motschulsky) is transferred to the genus from Byrrhinus.
25009991|Wing reduction and wing dimorphism in both sexes of an insect species are widespread phenomena. Sexual dimorphism in wing development is less common, and is previously unrecorded in the large beetle family Staphylinidae. Omalium flavidum Hamilton, a little-known forest staphylinid widespread in northeastern North America, has unusual wing dimorphism: flightless females and males, with minute vestigial wings and modifications often associated with wing loss; and fully-winged males, with distinctly elongate antennae, elytra, and legs. Occurrence of this and other patterns of sex-linked wing dimorphism in insects is reviewed and discussed. Omalium flavidum is redescribed and illustrated and a lectotype is designated for the species.
25009005|First instar nymphs of Cryptocercus punctulatus are eyeless. The reduced eyes of adults may result from the morphogenetic process of retardation. The blind condition of the youngest nymphs is an adaptation to life in rotting logs and perhaps also represents a preadaptation to life in the termite niche present in a common ancestor of Cryptocercus and the termites. The over-all resemblance between first instar nymphs of C. punctulaus and termites suggests the neotenic origin of the latter from a blattarian ancestor.
25009473|Culture filtrates extracted from two species of entomogenous fungi, Metarhizium anisopliae and Nomuraea rileyi, and a commercial toxin, beauvericin, demonstrated antimycotic activity to two strains of the causal agent of the Dutch elm disease, Ceratocystis ulmi. Extracts of Beauveria bassiana, as tested, displayed no antagonism to C. ulmi. Beauvericin was antagonistic only to the aggressive strain of C. ulmi, while the entomogenous fungal species were antagonistic to both the aggressive and nonaggressive strains of C. ulmi. M. anisopliae produced the highest level of antagonism to C. ulmi, and the aggressive strain of C. ulmi showed greater sensitivity to antagonism than the nonaggressive strain. Extracts from both strains of C. ulmi produced no antagonism against the three species of entomogenous fungi.
25010414|The Nerthra elongata species-group is composed of seven species, all of which are endemic to Australia. Two new species are described: Nerthra falcatus Cassis and Silveira n.sp. and Nerthra monteithi Cassis and Silveira n.sp. All are described and illustrated. A phylogenetic analysis of the species is given with all relationships fully resolved.
25009751|A study of 140 soil and leaf litter samples from Chickasaw State Park, Hardeman County, Tennessee resulted in the collection of four previously described species of Protura and two new species. The previously described species were: Eosentomon montanum Copeland, E. pallidum Ewing, E. wheeleri Silvestri and Styletoentomon rostratum. The two new species are described and named Eosentomon chickasawensis and E. hunnicutti.
25009278|A description of the male genitalia of Holcostethus hirtus is given and an emended key to the species of the genus is provided.
25010119|The three larval instars of the Neotropical Abaris bigenera Bates, 1882, are described. Based on this first larval description for the genus, Abaris larvae share two synapomorphies-extremely short coronal suture, and ventrally extended membranous band on the maxillary stipes-with the Mediterranean pterostichine genus Orthomus Chaudoir, 1838, suggesting that they are closely related.
25009146|Studies of interactions between blow flies and Entomophthora bullata showed that: (1) the time between exposure to conidia and death of the fly ranged from 5 to 12 days with about 50% dying by day 6; (2) the fungus produced only conidia in 79% of the cadavers, resting spores in 18%, and a mixture of the two in 3% of them; (3) in flies 1/2 to 3 days old at exposure only conidia were formed in >80% of the cadavers, while in flies 4 to 5 days old at exposure only resting spores were formed in about 50% of the cadavers; (4) the death rates of flies were not influenced by their ages at exposure; and (5) the time required for the disease to kill flies was not related to the types of spores formed on or in their cadavers. Host species included Phormia regina, Phaenicia sericata, and Protophormia terraenovae.
25009546|A cladistic analysis of the relationships of the families of the Chrysidoidea is presented, and contrasted with the efforts of previous authors. The phylogenetic system here proposed is: Plumariidae is the sister-group of the other six families, which together form a monophyletic group. Scolebythidae is the sister-group of ((Sclerogibbidae + (Embolemidae + Dryinidae)) + (Bethylidae + Chrysididae)). Embolemidae and Dryinidae are sister-groups, and the closest relative of this component is the Sclerogibbidae. Bethylidae and Chrysididae are sister-groups, and together are the sister-group of Sclerogibbidae + (Embolemidae + Dryinidae). The monophyly of each of the families is established.
25009831|Nepa hoffmanni Esaki is different somatically from its congeners; therefore, we here examine its generic assignment by comparing the male genitalia of N. hoffmanni, N. cinerea Linnaeus, N. sardiniensis Hungerford, and N. apiculata Uhler. Three diagnostic genitalic character states were found for the four taxa confirming hoffmanni's membership in Nepa. In addition, internal genitalic structures clearly delimit two species groups within Nepa: an apiculata group composed of N. apiculata and N. hoffmanni, and a cinerea group composed of N. cinerea and N. sardiniensis. Finally, we hypothesize that internal genitalic characters can be used to delimit waterscorpion genera.
25009472|The Nearctic species of Hyssopus Girault (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) are revised for the first time. Eight species are included and lectotypes are designated for novus Girault and benefactor (Crawford). A key to the species is presented. Two new taxa (clypealis, and aaba) are described and illustrated and several new host records are listed. All species of Hyssopus are primary parasites of lepidopterous larvae that mine or bore in twigs, cones, and stems.
25009504|Plagiohammus decorus, Cacostola janzeni, C. nelsoni, Lochmaeocles nigritarsus, L. crenatus, Eutrichillus brevipilus, Pseudostylopsis squamosus, and Dectes nigripilus are described as new from Mexico. Dorsal view figures are provided for P. decorus, L. nigritarsus, and L. cretatus.
25009842|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by J. C. M. Carvalho alone or in coauthorship from January 1985 to January 1989 is presented. Included are 72 genera, and 480 species and subspecies. For each name the original reference is cited, and for holotypes the present depository is given.
25009638|Typical and melanic individuals of Panthea pallescens McDunnough were presented to birds in feeding trials conducted in Leverett, Massachusetts from 1982 to 1985. Both morphs were highly acceptable to the birds, and there were no significant differences between the typicals and melanics with respect to the percentage of specimens taken, the order in which they were taken, the bird species involved, or the behaviors of the birds towards the moths. The data rule out any major difference in the acceptability of the two morphs, but the possibility that melanics might be slightly less acceptable than typicals requires further test.
25009555|Cyptocephala alvarengai and C. pallida, new species, are described. Diagnoses for other species are provided. Thyanta elegantula Jensen-Haarup, 1928, is placed in the synonymy of Cyptocephala cogitabunda Berg, 1883.
25008924|Dentachipteria, a new genus, and two species of oribatid mites are described. Species are recognized by the large downward pointing lamellae the broad rostrum, and presence of denticles on the distal margins of the pteromorphs. In D. ringwoodensis there are many pteromorphic denticles, in D. highlandensis there is a single large denticle. In D. ringwoodensis leg 1 is held beneath the lamellae, in D. highlandensis leg 1 is free.
25010019|Two new taxa are proposed for veliids presently placed in the genus Paravelia; Platyvelia new genus, type-species Velia brachialis Stl, and Steinovelia new genus, type-species Velia stagnalis Burmeister. The synonymy of Platyvelia brachialis (Stl) 1860 and Platyvelia australis (Torre-Bueno) 1916 is discussed and confirmed. A checklist of included species is given for each new genus.
25006060|The biologies of four species of Dufourea [D. mulleri (Cockerell), D. malacothricis Timberlake, D. pulchricornis (Cockerell), and D. trochantera Bohart] are described and compared. The biology of the nomadine bee parasite, Neopasites, family Anthophoridae, is also described. Two species of the parasite are associated with their hosts [Neopasites (Micropasites) cressoni Crawford with D. mulleri, and an undescribed species of the subgenus Neopasites with D. trochantera]. The suspected association of an additional species, Neopasites (Neopasites) fulviventris (Cresson), on D. dentipes Bohart and an undescribed Dufourea species is included. The subfamilies of Halictidae are compared on the basis of biological features in a summary table.
25006212|Two new species of Podonomus from Ecuador are described-Podonomus caranqui, adult and pupa, and Podonomus quito, adult, pupa, and larva. The association of the pupa of these species with blackfly puparia is discussed. The cast pupal skin of the species of Parochlus from the same collection is described. The distribution and types of sensilla of the adult wings, legs and antennae and the pupal tergites are given. The structure of the pupal respiratory organs, especially the plastron, is described and comparison is made with the plastron of representative Tanypodinae species.
25006058|The activities of alcohol, succinic, malic, glucose, glutamic, alpha-glycerophosphate, lactic, and isocitric dehydrogenases, the malic enzyme, and cytochrome oxidase were determined during the metamorphosis of the face fly, Musca autumnalis. Total alpha-glycerophosphate, alcohol, malic, and succinic dehydrogenases as well as the malic enzyme exhibited U-shaped activity. Greatest activity was shown by the malic dehydrogenase. Isocitric dehydrogenase activity was high initially and remained high until the 2-day pupa, and thereafter showed a progressive decline. Glucose dehydrogenase activity was low and remained fairly steady during the entire pupal stage. Alcohol dehydrogenase decreased steadily during the first days of metamorphosis, reached a low value on the third day, and then increased to reach its highest value in the adult stage. Succinic dehydrogenase exhibited a similar pattern, but the level of activity was not as high as most of the other dehydrogenases. Glutamic dehydrogenase showed low activity in the larval stage. It decreased during the first several days of the pupal life and completely disappeared by the fourth day. The activity of lactic dehydrogenase was very low throughout metamorphosis. Malic enzyme exhibited high activity in the larva, prepupa, and again in the adult stage. Cytochrome oxidase activity was also U-shaped during metamorphosis.
25010359|The type series of eight species of Japanese Cercopoidea described by P. R. Uhler in the National Museum of Natural History, Washington D.C., were examined and lectotypes and paralectotypes are newly designated. Syntypes of four of these Uhler species found in the Natural History Museum, London, are also documented. Aphrophora impressa Metcalf & Horton is placed as a junior synonym of Aphrophora flavipes Uhler.
25005975|A list of 99 species of thrips known to occur in New Jersey is presented. Forty-five of these were collected by the writers and the remainder found in the literature. In addition, 36 species probably occurring in the state are listed. Of the 45 species collected, 19 constitute new records for the state. Lists of agricultural and nonagricultural host plants are also given, with the species taken on each. Many new host records are established.
25009683|Eggs and first through fifth instar nymphs of Neomegamelanus elongatus (Ball) are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions, spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, metatarsomeres, and number of metatarsomeres and body pits.
25006037|A female Monopsyllus vison, collected in Essex County, New York, had parts of three spermathecae, the three bulgae being fused at their bases. In addition, sternites VII and VIII were quite unlike the normal form.
25010460|Early steps of nest foundation and development were studied in the Neotropical swarm-founding paper wasp, Polybia paulista. During early colony foundation P. paulista wasps gather into tight clusters adjacent to the newly established nest-site. While the period ranging from swarm settlement to nest construction took about 12 days in summer swarms, this period tended to be longer in winter swarms. In all colonies we observed, eggs were observed in at least one comb, which was not yet completely covered by the envelope. Among seven studied cases, two swarms built multiple initial combs, of which combs were fused into a single one within a few days. On account of rarity in Polybia, it's difficult to conclude if this unusual habit is anomalous, or not. However, since comb fusion develops so efficiently and rapidly, it seems likely to be included in the building repertory of the species under concern.
25010348|Nymphs of the leafhopper tribe Xestocephalini, not previously observed in nature, were assumed to be ground-dwelling myrmecophiles. Numerous nymphs of all instars of X. desertorum (Berg) were collected from the ground of a roadside meadow in Illinois, U.S.A., with a vacuum collector. Neither nymphs, nor adults appeared to be associated with ant nests. When kept in the laboratory, the nymphs fed on grass roots, and the adults both on roots and green parts of grasses; females oviposited in dead grass roots. The species is bivoltine in Illinois, with the egg stage overwintering. Like many other leafhoppers, after each molt, both nymphs and adults of X. desertorum cover the fresh integument with brochosomes: secretory particles produced in the Malpighian tubules. These poorly known behaviors are described and illustrated. Unlike in leafhoppers studied previously, the brochosomes of X. desertorum nymphs and adults differ in structure.
25006031|The radii of fore wings and the weights of whole air-dried specimens of adult instars of wild and reared specimens of Pieris rapae, Colias philodice, and C. eurytheme have been compared. Correlations (r) of high orders of significance between these two variables have been determined and shown graphically. The radii and weights of the females of the two species of Colias, both wild and reared, exceeded those of the males by less than 10%.
25010328|Five colonies of Chartergellus communis, a Neotropical swarm-founding social wasp, were analyzed in order to determine morphological differences between queens and workers. Although castes could be differentiated by color patterns, morphological differences were practically absent in three out of the five colonies. In the two other colonies, we found queens smaller than workers in all the five measured characters in one colony while in the other queens were larger than workers in the same five characters. The importance of such caste variation according to colony is discussed. Colonies contained a large variety of individuals with different kinds of ovarian development, including intermediates between queens and workers. The occurrence of such intermediate females and their role in different wasp taxa is discussed.
25009532|Merinocapsus froeschneri is described as new. Ankylotylus pallipes Knight is transferred to Merinocapsus. The male genitalia are illustrated and compared and the distributions summarized for the three species currently placed in Merinocapsus.
25009736|Mormidea polita n. sp. and M. guatemalensis n. sp. are described from Mexico and Guatemala, respectively. A key is provided for the identification of the 14 species of Mormidea Amyot and Serville known to occur in Mexico, Belize and Guatemala.
25010372|A new Mexican species of Ceraspis Serville from Oaxaca state is described and illustrated. A key to the known Mexican species of this genus is included.
25009978|A new species of pentatomid, Priapismus pini, is described from Honduras. Both nymphs and adults were collected on Pinus maximinoi H. E. Moore.
25008767|New locality records are presented for eight species of Balclutha from the Bahama Islands: B. caldwelli, curvata, flavescens, floridana, guajanae, hebe, incisa, and neglecta. B. arctica is recorded from Newfoundland and B. delongi from Panama; both are new distributional records. Supplementary information on size, nomenclature, and method of collecting is included.
25008994|Nine species of hypopial nymphs belonging to the families Acaridae, Chaetodactylidae, and Saproglyphidae are described as new: Kuzinia affinis, K. americana, K. dispar (Acaridae); Vidia utahensis, Schulzea zahkvatkini (Saproglyphidae); Sennertia americana, S. ignota, S. indica and S. robusta (Chaetodactylidae). A new subgenus, Euvidia, is established for 3 species in the genus Vidia; and Vidia thomasi is proposed as a new name for Vidia cooremani Baker in the Saproglyphidae. Hymenopterous hosts and figures of each species are given.
25009201|The Pentatomini of the Western Hemisphere is divided into 3 sections. Keys are provided to separate these sections and the genera of one section, viz. those genera that have a median tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter and a metasternal production apposing this tubercle. Four new monotypic genera are diagnosed, each based on a new species: Elanela hevera Rolston, n. sp., Glaucioides englemani Thomas, n. sp., Nocheta adda Rolston n. sp. and Vidada dollingi Rolston n. sp. The genus Phineus Stl is removed from this group and placed in Discocephalinae.
25008952|Three exotic Ostrinia nubilalis parasites; Eriborus terebrans, Macrocentrus grandii, and Sympiesis viridula were detected in Massachusetts along with two native species; Aplomya caesar and Lixophaga sp. Of these, M. grandii was by far the most important, accounting for over 92 per cent of the borers parasitized.
25006043|A new genus, Gonepityche and new species pacaraimae of spirostrepsid millipeds from the Pacaraima mountains of British Guiana is described.
25010256|Thirty-one species of Glaphyriinae (Crambidae: Pyraloidea) from Costa Rica are reviewed, including nine new species: Aureopteryx olufsoni, Eupoca haakei, Glaphyria tetraspina, Glaphyria spinacrista, Glaphyria stellaspina, Glaphyria spinasingularis, Lipocosma rosalia, Lipocosma pitilla, and Lipocosma fonsecai. Lipocosma teliferalis Dyar is a junior synonym of Lipocosma punctissimalis Dyar, Lipocosma plagalis Schaus is a junior synonym of Lipocosma ausonialis (Druce), and Parambia gleanealis Dyar is a junior synonym of Parambia gnomosynalis Dyar. A key to the identification of Costa Rican species is provided. The presence of a pseudognathos in the male genitalia and modified scales on the area between
25010455|Three new genera of Hyaliodini are described in the subfamily Deraeocorinae. The new genus Dicyphanisca is described to accommodate the new species D. marginella from Ecuador; the new genus Froeschnerisca, for Hyaliodocoris (described in Hyaliodomiris Carvalho) andinus (Carvalho), n. comb.; and the new genus Paracarniella, for Paracarnus cubanus Bruner (type species), n. comb., Paracarnus mexicanus Distant, n. comb., Hyaliodes sabaensis Carvalho, n. comb., and the new species P. dominicanensis from the Dominican Republic and P. puertoricensis from Puerto Rico. Hyaliodes azteca Carvalho is considered a new junior synonym of Paracarnus mexicanus Distant. Provided for each taxon are a dorsal and lateral adult photograph, selected scanning electron photomicrographs, illustrations of male and female genitalia, and descriptions and diagnoses to help distinguish these new taxa from other Hyaliodini.
25010343|Trachinocoris crassoides, new species from Brazil, Paradema renocula, new species from Venezuela, and Paradema slateri, new species from Ecuador, are described and figured. Paradema bathydemoides Slater is redescribed and figured. Figures of morphological details and a discussion of phylogenetic relationships are included.
25009756|Paucicalcaria, a new hydroptilid genus, and P. ozarkensis, the type species, are described from the Magazine Mountain area of Arkansas. The genus is distinguished by its unique tarsal spur count (0.1.2), the absence of ocelli, and a greatly reduced forewing venation. The new genus appears to be most closely related to the hydroptiline genus Hydroptila based on the similarities of the genitalia and thoracic nota and the mutual absence of ocelli.
25010514|Two new genera and five new species of Colpurini are described from New Guinea and illustrated. The new taxa are as follows: Heydonhygia n. gen. containing H. lata n. sp. from Papua New Guinea, H. mucronata n. sp. from Indonesian New Guinea, H. prolata from Indonesian New Guinea, and H. venusta n. sp. from Papua New Guinea; and Riedelhygia n. gen., containing R. wasiora n. sp. from Indonesian New Guinea.
25006236|Twelve species of fleas, representing 4 families, were collected from small mammals at Grout Pond, Windham County, Vermont during the summer of 1969. Species are listed with hosts, and number of males and females collected. No new records for Vermont are reported.
25009962|The identity of Leucania interrogans Walker, 1856, described from an unknown type locality, is confirmed, and a lectotype is designated for it. It is a distinctive and rarely collected species of amphipyrine noctuid of the southeastern U.S. that belongs to neither Leucania nor Phragmatiphila, where placed by previous authors. A comprehensive search failed to reveal any genus to which interrogans might be referred, and Franclemontia, new genus, is proposed for it. The possible sister-group relationship of this new genus to atypical North American elements of Chortodes is suggested. All members of this large group of amphipyrine genera are believed to be host-specific stem borers in marsh grasses.
25010149|A systematic revision of the aleocharine genus Amblopusa Casey is presented. Amblopusa Casey is redescribed, and three species are recognized, two of which are new (A. alaskana Ahn and Ashe and A. hokkaidona Ahn and Ashe). Late instar larvae of A. alaskana Ahn and Ashe are described. Boreorhadinus Sawada is synonymized under Amblopusa Casey and Boreorhadinus pacificus Sawada is synonymized under A. brevipes Casey. Type and para-types of A. alaskana and A. hokkaidona are designated. Lectotype is designated for A. brevipes. New genus Paramblopusa is described to contain A. borealis. Lectotype and paralectotypes are designated for P. borealis. A key is provided for separation of the genera Amblopusa and Paramblopusa and the known species of Amblopusa, and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented.
25010243|Loneura ocotensis n.sp., is described and illustrated on basis of one male collected at the Biosphere Reserve "El Ocote", in western Chiapas. It is the ninth species known in the genus, and the third one to be recorded in Mxico. /// Loneura ocotensis n.sp., es descrita e ilustrada, en base a un ejemplar macho recolectado en la Reserva de la Bisfera "El Ocote", en el extremo occidental de Chiapas. Es la novena especie que se conoce en el gnero y la tercera que se registra en Mxico.
25010225|The species of the water strider genus Limnometra occuring on New Guinea and proximate islands are reviewed, and a very large new species, L. grallator, is described from the southern flanks of the central highlands. On the basis of male endosomal sclerotization, this new species appears to be most closely related to L. kallisto (Kirkaldy), a much smaller species also endemic to greater New Guinea. A key to all New Guinea Limnometra species is provided, accompanied by illustrations of the male endosomal sclerites and range maps.
25009442|Keys to subgenera of the genus Euschistus Dallas and to the South American species and one subspecies of the nominate subgenus are provided for males. Three new species of the nominate subgenus are described: E. carbonerus, E. incus, and E. rohus. Euschistus bifibulus var. guayaquilinus Kuhlgatz, 1903, is placed in the synonymy of E. taurulus Berg, 1878. E. lizerianus Pennington, 1922, is transferred to the genus Agroecus Dallas.
25006072|A. bistriatella (Phycitinae), a moth formerly recorded in the eastern United States, has been found to occupy diverse situations in California, feeding in the larval stage on stromata of Hypoxylon occidentale (Xylariaceae). The moth was not recovered in extensive sampling of Polyporaceae, while records indicate that other species and perhaps other genera of Xylariaceae are used.
25010358|This paper records 75 species of plant bugs new to Canada, including the first report of Pinalitus cervinus (Herrich-Schaeffer) in North America. The following taxonomic changes are proposed: Melanotrichus vestitus (Uhler), lectotype designated and new combination; Macrotyloides symetricus Knight, new junior synonym of Macrotylus vestitus Uhler; and Paraproba nigrinervis Van Duzee, 1917, new junior synonym of Paraproba cincta Van Duzee, 1917. /// L'auteur rapporte pour la premire fois la prsence de 75 espces de punaises au Canada dont une espce introduite, Pinalitus cervinus (Herrich-Schaeffer), mentionne pour la premire fois d'Amrique du Nord. On propose galement les modifications taxonomiques suivantes: Melanotrichus vestitus (Uhler) est une nouvelle combinaison et un lectotype lui est dsign; Macrotyloides symetricus Knight est un nouveau synonyme plus rcent de Macrotylus vestitus Uhler; et Paraproba nigrinervis Van Duzee, 1917, est un nouveau synonyme plus rcent de Paraproba cincta Van Duzee, 1917.
25009248|Annual patterns of adult emergences and habitat associations for several species of tropical cicadas (Homoptera: Cicadidae) were studied within the premontane-to-montane tropical moist forest zone northwesterly of the Meseta Centrale region of Costa Rica. The region largely consists of expansive coffee plantations, secondary vegetation, and strips of forest along streams, and the censusing of cicadas at four widely separated localities (Grecia, Naranjo, San Ramon, and Esparta) covered an elevational range of about 200-1,100 meters. Coffee plantations in this region have an overstory (shade cover) of Inga spp. trees (Leguminosae) and sometimes (Grecia) a mixture of these trees with another legume tree, Zygia longifolia. Z. longifolia is also the dominant tree in forest remnants along streams in this region. Given the pronounced patterns of annual seasonal precipitation at all four localities and the mosaic of secondary coffee plantations and forest remnants at three of them, and forest remnants and secondary vegetation at the fourth (Esparta), it was expected that the census of nymphal skins and adult cicadas would indicate distinctive seasonal adult emergence cycles and habitat associations. The data confirmed this. Fidicina amoena emerges during the dry season near stream-edge Zygia trees in coffee plantations (Grecia) and near other legume trees in forest remnants (Esparta). Fidicina semilata and F. "coffea" emerge near Inga trees in coffee plantations (Naranjo and San Ramon) during the dry season as does F. pronoe and F. spinocosta in secondary vegetation (Esparta). Fidicina mannifera emerges during the wet season in primary forest remnants at about 200 meters elevation (Esparta). Zammara smaragdula emerges in the west season near Zygia trees in coffee plantations (Grecia) and forest remnants along streams (Naranjo and San Ramon) and Conibosa sp. emerges during the wet season in coffee plantations (Grecia, Naranjo, and San Ramon). Quesada gigas emerges during the dry season near Zygia trees along the borders of coffee plantations and in stream-edge forest remnants. The data are discussed from the standpoint of adaptations in tropical cicadas to seasonality and habitats, the latter particularly in terms of the exploitation of legume trees as feeding sites (root crowns) of nymphs.
25009514|A new species of Cariancha Oman is described from Brazil. Evidence is given to support the placement of Cariancha in the deltocephaline tribe Acinopterini.
25010288|Cercotmetus minutus n. sp. is described from Laos. A revised key to the species of Cercotmetus is provided.
25005908|Proportions of melanic and melanistic individuals are recorded in 9 species of Noctuidae and Geometridae. Local edaphic, perhaps plant-successional, factors are believed responsible, rather than industrial darkening. The samples recorded were unbiased by collector selection.
25000066|Blattisocius patagiorum is distinguishable from previously described species by the slender, edentate form of the movable cheliceral digit in nymphs and females. Males possess an accessory organ lateral to each peritreme. Behavior suggests facultative parasitism upon noctuid moths.
25009864|The clytine cerambycid Xylotrechus schaefferi Schott, a rare species in North American collections, is found to breed in the hard, dry, closed cones of pitch pine (Pinus rigida) and jack pine (P. banksiana) in northcentral and eastern North America. This represents only the second known North American cerambycid to breed exclusively in coniferous cones. Larvae bore through the central axis, scales and seeds of the host cone. Presumably, one generation is produced annually, with the adult flight period occurring from June-August. The eumenine vespid wasp Ancistrocerus adiabatus was found to use the empty larval galleries in pitch pine cones as nesting sites. The female of X. schaefferi is redescribed, while the male and larva are described, illustrated, and characterized for the first time. External and internal cone damage is also illustrated by photographs.
25008996|A taxonomic survey is presented of the family Scutacaridae of New York. 23 species and 2 subspecies are described and illustrated from the collections made at Long Island and eastern New York. Of these, 14 species of Scutacarus Gros, and 7 species and 1 subspecies of Imparipes Berlese are new to science, and 3 European species are new records. Imparipes apicola (Banks) is a new combination. The mites treated are mainly the free-living predaceous, or fungivorous species. 102 figures are presented.
25009819|Three nests of the honey ant, Myrmecocystus mexicanus, were excavated near Portal, Arizona and 548 of the 692 repletes in one colony were analyzed by color: 249 dark amber, 230 amber, 68 milky and 1 clear. Crop fluid of milky repletes contained the most protein. Replete abdomens were 6-12 mm long and weights ranged from 0.09-0.98 g. Dark amber and amber repletes had larger average abdominal lengths and weights than milky and clear ones. Replete chambers ranged in depth from 0.3-1.6 m. The number of repletes per chamber varied from 8-240. A wingless queen was in each nest but one colony also contained 112 winged males and 110 winged females. Probable predation by badgers on two nests was noted. An ant-loving cricket (Myrmecophila sp.) and collembolans in one nest are new myrmecophiles for this species.
25010407|A new species, Cerceris escalante, is described from Kane and Garfield counties, Utah.
25010409|The immature stages of the flea beetle Alagoasa januaria Bechyn (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae) are described and illustrated. Terminal addition of setae in later instars is present. The life history of Alagoasa januaria is discussed. Alagoasa januaria feed on Stachytarpheta cayennesis (Rich.) Vahl (Verbenaceae). Differences between these and other known Oedionychina immatures are discussed. /// Se describen e ilustran las fases inmaduras (huevo, larva y pupa) del escarabajo Alagoasa januaria Bechyn (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae). En el segundo estadio larval aparecen cerdas. Se discute la historia natural del Alagoasa januaria. El Alagoasa januaria se alimenta de Stachytarpheta cayennesis (Rich.) Vahl (Verbenaceae). Se discuten las diferencias entre el Alagoasa januaria y otros Oedionychina inmaduros conocidos.
25009548|Seven new species of Chymomyza are described: C. diatropa, C. exophthalma, C. guyanensis, C. jamaicensis, C. microdiopsis, C. mycopelates, and C. procnemolita. Chymomyza maculipennis Hendel is a junior synonym of C. bicoloripes (Malloch). Genitalia of male and female C. bicoloripes and male C. albitarsis (Hendel) are described and those of C. aldrichii Sturtevant and C. procnemoides Wheeler are figured. A key is provided for the identification of all members of the Chymomyza aldrichii species-group. Males of 5 species have conspicuously broadened heads. Synapomorphy distributions suggest that this trait evolved independently twice, in quite different manners. Spines on the male prothoracic femora evolved less dramatically and have been lost in C. bicoloripes and C. mesopecta Wheeler. Rampant homoplasy in adult morphology, however, obscures the phylogenetic relationships somewhat and limits definitive statements on the origins of extreme sexual dimorphism in these flies.
25006130|Carrion-baited ground cans were used to collect carrion beetles in Hutcheson Memorial Forest during the summers of 1961 through 1965. Fingernail polish colors were used to mark the elytra of the carrion beetles utilized in the orientation studies; the release-points of the recaptured individuals were thus identifiable. The rate of return to carrion by Silpha noveboracensis from distances of 5 to 75 meters was apparently due to random wandering and not because of orientation to carrion odors. The periphery of odor perception is about 1 meter from carrion when the movement of air is negligible. Carrion beetles were shown clearly to be attracted to carrion. However, the distance of this attraction is much less than what has generally been believed. In this study S. noveboracensis was fourteen times more apt to return to carrion than Nicrophorus sp. from 5 meters, whereas in a reported New England study these two species were about equally attracted to carrion from the same distance. A much greater overall return of Silphidae in the New England study was reported than is herein observed.
25010418|Polybia selvana, a new species of paper wasp from Costa Rica, is described.
25006192|A new species, Pseudotyrannochthonius gracilis, is described from the Pacific Northwest. Pseudotyrannochthonius newelli is synonymized with P. incognitus and the geographical range of the species is extended. Ecological data for both species are included.
25009302|Several species of fungal entomopathogens were tested for infectivity on larvae of the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar (L.). Spore suspensions in varying dosages were administered to the larvae via surface treatment of sterilized oak leaves. High levels of mortality were obtained for most of the test species of fungi. Conidiobolus thromboides, Fusarium sp., Hirsutella thompsonii, one strain of Paecilomyces farinosus and Verticillium sp. were non-infective to gypsy moth larvae under the conditions of the experiment.
25009407|Carvalhoma Slater and Gross is transferred from the Phylinae to the Cylapinae. The nymphal and adult male habitus, male genitalia, and claws of Carvalhoma malcolmae Slater and Gross are figured. Characters used to determine subfamily placement are discussed, and it is suggested tha the Cylapinae, Isometopinae, and Psallops Usinger form a monophyletic group.
25009391|Results of a study of primary types representing 258 species-group names in the genus Cerceris are presented: 43 new synonyms are proposed; 14 names are removed from synonymy and given species status; 10 names previously recognized as subspecies are elevated to species status; one name is removed from synonymy and given subspecies status; three names are reduced from species to subspecies status; and eight names are transferred from the synonymy of one species to that of another. Cerceris nitidoides Ferguson is proposed as a New Name for the preoccupied Cerceris nitida Banks.
25009715|A new species of Plocopsylla Jordan, 1931 (Siphonaptera: Stephanocircidae) from Argentina is described. The holotype female and two paratype females of this new taxon were assigned originally to Plocopsylla chiris Jordan, 1931b. Because of dimorphism between these females and the male lectotype of P. chiris and host specificity data involving the genus Plocopsylla, these three females are described as new. The identifications of two other females previously assigned to P. chiris are discussed.
25009570|Four new species of Cephalobyrrhinus are described from Central and South America. They are C. brevis, C. robustus, C. sedatus, and C. lineatus. The genitalia are figured and a key that will separate the six known species of the genus is included.
25000063|Brief comments upon the men who collected insects before Bruce: W. S. Wood, Jr., W. J. Howard, Jas. Ridings, A. A. Allen, Lt. MacCauley, and T. L. Mead preface a biographical sketch of David Bruce, well-known as a collector of Colorado insects from 1883 to 1897. The information about Bruce was garnered from letters written by him to Herman Strecker and newspaper articles published at the time of his death in Brockport, New York. He is best known for his cooperation with W. H. Edwards in studies of the life histories of high altitude butterflies.
25010248|The identity of Discoelius strigosus costarricensis Bertoni = Zethus strigosus Saussure revised status, is solved and Zethus smidtianus n. sp. is described based on the misidentification of costarricensis by Bohart and Stange, 1965 and subsequent authors.
25009565|Cosmiocryptus of the euprepes group are red, black, and white ischnines with the ovipositor compressed, vertical ridges on the ovipositor tip, and the female front tibia inflated. Cosmiocryptus euprepes (Porter), new combination, inhabits gallery forests near Buenos Aires, Argentina. Cosmiocryptus eugrammus, new species, frequents the northwest Argentine Subandean Desert. It differs from euprepes in having the mesoscutum uniformly black, the mesosoma without red markings, the first flagellomere more slender, and the propodeal cristae weakly subcrescentic or subcuneate.
25009092|Shapiro, Arthur M., Department of Zoology, University of California, Davis, California 95616.-The egg, larva, and pupa of Reliquia santamarta from the alpine zone of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia are described. Resemblances to and differences from the early stages of the Nearctic Pieris callidice group are noted. Overall R. santamarta shows considerable differentiation from its alleged Nearctic relatives, but the hypothesis that it represents a relict of the stock which initially invaded South America from the north and subsequently underwent great adaptive radiation remains tenable.
25010312|Study of Icodema nigrolineatum (Knight) has shown that it and four other related Nearctic species are not congeneric with Palearctic I. infuscatum (Fieber), the type of the genus. As a result, the new genus Americodema is established to accommodate A. nigrolineatum (Knight), new combination, and A. knighti (Kerzhner and Schuh), new combination, and the new genus Occidentodema is erected for the three new species O. clypealis, O. mcfarlandi, and O. polhemusi from the western United States and Mexico. Generic relationships are discussed, host plants and distributions are reviewed, and diagnostic information and a key to species are provided to facilitate recognition.
25009457|Small emergences of the 17-year periodical cicada, Magicicada septendecim (L.), occurred in central Connecticut during 1983. An adult wing and two nymphal exuviae were collected at one site, and the intermittent singing of one to four males was heard at four other localities. The density estimated at one site was only one adult per hectare. Females apparently did not oviposit during 1983. At every locality visited during 1983, there was ovipositional damage caused by females of the sympatric Brood II, which emerged in abundance during 1979. Evidence obtained in 1983 and 1932 (51 years earlier) suggests collectively that Brood VI is not a self-reproducing brood in Connecticut. It is proposed that emergences of Brood VI may be attributed to a few adults of Brood II, which underwent a 4-year deceleration in nymphal development. A critical examination of early distributional records for Brood VI indicates that the evidence is ambiguous. Misidentifications, developmental flexibility of 17-year periodical cicadas, and records of 13-year cicadas may account for most of the records of Brood VI in the eastern United States. The 4-year deceleration proposed here may be one factor that has contributed to the ambiguity of records of Brood VI and possibly to the formation of cicada broods.
25010130|A cladistic analysis of the species of the genera Ulmeritus and Ulmeritoides is performed. Five new species of Ulmeritoides are described: U. fidalgoi n. sp. from male and female imagos and U. misionensis n. sp. from male and female imagos and nymphs from Argentina, U. spinulipenis n. sp. from male imagos from Uruguay, and U. guanacaste n. sp. and U. tifferae n. sp. from male imagos and nymphs collected in Costa Rica. U. flavopedes is redescribed; U. uruguayensis (=U. adustus n. syn.), U. luteotinctus and U. patagiatus are discussed. The generic diagnosis of Ulmeritoides is modified to include all known species. Further evidence from the cladistic analysis supports the synonymy of Pseudulmeritus with Ulmeritoides, the monophyly of Ulmeritus and Ulmeritoides, and their status as sister groups.
25010474|Morphological caste differences and ovary conditions were analyzed in four colonies of Brachygastra augusti collected in different stages of the colony cycle. Differences between castes are distinct suggesting pre-imaginal determination. Many intermediates (non-inseminated ovary-developed females) were found. Because these intermediate females were morphologically similar to workers, it is suggested that they are young ovary-developed workers. Because there is a more evident overlap between queens and workers in the colony in pre-emergence of workers stage, and in three colonies in latter stages, especially in worker-production colonies, it is suggested that smaller queens are probably less viable than larger queens as observed in previously studied epiponines.
25010137|Nine new replacement names are proposed for species in the genera Tricentrus, Oxyrhachis and Gargara. T. elongatus Kato, T. minullus Jacobi, and Centrotypus perakensis Distant are reinstated as valid names. T. mckameyei Ahmad is emended as T. mckameyi, T. strmpeli Ahmad and Yasmeen as T. struempeli, and Gargara dnitzae Matsumura as G. doenitzi. Kotogargara alini yunnanensis Yuan and Chou is revised as Gargara (Kotogargara) parvula yunnanensis (Yuan and Chou), new combination. Fifteen new or reinstated species combinations in Tricentrus and Gargara are established to follow previous generic changes.
25009780|We record the first case of phytophagy among the Braconidae. The larvae of an unidentified species of Allorhogas have been observed feeding on Pithecellobium tortum (Leguminosae) seeds in restinga of Barra de Maric, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ecological and biological aspects of the species are described.
25009177|Three new species of the aquatic beetle genus Notionotus Spangler (Hydrophilidae) are described, one each from Mexico, Guatemala and Panama. Shared characteristics of these species which differ from those of the two previously described species from Venezuela are discussed and illustrated with scanning electron micrographs. Aedeagi of the new species, N. mexicanus, N. nucleus and N. tricarinatus are illustrated. Habitat preferences of N. mexicanus and N. nucleus are discussed, illustrated and contrasted with those of Venezuelan species.
25010058|Several authors suggest that the Palearctic Laccophilus minutus (Linneaus 1758) and the Nearctic L. biguttatus Kirby 1837 are synonymous. Our investigation confirmed the opinion of other authors that they refer to separate species. However, L. biguttatus is Holarctic and L. strohmi Thomson 1874 (Halsingland, Sweden) and L. apicicornis Reitter 1899 (northern Mongolia) are junior subjective synonyms (NEW SYNONYMIES). Available specimen data suggest that L. biguttatus has two centers of abundance: western North America and Mongolia + adjacent Russia.
25005852|A brief report on bee communication research between 1953 and 1962 is presented. Additional data included in this paper show: 1. more than twice as many bees are necessary to dehydrate syrup (50% sugar) collected by 40 bees; 2. two species called Trigona (Scaptotrigona) postica could not cross in nature and one had a different mandibular gland odor; 3. different methods (3) were used to demonstrate that the "scent-path" used by marking Trigonas has polarity, being more intense nearer the food source; 4. scent marking of bees is retained for an average of 9 minutes in T. (T.) spinipes and 14 minutes in T. (S.) postica and T. (S.) bipunctata subsequent to deposition in the scent-path; 5. a worker of T. (S.) xanthotricha followed a scent path for the first time when 51 days old, marked her own scent-path when 55 days old, 10 and 15 days respectively after her first forage, and 6. species phylogenetically distant cannot follow extra-specific scent-paths whereas closely related species can.
25009640|Two new species of terrestrial Hydrometra, H. phytophila and H. cavernicola, are described from the rain forests of Mt. d'Ambre in northern Madagascar. The first species occurs in understory vegetation, often far from streams, and the second on damp rock walls; these are the first truly terrestrial Hydrometridae reported. These new taxa belong to a monophyletic subgroup within Hydrometra whose other members occur in Madagascar, Ceylon, and southeast Asia, a vicariant distribution pattern which is interpreted to have arisen via the rifting of Madagascar from India in the Cretaceous. One Asian member of this complex, H. aberrans Hungerford and Matsuda, is found to exhibit a remarkable polymorphism in regard to the presence or absence of a large tubercle on the thoracic dorsum. Aptery within the genus Hydrometra is discussed in comparison to other members of the Gerromorpha. A check list of Hydrometra species occurring in Madagascar is provided.
25010537|The morphology of a macropterous form of Anommatocoris China is described for the first time, based on Anommatocoris bolivianus, new species. Scanning micrographs and line art are provided for most aspects of external morphology; comparative illustrations are provided for members of the tingid subfamilies Cantacaderinae and Tinginae. Characters establishing the relationships of the Vianaidinae with other groups of the Miroidea sensu Schuh and Stys, 1991 are analyzed phylogenetically and discussed.
25005819|A number of foraging ants in colonies of known sizes were marked and samples of the foraging population were taken at intervals thereafter. The theoretical population of the colony was calculated from the number of marked and unmarked workers obtained in these samples. Under the conditions of these experiments it was shown that about 80 per cent of the ants did not participate in foraging and hence samples of the foraging population cannot be used to obtain estimates of the whole population. Factors affecting foraging by ants are discussed in relation to this mark-release-recapture method of estimating populations.
25008888|This is the first description of the life cycle of the genus Pseudonica and the first photographs of the species P. flavilla canthara Doubleday ever published. For a period of two years eggs and larvae of this species were collected in the neighborhood of San Salvador to study developmental time and behavior during the early stages. The foodplant is recorded for Central America, and an account of larval mortality causes is given. The possible unpalatability to predators is suggested as deduced from the color and behavior of the adults and from the properties of the components of the foodplant.
25010076|Additions to the West Indian fauna of Sticholotidini are Lenasa, n. gen.; Lenasa jayuyai, n. sp.; Neotina schwarzi, n. sp.; Neaptera doyeni, n. sp.; Neaptera cubensis, n. sp.; and Neaptera dissita, n. sp. The first records of Neaptera Gordon from Cuba and Costa Rica are reported, and a new key to all Western Hemisphere genera of Sticholotidini was constructed. A phylogeny of the West Indian Sticholotidini generic fauna is proposed.
25009990|A fossil emesine reduviid (Heteroptera) is described from the Oligo-Miocene amber from the Simojovel formation of Chiapas, Mexico. The single specimen is described as a new species, Empicoris electricus. The characteristics of the fossil genus Alumeda are found to link the extant genera Empicoris and Ctydinna.
25010035|A new genus and species, Brailovskyocoris curculionoides, is described from the mountains of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is placed in the lygaeid tribe Ozophorini of the subfamily Rhyparochrominae. Comments are made on the extreme coleoptery shown and habitats and examples of such conditions discussed. Figures are included of the entire insect and details of the abdomen and genital capsule.
25009878|The South American species of the pentatomid genus Thyanta Stl are revised. The species of Thyanta are grouped into three subgenera based primarily on differences and similarities in male and female genitalia. The nominate subgenus contains nine species of which only three are known to occur in South America. The subgenus Phacidium Breddin is exclusively South American and contains eight species. Sixteen of the 20 species of Argosoma, new subgenus occur in South America. Diagnoses are provided for the genus, subgenera, and the 12 previously described species. Fifteen new species are described: T. (A.) boliviensis, T. (A.) curvata, T. (A.) emarginata, T. (A.) excavata, T. (A.) hamulata, T. (A.) infuscata, T. (A.) obtusa, T. (A.) sinuata, T. (A.) straminea, T. (A.) vadosa, T. (A.) xerotica, T. (P.) convexa, T. (P.) fimbriata, T. (P.) robusta, T. (T.) rubicunda. The following new synonymy is recognized (junior synonym in parentheses): T. (P.) acutangula Jensen-Haarup, 1928 (=T. mendozana Jensen-Haarup, 1928; =T. crinita Ruckes, 1957); T. (A.) brasiliensis Jensen-Haarup, 1928 (=T. humeralis Ruckes, 1956); T. (A.) patruelis (Stl, 1859) (=T. humilis Bergroth, 1891; =T. nitidula Ruckes, 1956); and T. (A.) testacea (Dallas, 1851) (=T. signoreti Ruckes, 1956). Lectotypes are designated for Cimex perditor Fabricius, Euschistus adjunctor Walker, E. fasciatus Walker, Pentatoma pilosum Reed, P. testacea, T. acutangula, T. aeruginosa Berg, and T. brasiliensis. A key is provided for the South American species of Thyanta.
25010526|We examined the type material of Dabulamanzia improvida, D. duci, and Nesydemius polhemusorum, and series of new material from throughout Madagascar that correspond to the concept of each of these three species. Characters used to diagnose the three species vary among series of specimens, and these particular characters cannot be correlated with any specific populations. As a result, we recognize the following new species synonyms: Dabulamanzia improvida Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1996 [=Nesydemius polhemusorum Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1998, new synonym; =Dabulamanzia duci Gattolliat and Elouard, 1999, new synonym]. We consider Nesydemius to be a junior synonym of Dabulamanzia Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1996 [=Nesydemius Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1998, new synonym].
25008921|A preliminary listing is presented of the anthomyiid and muscid flies occurring in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and in the vicinity of Mt. Mitchell. The data are based on collections made in the vicinities of Clingmans Dome and Mt. Mitchell in 1957 by members of the Entomology Research Institute at Ottawa, by the author when visiting Mt. Le Conte in 1958 and 1959 and Mt. Mitchell in 1960 and 1961 and also on an examination of additional material from these regions. Fifty-seven species of Anthomyiidae and one hundred and five species of Muscidae were recognized, of which fourteen and twenty-eight respectively were regarded as occurring chiefly within the eastern and midwestern areas of the United States and transition zones of the Canadian provinces; five anthomyiid and eight muscid species as boreal in habitat; two species of Anthomyiidae, namely, Chirosia delicata (Huckett), Pegomya atlanis Huckett, and one species of Muscidae, Phaonia aberrans Malloch, as restricted in their occurrence to the middle Atlantic states.
25008790|Two successive generations of Nicoletia meinerti Silvestri raised in individual isolation demonstrated that this species could reproduce parthenogenetically. The eggs are described and illustrated and several biological observations are recorded.
25009312|Canthon viridis Beauv. is shown to perch on leaf surfaces near a food source (dung) before attempting consumption. It is hypothesized that predator pressure by staphylinids has contributed to the development of this behavior. Correlated with perching behavior in C. viridis is low population density, relative absence of diurnal beetle competitors, observed predation by Staphylinus maculosus Grav., the capability of feeding on old feces abandoned by staphylinid predators, and a long survival period without food.
25010231|Mycelial particles of the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae (Metsch.) Sorokin, were grown in 0%, 0.025%, 0.25%, 1%, and 5% tryptone and incorporated into soil to test for effects on the behavior of Japanese beetle larvae, Popillia japonica Newman. In radiograph chambers, Japanese beetle larvae avoided soil containing mycelial particles beginning by 48 or 96 hr, and continuing until 192 hr (the end of the study). Differences in Japanese beetle responses to mycelia grown in various levels of tryptone were observed after 48 hr. Japanese beetle larval response was first observed at 96 hr in treatments of mycelial particles grown in 0.25% and 5% tryptone compared to 48 hr for particles grown in 0%, 0.025%, and 1% tryptone. Results show that fungal nutrition can influence the avoidance of M. anisopliae by Japanese beetles.
25010291|The genus Nielsonia was established by Young (1977) and included four new species: praestigia, pretensa, scissa and rostris. In this paper we describe three new species from Costa Rica: serrata, unica, and pucketti, the latter also present in Honduras and Panam. A revised key to all known species, based on male genitalia, is also presented. The genus ranges from Honduras (new northern record) to Ecuador.
25009365|A single nest of Svastra sabinensis sabinensis (Cockerell) is described, illustrated, photographed, and compared with the nests of Svastra obliqua (Say), the only other member of the genus whose nest has been described. Svastra sabinensis sabinensis is ground nesting, with a branched, meandering burrow descending to approximately 80 cm, at which level numerous cells occur. Cells are vertical, elongate, and lined with a non-waxlike waterproof lining. Unlike in any other anthophorid bee, parts of the nest are plugged with sorted pebbles, presumably by the females associated with this nest, and a single specimen of the cuckoo bee Triepeolus penicilliferus (Brues) was collected while trying to enter the nest. This is the first association of T. penicilliferus with any host.
25008955|Evidence is presented to indicate that clasping of the occupied cocoon of the parasitic wasp, Perilitus coccinellae (Schrank) by adult ladybird beetles, Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer) is voluntary. There appears to be an attraction of the occupied cocoon for the adult beetle.
25010273|Three new species of Veliinae from southeastern Asia are described and their key characters illustrated: Velia (Haldwania) tomokunii from Nepal, Tetraripis chinthe from Myanmar (Burma), and Tetraripis drescheri from Java. A revised key to Tetraripis species is provided, plus additional distributional records and clarifications for other Asian species in the genera Tetraripis, Angilia, and Angilovelia.
25006021|The taxonomic placement of Xenillus is reviewed as a basis for the establishment and characterization of the new family, Xenillidae. The family is differentiated from Liacaridae primarily by the rugose or pitted integument, relatively broad, rugose lamellae with or without cusps and mucro, types and numbers of notogastral and ventral setae. The distinctive traits of the type genus and species, X. clypeator, and X. latus, X. tegeocranus, X. splendens, X. sculptrus are summarized and illustrated. Four new species are described and figured, X. gelasinus from Utah, X. anasillus from Lebanon, X. phryxothrixus from North Carolina, and X. ionthadosus from Georgia, Louisiana, Utah, and North Carolina. Stenoxenillus atraktus, n. gen., n. sp., from North Carolina is described and illustrated. Three new species of the new genus Stonyxenillus are described, S. spilotus from North Carolina, S. anakolosus from North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama, and S. akidosus from Virginia. Another new genus and species, Leuroxenillus trichionus from Oregon, is also described. A key to the genera and species is included.
25008871|The Belvedere Expedition of 1962 to the Gulf of California brought back 85 specimens of moths of the subfamily Ennominae (Geometridae). These represent 17 species; two of these have been placed only to genera. One new species, Glaucina ugartei, n. sp., is described in this paper. Locality data are given for the species taken on the expedition, as well as for the general distribution of each of the species. Apparently three species are endemic to region in which they were collected.
25009114|Eger II, Joseph E., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, La. 70803.-A key is provided to separate Loxa and four other American genera of similar appearance: Chlorocoris, Chloropepla, Fecelia and Mayrina. The genus Loxa is redescribed and the species are described, or redescribed, and keyed. Of the 10 included species three are new species: Loxa melanita, from Peru, Brazil and Guyana; L. parapallida, from Peru; and L. peruviensis from Peru. New synonomy recognized is Loxa planifrons Barber & Bruner, 1932, as a junior synonym of L. pallida Van Duzee, 1907; L. flavicollis obtusa Horvath, 1925, and L. prasina Horvath, 1925, as junior synonyms of L. virescens Amyot & Serville, 1843; L. assimilis Horvath, 1925, L. columbiae Horvath, 1925, L. exsul Horvath, 1925, L. orthacantha Horvath, 1925, L. scutellaris Horvath, 1925, and L. vicina Horvath, 1925, as junior synonyms of L. viridis (Palisot de Beauvois, 1805). A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for L. florida Van Duzee, 1909, and L. flavicollis obtusa Horvath, 1925; and a lectotype is designated for L. picticornis Horvath, 1925. Loxa haematica is considered to be a nomen dubium.
25009841|The 14 species of Coccinellidae occurring on Bermuda are treated, with discussions of distribution, hosts, and immature stages. Keys for the identification of adults and larvae are included. The adult and larva of Decadiomus hughesi n. sp., and the larvae of Scymnus (Scymnus) floralis (F.), Exochomus jamaicensis Sicard, Clitostethus arcuatus (Rossi), and Naemia seriata (Melsheimer) are described.
25000078|Fourteen species and subspecies of nasal mites belonging to the subfamily Speleognathinae and taken from birds are reported, including eight new host records. Two new subspecies are described: Neoboydaia philomachi thalasseus from Thalasseus maximus (royal tern) and Sterno hirundo (common tern) from Perry, Florida, and E. Sandwich Mass., respectively; and Boydaia cyanerpes hylocichla from Hylocichla ustulata (russet-backed thrush) taken at Big Falls, Newfoundland.
25009934|Drymusa serrana, a new species from Buenos Aires Province (Argentina), is described and figured. It represents the first species of Drymusa described for South America.
25010018|Keys, descriptions, and illustrations are provided to aid in the identification of the females, males, pupae and larvae, where each is known, of the eight species assigned to the subgenus Psilopelmia, of the genus Simulium, in the contiguous United States. Two species, S. (P.) labellei, and S. (P.) robynae, are described as new. Remarks concerning the taxonomy and biology of each species are provided, and the known distributions by state and county are given.
25008895|Overwintering cocoons of Apanteles melanoscelus Ratzeburg (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), a larval parasite of the gypsy moth Porthetria dispar L. (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae), were collected from the field, and laboratory-reared cocoons were exposed in the field to determine under what situations they would be most readily attacked by hyperparasites. It was found that hidden cocoons were attacked more readily than exposed ones and that percent parasitism increased as the season progressed.
25009516|The egg, 3rd, 4th, and 5th nymphal instars, and male and female genitalia of Pentagramma longistylata Penner are described and illustrated and an illustration of the adult habitus is provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body and wingpad sizes, spination of metatibiae and tarsomeres, number of metatarsomeres and body pits. P. longistylata was collected on Scirpus americanus Pers. (Cyperaceae) in Oklahoma and Texas.
25010446|A new species, Cholula bracteicola, associated with Ficus cotinifolia is described from Veracruz, Mexico. All immature stages are described and illustrated and its biology is presented. This arboreal species of Cholula lives around the basal bracts of the fruit and feeds on the seeds by using its long labium to penetrate the wall of the fruit.
25010264|Parrellathrips ullmanae gen. et sp. nov. is described from California in the Fauriellidae, a family previously known only from southern Europe and South Africa. Heratythrips sauli gen. et sp. nov. is described from California in the Adiheterothripidae, a family known only from western USA and the Mediterranean and Indian areas. Cladistic analysis of character states in these and related taxa indicates that the present family classification in the lower clades of the Thysanoptera is not strongly supported.
25005929|The local distribution of a population of Formica opaciventris mounds in Wyoming is described. At the study area opaciventris is restricted to a silver sage meadow and to the ecotones of that meadow with adjacent forests. Measurements of the spatial distribution of the mounds describe a tendency toward regular spacing, rather than a random or aggregated pattern. F. opaciventris competes for constructed mound sites with F. fusca at those areas in which the distribution of the two species overlaps. Competition is evidenced by active species replacement, 93 instances of replacement are cited.
25009040|The arctiid, Cycnia tenera Hbner exhibits no sexual dimorphism in six out of seven acoustic parameters measured in the sounds emitted by five male and five female specimens. The parameters reveal an extremely high level of variability for both male and female emissions. These observations suggest that calling or courtship signalling are not likely roles for the sounds of C. tenera but do not rule out the possibility of other intra-specific communicative functions.
25009794|Whirligig beetles (Coleoptera: Family Gyrinidae) aggregate on the surface of ponds, lakes, and streams. This study examines how these aggregations protect the beetles from predation. The more beetles in an aggregation, the more quickly the group as a whole responds to the approach of stimuli. Experiments indicate that individual beetles either sight a stimulus themselves, or respond to waves generated by fleeing conspecifics. The distance between two beetles is important in determining how quickly a blinded beetle reacts to wave cues. Two hypotheses can explain the warning mechanism used by aggregations. (1) A high contact rate between aggregation members leads to increased physiological arousal which allows more rapid individual response, or (2) Environmental scanning is enhanced with the addition of more eyes to the group. Evidence from laboratory experiments supports the latter explanation.
25008792|Six new species of crane flies from Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and Assam are described, these being Limnophila (Eloeophila) diacis, L. (E.) subdilata, Atarba (Atarbodes) crassispina, Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) normalis, Ormosia (Parormosia) saturnina, and Erioptera (Erioptera) connata.
25009960|In celebration of the eightieth birthday of Dr. John G. Franclemont, six new species of Catastega (Lepidoptera: Olethreutinae: Eucosmini) are described as follows: C. spectra, from Texas, C. nebula, from Arizona, C. strigatella, from New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico, C. triangulana, from Arizona and Mexico, C. adobe, from Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas, and C. plicata, from Arizona and Mexico.
25009149|Two species described by Berg from Argentina in 1883 and 1884 and placed by him in the otherwise Palearctic genus Tropistethus have been restudied. Both species, T. dubius and T. australis, are considered to be distinct species in the genus Cryphula. A lectotype is selected for Cryphula dubia (Berg); redescriptions from type specimens are given for both species; a discussion is given of their relationships to other species of Cryphula. Syngenicus Berg 1883, listed as a provisional new generic name for T. dubius, is placed as a junior synonym of Cryphula. The lectotype of Cryphula dubia is figured.
25009866|The genus Mayatrichia is represented in Costa Rica by three species, M. ayama Mosely, M. rualda Mosely, and M. illobia, new species. The new species, also known from Ecuador, is described and illustrated. Distribution records, maps, and a key are provided for known Costa Rican species of Mayatrichia.
25010316|Three new species of Neolethaeus and one of Lethaeus are described from Madagascar. One of these (Neolethaeus madagascariensis, new species) is related to a West African species. These species represent some of the most striking species of a large complex that radiates on the island. Dorsal views are given for Neolethaeus polhemi, new species and Lethaeus gigas, new species. Illustrations of the clasper, sperm reservoir and genital capsule are included for three of the four species. Generic and geographic relationships are discussed.
25009829|A. panamensis (Dist.), A. eberhardi, n. sp. and A. setosus, n. sp. are found in Costa Rica in the webs of pholcid spiders.
25008778|Various combinations of morphological abnormalities have been found in females of 23 species of Megasyrphus, Melangyna, Melanostoma, Metasyrphus, Platycheirus, Pyrophaena, Scaeva, and Sphaerophoria (Syrphidae:Syrphinae). Cases of melanism in females associated with ring-like terminal abdominal segments, absence of ovaries, absence or reduction of spermathecae, irregularly arranged abdominal surface hairs, development of male secondary sexual characters, and reduced size are reviewed. The usefulness of these characters as objective means of recognizing invalid species based on aberrant specimens is discussed. Sphaerophoria cleoae Metcalf, described from abnormal females, is placed as a nomen dubium.
25010185|Rolstonus rolstoni, a new genus and species from Argentina, is described and illustrated.
25008845|Six new species of crane flies are described, two from the western Himalayas, Paradelphomyia (Oxyrhiza) pugilis, and Limnophila (Brachylimnophila) garhwalensis, from Kumaon; four from the eastern Himalayas, Kameng, Assam, Dolichopeza (Sinoropeza) fasciventris, Orimarga (Orimarga) suspensa, Hexatoma (Eriocera) paragnava, and H. (E.) perhirsuta.
25009011|Ten species of Cheyletidae and 3 species of Cheyletiellidae are presently known from New York. New records of Acaropsis sollers Rodendorf, Cheletomorpha lepidopterorum (Shaw), Cheyletus hendersoni Baker, C. fortis Oudemans, Eucheyletia bishoppi Baker, Hemicheyletia wellsi (Baker), Neochelacheles messersmithi Smiley & Williams, and Prosocheyla oaklandia (Baker) are listed here. Two species are described as new: Eucheyletia nidicola, and Hemicheyletia newyorkensis. Diagnostic features, as well as distributional and biological information are given for most species.
25005806|The male genitalic valves and terminal segments are described for P. lucidus Mayr, P. rufescens breviceps Emery, P. rufescens bicolor Wasmann, and P. rufescens umbratus Wheeler. These structures show differences which are distinctive for each of the species and subspecies studied. The configuration of the subgenital plate together with the middle valve can be used as a means of identification for these species and subspecies of Polyergus.
25009226|A key is provided to separate the genera of Pentatomini of the Western Hemisphere that have a median tubercle or spine at the base of the abdominal venter which is unapposed apically by the posterior margin of the metasternum. New genera in this group are Aleixus McDonald, Grazia Rolston, Kermana Rolston and Roferta Rolston. One new species is described: Aleixus virgatus McDonald. New combinations are Grazia tincta (Distant, 1890), Kermana bucera (Stl, 1860), K. imbuta (Walker, 1867), K. fucosa (Berg, 1892) and Roferta marginalis (Herrich-Schffer, 1836). A diagnosis is given for Zorcadium Bergroth, and Z. truncatum (Fallou, 1888) is redescribed.
25009103|We found that a small portion (0.2-0.3%) of first instar Aleurocanthus woglumi Ashby are mobile for 2-4 h and will crawl up to 25-30 mm. When leaves overlap these highly mobile individuals can crawl from one plant to another.
25009213|Almost 20,000 individual Coleoptera were collected, pinned and labeled from 6 pitfall traps baited with decomposing smelt fish to attract necrophilous beetles, and 6 traps baited with decaying cantaloupe melon for carpophilous species. Six of these traps (3 pairs with each type of bait) were located on a dry slope, and 6 others in an adjacent wet valley. This field sampling was done over an 8-month period (April thru November) at Fordham University's Calder Ecology Center, Armonk, Westchester County, New York. Approximately equal numbers of beetles were taken from each bait (fish and melon), and from each habitat (slope and valley). The trapped Coleoptera were concentrated in 10 major Families (99.4%), plus 5 minor Families (0.4%) and 18 adventitious Families (0.2%). These 10 major Families also comprised 76.5% of the total 217 species trapped. The 3 most numerous Families were the Staphylinidae (37.1%), Silphidae (21.5%) and Nitidulidae (17.9%). These were followed by the Hydrophilidae (7.1%), Leptodiridae (4.9%), Histeridae (3.4%), Carabidae (2.3%), Ptiliidae (2.0%), Scarabaeidae (1.9%), Scolytidae (1.3%). Certain species were consistently attracted to fish (necrophilous) and others to melon (carpophilous). However, in both cases, many of the beetles are actually predatory, and some are general scavengers. Closely related species are usually separated temporally, most often by fortnightly periods. The geography, geology and botany of the research area are discussed as representing a southern New York woodland situated less than 50 k north of midtown Manhattan.
25010339|The genus Thylacoderes Solier (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in central and northern Argentina, is revised. A cladistic analysis of four species is presented including: Thylacoderes sphaericus n. sp., T. seminulum (Burmeister), T. eumolpioides Solier, and T. costatus n. sp. A lectotype is designated for Platyholmus seminulum Burmeister. The cladistic analysis shows that Thylacoderes comprises a natural group of species, characterized by several synapomorphies from the external morphology and male genitalia. A redescription of the genus, redescriptions or descriptions of the four species, a key, illustrations of external morphology, internal skeletal anatomy and genitalic features, a cladogram, and a distribution map are included.
25005867|A six year survey of a portion of the Brooklyn, waterfront traversed by the Belt Parkway, describes the topography, vegetation, and the lepidoptera netted or observed. Six families, 18 genera, and 27 species of butterflies; and 11 families, 40 genera, and 48 species of moths are reported together with field information. It is concluded that in spite of the cultivation of former waste land, and the encroachment of buildings, leaving little ground for wild vegetation, the lepidoptera persist as long as the respective food plants for their larvae have a chance of survival however precarious.
25009377|Collections of Orthoptera and Dictyoptera associated with rotting organic litter in cacao plantations at three localities in Costa Rica are described. These collections, in which the Blattodea were the most represented, were taken from experimental, replicated treatments of rotting discs of banana tree trunks placed on the ground, piles of natural leaf litter on the ground, and arboreal leaf litter contained in large plastic cups suspended from the lower branches of cacao trees. For two localities, there was one collection each for the lengthy rainy season and the short, erratic dry season; only one rainy season collection was taken at the third locality. The most abundant cockroach was Latiblatta sp., occupying arboreal litter samples at all three localities followed by Eurycotis sp. which occupied both arboreal and ground litter microhabitats at one locality only. Most of the other taxa were represented by one individual at one locality only, suggesting very patchy distributions, assuming an adequate sample size. At one locality (La Lola), the tettigoniid Idiarthron hamuliferum Beier was found in arboreal litter, as was a leaf-rolling cricket, Camptonotus sp. prob. affinis. Most orthopterans were found in litter associated with sunny areas of cacao during the dry season, a probable response to seeking refuge in the few available moist patches, whereas numbers and densities were always lower in the well-shaded areas in both rainy and dry periods. The arboreal leaf litter microhabitat in tropical forests deserves particular attention for understanding the vertical stratification of cockroach faunas.
25005974|This paper, which gives the first descriptions and figures of the male genitalia and terminal segments for this ectatommid ponerine, shows that these structures conform to the usual formicid plan. The genitalia are composed of the outer, middle, and inner pairs of valves and the terminal segments are terga IX and X and sterna VIII and IX. The literature describing the male terminalia in ponerines is listed and comparisons are made with the few other ectatommid ponerines reported. Differences observed in the middle valves and in sterna IX add support to the view expressed in recent publications that these structures have diagnostic value for taxonomic purposes.
25009511|A diagnosis of Stictochilus Bergroth, descriptions of S. barbatus, new species, and S. bituberculatus, new species, a key to species, and drawings of their genitalia are provided.
25005949|Laccobius acutipenis, L. columbianus, L. nevadensis, L. pacificus, and L. truncatipenis, are described as new. Notes are given on the identity of L. agilis (Rand.) and L. ellipticus LeC.
25006169|Females of the ascid mite Blattisocius tarsalis (Berlese), known chiefly as a predator on the larvae of insects in stored grain, have been found on the widely distributed herminiine noctuid Epizeuxis aemula (Hbner). Incidence in small samples has been as high as 32 percent. The mites usually occupy the dorsal thoraco-abdominal region. They appear to be phoretic upon the adult moths, possibly taking food parasitically on occasion. With a single exception, this mite was not found on other species of Epizeuxis in a large museum collection.
25009734|The new genus Cariniocoris is described to accommodate Plagiognathus geminatus Knight, P. ilicis Knight, and the new species C. nyssae from Florida and Maryland. Photographs of adults, illustrations of male genitalia, and micrographs of certain other structures are given and distributions and host plants are outlined. A neotype is designated for P. ilicis. Evidence supporting the group's monophyly and its relationship to several other phyline genera are discussed. Keys are provided to facilitate recognition of the genus and species.
25008796|Of the genus Thoracites B.B., T. abdominalis (Fabricius) from the Oriental Region and T. cingulatus Bezzi from the Ethiopian Region have been described. The dissection of the male genitalia has now revealed some of the specimens attributed by Zumpt (1958) to T. cingulatus, represent two new species, which are described as T. neglectus n. sp. and T. nigeriensis n. sp. The status of T. cingulatus is discussed and a key to all species of Thoracites is given.
25008826|The family group and generic nomenclature of the arachnid order Schizomida are reviewed. A new subfamily is created, one genus synonymized, and the generic status of African species corrected. All family group and generic taxa are diagnosed, and a key to the extant subfamilies and genera is provided.
25008780|Observations were made at Ithaca, New York of insect feeding on the seedcorn maggot, Hylemya platura, and H. florilega (Diptera: Anthomyiidae) killed by a phycomycosis caused by Entomophthora muscae. Five species of normally plant-feeding Miridae and six species of predators of alfalfa insects were found to utilize cadavers as a source of food. The mirids Plagiognathus politus and Lygus lineolaris fed most commonly on the dead flies. It is suggested that the predaceous species generally do not recognize cadavers as a potential food source and that this food source might form a significant portion of the diet of P. politus and L. lineolaris during times of host plant deterioration.
25009919|Notosphindus, a new genus of Sphindidae (Coleoptera: Cucujoidea) from Australia, is described based on a single new species, N. slateri. A diagnosis for Notosphindus is provided using those characters believed to be of phylogenetic importance at the generic level. Dorsal and ventral habitus illustrations and morphological illustrations are provided. Several character transformations in the family Sphindidae are discussed.
25009947|The male of Oxyporus balli Campbell is described for the first time, based on specimens collected in Morelos, Mxico. Conspecific females collected in the same locality differed in color. The host mushrooms for O. balli are recorded for the first time: Amanita caesarea and A. rubescens. New records and host mushroom for O. mexicanus Fauvel and O. lawrencei Campbell are included.
25009331|The theory and biogeography of brood formation in periodical cicadas is reviewed in light of the extraordinary number of different "broods" represented on Long Island and its immediate vicinity. Detailed emergence records, with dates and exact localities, are given in an appendix. We present data which suggest that the evolution of Brood I on Long Island may have been independent of the evolution of Brood I in Virginia. Possible evolutionary scenarios are discussed in light of allozymic and morphometric findings.
25009354|The genus Paralincus is diagnosed, the type species redescribed and the species keyed. One new species, Paralincus silvae Rolston, is described and the nominal genus Vauriana Ruckes relegated to the status of a junior synonym of Paralincus Distant.
25010227|Nectarinella xavantinensis, a new epiponine species from the Neotropics, is described and the nest illustrated. This is the second known species in the genus and the first described from South America. A comparison with the other species from this genus is made. Comments regarding the biogeographical distribution of the genus are added.
25009111|Bennett, Alfred W. and Daniel J. Sullivan, S.J., Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham University, Bronx, New York 10458.-Using the pea aphid as the host and Aphidius smithi as the primary parasitoid, the ovipositional behavior of the aphid hyperparasitoid, Dendrocerus carpenteri, is described. Laboratory experiments indicate that the possibility of tertiary parasitism by a 2nd Dendrocerus is greatly reduced to an average of 6.0% during the last 9 days of the development of the 1st Dendrocerus within the mummy. It is suggested that Dendrocerus has evolved a defensive behavior which deters tertiary parasitism at least by its own species. The 4th instar larva and the prepupa have a conical process at the posterior end which enables it to twitch violently and move about in the mummy when probed by the ovipositor of a 2nd Dendrocerus, thus inhibiting oviposition.
25009592|Parvamima mexicana is described as new from Jalisco, Mexico.
25006162|Experiments were conducted on an anthophilous noctuid, Schinia florida (Guene), which rests by day in blossoms of the evening primrose, Oenothera biennis L. These experiments involved presenting S. florida with choices of various plants to rest upon in a simple experimental apparatus. The results indicated that S. florida is able to recognize the primrose plant by olfactory cues, and that the attractive emanation is effectively restricted to the blossoms of this plant. No evidence for an attraction of S. florida to yellow substrates was found, but indirect evidence suggested that reflectance characteristics may play a role in attracting these moths to primrose blossoms. It is postulated that the attractive emanation from primrose blossoms may trigger the eclosion of adult S. florida in nature.
25010296|An eyeless new species of Arrhopalites from Brazilian caves is described, illustrated, and compared with other species.
25008944|A short series of papers covering the crane flies of Iran, based on materials collected by Dr. Fernand Schmid in 1955 and 1956, is begun with Part I discussing certain species of the tribe Pediciini. The new species are Pedicia (Tricyphona) persica, P. (T.) iranensis, P. (T.) elburzensis, and P. (T.) acuspica, from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran, and P. (T.) luteicolor from Jugoslavia, included here for completeness.
25010338|The genera Falsopraocis Kulzer and Antofagapraocis n. gen. (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in the high Andes of central and northern Argentina and Chile, are revised. A cladistic analysis of five species is presented. Cladistic analysis reveals that Falsopraocis is not monophyletic: one species formerly assigned to Falsopraocis together with a new species constitute the new genus, Antofagapraocis. Falsopraocis consists of three species: F. ricardae (Solier), F. weiseri Kulzer, and F. australis n. sp.; Antofagapraocis includes two species: A. subnudus (Kulzer) n. comb. (type species) and A. brevipilis n. sp. A cladogram, redescriptions or descriptions of the genera and their five species, keys, illustrations of body and genitalic features, and a distribution map are included.
25006039|This is the first study of the complete male terminalia for members of the subfamily Myrmeciinae. Described and figured are the genitalic valves, terga IX and X, sterna VIII and IX for M. tarsata F. Smith and M. vindex F. Smith. The terminalia of these species conform to the usual formicid plan, but there are significant differences in each of the valves and in the terminal segments of these two species. The outer valves have a dorsal, median projection, which is not present in males of other subfamilies previously described. This projection is different for the two species. A sclerotized sliver, which is present on the anteroventral region of the median surface of the inner valves, varies in shape for each species. It has not been reported previously.
25010073|The systematics of the genus Byrsopteryx are reviewed. Two previously described species, B. mirifica Flint from Venezuela, the type species of the genus, and B. septempunctata (Flint) from Dominica are redescribed and illustrated. In addition, 11 new species are described and illustrated: B. chaconi, B. cuchilla, B. esparta, B. gomezi, B. solisi, B. tapanti, and B. tica from Costa Rica; B. loja and B. rayada from Ecuador; and B. abrelata and B. espinhosa from Brazil. Keys to species for males and females are presented. The genus is transferred from the Leucotrichiini to the Stactobiini. A species level phylogenetic analysis reveals that the Costa Rican species form a monophyletic group.
25010341|A new Neotropical member of the Drosophila obscura species group from El Salvador and Honduras, Drosophila maya, is described. This species belongs to the New World pseudoobscura subgroup and, based on a variety of internal and external morphological characters, is most closely related to D. lowei. This species is distinguished from other members of the pseudoobscura subgroup by the shape of the hypandrium and by having fewer teeth on the sex combs. Ecologically, D. maya inhabits cloud forests at elevations around 2,000 m in El Salvador and Honduras. A key to eight members of the obscura species group which have been recorded in and near the Neotropical region is presented.
25009094|Goldstein, Neil I., and McIntosh, Arthur H., Waksman Institute of Microbiology, Rutgers University, The State University of New Jersey, P.O. Box 759, Piscataway, N.J. 08854. Present address of senior author: The Wistar Institute, 36th Street at Spruce, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104.-Insect cells in culture synthesize glycopeptides and shed these molecules into the medium. The profiles of
25009868|The literature on the life history and immature stages of Dohrniphora cornuta, a synanthropic, filth-inhabiting, humpbacked fly, is reviewed and summarized, and observations on laboratory rearings are presented. Adult females and larvae consume many kinds of dead and decaying animal and plant tissues, but apparently both are facultative predators of insects when other foods are not available. Adult males are apparently nectar feeders, and they are much shorter lived than females. Pest status, reproductive behavior, and life history parameters are compared with other phorid species, and the evolution of non-genitalic sexual structures is discussed.
25009882|All instar larvae of Opisthius richardsoni Kirby, 1837 and the first and second instar larvae of Paropisthius indicus (Chaudoir, 1863) are described and the character states of the tribe Opisthiini are highlighted. The two species differ mainly by the shape of the nasale, length of the antennae, shape of the seta ${\rm TE}_{10}$ on tergites VII and VIII, and the presence or absence of secondary setae on the tarsi. The adults of O. richardsoni are strictly riparian, occurring mainly on sandy or clayish-sandy banks of rivers. Those of P. indicus occur at high elevations (3,000-3,900 m) on well-drained substrate in open habitats, away from water. The larvae of both species can jump vigorously when disturbed. The analysis of the character states of the known larvae of Nebriitae does not support the accepted classification of the group based on the character states of the adults.
25010241|A new Mexican species of Homoiosternus Ohaus is described and illustrated. Character states of the new species appear to be intermediate between species of Homoiosternus Ohaus and Plesiosternus Morn. We discuss taxonomically useful characters for these genera and provide a key to the genera and species of Mesosternus Morn, Plesiosternus and Homoiosternus.
25006179|The arthropod fauna of bovine manure in the vicinity of Ithaca, N. Y. is described. In addition, a list of the most useful references for the biology and natural history of dung arthropods is presented.
25010124|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by Jos C. M. Carvalho, alone or in coauthorship, from January 1989 to January 1993, is presented. Included are 59 genus-group names and 343 species-group names. For each name the original reference is cited and the present depository for holotypes is given. Two species of the genus Dolichomiris (planifrons, uniformis) omitted from the first list (1987) are incorporated here in their alphabetical position.
25010090|Certain aphid species produce sterile soldiers, morphologically and behaviorally specialized individuals that defend fertile colony members, some or all of which are clonemates. If the soldier morph is maintained by inclusive fitness advantages, its altruism should preferentially benefit relatives, suggesting a potential role for kin discrimination. We performed a field experiment on spatial segregation and two laboratory experiments on agonistic behavior among non-soldiers and by soldiers of the cerataphidine aphid, Ceratovacuna japonica. For the test of spatial segregation, we introduce a new method of nearest-neighbor analysis, by constructing a minimum spanning tree from the map of individual locations and comparing the numbers of within-group and between-group connections. The results provide no evidence of kin recognition abilities in this species. Members of different clones showed no tendency to segregate spatially, nor to direct displacement attempts against non-kin when competing for feeding sites. Soldiers were indiscriminately aggressive toward early instar reproductives from their own and other colonies. We discuss the implications of these findings for several evolutionary hypotheses on the maintenance of the soldier morph in aphids.
25005998|The digestive and reproductive systems of the South American blister beetle, Picnoseus nitidipennis, Fairmaire and Germain has been described, and on the basis of some of the internal anatomical features, this genus has been tentatively placed in the tribe Lyttini.
25010493|We establish new subjective synonyms for five Drunella species from the Nearctic, east Palearctic, and Oriental regions: Drunella cryptomeria (Imanishi, 1937) [=Ephemerella nM Imanishi, 1940, new synonym; = D. lepnevae (Tshernova, 1949), new synonym; = D. longipes (Tshernova, 1952), new synonym; = D. fusongensis Su and Gui, 1995, new synonym], D. ishiyamana Matsumura, 1931 [= E. latipes Tshernova, 1952, new synonym], D. lata (Morgan, 1911) [= D. cornuta (Morgan, 1911), new synonym, = E. depressa Ide, 1930, new synonym, = D. cornutella (McDunnough, 1931), new synonym, = D. longicornis (Traver, 1932), new synonym], D. submontana (Brodsky, 1930) [= E. svenhedini Ulmer, 1936, new synonym], and D. walkeri (Eaton, 1884) [= D. wayah (Traver, 1932), new synonym]. Morphology, phenotypic plasticity, and biology are discussed for these species and for D. allegheniensis and D. tuberculata, and new diagnoses are provided. The specific epithet of D. doddsii is corrected to its original orthography.
25010096|The larva of an unidentified species of Ceratopus Schoenherr is described, and important structural features are illustrated. Larvae of Ceratopus have been collected repeatedly, and reared, from the fruits of species of Ficus (Moraceae) in Middle America. This represents the first larval description for a member of the subfamily Ceratopodinae. Known plant associations for this subfamily are summarized.
25010281|The genus Ribautiella (Symphyla: Scolopendrellidae), previously known from Africa and Madagascar, is reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere. A new species R. tuxeni is described from Taperinha, Brazil. A key to the six known species is given.
25009537|The distributions of the Rhyparochrominae are analyzed from the point of view of general patterns of occurrence, faunal composition of the major zoogeographic areas, and interpretation of the meaning of observed patterns.
25009324|The glycogen contents in the fat bodies, thoracic muscles, foregut, midgut, hindgut, ovaries and testes of Mylabris pustulata and Periplaneta americana have been studied. In M. pustulata, the major depot of glycogen contents (3.42 mg/g) has been noted in the fat bodies, while it is not so in P. americana. The midgut of both insects under investigation shows a higher level of glycogen than the rest of the tissues except fat bodies. In M. pustulata, the glycogen contents of ovaries are at a higher level than that of testes. In P. americana, the glycogen reserves are comparatively higher in ovaries and thoracic muscles than M. pustulata. The glycogen contents. It is known that insects contain digestive amylase in the midgut ferences (P > 0.05) while the rest of the tissues contain significantly different contents (P < 0.05).
25009258|Meconema thalassinum (DeGeer) is recorded from Rhode Island and New York. These records represent new United States localities for this European katydid which was first detected in North America in 1957 on Long Island, New York.
25010249|Little is known about the biology of the hazelnut weevil Curculio obtusus (Blanchard), though closely-related species are widespread and well studied. The objective of this study was to document details of development of larvae in nuts, including mortality factors, assessment of the infrequent phenomenon of multiple infestation of nuts, and confirmation of 4 larval instars. Samples of beaked hazelnuts taken every 4 days over the course of the summer, 1995, revealed the development of larvae through 4 instars, beginning with eggs in early June and progressing through 4th-stage grubs exiting nuts in late August. At the peak of infestation, in early August, 71% of the sampled nuts were infested with weevil larvae. Decay and non-formation of nut kernels accounted for an estimated 10% mortality among the larvae. Multiple infestation accounted for an additional 8% mortality due to interference competition. Nut predation also caused mortality of an estimated 10% of larvae.
25010326|The life cycle of Pantochlora vivida Stl is reported for first time. Descriptions and illustrations of adult and immature stages are made. Characteristics of the adult genitalia and some ontogenetic characters support placement of Pantochlora in the pentatomid subfamily Edessinae. P. vivida feeds almost exclusively on new shoots and leaves of several species of two closely related genera of Leguminosae, Lonchocarpus and Piscidia. Its geographical distribution is restricted to southern Mexico and Central America.
25010314|The phyline mirids Phoenicocoris claricornis (Knight) and Pinophylus carneolus (Knight) are seldom collected because of their early-season, univoltine life cycles. Surveys were conducted in the eastern United States to delimit their distributions and to determine host-plant relationships. The seasonal history of both plant bugs was studied in southcentral Pennsylvania on Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana) during 1976-1977. Known previously from New Jersey and West Virginia, Phoenicocoris claricornis is newly recorded from Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. New state records for Pinophylus carneolus, previously recorded from Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Both mirids develop on the staminate strobili of pines, mainly Virginia pine in the mid- and southern Appalachians and pitch pine (Pinus rigida) in the Northeast. Sand pine (Pinus clausa) is a host of Pinophylus carneolus in northwestern Florida. In southcentral Pennsylvania, overwintered eggs of Pinophylus carneolus hatch in early April, and adults appear by early May and are present only until mid- to late-May. The seasonality of Phoenicocoris claricornis is similar, its populations developing about a week later than those of Pinophylus carneolus.
25006132|Five new species and seven new records of hesperiids are described from Mexico. The new species, described and illustrated, are Atrytonopsis zweifeli, Camptopleura oaxaca, Decinea rindgei, Thoon wellingi, and Urbanus hubbellus. The localities of the new records are given and the previously known localities are included.
25010138|Laboratory experiments manipulating the diet of colonies of the facultatively polygynous ant, Leptothorax curvispinosus (Mayr), demonstrated that carbohydrates and protein have synergistic effects on egg numbers and brood production in colonies of this ant. Colonies receiving insect prey and sucrose grew significantly faster than colonies reared on unlimited supplies of either of these food types alone. This study also measured the effect of queen number on colony growth rates. Because the occurrence of multiple queens might affect colony growth only under certain nutritional conditions, polygynous colonies were reared in each of the three diet treatments. Queen number did not affect colony worker production in any of the three diet treatments; thus, individual queens in polygynous colonies produced far fewer workers per queen than did queens in monogynous colonies. There were no interaction effects between queen number and diet on colony growth. Several colonies which lacked morphologically distinct queens produced workers over the course of the experiment. Using artificially established colonies of unmated workers, we found no evidence for parthenogenetic (thelytokous) reproduction in these colonies.
25009386|The new species Irbisia knighti is described and its distribution given.
25009402|Listings of 188 systematic entomologists in the People's Republic of China are given by institution, speciality and name.
25008915|The first record of a microsporidan infection in the family Formicidae is presented. The organism, a Thelohania sp., was isolated from Solenopsis invicta Buren colonies in Brazil in 1973. Microsporidan spores were also observed in three other species of the S. saevissima complex. Metarrhizium anasopliae is also reported from S. invicta and the leaf-cutting ant Atta sexdens rubropilosa.
25010263|The immature stages of the cranefly, Limonia (Geranomyia) vitiella Alexander, are found mostly on the leaves of Pandanus in moist habitats in the rain forest on the island of Viti Levu, Fiji. The larva lives within a tube of jelly on the upper leaf surface, emerging to feed on decaying and dead epiphylls, and associated microbes. When mature, it usually moves to the lower leaf surface where a larger mass of jelly is produced, within which it pupates. The jelly protects the immature stages against desiccation, and natural enemies. The species occurred patchily in both space and time.
25009133|A substantial portion of the butterfly species in tropical forests of Central and South America feed primarily as adults, on rotting fruits and to a lesser degree, on moldy (fermenting) sap issuing from wounds in trees. In general, exploitation of fruit frequently occurs on the ground, where volatile odoriferous substances, released in decay, attract butterflies in the three nymphalid subfamilies Satyrinae, Brassolinae, and Morphinae; similarly, sap and hanging injured or rotting fruit are exploited arboreally by several genera of the Nymphalinae. However, a few nymphalines also feed on fallen fruit and experimentally placed fruit baits on the ground. This paper explores in a preliminary way the possible adaptive relations between (1) feeding on the ground versus feeding arboreally, (2) dispersal agents (vertebrates) as opportunistic predators of feeding butterflies, (3) functional role of eyespot markings (eyespots) on the undersides of wings, and (4) impairment of escape behavior of butterflies from intoxication acquired by feeding on rotting fruits. The general thesis is advanced that butterflies become intoxicated in nature from feeding on rotting fruits, and that eyespots increase the margin for successful escape when normal behavior has been impaired. Since fallen fruits ferment quickly, the intoxication of butterflies is greatest on the forest floor and eyespots are most prevalent in the brassolines, satyrines, and morphos, the three groups that thrive here. Very often, feeding takes place in patches of forest floor directly exposed to sunlight, and at times of the day when such exposure is maximized. Under conditions of direct sunlight, eyespot markings are very noticeable. A high selective value is placed on eyespots as an additional line of evasive escape behavior since animals attracted to fallen fruit (for dispersal purposes and feeding on insects) can be predators on butterflies. Eyespots are known to lure pecking and biting away from the body of a butterfly or moth. Alternatively, it is also known that eyespots frighten away animals. Either way, they function to reduce the likelihood of attack on an insect by a vertebrate predator. It is easy to conceptualize how the three groups of butterflies developed similar eyespots as they are closely linked phylogenetically. For the arboreal-feeding nymphalines, eyespots are expected to be less functional as indicated by their conspicuous absence in most species. Such markings are also generally absent from most flower-visiting butterflies. The decomposition of fallen fruits and the yeasting of sap flows are processes that play a major role in maintaining the butterfly community of tropical forests. As microbes render fruit less savory for vertebrates that act as dispersal agents, they open a feeding niche for butterflies.
25009651|The larva of Aplectoides condita Guene (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is described and illustrated. Larix laricina (Du Roi) Koch was found to be an acceptable host. The species is univoltine and normally overwinters as a larva in a cocoon. An unusual adult form of condita is illustrated. The larva of condita is compared to that of Anaplectoides pressus (Grote). Larix laricina, Sambucus canadensis L., Salix gracilis Anderss., Vicia cracca L., Betula papyrifera Marsh and Alnus rugosa Du Roi, represent new host records for pressus.
25010361|Aggregation behavior of Cordulecerus alopecinus Burmeisteir, a neotropical species of neuropteran from southeastern Brazil is described for the first time. Three roosts were studied during 14 days at the Reserva Florestal de Linhares, Esprito Santo state, Brazil. Males and females of each roost were marked on the first day of observation to evaluate possible flux of individuals among aggregations as well as roost fidelity. Roosts were censused daily at nightfall and at early morning, when notes on the behavior of aggregating individuals were also taken. Four tree species belonging to four families were used as roosting sites. The number of individuals in roosts varied daily, and roost size, as measured by the mean number of individuals, differed strikingly. A relatively low flux of individuals was detected among aggregations and most neuropterans usually returned to their original roost, showing some degree of roost fidelity. The sex ratio of aggregations was strongly biased to females and the observed number of dispersing individuals did not differ by sex. This new data suggests that aggregation behavior is a common feature within the genus Cordulecerus and that aggregations can be more than a random and casual assemblage of individuals, deserving futher quantitative investigations.
25006156|Seventeen free amino acids and three derivatives, asparagine, glutamine, and taurine, were identified in the developing eggs of the meal worm and have been quantitatively determined. Changes in concentration for these compounds showed an increase in total concentration by the fifth day of development, and a decrease in volume to the last day, the eighth, which, nevertheless, was higher than the concentration at the start of development.
25010459|Crossocerus (Ablepharipus) rugosilateralis n. sp. from Tibet and Yunnan, China, and Crossocerus (Ablepharipus) sulcatus n. sp. from Sichuen and Hubei, China, are described and illustrated. A reference key to the species of the subgenus from China is provided.
25009311|E. geboharti, E. melleoides and E. sculleni, n. spp. are described from western North America. E. barri Scullen is removed from synonymy, and E. cavagnaroi Scullen is elevated from subspecies to species status. Aphilanthops marginipennis Cameron is removed from synonymy with E. rubripes Cresson and placed in synonymy with E. canaliculata (Say). The male of E. brunnea Scullen and the female of E. melanovittata Scullen are characterized. E. menkei Scullen is the female and a junior synonym of E. melanosa Scullen.
25010274|The Palearctic rhyparochromid Rhyparochromus saturnius (Rossi) [Lygaeoidea] is reported for the first time in North America based on collections from 17 counties in California. Literature pertaining to this adventive species is reviewed, notes on its habits are given, and descriptions and photographs of the adult and fifth-instar nymph are provided to help distinguish it from other North American Rhyparochromidae. It is speculated that R. saturnius was introduced in international commerce originating from the Mediterranean Region, most likely Italy or nearby countries.
25009131|The nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of Autographa californica has been localized by electron microscopy in the cytoplasm of poikilothermic vertebrate cells (VSW). C-type particles carried by this cell line were also visualized together with baculovirus particles in a vacuole-like organelle. Inoculation of VSW cells with A. californica NPV had a retarding effect on cell growth.
25009061|Jeanne, Robert L., Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706.-Queens of Vespula arenaria and V. maculata coat the petiolar suspension of their nests with a rubbery secretion which permits the young comb to move freely within the envelope. The movement allows the queen to squeeze between the comb and the envelope to reach the top of the comb, even though the space enclosed by the envelope is barely larger than the comb it surrounds. Thus the flexible petiole permits the envelope to surround the comb more closely than would be possible were the comb rigidly attached to the substrate. The advantages of minimizing the envelope diameter at this early stage of colony development are unknown, but probably relate to maximization of the numbers and rate of development of the initial brood. When the first workers emerge in the colony, they make the petiole rigid by buttressing it with carton.
25010538|Eight new species of Hygia from Malaysia (Borneo) are described, and included in the tribe Colpurini. The new species are as follows: H. alta from Sarawak, H. borneensis from Sarawak, H. mjobergi from Sarawak and Sabah, H. murudina from Sarawak and Sabah, H. reyesi from Sarawak and Sabah, H. tomokunii from Sarawak and Sabah, H. vantoli from Sabah, and H. webbi from Sarawak. Dorsal view illustrations and drawings of the male genital capsule, and female genital segments are provided.
25009317|Effects of two insect growth regulators (IGRs) (hydroprene and R-20458) on the follicular epithelium and the oocytes of the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) were studied. Comparative histological studies of the treated and untreated ovarioles revealed that there were no apparent differences in the development and structure of the oocytes in the germarium and in the anterior part of the vitellarium. The IGRs, however, affected the penultimate oocytes and perhaps the basal oocytes, because the latter ovulated prematurely. Treated penultimate oocytes were atrophied, because they lacked yolk and karyospheres; in addition, follicular epithelium was not retracted from the surface of the oolemma. Untreated penultimate oocytes on the other hand, were larger due to the accumulation of yolk and they had karyospheres; the follicular epithelium was retracted from the egg membrane, leaving a space that had materials, which possibly are blood proteins. A fine brush-like border (microvilli) was observed on the side of the oolemma facing the follicular epithelium.
25010355|A new genus, Nexothrips, with two new species, N. delclaroi and N. perseae, is described from South America. The systematic position of this genus, and its relationships to the paleotropical Rhamphothrips genus-group, are discussed. A key is provided to the two new species, one of which was taken on Persea flowers in Colombia, the other from Hortia flowers in Brazil.
25009795|Oxypoda opaca (Gravenhorst), a widespread Palearctic species, is reported for the first time from North America. The species is redescribed and diagnostic characters are provided to distinguish it from other Oxypoda species occurring in eastern North America. Distinguishing features are illustrated with line drawings and scanning electron photomicrographs.
25009260|Slope soaring behaviour is described for the dragonfly Pantala flavescens (Fabricius). Some of the physical and airflow properties of a soaring site are also described. The ability to slope soar may have a significant impact on the energy budget of foraging P. flavescens.
25008849|Specimens of Tachysphex terminatus (Smith) were collected from localities in Alberta and Alaska during June, 1971; these localities are considerably north of the previously known range of the species.
25009870|A new Ecuadorean species of Gnamptogenys Roger of the Alfaria group is described based upon a worker holotype and a dealated queen paratype. Gnamptogenys vriesi, n. sp. belongs to a subgroup of the Alfaria group, which includes also G. simulans, G. bufonis, and G. falcifera. The other subgroup includes G. minuta, G. pneodonax, G. striolata, and possibly, G. caelata. We present a characterization of the Alfaria group and its subgroups, and a discussion on the status of the group.
25010133|Two new species of Rhagovelia are described from the Philippines: R. ridicula from Mindanao, Leyte, and Luzon, and R. phoretica from Negros. R. ridicula belongs to the orientalis group as defined by Polhemus and Polhemus (1988), being the apparent sister species to R. aberrans Andersen, while R. phoretica belongs to a distinctive intrageneric clade defined herein as the caesius group, whose only other members occur on New Guinea. The male paramere of R. werneri Hungerford and Matsuda is figured, and its structure is shown to be correlative to that of a monphyletic group of species occurring on New Caledonia and in the highlands of New Guinea, thus supporting the placement of this species in the novacaledonica group of Polhemus and Polhemus (1988). The evidence of a sister area relationship between the Philippines and New Guinea as indicated by the disjunct distributions of taxa in the caesius and novacaledonica species groups is discussed, and possible tectonic mechanisms that could have led to such a disjunction are evaluated.
25009364|Winged queens (24) were captured issuing from a honey ant nest north of Colorado Springs prior to the nuptial flight and placed in Janet-type nests. Six nests housed one queen and six housed three queens each. These nests were fed three different diets to determine their effect on queen longevity and egg production. Maximum longevities occurred in nests given the most complete diet. All nests produced eggs 7-12 days after swarming, but only one larva developed, and it lived only 72 days. Data on egg numbers, locations, durations and clump size are presented. Observations were made on dealation, abdominal distension, mite infestation, and queen behavior and death. Dealation attempts took place over a long period and were successful in only two queens. Queens developed swollen abdomens in every nest except one. However, neither dealation nor a swollen abdomen is essential for egg production. There was no hostility in three-queen nests and they cooperated caring for eggs. Behavior, longevity, and reproductive potential of virgin queens are compared to fertilized queens in captivity.
25005989|This paper is a list of 150 species of spiders collected during a 2-week study of the fauna of Powdermill Nature Reserve in Pennsylvania.
25009563|Experimental tests of ergonomic theory show that many aspects of ant, bee and wasp societies do not demonstrate maximal ergonomic efficiency. The responses of worker ants to various stresses on their colonies have as often proven not to accord with ergonomic predictions as to support ergonomic ideas. Worker honey bee and stingless bee behavior, and the production of reproductives in vespine wasps, honey bees and ants, provide still less consistent support for ergonomic efficiency arguments. An alternative explanation of hymenopteran social evolution in terms of resiliency can be proposed to explain many of these situations demonstrating constraints upon maximal ergonomic efficiency.
25009112|Rolston, L. H., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803.-The 33 species of Mormidea are described and keyed. One of these species, M. geographica, is provisionally retained in the genus, although certainly it mars the phyletic homogeneity of the genus. Seven new species are described: M. dana, M. faisana, M. isla, M. lunara, M. pama, M. rugosa and M. vaya. The following new synonymy is recognized: M. angustata Stl (=M. pulchella Walker, =M. lemoulti Bergroth); M. cornicollis Stl (=M. jheringi Berg); M. fusca Stl (=M. angulosa Stl); M. geographica (F) (=M. brevis Walker, =Oenopiella testacea Ruckes); M. hamulata Stl (=M. pullata Berg); M. paupercula Berg (=M. profana Breddin); M. v-luteum (Lichtenstein) (=M. spegazzini Berg, =M. tristis Bergroth); and M. ypsilon (L) (=Pentatoma scutellata Westwood). M. discoidea (Dallas) is removed from the synonymy of M. notulata and recognized as a good species. A lectotype is designated for each of the following: M. aglaeopus Dallas, M. angulosa Stl, M. compta Walker, M. cornicollis Stl, M. fusca Stl, M. hamulata Stl, Euschistus integellus Distant, M. jheringi Berg, M. metallica Stl, M. pictiventris Stl, M. sordidula Stl, M. spegazzini Berg and M. spiculigera Stl. Moromorpha n. gen. is erected for Mormidea tetra Walker, type species. The genus is described, as is Mormidea, and a key provided to separate these genera from each other and from Oebalus.
25009485|The presumed type of Scarites subterraneus Fabricius 1775 (described from "America") deposited in the Zoological Museum at Copenhagen, Denmark is not conspecific with what is generally regarded as Scarites subterraneus F. The Copenhagen specimen compares favorably with both specimens and descriptions of Scarites abbreviatus Dejean, a species endemic to the Madeira Islands. There is sufficient doubt regarding the type status of the Copenhagen specimen that a neotype is proposed for Scarites subterraneus F. in order to assure taxonomic stability. The origin of the neotype is Pt. Pelee, Ontario, Canada. The species concept adopted equals Scarites subterraneus s. str. of Bnninger (1938). The species concept of Scarites subterraneus in Lindroth's The ground-beetles of Canada and Alaska (1961-1969) includes two species, one of which is Scarites subterraneus s. str. of Bnninger. A diagnosis is provided for the concept of Scarites subterraneus adopted here.
25009589|Orthotylus aesculicola is described as new from Missouri. This mirid was found breeding on Ohio buckeye, Aesculus glabra Willd. (Hippocastanaceae). The adult male and genitalia of the male and female are illustrated.
25009247|This study explores biogeographic patterns among insect communities which live in the water-filled floral bracts of Heliconia plants. Twenty-five collections from 13 Neotropical locations are studied using a principal components analysis where the collections are ordinated on the basis of the frequency of occurrence of the 23 most common insect morpho species. Heliconia species from the French Antilles show a depauperate insect community, apparently due to island isolation. Floral structure is important in determining the insect community: Heliconia species with small floral bracts have low species richness and only one Heliconia species with a pendant inflorescence has an aquatic or semi-aquatic insect community. Different Heliconia species collected from the same location do not necessarily have comparable insect species communities.
25006108|Five species compose the genus Chalepus in the region under consideration. These are bacchus (Newman), bellula (Chapuis), bicolor (Olivier), hebalus Sanderson, walshii (Crotch), and a new subspecies walshii sayi is proposed. Anoplitis Kirby, 1837, is a junior synonym of Chalepus Thunberg, 1805; this new synonymy is necessary because their types are congeneric. Descriptions of the species are given, together with the complete list of references, and keys to the species and the subspecies are presented. Distributional data and maps are included for each, as are illustrations of the male genitalia. The total length of males is less than that of females, and in bacchus and bicolor there is a striking sexual dimorphism of total length.
25008927|The last thorough study of the distribution of Brood X of the periodical cicadas in New Jersey (Magicicada spp.) was made in 1902. Data collected on the distribution of the 1970 emergence indicates a disappearance since 1902 from the following localities: Mercer County except Princeton; eastern Somerset County; Prospertown-Colliers Mills, Ocean County; Jacobstown-Ellisdale, Burlington County; Cherry Hill Township, Camden County; Salem and Woodstown, Salem County; and Shiloh in Cumberland County. Hitherto unreported populations were found on Lower Powhatcong Mountain, Warren County; near Middletown, Monmouth County; and Quinton and Alloway in Salem County. Forty populations were found in Hunterdon County, west and south of the South Branch of the Raritan River. The chief factors in the disappearance of the insect since 1902 appear to have been the destruction of woodlands, forest fires, and urbanization. The possibility that forest losses caused by the gypsy moth may play a part in the loss of periodical cicada populations is suggested.
25009695|Two Rhagoletis fruit parasites of dogwood, previously thought to be conspecific, are shown to be reproductively distinct. Laboratory studies show consistent differences in the flies' oviposition response to the respective host fruits and in production of viable ${\rm F}_{1}$ hybrid first instar larvae. The specific status of the fly populations is discussed.
25010429|The plant bug genus Orthotylus has undergone extensive insular radiation in the Hawaiian Islands. Based on male paramere structure and dorsal setiferation, at least four major clades appear to be present, each of which has sequentially tracked particular host plant families along the island chain in geological and evolutionary time. In this work, 21 new species of Hawaiian Orthotylus are described, arranged by host plant affiliation. The new species and their host plant associations are as follows: O. pisoniae from Oahu, on Pisonia umbellifera and Pisonia sandwicensis; O. pisonioides, from Hawaii, on Pisonia brunoniana; O. hedyoti from Oahu, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotiopsis from Oahu, on Hedyotis acuminata; O. hedyoticola from Hawaii, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. psychotriae from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. psychotrioides from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. psychotricola from Oahu, on Psychotria mariniana; O. coprosmae from Maui, on Coprosma foliosa and Coprosma pubens; O. coprosmoides from Oahu, on Coprosma ochracea; O. ilicis from Maui, on Ilex anomala; O. neoilicis from Hawaii, on Ilex anomala; O. urerae from Oahu, on Urera kaalae; O. pipturi from Hawaii, on Pipturus albidus; O. pipturoides from Maui, on Pipturus albidus; O. pseudotantali from Maui, on Pipturus albidus; O. clermontiae from Hawaii, on Clermontia clermontioides; O. xylosmae from Hawaii, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. diospyri from Hawaii, on Diospyros sandwicensis; and O. hibisci from Oahu, on Hibiscus arnottianus. Redescriptions are also given for 5 previously described species: O. kanakanus (Kirkaldy) from Hawaii, on Coprosma rhynchocarpa; O. perkinsi Kirkaldy from Hawaii, on Ilex anomala; O. tantali (Perkins) from Oahu on Pipturus albidus; O. iolani Kirkaldy from Hawaii, on Clermontia clermontioides; and O. daphne (Kirkaldy) from Oahu on Xylosma hawaiiense. Shaded dorsal habitus drawings are provided for O. hedyotiopsis and O. psychotrioides. Figures of the male genitalic structures and distribution maps are provided for all species treated, accompanied by a table of species and host plant relationships.
25009387|The 5 nymphal instars of Oecleus borealis Van Duzee are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include the size, and form of teeth and spines on the profemora and tibiae, size of body and wingpads, and the numbers of pits, and metatarsomeres.
25009129|Establishment of the European katydid Meconema thalassinum (De Geer) is confirmed on Long Island, New York. Thirteen specimens taken at Garden City in July 1977, add a third geographic location on Long Island for the species, previously found in much smaller numbers at King's Park (1968) and Little Neck (1957 and 1959). No other North American records are known. Distinguishing morphological characteristics of the species are described and illustrated, and habits (including sound production and food preferences) are discussed.
25009135|Fourteen species of native parasites of the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), an introduced European pest, were recovered in the northeastern USA. Two additional species were recovered by cooperators in Canada. This complex of native parasites is poorly synchronized with the first 2 generations of the host, which may therefore reach economic injury levels; however, it gives satisfactory control of the next 3 generations. Season-long parasitism averaged 36%, but only 2% of the host puparia were parasitized. European host puparia collected in 1976-77 and shipped to the USDA quarantine facility at Newark produced 7 parasite species with a combined parasitism of 25.5%. All 7 species have been introduced in the USA.
25009242|The histology of the antenna of T. molitor and the changes which take place in its maturation from imaginal eclosion to one week of age are compared. The cuticle, epidermis, nerves and tracheae are described. A mesocuticle is present in the cuticle, and a blood vessel is described for the first time in the antenna of a beetle. In the one week old insect the endocuticle becomes thicker, the underlying epithelial cells lower in height, the layer of nerve fibers beneath the epithelium more compact, and the walls of the tracheal trunks and blood vessel thinner.
25005935|New distributional data are given for four species of Rhabdatomis from Mexico and Central America. The males of R. pueblae Draudt are redescribed and the previously unknown females of draudti Field are recorded. The genitalia of both are described and illustrated.
25009896|The Palearctic anthocorid Brachysteles parvicornis (Costa) is reported from Maine and Massachusetts, together with host plant data and an illustration of the nymph.
25009540|Paleofroeschnerius magnus Schaefer, new species, is described from the uppermost Paleocene/Eocene of western Tennessee and assigned to the Cydninae. It is most similar to the modern genus Ectinopus, but its cladistic affinities cannot be determined. Its habitat was probably not unlike that of modern cydnines.
25009008|A new palpimanid, Otiothops recurvus, is described from Brazil; both the male and female genitalia are uniquely modified, and the species does not belong to any of the previously established species groups of the genus.
25006239|Laboratory and field studies were made on the biology of Dinapate wrighti Horn, from the Colorado Desert of southern California. Grubs were studied and collected in both well-known and remote palm oases of the California fan palm, Washingtonia filifera, in the area of Palm Springs, California, and in Borrego Desert State Park, California. Five hundred fifty-seven specimens were reared and studied under artificial conditions.
25009314|Mites of the family Unionicolidae were collected from 110 freshwater bivalves in New York. Five species of adult mite were found. Of the dominant bivalves found in Conesus Lake, only Lampsilis siliquoidea (Barnes) contained adult mites. Unionicola fossulata (Koenike) infected 84.8% of this mussel and 75.3% of the nymphal and adult mites were found between the gills. There were 2.08  0.12 mites per infected L. siliquoidea. At Spencer creek, Unionicola arcuata (Wolcott) and Najadicola ingens (Koenike) were found in Alasmidonta undulata (Say). Unionicola formosa-ypsilophora complex (Vidrine 1980) and Unionicola tumida (Wolcott) occurred in Anodonta cataracta (Say). In the case of N. ingens this is a new host record and the first published report of its occurrence in New York State. No nymphal or adult mites were found in 42 Elliptio complanata (Solander) from the two contrasting sites.
25009295|A comparative feeding site preference and competition study was performed in the laboratory on two species of aphids, the bean aphid, Aphis fabae Scopoli, and the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). The two species were raised separately and together on broad bean, Vicia faba. When raised separately, A. fabae was found about equally on leaves and stems, and preferred leaf undersides to leaf uppersides by a 2:1 ratio. A. pisum, however, strongly preferred leaves to stems, and leaf undersides to leaf uppersides, both by more than 90%. But, when raised together, A. fabae developed a noticeable change in preferences, preferring leaves by 83% and leaf undersides by 90%. No major change was seen in preferences of A. pisum.
25006016|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Neolimnophila citribasis n. sp., from Assam; N. daedalea n. sp., Sikkim; Lipsothrix decurvata n. sp., Sikkim; Styringomyia subobscura n. sp., Assam; S. tarsatra n. sp., Nepal; and Toxorhina (Ceratocheilus) tuberifera n. sp., Sikkim.
25009633|Flying mole crickets, Neocurtilla hexadactyla (Orthoptera: Gryllotalpidae) were attracted to light traps in Promisso, So Paulo, Brazil. Flights were strong throughout the year, peaking in June. Females significantly outnumbered males during the entire year. Females were generally reproductively mature, suggesting that populations do not develop synchronously. Data from Venezuela also fit this pattern, while data from Uruguay and other locations in So Paulo state, are characterized by annual periodicity of flight activity and a reduced number of crickets trapped, which is characteristic of univoltine, synchronously developing populations.
25009775|Five new species of Trichoptera, Rhyacophila carolae (Rhyacophilidae), Protoptila cahabensis (Glossosomatidae), Hydroptila micropotamis and Ochrotrichia weoka (Hydroptilidae), and Ceraclea alabamae (Leptoceridae) are described and illustrated.
25009789|Antennae of Reduviidae comprising adults of 99 species in 19 subfamilies and nymphs of 25 species in 7 subfamilies, and one species of Pachynomidae were examined using compound light and scanning electron microscopy. Figures are presented indicating the numbers and distribution of trichobothria, the range being from 1-20 or more.
25009585|Several undescribed Megaselia spp. and M. pluralis (Wood) in this large genus of mushroom flies were attracted to 1-phenylethanol in field tests. The highest concentration captured the most flies when the concentration ranged from 1-50%. Also, 2-phenylethanol was a weak attractant and captured ca. 10-fold fewer flies than did 1-phenylethanol. A 1:1 ratio of these compounds captured significantly fewer flies than did 1-phenylethanol alone. We predict these compounds will prove to be attractants for other mushroom flies.
25010280|Descriptions of females of the ten known eastern North American species of Chimarra are given and an identification key provided. Diagnostic characters are evident in the thickness of veins at the first fork of the radial sector in each forewing and in the shapes of the spermathecal sclerite and ventral plates beyond abdominal sternum VIII. A summary of published distributional records is provided for all Chimarra species of eastern North America.
25009456|The species of the tribe Falagriini (Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae) of America north of Mexico are revised. Twenty-two species, representing nine genera, are recognized. Included in this total are three new species (type localities in parentheses): Myrmecocephalus sculpturatus (Cochise County, Arizona, USA), M. gatineauensis (Gatineau N. C. C. Park, Quebec, CANADA) and Falagrioma socorroensis (Socorro County, New Mexico, USA). One European species is reported for the first time from North America: Falagria sulcata (Paykull). The following species names are placed in synonymy: Chitalia granulosa Casey and Chitalia illustris Casey [=Aleodorus scutellaris (LeConte)]; Lorinota bilimbata Casey [=Myrmecocephalus concinnus (Erichson)]; and Lorinota parva Casey [=Myrmecocephalus gracilis (Casey)]. The genus group name Omoschema Notman is placed in synonymy with Lissagria Casey thus creating a new combination for the name laticeps Notman. Usage of the genus group name Myrmecocephalus MacLeay is briefly discussed. The following species names, previously considered to be junior synonyms, herein are recognized as valid: Lorinota gracilis Casey and Lorinota pinalica Casey (both now placed in Myrmecocephalus); and Falagria scutellaris LeConte (now placed in Aleodorus). The generic group names Falagrioma Casey and Leptagria Casey are also removed from synonymy (both with Anaulacaspis Ganglbauer). A neotype is designated for Aleochara bilobata Say and lectotypes are designated (when necessary) for the species described from America north of Mexico by Bernhauer, Casey, Erichson and LeConte. Myrmecopora Saulcy is excluded from the Falagriini. Adults of all twenty-two species are described or redescribed. The male genitalia, female spermatheca, and other structures are illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs and standard macro- and microphotographs. The distribution of each species in America north of Mexico is recorded and mapped, based on specimens examined. Diagnostic keys are provided for all genera and species occurring in America north of Mexico. Proposed phylogenetic relationships among the North American genera are presented and discussed. A checklist of genera and species of North American Falagriini is added.
25009672|Names of 66 flower flies described by earlier authors from unknown localities are revised. Seven unused senior synonyms are resurrected [Spilomyia alcimus (Walker, 1849) (=hamifera Loew, 1864), Criorhina bubulcus (Walker, 1849) (=luna Lovett, 1919), Temnostoma daochus (Walker, 1849) (=pictulum Williston, 1887), Eristalinus dives (Walker, 1849) (=vitrescens Hull, 1937), Volucella linearis Walker, 1849 (=nitobei Matsumura, 1916), Copestylum longirostre (Macquart, 1846) (=concinna Philippi, 1865), & Chalcosyrphus violascens (Megerle, 1803) (=chalybea Wiedemann, 1830)]; 22 other new synonyms are identified [Eristalinus aeneus (Scolpoli, 1763) = aenescens Macquart, 1842, Prohelophilus cingulata (Fabricius, 1775) = agerinus Walker, 1849, Neocnemodon vitripennis (Meigen, 1822) = albohirta Wiedemann, 1830, Eriozona syrphoides (Falln, 1817) = amplus Walker, 1849, Eristalinus arvorum (Fabricius, 1787) = anicetus Walker, 1849, Milesia crabroniformis (Fabricius, 1775) = coenina Walker, 1849, Xylota florum (Linnaeus, 1758) = corbulo Walker, 1849, Chalcosyrphus metallicus (Wiedemann, 1830) = dascon Walker, 1849, Merodon aureus (Fabricius, 1805) = flavicornis Macquart, 1842, Copestylum brunneum (Thunberg, 1789) = fusca Macquart, 1834, Pipizella viduata (Linnaeus, 1758) = fuscipennis Walker, 1849, Eristalis dimidiata Wiedemann, 1830 = haesitans Walker, 1849, Palpada furcata (Wiedemann, 1830) = involvens Walker, 1849, Eristalinus quinquelineatus (Fabricius, 1781) = jucundus (Walker, 1849), Brachypalpus laphriformis (Falln, 1816) = laphriaeformis Walker, 1849, Helophilus groenlandicus (O. Fabricius, 1780) = oxycanus Walker, 1852, Meromacrus acutus (Fabricius, 1805) = pictus Macquart, 1846, Phytomia zonata (Fabricius, 1787) = rufitarsis Macquart, 1842, Eristalinus taeniops (Wiedemann, 1830) = secretus Walker, 1849, Chrysotoxum intermedium (Meigen, 1822) = stipatum Walker, 1852, Palpada mexicana (Macquart, 1847) = tomentosus Macquart, 1850, & Orthoprosopa grisea (Walker, 1835) = torpidus Walker, 1857]; 3 new combinations are established [Palpada caliginosus (Walker, 1849), Eupeodes corolloides (Macquart, 1850), & Mesembrius strenuus (Walker, 1857)]; one old synonym is reestablished [Quichuana angustiventris (Macquart, 1855) = aurata Walker, 1857]; and 15 old synonyms confirmed. Eumerus aquilinus Walker is redescribed and its genitalia figured. Location of types and labels of Bigot, Macquart. Megerle, Walker and Wiedemann are described.
25006049|Nepytia janetae, new species, is described from material collected in New Mexico and eastern Arizona. The genitalia of both sexes are illustrated.
25010091|Haversiella Schweiger is comprised of a single species, H. albolimbata (Champion), which is recognized by body vestiture lacking setae, maxillary mala lacking teeth, subcircular pronotum, postocular lobes absent, scutellum very reduced, elongate elytra, tibiae lacking spurs, and reduced plate of female sternum 8. This genus belongs in the tribe Rhytirrhinini and is the sister genus to Neopachytychius Hustache. Both genera are part of a larger monophyletic group, that includes Palaechtus Waterhouse and related genera from Tristan da Cunha-Gough, and the American genera Listronotus Jekel and Lixellus LeConte. Haversiella albolimbata is distributed on the Falkland Islands and the Magellanic moorland of southern Argentina and Chile.
25009363|The genus Disderia is redefined and a new species from Oaxaca, Mexico, added. Parts of the male genitalia of the three known species and the genital plates of the females of D. decorata and D. inornata are figured. A key to the species is given.
25010228|The taxonomic history of species of Pseudolampsis is discussed and a new combination, Pseudolampsis darwini is formed. Distigmoptera darwini which had previously been synonymized with P. guttata is shown to be a unique species based on characters of larval and genitalic morphology. The immature stages of Pseudolampsis guttata and the third instar larva and pupa of Psedolampsis darwini are described and figured. These larvae are compared with other known larvae of Alticini. /// Se descute la historia taxonmica del gnero Pseudolampsis y se forma la nueva combinacin de Pseudolampsis darwini. Se demuestra que Distigmoptera darwini, previamente snomizada con P. guttata es especie nica, basndose en las caractersticas de la larva y la morfologa de la genitalia. Se describen y trazan las etapas inmaduras de Pseudolampsis guttata y el ltimo estadio y la pupa de Pseudolampsis darwini. Estas larvas se comparan con otras larvas conocidas de Alticini.
25009148|In the overwintering site studied, Coleomegilla maculata began aggregating in late September to mid-October. The aggregation procedure appeared to be governed by photoperiod rather than temperature. The major aggregation site studied included three major physical components: large prominent willow trees (Salix nigra); a small pond; and a south-facing slope. Migration to this site appeared to occur via a low level flight of positive anemotactic and hygrotactic nature, with the possibility of a hypsotactic component. No chemotaxis was demonstrated, although the possibility was not ruled out. Once at the aggregation site, beetles remained for some time on the leaves of wild raspberry (Rubus occidentalis) and sensitive fern (Onoclea sensibilis), especially the dead dry leaves of the latter. It is likely that this resting period on dry leaves assists in the loss of excess water. Mortality of the beetles in the aggregation was 3% to 9% in the winter of 1973-74. Temperatures within the aggregation were generally higher than ambient temperatures, and the aggregation had a modifying effect on sudden temperature changes which might otherwise exceed the insect's ability to supercool.
25010442|Three new genera and three new species of fossil 'osmylid-like' Neuroptera or 'cf. Osmylidae' are described: Saucrosmylus sambneurus n. gen. and n. sp., Laccosmylus calophlebius n. gen. and n. sp. and Rudiosmylus ningchengensis n. gen. and n. sp., all of them from the Jiulongshan Formation, Middle Jurassic, situated at Ningcheng county, Inner Mongolia, China. The only family to which our fossil lacewings may provisionally be assigned is the Osmylidae. The new fossil genera and species do not reasonably fit in any of the previously known subfamilies within Osmylidae and a new subfamily, Saucrosmylinae, is proposed. Its remarkable features are the large body size, the R1 area with many crossveins producing 2 or more rows of cells, the curved Rs bent anteriorly distally, nygmata present and the CuA bounding a large triangular area.
25009948|Six species of Telephanus Erichson are recorded from the Malagasy Region, including one new species, Telephanus gomyi, from Runion Island. Telephanus spinosus Schaufuss is considered a junior synonym and junior homonym of Telephanus spinosus Grouvelle. A key to the species and illustrations of the adults are provided and the affinities of this group of species are briefly discussed.
25010527|Adult Copris minutus individuals were maintained in the laboratory on a feeding regime of either cow dung or dead insects, and their survival compared with beetles maintained without food. There was no significant difference in the longevity of beetles maintained on either feeding regime, but both groups survived significantly longer than those without food. Females in all groups survived longer than males, and reproduction occurred only in groups consuming cow dung.
25006199|Females of the bluegrass webworm Crambus teterrellus (Zincken) were exposed in the evening to 70 to 90 minutes temperature changes in illuminated incubators following at least 2 hr. of acclimatization. Significantly more moths oviposited during a 25 C to 15 C depression than during a 35 C to 25 C depression. Significantly more moths oviposited a significantly greater number of eggs during a 30 C to 20 C depression than during a 20 C to 30 C rise. Presence of males did not significantly affect numbers of females ovipositing or their average oviposition during a 30 C to 20 C depression. When wings, antennae, and tarsi were removed from females anesthetized with carbon dioxide, only those lacking tarsi oviposited in significantly greater numbers and laid significantly more eggs than did controls. Anesthetized controls laid significantly more eggs during a 30 C to 20 C depression than did nonanesthetized moths. The adaptive value of an oviposition response to temperature depression is discussed.
25009658|Nine species of Ozophorini from the Western United States and Baja California are treated, with a key and distributional records presented. Two species, Ozophora occidentalis and O. salsaverdeae are described as new. The status of species in the Ozophora picturata species group is discussed in detail.
25009212|Acutalis tartarea (Say) is a membracid species found throughout the northeastern 2/3 of North America. We present information on its biology and field life history in Florida and draw comparisons with the biology of Micrutalis malleifera (Fowler). A discussion of the polymorphic forms of A. tartarea is presented along with the reasoning for suppression of the names Acutalis semicrema (Say) and Acutalis inornata (Ball), both of which are color polymorphs. The immature stages of A. tartarea are described and illustrated.
25010226|A new species of leaf-miner, Oulema pumila (Chrysomelidae:Criocerinae), from central Panam is described and illustrated. Host plant and life history data are given. One of the smallest species, it is only the second record of the leaf-mining habit and the first host record from the Piperaceae recorded for the subfamily. Leaf-mining appears to be derived in this instance and we offer some observations on its evolution.
25010494|Ephemerella quadrata, Kluge and Zhou, new species (Ephemeroptera: Ephemerellidae: Ephemerellinae) is described based on larval material from Thailand and Yunnan Province, China. The new species may be differentiated from other Ephemerellinae by its well-developed genae, smooth frons, anterior projections on the pronotum, paired anterolateral mesonotal projections, and dorsal abdominal tubercles.
25009053|General anatomical features of the gypsy moth Lymantria dispar (Linnaeus) (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae) reveals a well developed caterpillar. The head capsule shows the frons as being the antennal segment, the epistomal sulcus invaginated internally to form a connection with the tentorium, and the absence of an ecdysial cleavage line. The head capsule does not reveal anterior tentorial pits externally. The maxillolabial-hypopharyngeal complex is attached to the head capsule proper by a membrane and is structurally designed to move independently of other mouth parts. Anatomy of the thoracic and abdominal regions shows a total of twelve segments circumvented with setae arranged in tufts. Segments four, five, ten, and eleven, which are without legs, have twelve hair tufts per segment. Segments with legs (one, two, three, six, seven, eight, and nine) have hair tufts that are reduced on the venter. Segments one, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and eleven have paired spiracles. All segments have tubercles which form the base of the hair tuft, and the tubercles are classified in accord with their location on the insect's body: dorsal, dorsol-lateral, ventro-lateral, and ventral. Setae are located on every component structure of the insect's body and are barbed.
25005967|The following new Deudorix (Diopetes) are described: nirmo, sadeska and laticlavia (all n. spp., Efulen, Cameroun); and camerona katanga n. ssp. (Elisabethville, Katanga). D. (D.) fumata Stempffer is reported for the first time from Cameroun and Gabon, and the hitherto unknown female described. Deudorix (Virachola) kayonza Stempffer is reported for the first time from Cameroun, on the basis of a tentatively identified female.
25005899|This paper consists of (1) descriptions of a new genus (Aztecanthidium) with two new species of Mexican Anthidiini, (2) the first North American record of a genus hitherto known only from South America (Nananthidium), with the description of a new species, and the first description of males of the genus, and (3) the first description of the male of the remarkable Mexican genus Ulanthidium. Except as otherwise indicated the specimens on which this paper is based are in the Snow Entomological Museum of The University of Kansas.
25009281|Pits constructed by antlion larvae are most frequently found in areas which are darker and cooler than areas exposed to the sun. Soil illumination and soil temperature, therefore, are two factors which may play a role in determining the probability of pit construction. The influence of these factors upon the probability of pit construction by M. immaculatus larvae was examined. Soil illumination and soil temperature were independently varied in the laboratory. Soil temperature was found to have a significant effect upon pit construction, whereas soil illumination was found to have no such significant effect. This supports the view that the construction of pits in shaded areas is a response to temperature rather than to light.
25009965|Systematics, biology, and morphology of the rare South American agaristine moth, Aucula franclemonti Todd and Poole (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), are presented in the context of other agaristine genera. A. kimsa Todd and Poole is placed in synonymy with A. franclemonti, and A. ivia Todd and Pool is synonymized with A. tusora Todd and Poole; A. franclemontoides, new species, is described from east Andean Ecuador. A brief phylogenetic analysis of the five species in the A. franclemonti species-group is offered, with a key to the species-group based on male genitalia. Female genitalia of A. franclemonti are described, and an external mating plug (sphragis) noted, perhaps functionally related to a permanently everted and sclerotized endophallus in males. Larvae were found feeding on Vitis tiliifolia Humb. & Bonpl. (Vitaceae), and all immature stages reared from the egg are briefly described. A complete chaetotaxy of the last instar larva is illustrated in detail. Modifications of the pupal cremaster and the presence of subventral seta SV2 on the seventh abdominal segment are apomorphic features shared only with other agaristine species.
25010099|Leotichius shiva new species is described from the Kehen Temple at Bangli, Bali and compared with the two previously described species of Leotichius. The Bali habitat, shared with numerous ant lion larvae, consisted of very dry unconsolidated earth sheltered by the multiple roofs of the Hindu shrines. Nymphs of several instars are discussed and compared to other Leptopodomorpha.
25009871|Honey bee queen mandibular complex (HQMC), a five component pheromone blend, moderates the stinging behavior of worker honey bees when the workers are exposed to an atmosphere that also contains a queen. If either HQMC or an atmosphere in contact with a queen were absent, laboratory bioassays demonstrated that worker honey bees rapidly became more prone to sting.
25010508|Thirty-four new species in the plant bug genus Orthotylus are described from the Hawaiian IsIands. The new species and their host plant associations are as follows: O. metrosideri, from Hawaii, on Metrosideros polymorpha; O. nestegiae, from Hawaii, on Nestegis sandwicensis; O. sophorae, from Hawaii, on Sophora chrysophylla; O. sophoroides, from Maui, on Sophora chrysophylla; O. perrottetiae, from Kauai, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. perrottetiopsis, from Maui, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. antidesmae, from Hawaii, on Antidesma platyphyllum; O. melicopi, from Hawaii, on Melicope hawaiiensis; O. coprosmopsis, from Hawaii, on Coprosma menziesii; O. coprosmicola, from Molokai, on Coprosma foliosa; O. coprosmaphila, from Maui, on Coprosma montana; O. pilo, from Molokai, on Coprosma foliosa; O. hedyotiella, from Oahu, on Hedyotis acuminata; O. hedyotivorus, from Oahu, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotioides, from Maui, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotiphila, from Maui, on Hedyotis hillebrandii; O. kara, from Oahu, on Psychotria kaduana; O. kopiko, from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. neopsychotriae, from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. neopsychotrioides, from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. diospyropsis, from Oahu, on Diospyros hillebrandii; O. diospyricola, from Molokai, on Diospyros sandwicensis; O. diospyroides, from Maui, on Diospyros sandwicensis; O. xylosmoides, from Maui, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. xylosmicola, from Kauai, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. clermonticola, from Maui, on Clermontia grandiflora; O. clermontioides, from Maui, on Clermontia grandiflora; O. clermontioides, from Maui, on Clermontia arborescens and Clermontia kakeana; O. clermontiella, from Oahu, on Clermontia kakeana; O. pisoniopsis, from Maui, on Pisonia brunoniana; O. urericola, from Hawaii, on Urera glabra; O. ureraphila, from Maui, on Urera glabra; O. kassandroides, from Oahu, on assorted host plants; O. kassandropsis, from Maui, on assorted host plants; and O. ulaula, from Oahu, on assorted host plants. Redescriptions are given for O. azalais Kirkaldy from Kauai, hypothesized to feed on Metrosideros polymorpha; and O. kassandra (Kirkaldy), from Hawaii, which occurs on assorted host plants. Distribution maps and figures of the male genitalic structures are provided for all the above species, and shaded dorsal habitus figures are provided for O. urericola and O. diospyroides. New distribution records are also provided for O. pisonioides Polhemus (with Pisonia sandwicensis documented as an additional host plant), O. pipturi Polhemus, O. coprosmae Polhemus, O. coprosmoides Polhemus, O. psychotriae Polhemus, O. psychotrioides Polhemus, and O. hedyoticola Polhemus. A revised key to Hawaiian Orthotylus species is included, treating all species described from the archipelago to date.
25010324|Four new species of the cattarine genus Cattarus Stl are described (C. erwini from Peru, and C. nigritus, C. pseudoculatus, and C. pallidus from Ecuador); Phaeax balteatus Distant and P. formicarius (Distant) are redescribed and formally transferred to Cattarus; C. stysi Slater is redescribed; the new myrmecomorphic cattarine genus Cephalocattarus and new species waorani are described from Ecuador; and new distribution records are given for the pamphantines Parapamphantus erikae Brailovsky from Ecuador and Venezuela, and Tropicoparapamphantus amazonicus Brailovsky from Ecuador and Peru. Dorsal photographs of all species (except Cattarus insignis Stl) and dorsal illustrations of the adults of Cattarus formicarius, Cattarus stysi, and Cephalocattarus waorani and its model ant species (Cephalotes pavonii), and a key to the eight species of Cattarus are given to facilitate identification.
25010480|A new species of Tithorea, Tithorea pacifica n. sp., is described and diagnosed from pluvial premontane rain-forest in northwestern Ecuador. Two additional new subspecies, T. pacifica euphonia n. ssp. and T. pacifica concordia n. ssp., are also described, from western Colombia and extreme eastern Panama, respectively. Adult specimens and genitalia of both sexes are illustrated for the three known species of Tithorea and the characters that distinguish the species are tabulated.
25010003|Based on a worldwide survey of representatives of epipaschiine genera, a monophyletic subset is identified and designated the Pococera complex. Its monophyly is defended by a prominent saccus in the male genitalia and a long, narrow ductus bursae in the female genitalia. The complex contains approximately 300 species that are restricted in distribution to the Western Hemisphere. This phylogenetic study of the complex establishes its monophyly, re-examines the genera included, establishes their monophyly, and estimates their relationships. The cladistic analysis is based on 22 taxa and 65 characters of the adult head, genitalia, and wings. Lacalma Janse and Macalla Walker are used as outgroups. The PHYSYS program generated three equally parsimonious trees with a length of 144 and consistency index 0.52. The stability of the estimated trees were tested with successive weighting and sequential removal of taxa. The tests showed the position of the root to be somewhat uncertain. Nevertheless, the topology of the estimated trees is shown to be stable in most manipulations despite the fact that most of the groupings are supported by very few characters. A taxonomic synopsis presents the results of the examination and the definition of the genera as monophyletic. Twenty-two genera of the Pococera complex are diagnosed and six new genera are described. Representatives of each genus are illustrated by line drawings and photographs. Larval host use patterns are briefly reviewed. A nomenclatural summary is provided, including taxa to be removed from the Epipaschiinae.
25010051|A key for the identification of the 74 species of Agonum Bonelli in the New World is presented along with taxonomic treatments of the 15 species occurring in Mexico. Neotypes are designated for Agonum orbicollis Say (=A. punctiforme Say) and Agonum suturale Say. Diagnosis of Agonum based on external characters, and characters of the male and female genitalia and reproductive tract, necessitates removal of South American species previously considered congeneric to a new genus, Incagonum (type species Anchomenus discoculcatus Dejean). Synapomorphies establishing monophyly of Incagonum include reduced subapical elytral sinuation, and female spermatheca with digitate basal lobe. The absence of subapical setae on metatarsomere 4, and presence of a short but distinct spermathecal duct support the monophyly of Incagonum plus other taxa in the previously proposed Rhadine-Tanystoma lineage. Removal of Incagonum species from Agonum results in restriction of Agonum to lands previously comprising Laurasia, or to regions broadly accreted to its southern margin. Cladistic biogeographic analysis of the Mexican Agonum fauna and other carabid taxa exhibiting Halffer's Nearctic pattern do not contradict a primary division of the Mexican biota into a northern portion, including the Sierra Madre Occidental and Oriental and associated lowland regions, and a southern portion including the Transvolcanic Sierra and Sierra Madre del Sur. The analysis recognizes an area of endemism comprising the southern Sierra Madre Occidental. This area exhibits ambiguous area relationships with areas to the north and south. The included Nearctic pattern taxa also provide only ambiguous information concerning the area relationships for areas north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec versus the Chiapan highlands.
25010483|Six new species of Leptoglossus Gurin from Brazil, Costa Rica, Mxico, Peru, and Venezuela are described. Diagnostic taxonomic characters of antennal segments, legs, male genital capsules, and dorsal views of some species are illustrated. Most of the species are placed in their corresponding species-group, as well as the previous incertae-sedis species.
25009232|Nine field plots (each 0.4-0.6 ha) were selected along the south central part of Long Island, New York, to study the effect of insecticide spray frequency on a questing Dermacentor variabilis population. Assignment of treatment was made according to dominant vegetation, location and tick preferential habitat. Three plots received no treatment, 3 plots were sprayed with water (3 once, 2 twice, and one 3 times) and 3 plots were similarly sprayed with an emulsifiable formulation of naled. Plots were randomly monitored for tick density at weekly intervals. A total of 2,872 ticks was collected from all plots by dragging. Multiple and simple regression and exploratory data analyses were employed to determine normal or estimated tick populations at each plot throughout the adult tick season, rate of seasonal weekly decline of tick population, and the effect of insecticide spray frequency on the questing American dog tick population. Results indicated a 20% weekly exponential decay in numbers of questing adult ticks over the 1978 season. No effect was seen due to the water treatment. One spray of naled produced an 82% reduction of the questing tick population; 2 sprays, a 95% reduction; and 3 sprays, a 96% population reduction.
25006097|The influence of weather conditions on the activity and behavior of greenhead flies, Tabanus nigrovittatus and T. lineola, was determined. Trap catches correlated with weather records showed that fly activity was related to maximum temperature, average temperature, and cloud cover, but not to the wind speeds and minimum temperatures observed. Fly behavior towards the traps used was influenced by wind speed and direction. Data indicated that greenheads dispersed randomly with respect to both compass directions (trap locations) and prevailing wind directions. More greenheads were found on the marsh near the upland than farther out, and significantly more fly at a height of 1.5 to 3 ft. above the marsh surface than at 3 to 5 ft.
25005798|The author discusses the status of the family Phymatidae, recently degraded by Carayon, Usinger and Wygodzinsky to the subfamily rank and included into the family Reduviidae. He comes to the conclusion that this is unfortunate since it was based on a couple of species belonging to only one genus of the subfamily Phymatinae compared with two aberrant subfamilies of the family Reduviidae, Holoptilinae and Elasmodeminae. The author proposes to conserve the well established family Phymatidae as a family and to include Themonocorinae as a new subfamily into it. The species Macrocephalus incisus Stl 1862 is revalidated and separated from Macrocephalus notatus Westwood, 1843, into which synonmy it was put by Handlirsch in 1897 and a key for the separation of these two species and their respective subspecies is given. Three new species of the genus Macrocephalus (subgenus Lophoscutus Kormilev, 1951) are described: M. margaritis from Mexico, M. drakei from Cuba and M. subproductus from Puerto Rico.
25009388|Botocudo cavernicola is described as a new species from bat guano in a cave in New Guinea. Comments on the cave habitat are included. This is thought to be the first record of a lygaeid inhabiting caves in the Eastern Hemisphere. The biology of Cligenes subcavicola Scudder, Darlington and Hill is discussed. It is reported to feed on the seeds of Piper sp. found in bat guano in caves and abandoned buildings on Trinidad. The species is reported from a cave in Peru for the first time where it feeds at least in part on the seeds of species of Ficus.
25010036|A new species of the ceratophyllid genus Thrassis Jordan, 1933, from Baja California is described. Its phylogenetic affinities in the subfamily Oropsyllinae are briefly discussed and its host preference for antelope ground squirrels of the genus Ammospermophilus is noted.
25010489|The ant genus Pseudolasius in the Afrotropical region is reviewed. Two species are considered valid, P. bufonus and P. weissi, and diagnostic morphological characters are provided for each. Scanning electron micrographs are provided for each species, and the male genitalia of P. bufonus are illustrated for the first time. Four species are synomized with P. weissi: P. bayonii new synonym, P. bucculentus new synonym, P. gowdeyi new synonym, and P. weissi sordidus new synonym.
25005940|Berosus oregonensis and B. hatchi are described as new. The identity of B. striatus (Say), B. stylifer Horn, and B. fraternus LeC. is discussed, and a new character given for identification of females of B. striatus (Say). A key is given for the species of Berosus known from California, Oregon, Idaho, Washington, and British Columbia.
25008913|The total behavioral catalog size of Leptothorax curvispinosus workers in a nest environment has been estimated by means of the Fagen-Goldman method of fitting frequency data to negative binomial and lognormal Poisson distributions. The worker repertory is characterized by a smaller number of rare behaviors in comparison with vertebrate repertories. This trait makes the preparation of an adequate ethogram much less time-consuming. The behavior of a partially bilateral worker-male gynandromorph is described and the estimation method used to show that its repertory is probably intermediate in size between those of full workers and males. The limitation of worker behaviors to the worker (as opposed to male) appendages suggests a bilateral as opposed to diffuse control of movement by the gynandromorph's brain. The advantages and difficulties of the estimation technique are then discussed.
25009245|The Mourning Cloak butterfly, Nymphalis antiopa L., is capable of soaring flight. The adults appear to recognise rising air currents and exhibit complex behaviour patterns to stay inside these systems. The soaring behaviour of N. antiopa is similar to that of monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus L.
25009422|Soil-dropping behavior by the arid lands ants, Novomessor albisetosus (Mayr), is considered as an example of tool use. Soil-dropping ceases to be a general response to any nest-threatening liquid beyond a certain distance from the nest. As petri dishes of distilled water and honey water are moved farther from the nest, ants stop dropping soil in water but continue doing so in honey water. Since soil dropped in honey water is brought back to the nest, soil-dropping serves the purpose of food retrieval. Questions concerning competitive adaptations must be considered cautiously.
25010260|The South American genus Paralycambes Kormilev (Coreidae: Meropachydinae: Spathophorini) is redescribed, and one new species P. pronotalis from Venezuela and Brazil is described. New records for P. misionensis are given. Dorsal habitus illustrations and drawings of antennae, head, pronotum, scutellum, mesothorax, metathorax, metathoracic peritreme and male and female genitalia are provided.
25004405|The corn billbug egg parasite, Anaphoidea calendr, is a monembryonic, gregarious, hymenopterous insect of the family Mymarid, parasitizing eggs of several species of Calendra, especially C. minima, C. parvula and C. callosa, all of which hosts are very destructive to corn, small grains and grasses. A usual number of parasites developing in one host-egg is seven-one male and six females. The species is able to perpetuate itself in the eggs of numerous additional species of beetles of this genus, and occasionally it matures three times the usual number, especially when parasitizing the eggs of the larger species. Its known distribution is such as to indicate that it is established throughout the eastern half of the United States. It has been found to destroy seventy-five per cent. of the billbug eggs in Agrostis alba, in which host plant of Calendra it has been most intensively studied. In the latitude of St. Louis, Mo., there are at least four generations annually, sometimes probably seven generations. The larv remain inactive from July, August, or September, pupating in the following spring.
25010342|Acamanthina, new genus, is described and illustrated from Chile and Argentina, and includes two species: A. acmanthes (Meyrick, 1931) (type species), new combination, and A. albipuncta, new species. Acmanthina can be distinguished from all other genera in Euliini by two external and one genitalia feature of the males: the absence of elongate scaling in the basal portion of the hindwing along veins 1A + 2A and CuP (present in the female), the possession of a fascicle of 17-20 extremely long sex scales (=hairpencil) concealed in a deep fold along the basal three-fifths of hindwing vein CuP, and the deep mesal excavation of the juxta. The new genus appears to be most closely related to Haemateulia Razowski.
25006134|The male genitalia of eight species of Criorhina Meigen (C. caudata Curran, C. kincaidi Coquillett, C. luna Lovett, C. lupina (Williston), C. nigripes (Williston), C. nigriventris Walton, C. tricolor Coquillett and C. verbosa (Walker)) are described. A key based on terminalia is provided for the species studied.
25009961|Pupal morphology is surveyed among 46 species of Notodontidae representing all currently-recognized subfamilies, and 24 phylogenetically informative characters are identified. Comparison of a previous notodontid subfamily phylogeny based on larval and adult morphology with one constructed from pupal data shows close concordance. Although it was not possible to identify a synapomorphy for the Notodontidae from pupae, this life stage provides a long list of potential synapomorphies useful at the subfamily level.
25006252|Zestusa dora (W. H. Edwards) (Hesperiidae) is closely associated with oak-juniper scrub in the southern Arizona mountains, where it was studied in April and May in Cochise Co., Arizona. Eggs and young larvae were found in April, 1969, on Quercus Emoryi Torrey and reared through on this and other species of Quercus. The beginning of the life cycle coincides with the beginning of the spring growth of the Quercus and also with wider availability of water. The adults drink water whenever possible but seldom visit flowers. Descriptions are given of the chief characteristics of the eggs, larvae and pupae. Structures on the dorsocaudal edge of the prothorax and around the prothoracic spiracle of the pupa are probably of generic importance.
25010335|A cladistic analysis based on 21 characters from the external morphology and male genitalia was undertaken in order to determine the status of the flea subgenera Ctenophthalmus (Alloctenus) and C. (Nearctoctenophthalmus). As a result of the analysis, Ctenophthalmus (Alloctenus) (=Nearctoctenophthalmus, new synonym) comprises nine species (in phylogenetic sequence): C. pseudagyrtes, C. sanborni, C. micropus, new status (from subspecies of C. pseudagyrtes), C. haagi, C. tecpin new species, C. caballeroi, C. cryptotis, C. expansus, and C. myodosus, new status (from subspecies of C. expansus). Biogeographic data indicate that two species (C. pseudagyrtes and C. micropus) are widespread in both the Nearctic and Neotropical regions, another (C. tecpin) is exclusively Nearctic, whereas the remaining six species are exclusively Neotropical. Within the latter, the monophyletic clade including those species previously assigned to C. (Alloctenus) is endemic to the Transvolcanic Mexican Belt. Host data indicate that the most primitive species are basically parasites of sigmodontine mice (Rodentia: Muridae)-secondarily associated with Talpidae and Soricidae (Insectivora)-whereas the most derived species are exclusive parasites of the shrew genus Cryptotis (Insectivora: Soricidae).
25009303|Near Ithaca, New York, Perillus circumcinctus reproduces in stands of Bidens cernua and Solidago spp. (Compositae) in early summer. Nymphs of this predator consume larvae and adults of the beetle Calligrapha californica coreopsivora (Chrysomelidae) in stands of B. cernua, and primarily larvae of Trirhabda spp. (Chrysomelidae) in stands of Solidago. Newly molted adults of P. circumcinctus in stands of Solidago are larger than newly molted adults of P. circumcinctus in stands of B. cernua. It is suggested that differences in the physical structure of the two habitats result in nymphs of P. circumcinctus experiencing more difficulty in harvesting prey in stands of B. cernua. Increased difficulty in harvesting prey results in smaller adult sizes.
25005963|Two new species are described, Eremobates bantai and Eremorhax puebloensis. In addition the female allotype of Hemerotrecha fruitana (Muma) is described. Hemerotrecha fruitana and Eremobates durangonus are found in Colorado for the first time.
25008925|Asaphomyia floridensis from Highlands County, Florida, is described as new. Asaphomyia includes only one other described species, A. texensis Stone, known from three counties in Texas. Chrysops dixianus, a species related to Chrysops pudicus Osten Sacken, is also described as new; specimens were seen from Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
25009792|The basic biology of Lopidea nigridea Uhler is described, including details of its growth, morphology, behavior, and ecology. Distribution and abundance of this univoltine, brightly colored plant bug were studied from May through August 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988, at 15 sites within the cirque and valley of Pike Creek, on the eastern scarp of Steens Mountain, southeastern Oregon. At Pike Creek, L. nigridea occurs only on the legume Lupinus caudatus Kellogg and feeds on the stems, undersides of leaves, flower parts and developing seeds of its lupine host plant. This paper describes the relation between L. nigridea and its host plant, and identifies the principal species of visually oriented arthropod predators that occur on or visit this lupine. These predators may function as operators selecting for the evolution of aposematism in L. nigridea, and the biology of this plant bug species is placed within the context of how protective resemblance functions in a natural community.
25009733|The genus Cavocoris is revised based on recent collections from Papua New Guinea, and its generic characters are compared to other endemic Papuan genera. Four new species are described: C. rotundatus, C. ibatiri, C. minor, and C. ismayi. A key to species, a species distribution map, and illustrations of key characters are provided.
25009981|The Palaearctic species Bembidion femoratum Sturm and Amara communis (Panzer) are reported for the first time from North America. The first species is known from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia since 1967 and the second from New Brunswick since 1988. Both species were probably introduced through nursery stock. A short description and comments are provided for each species.
25010071|The two Palaearctic species, Agonum kurnakovi Kryzhanovskij and Agonum punctibasis Reitter, are newly combined as members of the genus Anchomenus Bonelli. Descriptions, distributional data, and means to identify the species are presented. The species are included in a cladistic analysis with the other members of the Anchomenus clade; Tetraleucus picticornis Newman, 10 other species of Anchomenus, the 7 species of Sericoda Kirby, and the 11 species of Elliptoleus Bates. This analysis preserves relationships presented in Liebherr (1991) within and among the other three genera, but defines a new set of cladistic relationships within Old World Anchomenus. These relationships are used to define an area cladogram for the circum-Mediterranean region that is concordant with those of a variety of groups summarized by Oosterbroek and Arntzen (1992). Diversification of Palaearctic Anchomenus is explained in the context of geological evolution of the Mediterranean Sea during the Miocene.
25008938|Details of the nest of Thygater analis are described and diagramed. Information on cell provisions, larval feeding activity, defecation and cocoons is also given.
25009411|Previous studies of the mating system of the soldier beetle, Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus, have not considered spatial or temporal variation in sex ratio or the relative frequency of mating and single adults. These two attributes of the mating system were sampled at mid-day and again in the early evening thrice weekly throughout one adult flight season at two localities in Tennessee. Sex ratios were equivalent within days but became increasingly male biased as the season progressed. The proportion of all adults found copulating is about 5 times greater in the early evening than at mid-day. Some between-site differences were found.
25009963|A key to the Mexican and Central American species of the genus Cucullia is presented. The key is annotated with the geographical distribution of each species and supplemented with illustrations of the adults of each species.
25009536|The following new taxa are described: Aphyseteres nasutus. (Malaysia, Borneo); Calisius borneensis (Malaysia, Borneo); Dimorphacantha borneensis, (Malaysia, Borneo); Froeschnerissa, new genus for Froeschnerissa heveli (Malaysia, Borneo); Glochocoris borneensis (Malaysia, Borneo); Heissia new genus for Heissia rotundata (Nigeria), and Notapictinus dollingi (Costa Rica). The species Calisius stappersi Schouteden and its "var.?" are transferred to the genus Heissia as its second species. A key is given to separate the six known genera of Calisiinae.
25005981|This article is the result of a continuation of research on the tenuialids by the authors. The descriptions of Tenuiala crenulata, n. sp., and Tenuialoides medialis, n. gen., n. sp., are accompanied by figures and a revised key to the known genera and species of the family. Comparative details of the tibia-tarsus are figured for T. nuda, T. kurti, Hafenrefferia gilvipes (Koch), and Hafenferrefia nitidula (Banks). New collection localities are also noted.
25010097|Toonglasa indomita and Patritius osuna are described as new species from Mexico and Venezuela respectively. The former is noted to have spectacular elongate spines protruding from the posterior end of the male 8th abdominal segment. A discussion is included of the sexual dimorphism in species of Toonglasa and the reasons for this are hypothesized. New bamboo host plants are included for previously described species of Toonglasa.
25009696|Five new species of Polycentropus (Trichoptera: Polycentropodidae) from Costa Rica are described and illustrated: P. fasthi, P. fortispinus, P. nebulosus, P. volcanus, and P. zurqui. In addition, P. digitus Yamamoto, P. fortunus Flint, and P. mayanus Flint are recorded from Costa Rica for the first time. Also, P. acanthogaster Flint, P. altmani Yamamoto, P. costaricensis Flint, P. dentoides Yamamoto, P. lingulatus Flint, and P. spicatus Yamamoto occur or are likely to occur in the country.
25010317|The genus Peritrechus Fieber in North America is represented by five species, one of which Peritrechus pilosulus from California, Oregon and British Columbia is described as new. The species P. saskatchewanensis Barber is synonymized with P. convivus (Stl), the latter being naturally Holarctic. A key to the species of Peritrechus in North America is included. The Palaearctic P. oshanini Kiritshenko is reinstated as a valid species.
25010373|The genera Praocidia Fairmaire and Pilobaloderes Kulzer (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in the Andes of northern Peru, are revised. Both genera are transferred from the Nycteliini to Praocini on the basis of new tribal level characters. Character states of Praocidia and Pilobaloderes shared with the other genera of Praocini and not shared with genera of Nycteliini are discussed. Redescriptions of the genera, their three species, keys, habitus photographs and illustrations of body and male genitalia are included.
25009382|This paper is the first comprehensive description of the histology of the male reproductive systems of the adults and pupae of the doryline ants, Dorylus (Anomma) wilverthi, and D. (A.) nigricans. The reproductive systems consist of the testes and vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, and the aedeagal bladder. The numbers of testicular follicles, the microanatomy of the organs, the types and amounts of secretions in the lumina of the organs, as well as the presence or absence of spermatozoa, are compared in the adults and pupae of these two species. Although smilarities exist, significant differences are found in the microanatomy of the organs, in the types and amounts of secretions produced, and between organs of the adults and pupae. The histology is also compared with that in the Old World Aenictus gracilis, the New World Neivamyrmex harrisi, and other studies of Old and New World dorylines. Important differences exist between the male reproductive systems of the two African Dorylus species herein studied and the New World N. harrisi. The Dorylus species have a larger number of testicular follicles, the organs of the system are more complex and produce both acidophilic and basophilic secretions, the entrance of the ejaculatory duct into the aedeagal bladder, and the formation of a new dorsal duct at the posterior end of the bladder are different from those in other dorylines.
25009342|Navarrus ater, a new Ethiopian species, is described in a formerly monotypic genus known only from the Oriental Region and New Guinea. Characters are presented to distinguish N. ater from N. phaeophilus, the type species of the genus. A dorsal view drawing of the holotype of N. ater is provided.
25010336|The South American tribe Nycteliini (Pimeliinae) comprises nine genera distributed from central Peru to southern Argentina and Chile: Gyriosomus Gurin-Mneville, Pilobalia Burmeister, Entomoderes Solier, Nyctelia Latreille, Epipedonota Solier, Psectrascelis Solier, Scelidospecta Kulzer, Auladera Solier, and Mitragenius Solier. A cladistic analysis of the genera of Nycteliini is conducted, including 93 characters and 11 terminal taxa because two of the genera are treated as two terminal units: Epipedonota and Mitragenius. The one most parsimonious cladogram obtained shows that Nycteliini is a monophyletic group characterized by two synapomorphies from internal morphology and female genitalia. The generic relationships are resolved and the genus Mitragenius appears as non-monophyletic. The results suggest that the species of Nycteliini should be arranged best in 11 genera. The study confirms the importance of the use of new characters, such as genital structures and internal morphology in the classification of Tenebrionidae. The paper includes a discussion of the phylogeny of the tribe and information on evolution of thoracic endosternites was used along the tree to analyze evolutionary patterns.
25005882|This widely distributed and common ant of crepuscular habit, Aphaenogaster (Attomyrma) megommatus, n. sp., is described from workers collected one mile north of Camp Foster, Pyramid Lake, Washoe County, Nevada. It has also been collected in Nye and Pershing counties of the same state and also in Malheur county, Oregon; Yuma county, Arizona and Inyo county, California. The species is characterized by its extraordinarily large eyes, "callow like" color and obsolescent epinotal spines. The ant bears a superficial resemblance to Aph. (A.) boulderensis M. R. Sm. and could well be mistaken for that western species.
25009916|Gas chromatographic-mass spectral analyses were performed on Tenax-trapped male specific volatiles (putative pheromones) from sympatrically collected Ligyrocoris diffusus (Uhler), Ligyrocoris sylvestris (L.) and a group of males intermediate in morphotype, assumed to be hybrids between the two species. Three distinct chemical profiles containing a total of nine insect-derived components were obtained. Two components/peaks were seen in all three chromatograms. Of the remaining seven components, three exhibited by L. diffusus were not shown by L. sylvestris; similarly four were L. sylvestris specific. The volatiles from the presumed hybrid males gave a biochemically hybrid profile, sharing two of the four L. sylvestris specific components and all three of the L. diffusus specific peaks. Quantitative as well as qualitative differences and commonalities were found among these two Ligyrocoris species and the hybrid. These data, in conjunction with preliminary analyses of male volatiles from Perigenes constrictus (Say) and Slaterobius insignis (Uhler), representatives of two genera both closely related to Ligyrocoris, suggest that these male specific scent compounds may be a useful biochemical character system for systematic analysis in the Rhyparochrominae.
25009690|Two heteropteran species native to western North America, the pentatomid Prionosoma podopioides Uhler and the rhopalid Aufeius impressicollis Stl, are recorded for the first time from southeastern United States. Populations of P. podopioides are reported from northern South Carolina on bracted plantain, Plantago aristata Michx., documenting the suspected host relationship for this species; A. impressicollis is reported from the same area on Palmer amaranth, Amaranthus palmeri S. Wats. Hosts of both heteropterans are native western plants naturalized in the Southeast.
25009507|The first authentic report is given for the halticine plant bug, Orthocephalus saltator (Hahn) (Heteroptera: Miridae), in North America from Canada: New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, and the United States: New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Male parameres are illustrated and diagnoses are provided to help separate O. saltator from the holarctic Orthocephalus coriaceus (Fabricius). Previous records of O. saltator from Alaska are considered misidentifications of Irbisia sericans Stal.
25006140|Seven new species of the lepturine genus Strangalia Audinet-Serville are described from Mexico and Guatemala and the genus is characterized. New species are: Strangalia auripilis; bicolorella; cavaventra; dolicops; gracilis; palaspina; pulchra.
25008986|A diagnosis is given for the genus Trichopepla; an identification key and descriptions are provided for seven species.
25006015|The nervous system of the thoracic segments of the larva of Prodenia litura is described. The dorsal and transverse nerves remain connected to each other at three points through three connectives. But in the prothoracic segment, there is no transverse nerve, so that the dorsal nerve establishes a connection with subconnective nerve by a plexus. Ordinarily no connection is found between the dorsal and ventral nerve but in the prothoracic segment, such a connection is established at one point.
25009899|Tatochila theodice occurs in central Chile and (as three nominal subspecies) in Argentina from northwestern Patagonia to the Beagle Channel. It is unusual in its lineage in feeding on Leguminosae, including native species of Vicia and Lathyrus and probably introduced Trifolium. The early stages are so different from other known Tatochila that generic recognition may be warranted. The unusual distribution of the species can be understood in terms of glacial-interglacial vegetation dynamics in southern South America. The evolutionary basis for repeated switching from Cruciferous to Leguminous hosts in the Andean Pierini is not understood.
25009574|Pierphulia rosea annamariea is a very small pierine from the Peruvian highlands, whose entire life history is highly aberrant. The egg, larva, and pupa and various aspects of the behavior and ecology of immatures and adults are described. The larva, a Crucifer feeder, is skipper-like in appearance and habits and lives in an individual silken nest within rosettes of the host. The pupa is rounded and is formed in a loose cocoon. Adults lay very few, very large eggs but may live more than three weeks. Growth is exceptionally slow, requiring as much as half again longer from egg to adult as pierines twice the size, reared under the same conditions.
25010322|Two new species of Campsicnemus are proposed from the Marquesas (C. limnobates and C. uncleremus), which are related to the previously described Campsicnemus scurra Parent from Nuku Hiva in the Marquesas. All are water skaters on pools and streamlets. All three species are described and illustrated and a key to the known Campsicnemus of the Marquesas is provided.
25006090|Melanism appears to be becoming predominant in the population of this moth in northeastern Connecticut, and to be acting as a genetic dominant. Counts are given of wild-caught individuals and of a batch of individuals reared from a very strongly melanistic, wild-caught female.
25010215|The imago of Proceroplatus belluus n. sp. from Panama, a Keroplatidae with myrmecophagous larvae, is described. Other than its biology, the species is remarkable by its pectinate antennae, up to now unknown in Proceroplatus. Its taxonomic position is discussed; the species belongs to an inferred monophyletic group comprising two other species from Paraguay and Bolivia.
25009259|Eucerceris ferruginosa Scullen is removed from synonymy with E. nevadensis (Dalla Torre). E. baja Scullen is the male and a junior synonym of E. ferruginosa. E. nevadensis mojavensis Scullen (New Status) is the correct name for the taxon north of Mexico previously referred by authors to E. nevadensis ferruginosa nec Scullen. The following synonymy is presented: E. lacunosa Scullen (=E. lacunosa sabinasae Scullen, New synonym); E. morula Scullen (=E. morula albarenae Scullen, New synonym); E. superba Cresson (=E. bicolor Cresson, =Cerceris dichroa Dalla Torre, New synonyms); E. canaliculata (Say) (=E. zimapanensis Scullen, New synonym). The male of E. lapazensis Scullen is characterized, and the distribution of several species is discussed.
25009584|Eight species of entomogenous fungi were tested for infectivity to the larvae of Scolytus multistriatus. Larvae were inoculated with varying dosages by immersing them in spore suspensions and then incubated at 21C. High levels of mortality were obtained for most of the test species; Cordyceps militaris was not infective under these conditions. Increased spore concentrations of the test fungi did not significantly affect percentage mortality with 7 of the 11 strains of the fungal species tested. Varying temperatures produced complex effects on the host-parasite relationship.
25009328|Two-day-old adult and first-instar larval codling moths were assayed for ability to detect and avoid resource sites (=apples) already occupied by conspecifics (i.e., host discrimination). Under laboratory conditions, adults oviposited as readily in the presence of conspecific eggs and larvae as in their absence. Similarly, newly hatched first-instar larvae, when released in laboratory arenas, located and attempted to mount and bore into apples regardless of the presence or absence of older conspecific larvae. We contrast codling moth behavior and ecology with that of two other insect parasites of apple that are known to host-discriminate, the apple maggot fly and the European apple sawfly.
25005966|A chromatographic analysis was made of the hemolymph, muscle, and fat body of the cockroach Leucophaea maderae, for purines, pyrimidines, and their derivatives. Positive identification was based on the distribution pattern of spots and spectral absorption curves of eluates. No purines or pyrimidines, except uric acid, were positively identified in the hemolymph. Adenosine, AMP, ADP, ATP, and NAD were identified in muscle and fat body extracts and their concentrations in muscle estimated. The average concentrations, expressed as g/g of wet muscle, are AMP, 45.89; ADP, 72.51; ATP, 57.71; and NAD, 19.54. Uric acid was also identified in fat body extracts. Pyridoxal phosphate may be present in the fat body and muscle.
25009368|The antennal sensilla and setae of both sexes of Solva pallipes are described using SEM. Sexual dimorphism is evident on the first flagellomere and its functional significance is postulated.
25008889|The paper contains the descriptions of five new species of Gigantodax from high elevations in the northern Andes.
25009890|The subgenera and satellite genera of Solenopsis are reviewed. Synonymy under Solenopsis of all subgenera and of the genera Bisolenopsis, Synsolenopsis, Paranamyrma, and Labauchena is confirmed. Certain placement of the genus Lilidris, known from a single alate female, will require study of additional material, but Lilidris appears to be distinct from Solenopsis. The fire ants and their close relatives, S. substituta and S. tridens, are collectively designated as the S. geminata species group, which together with the parasitic S. daguerrei group (Labauchena) form a monophyletic lineage. S. virulens, a species phenetically similar to minors of S. saevissima, is also included in this revision, though it probably does not belong in the S. geminata group. Four native species, 2 introduced species, and 2 hybrid forms occur in North America. Seventeen species are known from South America. A key to major workers and illustrations of all species are included. Notes on the identification of queens are provided where these are sufficiently distinctive. The native North American species are S. aurea Wheeler, S. amblychila Wheeler new status, S. geminata (Fabricius), and S. xyloni (MacCook), and the introduced species are S. invicta Buren and S. richteri Forel from South America. S. xyloni  geminata and S. invicta  richteri are the hybrid forms. S. invicta  richteri is abundant and highly fertile in parts of Alabama, Mississippi and northwestern Georgia in North America, but this hybrid has not been observed in South America, even though the parent species have overlapping distributions in at least Santa F Province, Argentina. In South America, only S. bruesi Creighton new status, S. gayi (Spinola), S. geminata and S. weyrauchi new species occur in or to the west of the Andes. The latter is unusual in that it occurs at elevations up to 3,500 m or higher in the Peruvian Andes. To the east of the Andes are found S. electra Forel new status, S. geminata, S. interrupta Santschi, S. invicta, S. macdonaghi Santschi new status, S. megergates new species, S. pusillignis new species, S. pythia Santschi, S. quinquecuspis Forel, S. richteri, S. saevissima F. Smith, S. substituta Santschi new status, and S. tridens Forel. With the exception of S. geminata, S. saevissima, and S. invicta (at least part of whose geographic range is in the rain forest region) most of the South American species are endemic to the monsoon tropics or warm temperate regions of the southern part of the continent. S. virulens (F. Smith) new status, probably not a member of the S. geminata group but superficially resembling them, inhabits the forests of Amazonia.
25010431|The Blastopsocus semistriatus species complex is diagnosed and the four known species in the United States and Canada are described, three of them named as new to science. A key to the U.S. and Canadian species is included.
25006191|The high magnification of the scanning microscope reveals that the first two antennal segments each have a sensillum placodeum, while the fourth and the fifth, the last two, each have a sensillum coelonicum. These latter sensilla are partially covered by protective plates, and from the floor of each a peg organ arises. On the apex of the peg there is a ring of eleven rudimentary hairs, and the wall of the atrium is reticulate. The third segment of the male has a distal, preaxial angled extension which bears a tooth.
25006210|The males and females of Solenopotes capillatus Enderlein were studied with the scanning electron microscope. It was found that the abdomenal integument was similar to the sclerotic, squamous texture described in Linognathus vituli and L. taurotragus, rather than the membranous appearance previously reported. The sternal region was found to have the same texture as the abdomen. Campaniform organs were found on the lower surface of each trochanter as had been reported for other Anoplura. A campaniform organ was also seen on the second antennal segment. The antennal sensorium on each of the last two segments were found to be sensilla coeloconica, the pegs of which terminate in an average of 11 projections from its apex. A small torus-shaped structure with a central projection was seen on the fifth or terminal segment; this has not been previously described.
25009927|Adults and first through fifth instars of Pelocoris poeyi were collected from two localities in Amazonian Ecuador. Immatures occurred syntopically with adults and were found among vegetation in standing water. The existence of five nymphal instars was confirmed with Discriminant Function Analysis based on a suite of external mensural characters. Eggs have two partially fused, coiled micropyles at the anterior pole. First instars are impunctate, whereas the remaining instars are punctate in discrete patterns. Second through fifth instars are separable based on relative length of the mesonotal wingpad compared with the exposed part of the metanotal lateral margin. Scanning electron micrographs of eggs are presented and all immature stages described and illustrated.
25009613|Hippodamia variegata (Goeze), an Old World member of the tribe Coccinellini, is recorded as established in North America in the vicinity of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Identification characteristics are given and its relationship to native North American species is discussed.
25006183|The effects of three humidities and three temperatures were tested on the longevity of both sexes of two strains of Musca domestica L. House flies survive longest at the combination of the lowest temperature (15C) and the highest humidity tested (97%). Their longevity is least at the highest temperature (35C) and lowest humidity (7%) combination, and the intermediate temperature-humidity combinations are intermediate in effect on longevity with the effect of temperature in all cases greater than the effect of humidity. There is no difference in longevity between the insecticide resistant and susceptible strains tested. The factor of desiccation appears to be the primary mechanism involved in determining longevity with temperature determining the rate.
25010536|Certain Holoptilini (Reduviidae: Holoptilinae) have long been believed to attract and paralyze ants through secretions released from a sternal structure on the abdomen termed a "trichome." In this study, the trichome for adults of Ptilocnemus lemur is examined in detail, the first time in any Holoptilini. The trichome comprises a median elevation on abdominal sternite 2, a transverse groove, a median projection on sternite 3, and four groups of setae and hair-like projections. The hair-like projections (hairs of group 3 and 4) are shown to be associated with a layer of glandular units, which may be the source of ant-attracting or paralyzing secretions. Apart from these glandular units, a second type of glands is present on the sternum. These so far undocumented glandular units are arranged in distinct areas on the pregenitalic sternites, and are conspicuous by their large pores. Nymphs of P. lemur do not possess a trichome, but the glandular areas on the pregenitalic segments are already present.
25010470|The type species of Acolhua is discussed. The specimens considered to represent the type species Acolhua championi Distant by Slater & Brailovsky (1986) are shown to represent a previously undescribed species described as A. barrerai new species. The actual type species of Acolhua championi (Distant) is redescribed from Mexico.
25009608|The basic biology of the myrmecomorph Orectoderus obliquus Uhler (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) is described, including details of its growth, morphology, phenology, distribution and behavior. We document the temporal relation of O. obliquus to its host plant, Penstemon procerus brachycanthus (Pennell) Cronq., as well as to species of ants and visual predators that may serve as models and operators in a Batesian mimicry system including O. obliquus. The morphological and behavioral correspondence between various stages of the myrmecomorph and the six most common species of potential ant models is described.
25009003|From 25 to 30 sense organs are present on each antennal flagellum of a female bird louse, Craspedorrhynchus americanus Emerson. About half of them are clustered at the apex of the third (distal) flagellar subsegment. Tactile hairs, thick-walled chemoreceptors, thin-walled chemoreceptors and coeloconic chemoreceptors can be identified.
25009437|The five nymphal instars of Ormenaria rufifascia (Walker) are described and illustrated. A key to instars and comparisons of the morphology of 5 genera of U.S. flatid nymphs are provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include spination of metatibiae and metatarsomeres, numbers of metatarsomeres and abdominal waxpads, and differences in body and wingpad sizes. One generation per year was observed in south Florida. Average developmental times (x  SD) for the first-fifth instars are 23  2.2, 20  2.0, 19  2.3, 24  1.9, and 8  1.1 days, respectively. Mean adult longevity is 12  1.6 days. Of 13 palm species and one non-palm plant studied, only Sabal palmetto (Walt.) Lodd. and Latania lontaroides (Gaertn.) H. E. Moore served as breeding hosts for O. rufifascia.
25009750|Ricinuleids from primary and secondary dryland forest soils in the region of Manaus represented two species: (1) Cryptocellus becki with 94 specimens, mostly juveniles, maximum abundance 38 ind./${\rm m}^{2}$, and predominantly obtained during the dry season and (2) Cryptocellus adisi with 17 specimens, mostly juveniles, up to 10 ind./${\rm m}^{2}$, and more frequent during the dry season. These sympatric species appear to be separated in their mutual habitat by spatial differences, with C. becki inhabiting mostly the organic soil layer and the smaller C. adisi the mineral subsoil. C. becki showed no distinct reproductive period and its first stage of development occurred throughout the year.
25010157|Arthropod succession was observed on whole rat carcasses euthanized by
25009352|The American species of Acrosternum Fieber, 1860, are placed in the subgenus Chinavia Orian, 1965, the latter taxon being elevated from synonymy. Chinavia is redefined, a key provided for the 51 nominal species of the Western Hemisphere and a description or diagnosis provided for each species. One nominal species is removed from Acrosternum. The species cataloged by Kirkaldy as Nezara (Acrosternum) hebes Bergroth, 1891, is a junior synonym of Piezodorus guildinii (Westwood, 1837). Additional new synonymy recognized is: Nezara nigritarsis Stl, 1872, as a junior synonym of Acrosternum (Chinavia) grave (Walker, 1867). Species described in the genus Nezara and here given new combinations as species of Acrosternum subgenus Chinavia are: fuscopunctatum (Breddin, 1901), longicorialis (Breddin, 1901), nigridorsatum (Breddin, 1901), nigropictum (Breddin, 1906) panamensis (Distant, 1890) and rogenhoferi (Stl, 1872). The following 23 species are new: aseadum, australe, bellum, brasicola, callosum, collis, ecuadorensis, esmeraldum, euri, froeschneri, insulani, istum, macdonaldi, monticola, occasi, occultum, pecosum, pengue, plaumanni, simplicis, teretis, ubicum and wygodzinskyi.
25009108|Fowler, Harold G., Department of Entomology & Economic Zoology, Rutgers-The State University, New Brunswick, New Jersey 80903 U.S.A.-Leaf-cutters construct and maintain well defined foraging trails, which can be easily quantified. To examine the relationship between ant activity and trail measurements, colonies of eight species of Atta and Acromyrmex were examined. A significant correlation was found between leaf inputs per day and colony trail measurements (trail development). Also, the number of ants returning unladen was also correlated with the degree of trail development. Unladen ants have been postulated to comprise the trail maintenance force. However, no correlation was found between trail development and the proportion of ants returning unladen. This suggests that no predictions can be formulated concerning the proportion of foragers that must be diverted to trail maintenance.
25010093|Parthenogenesis as previously known in five genera of Chrysomelidae (Leaf Beetles) is reviewed. Evidence is presented for a new case of parthenogenesis in Chrysomelidae, Longitarsus melanurus (Melsheimer), recorded feeding on an introduced plant, Echium vulgare Linnaeus (Boraginaceae), in Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia.
25010547|Nine new species of Philotarsus Kolbe are described from southwestern United States, Mxico, and Guatemala. Garcialdretia n. gen. is erected for 'Philotarsus' jamaicensis Turner (Jamaica), 'Philotarsus' dardanus (Banks) (Hispaniola), 'Haplophallus' jarevianus Garca Aldrete (western Mxico) and three new species, two from eastern Mxico and one from Puerto Rico. North American records of Philotarsus picicornis (Fabricius) in Mockford (1993) are mis-identifications of P. parviceps Roesler. Keys to the subfamilies of Philotarsidae, the genera of Philotarsinae, the North and Middle American species of Philotarsus and the known species of Garcialdretia are included. Phylogenetic and biogeographic aspects of the new taxonomic information are briefly discussed. The fossil species Philotarsus antiquus Kolbe is transferred to Philotarsopsis Tillyard.
25010390|The results of a computerized cladistic analysis of the Nearctic checkered beetle genus Aulicus Spinola (Coleoptera: Cleridae: Clerinae) are presented. Seventeen adult morphological characters (7 multistate, 10 binary) were used to investigate the cladistic relationships of the fifteen valid species of Aulicus. Two Nearctic species of the genus Trichodes Herbst were used as outgroup taxa. Cladistic analysis with the parsimony computer program NONA yielded three equally parsimonious trees, each with thirteen nodes supported by unambiguous character optimizations, and having length 64, consistency index 50, and retention index 52. The strict consensus of these three trees has eleven resolved nodes.
25010454|The following seven new species of Miridae from British Columbia and Alaska are described and documented with scanning electron micrographs, illustrations of the male genitalia, and dorsal habitus photographs: Dichaetocoris gillespiei n. sp., Macrotylus shelabenae n. sp., Melanotrichus robineaui n. sp., Parthenicus lalannei n. sp., P. thibodeaui n. sp., Orthotylus flemingi n. sp., and Tupiocoris killamae n. sp., The new synonymy Adelphocoris rapidus (Say) 1832 [Capus] = Adelphocoris superbus (Uhler) 1875 [Calocoris], Adelphocoris superbus var. borealis Van Duzee 1917, Adelphocoris dinsmorei Bliven, 1959, and Adelphocoris idahoensis Bliven, 1959 is proposed.
25005965|Six new species of the Eriopterine genus Ormosia Rondani are described, including Ormosia (Ormosia) kashmiri n. sp., from Kashmir; O. (O.) nyctopoda n. sp., from Pakistan; O. (O.) moghalensis n. sp., O. (O.) harsha n. sp., and O. (O.) rhaphidis n. sp., from Kumaon; O. (O.) setaxilla n. sp., from Sikkim.
25009240|In February of 1979, two individual larvae of Hydropsyche sp. (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae) were collected from submerged aquatic plants in Conesus Lake, N.Y. at 1.8 m in depth where they may have survived for as long as ten months. No previous report on these organisms suggests that they occur in such a situation. It is possible that their absence from lake weed beds is due to factors other than simply unfavorable environment.
25005890|During the metamorphosis of the house fly, both glycogen and fat are used as direct energy sources. At 25C., the percentage of glycogen decreases from 0.99 in the prepupa to 0.34 in the 2-day pupa. It increases to 0.54 during the next 24 hrs. at the expense of fat and then diminishes to 0.28 in the newly emerged adult. The percentage of fat increases from 8.72 in the 6-day larva to 12.39 in the 1-day pupa. A loss of 2.8% occurs at the time glycogen increases and another loss of 2.6% occurs during the change from the 4-day pupa to the adult. These decreases are greater than required for the production of glycogen and for the loss of fat in the puparium and pupal skin on emergence.
25009151|Oosorption in Brachymeria intermedia (Nees) is photoperiodically induced by a short photophase. Low temperatures enhance the effects of photoperiod. Oocyte resorption proceeded more quickly at lower temperatures. Preconditioning of immature stages within its host or of young adults has an effect on rate of oocyte resorption.
25009482|The stink bug genus Serdia is divisible into two subgenera: Brasiliicola Kirkaldy and Serdia Stl. Keys for the separation of each and their included species are provided. To the 7 previously known species of Serdia we add 6 new species, all placed in the nominate subgenus: lobata from Brazil, ruckesi from Peru, quadridens from Peru, delphis from Ecuador, beckeri from Panama and Costa Rica, and bihamulata from Venezuela.
25005936|Observations were made on a nuptial flight of the ant Prenolepis imparis (Say) on March 5 at Blacksburg, Virginia. Average temperature during the flight period was an estimated 70 F. Observations were made on the mating activities of 55 females. Detailed observations were made on the wing-shedding process in one female. Observations on this flight were compared with those made earlier in Missouri by Talbot.
25009034|9-14% of all female Bathyplectes anurus, curculionis and stenostigma dissected had non-functional ovaries, rendering them sterile. The presence of these individuals in a population has a detrimental impact on the parasitoid's ability to control their host, the alfalfa weevil.
25010523|Six new species of Amnestus Dallas from the Mexican states of Campeche, Chiapas, Hidalgo, and Veracruz are described. Illustrations of adults and diagnostic characters of the head, prosternal carina, pronotum, legs, parameres, and methatoracic scent gland are provided. Distribution and notes about their biology are included.
25006034|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Trentepohlia (Mongoma) amphinipha n. sp., from Sikkim; T. (M.) patens n. sp., Assam; T. (Trentepohlia) infernalis n. sp., Sikkim; Gymnastes (Gymnastes) anticaniger n. sp., Sikkim; G. (G.) cyaneus nilgiricus n. subsp., South India; G. (G.) latifuscus n. sp., Assam; and G. (G.) tridens n. sp., Thailand.
25009655|The species of the genus Entedon are revised for America north of Mexico. Eighteen species are recognized and a key is presented. Two species previously known from Europe (methion Walker and stephanopachi Heqvist) are present in North America as well as an additional species (ergias Walker) imported for biological control of smaller European elm bark beetle. Eight species are described as new (ashmeadi, ernobii, genei, procerus, pecki, darleneae, teedoe, and anthonomi). Lectotypes are designated for Entedon bigeloviae Ashmead, E. occidentalis Girault, E. tachypterelli Gahan, Pleurotropis leucopus Ashmead, and Eriglyptus robustus Crawford. Species of Entedon are primary parasites of a variety of beetles and one is known to attack Hymenoptera (Tenthredinidae). The known host species are indexed by family with their respective parasites.
25009984|In most hyperparasitoids, the female wasp attacks the primary parasitoid host either while the parasitized aphid is still alive or after the mummy is formed. Aphidencyrtus aphidivorus (Mayr) had been known to have a "dual" ovipositional behavior. Whether the adult female wasp attacked the primary parasitoid host through a live parasitized aphid or a mummified aphid, her egg was always deposited inside the host larva and not on the surface. The egg hatched inside the host larva, whereupon the hyperparsitoid larva first fed endophagously, and then ectophagously until the primary host larva was consumed. In "choice" experiments, 82% of the female A. aphidivorus wasps preferred to attack the primary parasitoid larva through the mummy, while only 18% chose the live parasitized aphids for oviposition.
25008859|Collection records for a number of Sphecidae and Pompilidae from western Canada and Alaska are presented. These records represent northward and westward extensions of the known ranges of these species.
25010457|The life cycle of Repipta flavicans and R. taurus was studied under laboratory conditions. The laboratory biology was studied at two temperatures for R. flavicans and one for R. taurus. A rearing method for both species was established. Descriptions and illustrations of all immature stages are presented for the first time. Notes on field biology are also included.
25006184|Rhynchophorus palmarum attacks coconut trees, papaya trees and is a vector of red ring disease of palms. Xanthopygus cognatus, whose eggs are laid in coconut and papaya stems, is an egg and larval predator of R. palmarum. Both larvae and adults of X. cognatus will feed on the eggs of the coconut weevil, and the adults of the staphylinid will eat the larval weevils. Although X. cognatus shows a feeding preference for the coconut weevil, it is not completely host specific and will eat other prey when the weevil is unavailable. The staphylinid is amenable to mass rearing in insectaries. To aid in its identification, a brief description of X. cognatus is provided.
25010042|Adult male and female genitalia and first through fifth instar nymphs of the delphacid planthopper Harmalia anacharsis Fennah, collected from Amazon swordplant (Echinodorus paniculatus Micheli, Alismataceae) in southern Florida, are described and illustrated, and a key to instars is provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions; spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, and metatarsomeres; and number of metatarsomeres.
25010199|The types of Edwards' species of Chilean and southern Argentinean Scatopsidae are redescribed and illustrated: Ectaetia cornuta Edwards, Scatopse setifera Edwards, Scatopse tubifera Edwards, Scatopse constricta Edwards, and Anapausis fuscinervis (Edwards). Notes on each type are added, and the generic position of each species is discussed. Ectaetia cornuta and Anapausis fuscinervis maintain their present generic placements. New combinations are proposed for Pararhexosa tubifera (Edwards), n.comb. and Neorhegmoclemina constricta (Edwards), n.comb. The holotype of Scatopse tubifera, described as a male, is actually a female. A new genus-Holoclema, n.gen.-is erected to include Scatopse setifera (Edwards). Holoclema is considered to be the sister group of the remaining Rhegmoclematini. The Neotropical species Rhexosa panamensis (Cook) and Rhexosa auricularis (Duda) are transferred to the formerly monotypic genus Abrhexosa Freeman, originally described for a single Oriental species. Additional distribution data for some species is supplied. S. maritima and S. costaricana are considered incertae sedis in Scatopsinae until their types can be examined.
25009241|The mature larva of Agrotis volubilis Harvey (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is described and illustrated. Achillea millefolium L. was found to be an acceptable host. Late instar larvae became more general, accepting Vaccinium vacillans Torr. and Oenothera biennis L. Larvae were fullgrown by the 20th of July (52 days), but would not pupate. They remained healthy through October, when they were placed in out-of-door cages; the larvae failed to overwinter.
25010223|Four new species of Stenomacra Stal from Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Brazil are described and illustrated. Stenomacra cliens (Stal), Stenomacra gracilis Schmidt, and Stenomacra marginella var. mexicana Schmidt are synonymized under Stenomacra marginella (Herrich-Schaeffer); Theraneis ferruginea Mayr is transferred to the genus Stenomacra and synonymized under Stenomacra scapha (Perty); Theraneis dissimilis Distant is transferred to the genus Stenomacra, resulting on the new combination Stenomacra dissimilis (Distant). New distributional data are included for each species. A key to the known species of Stenomacra is also given.
25005941|Six new species from Kumaon, Nepal, and Sikkim, all belonging to the Eriopterine genus Ormosia Rondani, are described. These are Ormosia (Oreophila) stenostyla, and five species belonging to a new subgenus Parormosia, O. (P.) leucoplagia, O. (P.) leucostictula, O. (P.) mahabharatae, O. (P.) peramata, and O. (P.) perdiffusa.
25009366|The goldenrods Solidago bicolor and S. nemoralis are scarce in the old-field habitat of a goldenrod leaf beetle, Trirhabda virgata LeConte, in central New York. Two additional species, S. caesia and S. flexicaulis, are wholly restricted to woodlands. In the laboratory only S. bicolor supported complete development and reproduction by T. virgata, but this plant was an inferior host compared to five common meadow goldenrods that had been tested previously. Nine Solidago spp. can be ranked in four categories of suitability for T. virgata. Host quality is not well correlated with taxonomic affinities of the plants.
25005928|A malformed left ovary is described, in which the number of ovarioles has become reduced, the left lateral oviduct is absent, and the corresponding seminal receptacle is attached to the right lateral oviduct near the right seminal receptacle.
25006122|Coatonachthodes ovambolandicus, a new genus and species of termitophilous Staphylinidae (Subfamily Aleocharinae, Tribe Corotocini, Subtribe Corotocina), is described from Ovamboland, South-West Africa associated with Fulleritermes contractus (Sjoestedt). This is the first record of a termitophile from the nests of Fulleritermes. Its host relationships, its zoogeographic significance, and its remarkable resemblance to termite workers is discussed.
25010471|Five new genera and five new species from New Guinea and New Britain are described, illustrated, and included in the tribe Colpurini. Base on the morphology of the female abdominal sternite VII the Colpurini is divided into two large groups, the first with plica and fissura include 22 genera and the second without plica and fissura include 20 genera, plus the five here described.
25009533|The genus Stylopomiris and the included species froeschneri, indochinensis, and malayensis are described as new. The male genitalic structures of all species are illustrated, and a dorsal habitus provided for the female of malayensis. Scanning electron micrographs of the metaepisternal scent efferent system and the pretarsal structure document the placement of the genus in the tribe Eccritotarsini.
25006181|One species, Hydrozetes laccosis, is described from plankton net collections from City Park Lake, Fort Collins, Colo. and is compared with European and New World forms. It has 16 pairs of notogastral setae in contrast to 17 pairs in H. dimorphus Hammer, 1962, 15 pairs in H. parisiensis Grandjean, 1948, and 11 pairs in H. mollicoma Hammer, 1958, H. lemnae (Coggi) 1898 and H. petrunkevitchi Newell 1945. The extant new species is shorter in length than most other species, except lemnae. The fossil species, H. oryktosis, is described from three cotype specimens extracted from peaty sediments of a mastodon site (Mammut americanus) in Lapeer Co., the Thumb region of Michigan; estimated age 10,750  400 years B.P. by C-14 dating. The fossil differs from extant species in the eight pairs of genital setae and two pairs of widely spaced aggenital hairs.
25009932|The life cycles of Chlorops certimus and Epichlorops exilis are described and illustrated. The adults are found in freshwater marshes where their host plants, species of the sedge genus Carex, occur. Eggs are deposited on the sheathing leaves of the host, and the larvae are stem borers. Both species are univoltine, overwintering as nearly mature larvae near the base of the sedge culm. Puparia are formed within the culm, and adults emerge in northeastern Ohio in early to mid-June.
25010356|Two species of Lachesilla, in the group andra, collected in Central Mexico (Queretaro and Morelos-Oaxaca-Puebla, respectively), are here described and illustrated. The types are deposited in the National Insect Collection, Instituto de Biologia, UNAM, Mexico City.
25009176|Liriomyza trifoliearum Spencer, a native serpentine leafminer of alfalfa in the USA and Canada exists at low population densities. In 1978 the density averaged 0.2 mines per stem with a maximum of 1.3 mines per stem. It is controlled biologically (63% parasitism over a 4-year period) by 17 native parasite species plus 2 from Europe that recently were established against Agromyza frontella (Rondani). A list is provided of recovered parasite species and numbers of hosts parasitized by each species.
25009576|Tepa vanduzeei is described as new from the western United States and Mexico; Thyanta punctiventris Van Duzee is placed in the synonymy of Tepa rugulosa (Say); and Thyanta coloradensis Bliven is placed in the synonymy of Tepa jugosa (Van Duzee). Lectotype and paralectotype designations are made for Thyanta brevis Van Duzee and Thyanta punctiventris. Tepa jugosa is reported from the United States for the first time. A key is provided for the identification of the 6 species of Tepa.
25010172|A redescription of the augochlorine bee genus Rhectomia is presented and the male described for the first time. The genus Corynurella is found to be a junior synonym of Rhectomia and its sole species, Corynurella mourei Eickwort, is transferred to Rhectomia. Two new species are recognized: Rhectomia harrisoni and R. liebherri. A key is provided for the identification of the currently recognized species. Relationships within the genus are briefly discussed.
25009884|Placonotus embuensis, n. sp., is described from Kenya. Illustrations of the habitus, male terminalia, and microsculpture are provided. Diagnostic structures of male terminalia of five additional African species of Placonotus [P. bolivari (Grouvelle), P. decoratus (Grouvelle), P. donacioides (Wollaston), P. mestus Lefkovitch, and P. mossus Lefkovitch] are also illustrated.
25010171|Two new species of Eosentomon, E. megatibiense and E. maryae, are described from Village Creek Park and Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas. Both species display the 6/4 setal arrangement on sternites IX/X. A key is provided to separate the North American (north of Mexico) species of Eosentomon that exhibit this setal pattern.
25009694|A new species from Sri Lanka, closely related to Drosophila (H.) caputudis (Grimaldi, 1986), is described and named Drosophila chandleri. Males have two very distinctive morphological features: a broad head, which is a result of expanded frontal-orbital plates and face, and a patch of very large, scaliform, interfacetal setulae in the middle of each eye.
25009299|Corrections and comments are made concerning the paper by A. Young on Heliconius cydno and H. sapho and their host plants.
25010131|Coenus explanatus, new species, is described from Alabama and Georgia. Diagnoses are provided for the genus as well as both previously described species, C. delius (Say) and C. inermis Harris and Johnson. A key to aid in the identification of species of Coenus is given.
25006159|Studies on the nesting behavior of seven females of Crossocerus maculiclypeus in an aggregation of several hundred individuals are detailed. The wasps apparently selected pre-existing burrows in sand for use as nest sites. A female carried her prey directly into the open nest. Burrows leading to fully provisioned cells were partly filled with loose sand. The nests varied considerably in form and dimensions. The maximum number of cells per completed nest appeared to be nine; other finished nests contained from four to six cells. The small cells were constructed in clusters which were often separated by several centimeters. Fully provisioned cells contained from 9 to 20 paralyzed or dead flies. The empidid Platypalpus holosericus was the dominant kind of prey; other species of Empididae, Dolichopodidae, and Agromyzidae were less commonly stored. Single species each of Psilidae, Tephritidae, and Chamaemyiidae were also used as provisions. More flies were stored ventral side up, head inward than in any other position. The wasp's egg was attached by the cephalic end to the ventral side of the neck of one of these flies in each cell.
25009465|Data from field observations on the location and activity of Rhagoletis cornivora Bush flies on Cornus amomum Mill. revealed the following. Females made more visits to each of fruit, leaves, and branches than did males. Females fed while on the upper surface of leaves and much more often than did males. While females spent almost as much time on leaves as they did on fruit searching for suitable oviposition sites, males spent most of their time on fruit clusters, either searching or waiting for potential mates. Most encounters between flies occurred on fruit. Males mounted other males as often as they did females, indicating the inability of males to distinguish between the sexes. Unripe fruit were preferred over ripe ones for oviposition.
25005805|The occurrence of a U-shaped respiratory curve during the metamorphosis of holometabolous insects is well established. The roles of dehydrogenase enzymes and cytochrome oxidase in respiratory metabolism have been studied in some insects and these investigations indicate variations in the activities of dehydrogenase enzymes in different insects. In this study the activities of the dehydrogenase enzymes were determined during the metamorphosis of a lepidopteran, Ephestia khniella Zell., using the Thunberg technique. Cytochrome oxidase was determined spectrophotometrically. Six dehydrogenase enzymes exhibited U-shaped activity curves: alpha-glycerophosphate I and II (GPD I and II), malic, isocitric and succinic dehydrogenases and the malic enzyme. The least active of this group was succinic dehydrogenase, adding support to previous work indicating that this enzyme may be a rate-limiting factor in determining the U-shaped respiratory curve. The most active of this group was malic dehydrogenase. Five dehydrogenase enzymes did not exhibit U-shaped activities: lactic I and II, glucose, glutamic and alcohol. The activities of lactic I and II dehydrogenases were low or negligible. The possible significance of this low activity with regards to (a) lactate accumulation and (b) relationship to GPD activity in insects are discussed. The activity of cytochrome oxidase was also found to be U-shaped during metamorphosis.
25008858|The mouthparts of the African ant Oecophylla longinoda Latreille are generalized structurally and closely resemble the mouthparts of other species in the subfamily Formicinae. They are essentially identical to those of O. smaragdina (Fabricius). Mandibular dentition and midline overlap contribute to the efficiency of predatory attack.
25009930|Ophraella slobodkini, new species, is described from the southeastern United States. It shares the host association of Ambrosia artemisiifolia with O. communa LeSage, but is a sibling species of O. notulata Fabricius. The three species can be statistically distinguished using morphological characters, and reliably distinguished by electrophoretic mobility of several enzymes.
25009330|Data on the nesting biology of Megachile pugnata was obtained from 359 trap-nests at two sites in northern Utah. Bees made an average of 3.8 cells per nest and provisioned cells exclusively with pollen from the Compositae. Approximately 12% of all offspring were killed by either the clerid predator Trichodes ornatus or the chalcid parasite Melittobia sp. An additional 30-38% of offspring failed to complete development to the adult stage. Most of this immature mortality occurred during the overwintering and incubation stages. The sex ratio of the populations varied between 1.4 to 1.8 ( / ). Nests with with 3 or fewer cells had a lower percentage of male offspring than all other nests combined. It may be possible to increase the percentage of female bees by decreasing the depth of the nesting hole.
25008874|Various aspects of the life cycle and natural history of the heliconiine butterfly Dione juno huascama (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) were studied in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, at various times over approximately three years. These studies emphasized: description of life cycle and developmental time, larval food plant specificities, and the behavior of adults and immatures. Mortality factors operating on immature stages were also studied in a preliminary manner. The findings are discussed with respect to previously published reports on other subspecies of D. juno as well as for other species of the genus in other regions. Furthermore, an attempt is made to discuss various aspects of population biology and heliconiine phylogeny in light of the new data on D. juno huascama. Emphasis is also placed on the association of D. juno with a cultivated plant species around San Salvador and the notable absence of many other heliconiines from this larval food plant.
25010261|Epipolops rettenmeyeri is described as a new species from Ecuador and Peru. A key to the known species of Epipolops H.S. is included. E. meridionalis Piran is reduced to a junior synonym of E. frondosus H.S. New country records are given for three species. The systematic position of the genus is summarized.
25005910|Ants taken from a mound were dipped in 100 ml. of water containing 0.1-0.2 millicuries of
25010197|The genus Rhyephenes Schoenherr, endemic to the Central Chilean and Subantarctic biogeographic provinces of southern South America, is easily recognized by its black body with shape resembling a spider. This genus includes seven species: Rhyephenes clathratus R. Philippi, R. gayi (Gurin), R. goureaui (Gay & Solier), R. humeralis (Gurin), R. lateralis (Gurin), R. maillei (Gay & Solier), and R. squamiger F. Philippi (reinstated herein from synonymy with R. gayi). A key, redescriptions, habitus photographs, and illustrations of the species are provided, and their geographical distribution is mapped. A cladistic analysis using 21 characters from external morphology and male and female genitalia produced four cladograms (CI = 0.55, RI = 0.51, length 43 steps), which after successive weighting were reduced to one cladogram (CI = 0.82, RI = 0.85, length 111 steps). In the cladogram, the following phylogenetic sequence results: (R. squamiger, (R. lateralis, ((R. clathratus, R. goureaui), (R. gayi, (R. humeralis, R. maillei))))). Biogeographic patterns exhibited by these species indicate a sequence from central Chile to southern Chile and Argentina.
25006047|A group of sibling larvae of Heterocampa pulverea (Grote & Robinson) from Connecticut showed a very distinct dimorphism of color and pattern with no appreciable integradation. Of 66 larvae reared to maturity 30 were green, 36 were brown. The dimorphism was apparently not linked with rate of development, sex or any discernible adult characteristic. The larvae of both morphs were highly, but differently, cryptic. Possible adaptive advantages of the morphs are discussed. Dorsal thoracic tubercles in the last larval instar, characteristic of this nominal species, are visible as vestiges in the pupa.
25010408|Trichesthes Erichson, 1847 is currently a synonym of Phyllophaga (s. lato), but its taxonomic status merits review. Based on a phylogenetic analysis of external morphological and genitalic characters, Trichesthes is revalidated as a monophyletic genus that includes two of the nine species originally placed in Trichesthes, as well as 38 other species currently classified in the Phyllophaga subgenera Phytalus, Listrochelus and Phyllophaga (s. str.).
25009375|Philanthus basilaris Cresson is removed from synonymy with Philanthus zebratus Cresson. A key to the six species of the Philanthus zebratus group is presented and their relationships, distribution and intraspecific variation discussed.
25009047|Prorops Waterston, formerly regarded as a monotypic genus, is now known to contain three species, of which the following two are new: petila (Louisiana and Brazil) and obsoleta (Trinidad). P. nasuta Waterston, the type-species, is now recorded for the first time from Jamaica, Cuba, and California.
25009223|Studies on the effects of various relative humidities on the infectivity of Entomophthora muscae conidia showed that Musca domestica exposed to conidial showers falling through atmospheres with relative humidities ranging from zero to 100% acquired fatal infections. Studies on the germination of conidia held at various humidities showed that the fungus produces long germ tubes only from secondary conidia at 100% R.H. These results suggest that E. muscae can be transmitted within fly populations during periods of dry-cool weather, and that the relative humidity within the boundary layer surrounding the fly's body is at or near the saturation point. Temperature maintained during the studies was 21  3C.
25009039|Perdita eickworti n. sp. is described from Arizona and P. cornishiana n. sp. from Utah. The types will be deposited in the collection of Cornell University, Ithaca. A note on the occurrence of Perdita foveata in Florida is also included.
25006242|Entomophthora muscae (Cohn) was successfully transmitted from Hylemya antiqua to Phaenicia cuprina and from P. cuprina to Phormia regina in the laboratory. Further attempts at transmission were unsuccessful. Possible reasons for this failure are discussed. The post-mortem appearance of diseased flies (Pollenia rudis) varies considerably even under similar environmental conditions. It is suggested that some factors other than humidity, temperature and light regulate the post-mortem changes in the fly and the concomitant development of the fungus.
25009142|The genus Cicindela L. (sensu W. Horn) of Argentina is briefly reviewed. Thirty-four taxa are discussed and known ranges are given. A key to the species is presented. Four new species and one new subspecies are described and figured. Three of the new species (C. halophila, C. siccalacicola and C. hirsutifrons) share the same type locality: 24 mi. S. Recreo, Cordoba Province. The fourth new species (C. stamatovi) is described from Tucuman. C. drakei latifascia n. ssp. is described from Termas de Rio Hondo, Santiago del Estero Province.
25009032|The degree of parasitism of Eurosta solidaginis (Fitch) by Eurytoma gigantea Walsh and E. obtusiventris Gahan and of predation upon these species by birds was verified. Gall height positively influenced bird predation and parasitism by Eurytoma obtusiventris, whereas gall diameter was significantly related to bird predation and parasitism by Eurytoma gigantea. Multiple galls were favored by birds. The late summer emergence of E. gigantea was substantiated.
25009867|The life histories of Hypsochila microdice from the Fuegian steppe and H. galactodice from western Patagonia are investigated in order to clarify species limits in a genus showing little genitalic differentiation. The only previously-reared species is the crucifer-feeding H. w. wagenknechti, from north-central Argentina. The larva and pupa of H. microdice are quite different from that species and its host plants in nature are two indigenous species of vetches (Vicia, Leguminosae); it can be reared on Trifolium. The larva and pupa of H. galactodice are more like H. w. wagenknechti, although the pupa shows a strong superficial resemblance to sympatric populations of the Tatochila mercedis complex. The host plant in nature is Tropaeolum incisum (Tropaeolaceae) and it can be reared on crucifers. These differences demonstrate that neither galactodice nor wagenknechti can be conspecific with microdice, and that evolutionary radiation in life history has far outpaced genitalic differentiation in Hypsochila.
25010139|Phasia larvae were found only in the adult stage of the mirid species examined. Only one species of Phasia was detected, P. robertsonii Townsend); this species has been known by several other names, but most publications refer to it as Alophorella aeneoventris (Williston). P. robertsonii was reared from six species of mirids (ranked by parasitism level): Leptopterna dolabrata (L.) (1.8%), Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) (0.6%), Megaloceroea recticornis (Geoffroy) (0.4%), Stenotus binotatus (F.) (0.2%), Trigonotylus coelestialium (Kirkaldy) (0.2%), and Adelphocoris lineolatus (Goeze) (0.1%). Five of these host records have not been reported before, and represent a wide variety of hosts-grass and legume feeders, univoltine to polyvoltine species, and immigrant as well as native mirids. The significance of this broad host range is discussed, including its relation to the low parasitism rates observed in this study and others. P. robertsonii had two generations per year in northwestern New Jersey, the first mainly in June and mostly on grass-feeding mirids, and the second exclusively on Lygus in October. No pupal diapause was detected, but parasite larvae may overwinter inside Lygus adults. The very low parasitism rates indicate that tachinids provide little or no population suppression of the six mirid species studied.
25009834|Liodessus youngi, n. sp., is described from specimens from New Mexico (type locality = Radium Springs, Dona Ana Co.), Colorado and South Dakota. Short diagnostic descriptions of each of the six species of Liodessus Guignot [L. affinis (Say), L. cantralli (Young), L. flavicollis (LeConte), L. fuscatus (Crotch), and L. hobbsi (Young)] found in the Nearctic region and a key for their identification are provided.
25009572|Tatochila distincta distincta is a very rare pierid found above 3,000 m in the puna of far northern Argentina. Its egg, larva, pupa and aspects of its behavior and ecology are described. All are similar to other Tatochila heretofore described and support the previously postulated close affinity of the xanthodice and sterodice species-groups.
25006096|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, all from Assam, these being Gonomyia (Protogonomyia) acucurvata n.sp., Erioptera (Teleneura) laetipes n.sp.; Ormosia (Ormosia) furcivena n.sp.; O. (O.) idioneurodes n.sp., O. (O.) idiostyla n.sp., and O. (O.) neopulchra n.sp.
25010499|We discuss periodical cicada (Magicicada) Brood VII, which is becoming extinct from much of its historically-reported range in upstate New York. During searches in June of 2001, we found Magicicada adults in only 10 of 37 sites (and two of eight counties) where periodical cicadas had been reported previously, and dense populations were restricted to a small region south of Syracuse and centered on the Onondaga Nation. We suggest possible explanations, including land clearing and climate change, for the decline of this brood and the extinction of other Magicicada broods.
25008862|Ladeaschistus, new genus, is erected to contain four South American species with preapical femoral tubercles. Three species, L. armipes, L. bilobus, and L. trilobus are transferred from Euschistus and redescribed. The fourth member of the genus is L. boliviensis, NEW SPECIES. The genus is compared to E. tristigmus, the type species of Euschistus, and to E. anticus, a representative of a South American species group.
25005820|A collection of 1042 anoplurans collected on 13 mammalian host species in Rhode Island is reported. Eleven species have been identified: Enderleinellus longiceps, E. marmotae, E. nitzshi, Hoplopleura, acanthopus, H. erratica, H. hesperomydis, H. sciuricola, Neohaematopinus sciuri, N. sciuropteri, Polyplax alaskensis, P. spinulosa. Enderleinellus nitzshi is reported for the first time from the northeastern United States.
25008804|The daily pattern of movement and feeding was studied for ten successive days in the larvae of the tropical butterfly, Morpho peleides limpida Butler, at a locality in central Costa Rica where this insect is unusually abundant. The major findings of these studies are: (1) larvae during all five instars are dawn-dusk feeders, with the average feeding time ranging between 20-35 minutes at each peak of activity, (2) movement is associated solely with commencement and termination of feeding since larvae have stable resting positions removed from feeding sites, and (3) the bimodal feeding activity is apparently under control of changes in light intensity. The adaptive significance of this larval feeding behavior is discussed in terms of the broad host plant specificity and apparent automimicry in this butterfly, and is interpreted as a mechanism for reducing predatory attack by visual vertebrate predators. Finally, it is hypothesized that only those species of Morpho which have experienced selective pressures molding them into successful second-growth forms evolve such feeding behavior, presumably as an additive measure for reducing predation from generalized visual vertebrate predators while exploiting a broad range of larval host plants. More highly specialized species of Morpho assoicated with primary-growth lowland tropical wet forests are predicted to lack such a behavioral pattern since (1) their larvae feed on fewer plant species, (2) the few local larval host plants are high in toxic secondary compounds, and (3) visual vertebrate predators in more stable tropical communities are themselves more specialized feeders and thus fewer species would consistently exploit Morpho larvae as a food source.
25009582|A new tribe, Eremochilini (Epilachninae), is erected to contain the genus Eremochilus Weise which was previously misclassified in the subfamily Coccidulinae. Two species are recognized in Eremochilus; E. peregrinus Weise, and E. weisei, new species.
25008795|Several preliminary experiments were conducted to examine factors influencing the daily feeding rhythm and the yearly developmental sequence of the larval stage of the firefly Photuris pennsylvanica. Loose, loamy, well-drained soil allowed normal circadian behavior while sand, sawdust, and clay-like mud prevented larval migration. The yearly developmental sequence could be duplicated in the laboratory by simulating environmental conditions, and acceleration of this sequence was achieved by manipulating the length of exposure to simulated winter temperature.
25005869|A small Black Spruce bog in northeastern Connecticut is described, and some Lepidoptera from it listed.
25010305|Polhemovelia n.gen. and three new species, P. septuaginta n.sp. (type species), P. johnpolhemi n.sp., and P. setosa n.sp., are described from Northern Borneo (Malaysia, Sabah). This new genus of Microveliini is compared with other similar genera which are distributed in the tropics of the Old World. Two of the three species were found to be hygropetric. Adaptations to (semi-)terrestrial habits in Microveliinae are discussed.
25010148|Since von Ihering (1903, 1904), Agelaia vicina is famous for its huge nests, but no detailed account has been published. Several nests examined by us were mainly built in shelters but some were half to completely exposed. Main nest characteristics: envelope absent; combs large and horizontal with cells directed downwards; new combs mainly started synchronously and concentrically around several discoidal primordia (Fig. 2A, B, C, D, G); mature nests huge, eventually with more than 7.5 million cells; correspondingly colonies very populous, in Nest 3 described below 482,668 adults actually collected and the whole population estimated at over a million. The nest size (in cell number) and colony size (in adult number) of A. vicina is evidently unrivalled among all wasps and bees.
25009713|Pallodes austrinus is described as new and illustrated. Pallodes pallidus is also illustrated and differences of both species are discussed. Pallodes adult and larval mandibles are adapted for mycophagy with cutting spines on the incisor edges, a well developed prostheca and an asperate mola. Pallodes pallidus has a wider mushroom host range than P. austrinus but with large overlap.
25009376|The European spurge hawkmoth, Hyles euphorbiae (L.) was introduced for control of leafy spurge (E. esula L.) and cypress spurge (E. cyparissias L.). It was initially established in the United States at Chestertown, New York, on tetraploid cypress spurge and the hybrid E.  pseudo-esula Schur. The population increased from 180 to about 1 million insects within 5 years, with total defoliation of spurge in some areas.
25009754|Nine new state records are given for the seldom-collected plant bug Texocoris nigrellus (Knight). Bloodroot, Sanguinaria canadensis L. (Ranunculaceae), is the only previously recorded host, but it is questioned whether this native North American herb is an important host or whether the rearing from this plant was merely accidental. Nymphs are reported from 4 exotic ornamental shrubs: Abelia grandiflora (Andr) Rehd. (Caprifoliaceae), Ilex crenata Thunb. (Aquifoliaceae), and Pyracantha coccinea M. J. Roem. and Spiraea thunbergii Siebold ex Blume (Rosaceae). Texocoris nigrellus, belonging to a monotypic genus, does not show a close relationship to other North American orthotylines. Although certain of its attributes fit those of an immigrant, it is concluded that without further data T. nigrellus should be considered a North American endemic.
25006160|The integument shows a fundamental similarity in representatives of three suborders of mites considered in this work, despite variation in thickness and variety of organ types present. After aldehyde fixation and mixed-resin embedding, use of the electron microscope revealed distinct divisions of the mite cuticle. A widely laminated endocuticle overlies the hypodermis, a heavily sclerotized exocuticle is present, and non-laminated epicuticle appears to be deposited outermost. Pore canals and ducts with fixed hypodermal secretions are obvious in several sections. Setae with sockets and sense organs are found at intervals in the cuticle.
25009130|A new species of Megaris is described. Descriptions are given of the male genitalia of Megaris stalii. M. constricta, Canopus caesus, C. orbicularis and C. impressus. The spermatheca and external female genitalia are described for Megaris laevicollis, M. atratula, Canopus burmeisteri, C. impressus, C. fabricii, C. caesus and C. orbicularis. From a consideration of all available morphological evidence the family status of Megarididae and Canopidae is confirmed. Neither family is closely related to the Plataspidae.
25000079|A new oribatid mite, Elliptochthonius profundus n. gen., n. sp., is described from mineral soil in a coniferous ecosystem in northern California, and a new family, the Elliptochthoniidae, is proposed. Relationships with the Parhypochthonoidea and Enarthronota are discussed.
25005900|Listed are 147 species of aphids arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 173 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. At present 207 aphids on 241 food plants are known to occur in New Jersey.
25009038|This paper examines the cephalopharyngeal apparatus of Lucilia sericata (Meigen) larva as it develops from egg to the third instar. Major emphasis is placed on the first transit stage between the first and second instar stages, and the second transit stage between the second and third instar stages. These two transit stages are subdivided into early, middle, and late transit substages. The late transit substage develops into the final cephalopharyngeal apparatus of its representative instar stage. The first transit stage occupies a very short period of time in relation to the entire second instar stage. The second transit stage is thought to have three substages, but only one substage is found. The substage found is the middle transit substage. A number of maggots are seen in the middle transit substage, but the early and late transit substages are not conspicuous.
25009488|Five new species of Ommatius Wiedemann are reported from Cuba and the Bahamas. Ommatius cubanus, O. piliferous, O. hispidus and O. bipartitus are from Cuba, and O. membranosus is from Rum Cay Island in the Bahamas. This report increases the number of species to eight in this region of the Caribbean. The new species are described and their genitalia and the hindleg of the male of O. hispidus are illustrated. A key to the species from Cuba and the Bahamas is included. Ommatius marginellus (Fabricius) is removed from the list of species from Cuba.
25006225|The presence of proteases has been demonstrated in the salivary glands of 5th instar larvae and the adults of mirid pests of cocoa in West Africa. Their significance is discussed.
25009362|A gynandromorph of Solenopsis aurea Wheeler is described from an ant collected in western Texas. The specimen is predominantly that of a queen, but the head is noticeably male on the right half, female on the left half. The reproductive system, both internally and externally, is entirely female.
25005842|Brief descriptions are given of 14 cases in which the epigynum or the palpus is deformed. It is suggested that for the most part these stem from accidents during the molting process, or to imperfect regeneration of a part lost between molts.
25006103|Zodarion fulvonigrum (Simon) is described and figured, and a diagnosis for Zodarion is given. This is the first record of the genus for this continent. The distribution of Zodarion and the occurrence of the family Zodariidae in North America is briefly reviewed.
25008910|The behavior, both in the field and in observation nests, of three species of Cardiocondyla are described: C. emeryi and C. nuda were studied in Texas and C. ectopia in California. Observations include data on length of immature stages, foraging habits, foods utilized, reactions with other ant species and mating behavior. The data are summarized and compared against observations made by E. O. Wilson on C. venustula and C. emeryi.
25010327|Arrhopalites diversus (Mills, 1934) lectotype is assigned from the original cotypes.
25009886|I describe the new species Anochetus brevidentatus from Dominican Republic amber, possibly deposited 30-40 million years before present. This species is a member of the emarginatus species group and the haytianus superspecies. It is closely related to the extant A. kempfi. I present characters for distinguishing this ant from the others in the haytianus superspecies.
25009261|A diagnosis for the Neotropical genus Pephysena and a key for identification of five species are presented. Two new species, P. longirhynchus and P. microlevis, both from Brazil and Surinam are described. Dorsal views of both holotypes are provided.
25010246|Type specimens of 114 species and subspecific ant taxa in Argentinian insect collections are listed, including 14 holotypes and 5 lectotypes. Most of the types are Neotropical, with the exception of a series of Karavajev types from South East Asia.
25010458|The concept of the Australian genus Phanuromyia Dodd is expanded to include 9 species: P. bidentata n. sp., P. flavescens (Dodd) new combination, P. hysteropteri (Bin) new combination, P. necopinata Dodd, P. obscuripes (Plov) new combination, P. oocida (Plov) new combination, P. pulcherrima (Dodd) new combination, P. rufobasalis Dodd, and P. sacchii (Ogloblin) new combination. Representatives have been found worldwide, but the greatest diversity is in the Old World. The known hosts are eggs of Issidae and Fulgoridae (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha). The genus is contrasted with the crassiclava species group of Telenomus, another group also known to attack species of fulgoromorphs.
25008765|The ommatidia of Aedes aegypti are densely covered with corneal nipples which are rather regularly arrayed over the surface. Although there was no special distribution pattern the inter-ommatidial spaces of the male A. aegypti had nipple-like projections. It is possible that the nipples may be scratched off the cornea with no damage to the underlying structures.
25009769|Thirty-eight introduced species of thrips representing 28 genera in three families are known from Bermuda. The species were apparently introduced from eastern North America or the Caribbean region, except for three species. Hosts, collection data and world distribution are presented for each species and the economic importance of several species is mentioned.
25009983|Terra altilineata, new species, is described from a small spring-fed oasis isolated in high montane arid terrain (3,500-3,650 m), Jujuy Province, Argentina. Several other undescribed butterflies are endemic to this site.
25009861|A new pentatomid genus and species, Menudo femoralis, is described from Puerto Rico. The new genus superficially resembles the African genus Aspavia, but its true alliance appears to be with the Latin American genera near Padaeus or Agroecus.
25009621|Adults of the North American species of the holarctic genus, Ilybius Erichson, are reviewed, and keys for their recognition, descriptions, and maps of distributions are presented. Fourteen species are recognized. The following new synonymies are proposed: Ilybius laramaeus LeConte is a junior synonym of I. biguttulus Germar; I. denikei Wallis is a junior synonym of I. confusus Aub; and I. suffusus Crotch is a junior synonym of I. subaeneus Erichson. The genus is primarily northern, with the majority of species in the northern Appalachian and boreal regions. Four species are holarctic. The distribution of character states among species is discussed and a cladogram is presented for North American species. Two subgenera are recognized: Agabidius Seidlitz with two species in Asia; and Ilybius s. str. to which all North American species are assigned. Although not included in the cladogram, the distribution of character states among Palaearctic species is discussed and the positions of these species in the cladogram are noted.
25010360|The literature on ant-like stone beetle-ant associations is reviewed and tabulated, bringing together nearly all published accounts of associations between these two groups. One hundred-seventeen species of Scydmaenidae (Coleoptera) in 20 genera are associated with 45 species of ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) in 28 genera. In addition, 16 species of Scydmaenidae are known associates of termites (Isoptera).
25009564|Intraspecific cleptoparasitism is described in a subtropical population of the social sweat bee Halictus ligatus. Cuckoo-like individuals are, on average, larger than workers but smaller than queens. Behavioral modifications resulting in the cleptoparasitic behavior are quite minor: forced entry and sneaky oviposition are activities possessed by non-parasitic members of this population. Only the trap-lining and host nest choice behaviors are new. Intraspecific cleptoparasitism has not been recorded from any of the temperate populations of this species that have been studied. It is argued that the continuously brooded, multivoltine phenology of this population has been a necessary prerequisite for the origin of this pattern of cleptoparasitism.
25009693|The swarming behavior of Rhamphomyia sociabilis was studied at three neighboring sites in Larimer Co., Colorado. One swarm reformed at the same site for five years, another for four years; in each case the swarm formed in mid July and persisted for about a month. Males entered the swarm carrying prey and transferred the prey to females as the latter joined the swarm. Mating pairs moved about within the swarm and were not seen to settle. Prey consisted of small insects of six orders, about 70% of the prey consisting of Diptera.
25009262|The tachinid Aplomyiopsis xylota is a common parasitoid of larvae of Trirhabda virgata and T. borealis (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) in central New York. Flies were observed to aggregate on herbaceous vegetation along the borders between old fields and more shaded habitats (shrubby fields or woodlots). Aggregations comprised from less than one hundred to a few thousand individuals, almost all of which were male. Males continuously perched and moved about in sun flecks on the vegetation, and frequently grappled with each other. In the old field adjacent to the primary aggregation site, the tachinid sex ratio was strongly skewed toward females. Aggregations of A. xylota are probably involved in mating.
25009714|A new species of Pulicella collected on Otomys angoniensis in the Ngorongoro Crater of Tanzania is described. Its affinities with the only other species in the genus are discussed.
25008995|Relationships of major families of Nearctic butterflies (Papilionidae, Pieridae, Lycaenidae, and Nymphalidae) to the taxa and growth-forms of their larval food-plants are investigated and compared to those of the Palearctic butterflies. The Palearctic butterfly fauna consists of more than three times as many species as the Nearctic fauna and yet the relative percentages of species in each of the families are strikingly similar. In terms of the butterflies in the four major families as a group, the greatest percentage of species in the Nearctic are monophagous with approximately equal percentages of oligophagous and polyphagous species; the greatest percentage in the Palearctic are oligophagous followed by a fairly high percentage of polyphagous species and a lower percentage of monophagous species. High percentages of herb- and of shrub-feeders and lower percentages of tree-feeders are found in both regions. A higher percentage of species are specialized (monophagous and oligophagous) than are generalized (polyphagous) on each plant growth-form (herbs, shrubs, and trees) in both regions, a seemingly unexpected finding based upon current theories of plant-herbivore interactions. Although the distinctions between phagism categories are arbitrary, physiological differences exist in chemical perception and load of detoxication enzymes, but not in food utilization efficiencies, between herbivorous insects which are food-plant specialists and those which are food-plant generalists. Ecological advantages can be postulated for herbivorous insects with generalized and for those with specialized feeding habits (such as the ability to better survive in regions with unpredictable and/or physically harsh environments for the former and the potential to store toxic chemicals for protection for the latter) but it is clear that insects exhibiting all categories of phagism continue to exist in nature because of diverse selective pressures.
25009959|Two new species of Mompha, franclemonti and powelli, from California are described to provide names that support long-term biodiversity studies of natural areas in California. M. powelli was reared from Zauschneria californica (Onagraceae).
25005881|Sarcophaga downsiana, new species, Venezuela; Sarcophaga filamenta, new species, Dutch Guiana (Surinam); Endemimyia vaurieae, new species, Mexico are new neotropical species described and figured from the male sex. Sarcophaga (Idoneamima) footei, new species, is described from male, female and puparium, reared from snails, New York. The posterior spiracular concavity is extremely shallow in footei puparia.
25009716|Feeding and movement of saddled prominent, Heterocampa guttivitta Walker (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) caterpillars were investigated in a northern hardwood forest in upstate New York. The insect is a midseason defoliator. Growth and feeding occur during the warmest and most stable period of year with respect to weather. Weather did not detectably affect feeding or movement behavior. However, total foliage consumption and consumption rate were related to temperature (as determined in the laboratory). The rate of movement between feeding sites increased with older instars. Both feeding and movement exhibited a diel cycle: feeding was greatest during the night, and movement was greatest during the day. Observations are discussed in terms of three currently popular hypotheses explaining caterpillar behavior: that their movement and feeding patterns are a response to weather conditions, variable and unpredictable food quality, or vertebrate predation.
25009893|Five species of Halobates are recorded from the atolls of the Aldabra group: H. germanus, H. micans, H. alluaudi, H. poseidon, and H. flaviventris. These species are keyed, the variability of the populations inhabiting Aldabra and Cosmoledo atolls discussed, and notes provided on their ecological preferences. Halobates eschscholtzi Herring 1961 is placed as a junior synonym of Halobates flaviventris Eschscholtz 1822 (new synonymy).
25008912|This study supplements our "Ant Larvae: Review and Synthesis" (1974). The larvae of Simopone n. sp. and Turneria sp. (near dahli) are described and figured and each genus is characterized. Simopone is definitely cerapachyine but quite distinct from the larvae of other known genera of the subfamily. Turneria is typically dolichoderine but readily distinguished from other genera of the subfamily by the tail and the shape and location of the dorsal bosses.
25009945|The species of the pentatomid genus Thyanta Stl occurring north of South America are revised. All northern hemisphere species belong to the subgenera Thyanta and Argosoma Rider. Diagnoses are given for the genus, subgenera, and the 14 included species and subspecies. The subspecies accerra McAtee is transferred from T. pallidovirens (Stl) to T. custator (Fabricius). The following new synonymy is recognized (junior synonym in parentheses): T. custator accerra McAtee, 1919 (=T. pallidovirens spinosa Ruckes, 1957a), T. pallidovirens (Stl, 1859) (=T. pallidovirens setosa Ruckes, 1957a), and T. maculata (Fabricius, 1775) (=T. casta Stl, 1862b). Lectotype designations are made for Cimex maculatus Fabricius, Pentatoma obsoleta Dallas, P. pallidovirens, T. casta, and T. pseudocasta Blatchley. Thyanta planifrons Ruckes is reported from the United States for the first time. A key is provided for the subgenera, species, and subspecies that occur north of South America.
25009607|The basic biology of Coquillettia insignis Uhler (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) is described, including details of its growth, morphology, phenology, behavior and ecology. The distribution and abundance of this species over 20 sites in an eastern Oregon valley was studied, as well as its temporal and spatial relation to its host plant Lupinus caudatus Kell. Twelve species of ants were collected on L. caudatus of which six species were common; temporal, behavioral and morphological correspondence of these six species to various stadia of C. insignis are described. We identify several species of vertebrate and visual arthropod predators that could potentially serve as operators in the Batesian mimicry system to which C. insignis probably belongs.
25010428|One of the general defining characters of the Heteroptera is the presence of exocrine scent glands. Previously unknown from the prothorax, exocrine glands are generally associated with the metapleura and abdomen. Using both light and scanning electron microscopy, we found evidence for a previously unrecorded exocrine gland, which we refer to as the pronotal gland. In all examined members of the Collartidini and Ploiariolini (Heteroptera: Reduviidae: Emesinae) and the Saicinae (Heteroptera: Reduviidae), we have found the presence of this gland. Such evidence was not found in other examined tribes of the Emesinae. The implications of this novel complex character on the taxonomy of the Emesinae and Saicinae are discussed.
25010419|We detail behavior for the queen of the socially parasitic ant Myrmica luteola Kupyanskaya, and describe the worker, queen, and male. In the laboratory, a M. luteola queen actively invaded a nest of Manica yessensis and consistently rubbed against M. yessensis workers. Further, morphological characteristics that often occur in socially parasitic ants, i.e., short tibial spurs and ventral lobes on the petiole and post-petiole, occur in the queen and workers of M. luteola. The queen is also characterized by a small size (smaller than the worker) and greatly reduced propodeal spines. The observed behavior and morphology strongly suggest that Myrmica luteola is a temporary social parasite.
25009553|The genus Polychisme Kirkaldy is reviewed. The type species Imbrius ferruginosus Stl is redescribed and recorded from Colombia and Venezuela. It is shown to be not congeneric with the only other species, Pachymerus poecilus Spinola, and is removed from the Ischnorhynchinae and placed in the Artheneinae as a new tribe, the Polychismini. Polychisme poecilus is placed in the genus Syzygitis Bergroth, accompanied by a discussion of its correct specific name. Illustrations of Polychisme ferruginosus include a dorsal view, details of the abdomen, genital capsule, and spermatheca.
25009872|A new species of the spider genus Legendrena, L. steineri, is described from Madagascar; males have an incrassate first tibia and an elongate embolus.
25005909|The anatomy and the mode of action of the scent-apparatus of Leptocorisa costalis H. S. is described and discussed. Recent studies on the chemistry of the glandular secretion have thrown some light on the feeding habits, sexual activity and probably on the phyogenetic relationship of various families in Heteroptera.
25010306|A fossil water strider, Microvelia polhemi n. sp., is described from the Oligo-Miocene Dominican amber based upon a single macropterous male. This is the first fossil record of the genus Microvelia (Microveliinae, Veliidae), one of the most common and widespread genera of semiaquatic bugs (Gerromorpha). Several characters, in particular the striking, white basal markings of the fore wings, affiliate the fossil species with the extant Microvelia laesslei Drake and Hussey from Jamaica. The latter belongs to a guild of Neotropical veliids living in phytotelmic habitats, especially pockets of rain-water accumulated between the leaf axils of plants belonging to the family Bromeliaceae. The fossil species may have used the same type of habitat in the Dominican amber forest.
25009657|Laneocera, a new Chiasmoneurine genus with a single included species, L. magnifica from southern India, is described. Four new species of Macrocera, M. districta, M. alacra, M. elegantula and M. lacustrina from the northern Indian subcontinent are described. Further records are furnished for M. brunnea, M. inconspicua, M. nepalensis and M. simbhanjangana. Wing photographs and drawings of mouthparts and terminalia are presented.
25006023|Two species of Linyphiidae are described and figured: Taranucnus durdenae, n. sp., and Troglohyphantes kokoko, n. sp. Both are from eastern North America and are first records of their respective genera for this continent.
25009977|Seasonal history of the mirids Lygocoris aesculi (Knight), Microphylellus modestus Reuter, and Orthotylus aesculicola Blinn was followed on Aesculus glabra Willd. in central Missouri during 1985-86. The activity period of these univoltine plant bugs was confined to late March to early June, concurrent with the onset of flowering and leaf flush, with almost complete overlap between the species. The adult male of L. aesculi and the fifth-instar nymphs of all 3 species are described and illustrated.
25009753|A revised diagnosis is provided for Daleapidea Knight. A key, diagnoses, distributional data, and illustrations of the male habitus and genitalia are provided for the three species currently placed in the genus. Hadronema decorata (Uhler) is transferred to Daleapidea and a lectotype is designated.
25009088|Young, Allen M., Invertebrate Division, Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53233.-Habitat and larval food plant associations of heliconiine butterflies (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), Dryas iulia (Fabricius), Eueides lybia (Fabricius), E. aliphera (Godart), and E. isabella (Cramer) were examined briefly in three regions of northern Costa Rica. The following patterns were found: (1) although E. lybia and E. aliphera are sympatric and utilize the same larval food plant, Passiflora vitifolia H.B.K. (Passifloraceae) in tropical wet forest, they are not microsympatric since the former occurs along shaded forest edges and forest light gaps, while the latter occurs in open secondary habitats; (2) Dryas iulia is sympatric with both species (1) and it is microsympatric with E. aliphera but uses a different larval food plant, P. auriculata H.B.K.; (3) both D. iulia and E. isabella are microsympatric in the Meseta Central and use both the same larval food plant (P. adenopoda D.C.) and nectar source (Serjania cf. atrolineata Saw. & Wright-Sapindaceae) during the dry season; (4) in a patch of semi-deciduous forest in the lowland tropical dry forest zone, D. iulia shares a larval food plant, P. capsularis L., with E. isabella, but also uses P. platyloba Killip and P. suberosa Juss. The widespread occurrence of D. iulia may be due to a high tolerance for heat and low humidity, and the use of Plectostemma subgenus of Passiflora as food plants. Other factors, such as oviposition behavior and larval habits, are also discussed.
25009535|Froeschnerocader denticollis, new genus and new species, is described from Borneo, Eastern Malaysia.
25010364|To analyze morphological caste differentiation in social wasps, variable reduction methods, such as the comparisons of Mahalanobis distances and the scatter diagrams of canonical scores and the analysis of mean queen/worker ratio of each morphometric characters, could only show whether there are some differences between the castes or not. These methods, on the other hand, do not document major aspects of the nature of morphological caste differentiation; that is, whether morphological differentiations are allometric or non-size based is not shown.
25009900|The mature larva of Pseudoscolia martinezi Surez, 1981, is described, and details are offered on adult nesting behavior. The main morphological characters of the larva are mandibles tridentate, well-developed galeae, spinnerets bigger than labial palpi, and the appearance of the epipharynx, which is similar to that of the known larvae of the Cercerini. The females of this species nest in small aggregations of 5-10 individuals, leveling the mound during the excavation of nests. They show variability in the practice of temporary closures, with some females leaving the nest open while others close the burrow during provisioning. Adult females capture Halictidae as prey.
25009127|A survey for predators of apple leaf-feeding mite species was made during mid-summer of 1975, 1976, and 1977. Apple leaves were collected from 36 commercial orchards throughout the 10 major fruit-growing counties of Eastern New York. The phytoseiid mite predators Amblyseius fallacis (Garman), Typhlodromus pomi (Parrott), and Typhlodromus sp. were found in 26, 2, and 1 of the orchards, respectively. The stigmaeid Zetzellia mali (Ewing) was found in eight of the orchards, while the coccinellid beetle Stethorus punctum LeConte was found in one. Results of this survey suggest that Eastern New York apple growers could utilize certain of these mite predators in integrated mite control programs similar to those developed in other areas.
25009051|Larvae, pupae, and egg masses of the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar (L.), were collected from localities on Long Island, New York, and observed in the laboratory for the emergence of their insect parasitoids. Seven primary and five secondary parasitoids were recorded. A braconid, Apanteles melanoscelus (Ratz.), and a tachinid, Blepharipa pratensis (Meig.), were the most abundant of the primary parasitoids.
25006168|A review of information associated with the nesting behaviors of Crabro advenus and C. latipes is presented. Our observations on the nesting ethologies of these two species are detailed. Behavioral components examined included habitat selection, burrow construction, prey transport and other provisioning activities, form and dimensions of nests, and analysis of cell contents (kinds of provisions, number of prey per cell, weights of flies, total biomass of prey per cell, position of prey flies, oviposition data). An interpretation of interspecific differences in an attempt to find behavioral characters at the subgenus level is made. Seasonal and local variation in the nesting behavior of C. advenus is discussed.
25009015|The behavioral study of the hyperparasitoid Asaphes lucens was greatly facilitated by the development of a technique which partially exposed its host Aphidius smithi within the mummy. This exposure allowed direct observation of ovipositional exploration, host venomization, feeding tube formation, and actual egg deposition. After antennal investigation of the mummy surface, the A. lucens female spent an average of 4.3 min drilling through the mummy to reach the host. The hyperparasitoid then used her ovipositor to explore the host, spending an average of 7.5 min in this activity. Prior to the first oviposition, A. lucens always constructed a feeding tube from host body to mummy surface, and then fed for an average of 5 min. Once feeding was completed the tube was always broken by a reinsertion of the ovipositor.
25008860|Five new species of crane flies from Iran, Sikkim, and India are described, these being Limonia (Sivalimnobia) pererratica, Limnophila (Dicranophragma) recurvata, Gonomyia (Idiocera) nigroterminalis, Erioptera (Psiloconopa) iranica, and Ormosia (Ormosia) neidioneura. Three further previously described Himalayan species of Ormosia are illustrated.
25009172|Abnormal morphological variation in the emboli of male palpi of M. insignis from Minnesota and Montana is illustrated. Some of these emboli resemble normal emboli of M. montanus, a closely related species. This resemblance may lead to incorrect species determinations.
25010550|Through a series of laboratory feeding trials, it was demonstrated that the putative dung beetle, Ateuchus histeroides Weber (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), is a consumer of both vertebrate dung and insect carrion, and that it can produce progeny reared on either of those foods. There was no significant difference between the survival periods of adults maintained on either cow dung or dead insects, but both groups survived significantly longer than a group deprived of food. This is the first documentation of both dung and carrion feeding and subsequent progeny production for a member of this genus.
25005843|Two male specimens of stingless bees collected in Thailand in January, 1958 together with six workers of T. fimbriata var. aliceae Cockerell, are described as the heretofore unknown male of T. fimbriata.
25009136|If both larval and adult stages are taken into account, then ants and bees are the only major groups of aculeate Hymenoptera in which complex hairs are abundant. The possible phylogenetic significance of this is discussed.
25009425|Aufeius impressicollis Stl (Hemiptera: Rhopalidae), a mainly southwestern U.S. and Mexican species recorded only as far east as Columbus, Ohio, is reported from Baltimore, Maryland, on smooth pigweed, Amaranthus hybridus L. (Amaranthaceae). A. impressicollis was reared on smooth pigweed in the laboratory; its habits are described, and developmental times of the immature stages are given. Ecological data from museum specimens and a review of the literature support the hypothesis that amaranths (and possibly members of the related family Chenopodiaceae) serve as host plants of this little studied rhopalid.
25009064|Hendrickson, R. M., Jr. and S. E. Barth, Beneficial Insects Research Laboratory, Agric. Res. Serv., USDA, Newark, Delaware, 19713.-Three techniques for rearing the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), were developed. A simple method of rearing the leafminer in a cage on potted alfalfa produced small numbers of flies with a minimum of maintenance time. A second method allowed recovery of puparia (mature larvae drop from the leaflet to pupate in soil) which was useful in obtaining puparia from field-collected alfalfa stems, for some biological studies, and for rearing larval-pupal parasites. A mass rearing method, in which infested plants were laid on their sides so larvae dropped into moist vermiculite, was suited for production of large numbers of flies and efficient use of potted alfalfa. Survival of pupae, the stage during which leafminers may suffer high mortality, was 50-60% for all methods.
25009222|The Cydnidae and Thyreocoridae have a small stridulitrum on the under side of the hindwing's postcubitus. The plectrum is a striated lima on the first tergite. Possession of the stridulitrum and plectrum is probably plesiomorphic in a complex of primitive Pentatomoidea. The Thaumastellidae (a member of the complex) also have a stridulitrum, near the postcubitus of the hindwing, and a similar plectrum. Some Scutelleridae and Tessaratomidae have a similar stridulitrum. Other morphological features ally these two families with-but are insufficient to warrant including them in-this complex of primitive pentatomoids.
25010216|Two new species of the orthocentrine genus Megastylus, Megastylus fallax and Megastylus panamensis, are described. Megastylus panamensis constitutes the first record of this genus from the Neotropical Region. The systematics of New World Megastylus are briefly discussed. Orthocentrinae are shown to be koinobiont endoparasitoids.
25009246|The twelve-spotted ladybird beetle, Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer) was studied at sites in western and central New York from 1973 to 1980. Aggregations of overwintering beetles begin to be active in April, and dispersal occurs gradually from then until late May. During this time, beetles feed on pollen of a variety of flowers in and near the aggregation site. After dispersal and a period of feeding, mating occurred near the end of May. Summer generations moved into cornfields when the corn was large enough to provide pollen and/or aphids. Sweet corn in this area may reach this size by early July, field corn by early August. The daily activity cycle of the beetles appeared to be based on geotaxis, with upward movement occurring in the early daylight hours and downward movement occurring in late morning. A positive hygrotaxis may also be involved in the downward movement, as the higher locations begin to become drier as the day advances. During dispersal, beetles showed a strong preference for yellow in color preference tests in the laboratory, and were commonly found on yellow flowers in the field. Once dispersed, this preference disappears and no clear pattern of color preference is shown. This phenomenon may have some bearing on the fact that dispersing beetles tend to fly in the direction of the sun.
25008987|All stages and instars of Colobura dirce L., as studied in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America, are described and illustrated photographically. The larval foodplant was Cecropia mexicana Hmsl. Larval and adult behavior are also described. Comparisons are made of various stages of C. dirce and those of some more or less similar Nymphalidae, especially of the genera Smyrna, Historis and Coea, which belong in the Coloburinae, and not in the Limenitinae. The name "adenosma" is proposed for the ventral, eversible, odoriferous prothoracic gland present in C. dirce larvae, and comparable, if not homologous, to the similar structure found in many families of Lepidoptera.
25009552|Within the myrmicine ant genus Zacryptocerus 13 of 21 species in Central America are hypothesized to be models for a Batesian mimicry complex that includes at least 40 species of arthropods. The ants are striking in appearance because they are strongly flattened and silvery in color, and use chemical defenses against potential predators, although they are eaten by ant specialists and as reproductives. The ants nest and forage arboreally and most of the identified mimics used dead branches in some way. The larger number of mimetic species than models appears possible because of the abundance of the ants and the relative rarity of the mimics; the rarity is further enhanced by the host specificity of most of the mimics, supporting a model proposed by Brower. Mimics appear to become absolutely and relatively more numerous toward the equator. The selective agents ("operators") are thought to be generalist insectivorous birds; ant specialists are argued not to affect evolution of the system.
25008977|The calling songs of decticines remain largely undescribed. Songs of Neduba macneilli and N. sierranus were recorded and analysed. These species have mirror-image tegmina and individual specimens exhibit reversed wing overlap. Wing symmetry and the elaborate pronotum characteristic of this genus are discussed as adaptations which increase the efficiency of sound radiation.
25005944|Caupolicana elegans from near Portal, Arizona is the third known species of the United States. The males of Ptiloglossa arizonensis and P. jonesi are also distinguished and described.
25009995|First report of pan-Neotropical Orcya from the Guyana Shield is Orcya snyderi, a distinctive new species described from recently disturbed riparian rain forest margin, upper Maroni River, French Guiana. Sister genus Noreena has a regional endemic of similar distribution.
25009700|A new ricinuleid, Cryptocellus adisi, is described from Amazonas, Brazil; it resembles C. albosquamatus of Guyana and C. narino of Colombia in having the body and legs coated with navicular setae, but differs in genitalic characters.
25006083|Two names, amicetus Scudder and phaedrus Hall have been used for the subspecies of Lycaena epixanthe Bois. from Newfoundland and the Maritime Provinces of Canada. Scudder's amicetus was published as an mss. name of Boisduval in a synonymy in 1876. No description or figure was associated with the name until Holland used it in 1931. Therefore, until that data amicetus was a nomen nudum until amicetus Holland 1931 was published. Hall's name (1924) should be used.
25010174|A new fossil bee species, Neocorynura electra, is described and figured. The species is known from one female in the Upper Oligocene or Lower Miocene amber deposits of the Dominican Republic. No species of Neocorynura are known to occur in the Greater Antilles today. This is only the fourth halictid species known from amber inclusions. A brief discussion of augochlorine biogeography in the Caribbean is presented.
25009115|Mites of the family Ascidae taken from the nasal passages of birds, mostly hummingbirds (Trochilidae) in Veracruz, Mexico, are represented by the genera Proctolaelaps and Rhinoseius. P. kirmsei, P. belemensis and R. heliconiae are new to Mexico. Three new species are described: P. mexicanus from Euphonia hirundinacea, P. spiralis from Phaethornis superciliosus, and R. mathewsoni from Amazilia candida.
25005832|Nogueirapis represents a natural group of the genus Trigona and is regarded as a valid subgenus. Three species, butteli, mirandula, and silacea, this latter a fossil from the Middle Miocene amber of Chiapas, Mexico, are included in this subgenus. The affinities of subgenera are discussed, the evolution of the subgenus is considered, and the species are redescribed. The two living species are so similar, structurally, to the fossil one that they may be considered indirect descendents.
25006129|Six species of Palearctic Aphelia are redescribed. The following new species are proposed: Aphelia galilaeica, A. ineffecta, Choristoneura ferrugininotata, Clepsis vittata, C. effigies. Two new combinations in Choristoneura are given.
25009534|The new species Melanorhopala froeschneri (Heteroptera: Tingidae) is described from Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, and Tennessee, and compared with the three previously described species of the genus. The fifth instar is described and illustrated; notes are given on the bug's host plant, Campsis radicans (L.) Seem. (Bignoniaceae), and on its habits; and a key is provided to separate the known species of Melanorhopala.
25009912|The New World genera Keltonia Knight, containing 12 species, and Pseudatomoscelis Poppius, containing three species and including the cotton fleahopper (P. seriatus (Reuter)), are revised, and the new species Keltonia bifurca, K. mexicana, and K. schaffneri from Mexico, K. pallida and K. robusta from the United States, K. steineri from Grand Bahama Island, Lineatopsallus slateri from Texas, and Pseudatomoscelis insularis from Puerto Rico and St. Thomas are described. The new genus Lineatopsallus is established to accommodate Psallus biguttulatus Uhler and the new species L. slateri. Pseudatomoscelis tuckeri Poppius is resurrected from synonymy and transferred to Keltonia; Psallus flora Van Duzee is transferred to Pseudatomoscelis; Psallus conspurcatus Blatchley and Keltonia fuscipunctata Knight are considered junior synonyms of K. sulphurea, and Psallus atomophorus Reuter, a junior synonym of P. seriatus; and revised keys to species of Keltonia and Pseudatomoscelis are given. A cladistic analysis, using Lineatopsallus as the outgroup, indicates that Keltonia and Pseudatomoscelis are sister genera.
25009406|A new corixid, Sigara krafti, is described from specimens collected in western Oregon and Washington. This species seems to prefer shallow, slow-moving water in streams and small rivers, and is most abundant over silty or muddy substrates. Illustrations of the male abdominal terga, right pala and right paramere of the male, left hemelytron of the female, and the mesepimeron are provided for Sigara krafti and three related species (S. mckinstryi Hungerford, S. vandykei Hungerford, S. washingtonensis Hungerford) found in Oregon and Washington.
25009656|The world species of Krombeinius are reviewed and two new species are described, K. taiwanensis from Taiwan and K. srilanka from Sri Lanka. A cladistic analysis strongly supports the monophyly of Krombeinius and Euperilampus and provides a phylogenetic hypothesis for the relationships of the species of Krombeinius.
25006226|Five new species of eriopterine crane flies from Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and Assam in India and from Thailand are described, these being Lipsothrix orthrotenes, Styringomyia apiculata, S. melanaspis, S. nigrobarbata, and S. tenuispina.
25009691|The seasonal history of the mirid Pseudoxenetus regalis (Uhler) was followed on white oak, Quercus alba L., in central Missouri during 1984-1986. This univoltine species is a specialist feeding only on oaks. Overwintering eggs hatched in early April; adults first appeared in early May and are present until the end of May. Notes are given on the North American distribution, polymorphism, and host plants. The fifth-instar nymph is described and illustrated.
25006017|The mature larva is described, figured and compared with that of the largely sympatric A. vialis (W. H. Edwards). Some larval characters of the genus Amblyscirtes Scudder are discussed.
25009624|The life history of Thionia elliptica (Germar) in Pennsylvania is outlined and the immatures described and illustrated. This univoltine issid has five nymphal instars, feeds on scrub oak (Quercus ilicifolia Wang.), has been collected from blackjack oak (Quercus marilandica Muenchh.), and apparently overwinters as eggs. Specimens are recorded from Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania. Specimens from Texas described by Doering as T. elliptica differ in the morphology of the aedeagus and, thus, are described as the new species T. obrienae Wilson. On the basis of adult and nymphal morphology, it is suggested that acanaloniid planthoppers, generally accorded family status by North American workers, be treated as a subfamily (Acanaloniinae) of the Issidae following Fennah (1954).
25009489|Seven new species plus one previously known species of Geron Meigen are reported from the northern and central Caribbean Islands. Geron insularis Bigot is synonymized with G. senilis (F.). Geron senilis is redescribed from new material and a lectotype is designated for the species. New species are described, illustrations of significant characters and a key to the species are included.
25009224|In higher organisms the specific activity of the RNA obtained after feeding radioactive precursors to the animals is very low. Therefore, we have systematically studied the incorporation of
25006001|Counts are given of melanic, melanistic, and normal individuals in the total catch of this moth in Connecticut in 1962-1965. Counts of these types are also given in families reared from wild-caught melanic, melanistic, and normal females. Larval melanism occurs, not linked to adult melanism. Adult melanism is dominant and apparently multifactorial. Environmental effects on the polymorphism are discussed.
25010198|A checklist of the species in the subfamily Stenogastrinae is presented, including synonyms, nomenclatural changes, and distributional summaries. Forty-five species in seven genera are treated as valid, with an additional three subspecies. Excluding emendations, mis-spellings and nomina nuda, a further 16 names are treated as available synonyms, but eight of these names are listed only as questionable synonyms. A new combination is Parischnogaster aurifrons (Smith). Thirty new locality records are given.
25010292|The unusual genus and species Dimonomera indica Cameron, currently placed as the sole member of the tribe Dimonomerini, is redescribed, and illustrations of habitus, mouth-parts, meso-metasternal areas, tarsi and male genitalia are provided. Dimonomera shares numerous characters, some of which are unique among aleocharines, with known members of the tribe Myllaenini. It differs from other myllaenines, especially the type genus Myllaena, primarily in the unusual autapomorphic tarsal structure. Tarsal structure is an insufficient criterion for establishing a tribe exclusively to include Dimonomera. The results of this study support the proposal that Dimonomera should be included in the Myllaenini.
25009256|Observations were made on the decomposition of a dead dog during the dry season of 1977 in the Central Valley of Costa Rica, Central America. The terrain is classified as premontane humid forest and the observations were made in a secondary forest. The general pattern of decomposition was basically the same as has been described by authors in other latitudes, but different in the ecological complexity and the insect fauna involved. The classification used for human cadavers by forensic pathologists in Costa Rica and other countries in the American tropics was utilized in this study. It includes the following stages: discoloration, emphysematic (bloated), liquefaction and skeletal remains. The succession of different species appeared to depend on their specific feeding preferences, interspecific competition, and the microclimate provided by the substratum. Marked changes in the activity of populations during crepuscular periods coincided with an increase in relative humidity and a decline in temperature in the macroenvironment of the surrounding forest. Included among the principal insect consumers of the remains were the calliphorid dipterans Phaenicia eximia Wiedemann and Hemilucilia segmentaria Fabricius, the piophilid dipteran Prochyliza azteca McAlpine and the coleopteran Dermestes carnivorus Fabricius. The most important predators were the histerids Euspilotus aenicollis Marshall, Hister punctiger Paykal and Geomysaprinus (Priscosaprinus) belioculus Marshall. Some of these species have also been associated with a similar type of substratum in the tropical rain forest and tropical dry forest in Costa Rica.
25009798|Three species of the spider genus Physocyclus (P. californicus, P. enaulus, P. sp.) were karyotyped using an air-drying, Giemsa staining method. All chromosomes were metacentric, with males being 2n = 15 (N = 7 + XO) and females being 2n = 16. The karyotyping method resulted in slide preparations which were countable five years post-fixing.
25009835|The males of nine new species of Neotrichia (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) from Central and South America are described and illustrated: N. colmillosa (Venezuela), N. browni (Venezuela), N. cuernuda (Venezuela), N. arista (Venezuela), N. dientera (Venezuela), N. botonia (Venezuela), N. negroensis (Venezuela), N. flowersi (Panama), and N. colombiensis (Colombia).
25010551|Geranomyia recondita larvae live in a jelly mass on the leaf surfaces of understory plants. The feeding behavior of these larvae was observed by laboratory feeding trials utilizing three species of epiphyllous liverworts (Lejeuneaceae) in La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, and complemented with field observations of movement over the leaf surface and size variation of the jelly mass in which the larvae live. Although only 30% of the G. recondita larvae fed on the liverworts that were offered to them, the results indicate that they are capable of feeding on live liverworts. The larvae primarily accepted Lejeunea and never accepted Leptolejeunea, suggesting that they avoid liverworts containing aromatic compounds. Larvae were also observed feeding on other epiphylls that were present on the surface of the leaf. The area of the jelly masses was negatively correlated with ambient temperature, suggesting that G. recondita larvae are more active at night, since the masses were larger at that time, possibly allowing them to forage over greater distances on the surface of the leaf.
25010340|Xenochalepus (Neochalepus) hespenheidei new species from Costa Rica and Panama is described and illustrated.
25009892|Bromeliad inhabiting Veliidae are restricted to the New World tropics, and no exploitation of similar phytotelmata habitats is known among veliids in any other tropical region. The eight species of bromeliadicolus Veliidae occurring in the Neotropical region are discussed, and a key to the species provided. A new species, Paravelia paolettii is described from Venezuela.
25010237|As part of a series of papers aimed at studying caste in epiponine wasps, this paper deals with Parachartergus smithii. The whole female population of a mature nest (131 workers, 14 intermediates and 5 queens) was measured and dissected. Canonical discriminant analyses indicated slight morphological caste differentiation. Mahalanobis distances for queen-worker, queen-intermediate and intermediate-worker were 10.33, 10.86 and 0.90, respectively. However, ovaries were much more developed in queens than in workers and intermediates indicating clear physiological differences. In addition, castes were distinguished by color patterns in the frons, clypeus, mandibles, gena and wings. An brief comparison of caste differences in the Epiponini reveals both allometric and non-allometric patterns.
25009513|The tribe Cassidini is defined for the Western Hemisphere and the tribe Charidotini is united with it. A key is given for the fifteen genera known to occur in America north of Mexico. Two groups are recognized: the Cassida Group with six genera and the Charidotis Group with nine genera. Metrionella Spaeth, 1932, is recognized in North America for the first time, and a new genus Opacinota is proposed for Coptocycla bisignata Boheman, 1855. Metriona Weise, 1896, and Nuzonia Spaeth, 1913, are excluded from the North American fauna. Metriona turba Sanderson and King, 1951, is placed in synonymy under Metrionella bilimeki (Spaeth, 1932), Metriona bicolor (Fabricius) and M. profligata (Boheman) are transferred to Charidotella, and lectotypes are designated for M. bilimeki Spaeth and Nuzonia ibaguensis Spaeth, 1912.
25008941|Twenty-nine species of solitary wasps occupied a newly bulldozed area of sandy soil at Bedford, Mass., during the summers of 1972 and 1973. Of these, 5 species built up large populations in only two years, having moved into the area from adjacent study plots. Another 17 species occupied the newly bulldozed area in smaller numbers, while the remaining 7 species, present in adjacent plots, failed to occupy the new substrate or did so with no increase in numbers.
25010345|Xyrophoreus cristatus new species, is described from South India; new distributional data for X. tonsor Breddin is included; dorsal view illustrations and drawings of head, pronotum, antennal segments and hind leg are provided.
25009343|Experiments were designed to determine the role of the spumaline covering eastern tent caterpillar egg masses as an adaptation for overwintering. The ability of the spumaline to absorb water from the environment is a direct function of temperature and water concentration in air. Egg mass temperatures may be significantly higher than ambient temperatures. The spumaline covering egg masses of this species may act to ameliorate low overwintering temperatures and to prevent desiccation by absorbing as much moisture from surrounding air as possible.
25010077|A stridulatory mechanism is recognized for the first time for the genus Nerthra Say, located in the male genital capsule of all species studied. Nerthra toddi NEW SPECIES replaces Nerthra mexicana, Todd 1955 (nec Melin, 1929). It is compared with Nerthra mexicana (Melin) (=Nerthra usingeri Todd, NEW SYNONYMY), with which it has been confused, Nerthra martini Todd, and Nerthra stygica Say. N. martini, N. mexicana and N. toddi all occur in Mexico, but are not known to be sympatric.
25000074|Observations on the adults and early stages of Hamadryas guatemalena Bates have been carried out in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, for a period of 4 years. In this article the results are presented for the first time, with a detailed account of the life cycle, illustrated with photographs, of the larval behavior and the plant used as food. The characteristics of the species are compared with the characteristics of other closely related species. The contention that there should be several genera within the group is discussed. As in other Nymphalidae, in this species the gaudy coloration and daring behavior of the larvae, and the use of a foodplant belonging to the Euphorbiacae (Dalechampia scandens L.) reputedly poisonous, suggest impalatability of the adults.
25010384|Heterotyphlus sequoia, n. sp., the third known species in Heterotyphlus Coiffait, 1962, is described from Northern California.
25009531|The present paper contains descriptions and habitus illustrations of the following new Miridae: Araucanomiris, new genus (type species Adelphocoris chilensis Carvalho and Maldonado); Froeschneriella, new genus, F. elsiae, new species (Ecuador); Phytocoris minensis, new species (Brazil); Proba froeschneri, new species (Mexico); Paraguayna, new genus, (type species Neofurius paraguayensis Carvalho and Drake); Ilnacora arnaudi, new species (Mexico). Eroticoris albiceps Lethierry is transferred to Neofurius Distant, new combination. A lectoctype is designated for Aspidobothrus latipennis Reuter.
25009102|Mitripus, new subgenus, is erected for seven South American species of Euschistus Dallas. The contained species previously recognized are: E. acutus, E. anticus, E. convergens, E. latus, E. legionarius and E. tauricornis. Euschistus grandus, new species, is added to this group. A key to species, and a description or diagnosis of each, are provided. New synonymy recognized is E. variicornis Bergroth, 1914, as a junior synonym of E. acutus Dallas, 1951. A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for E. alaticollis Stl, 1860, a junior synonym of E. latus Dallas, 1852.
25009569|Seeversiella bispinosa, a new genus and species of athetine aleocharine staphylinid, is described and illustrations of structural features are provided. Members of Seeversiella are particularly distinctive among known North American aleocharines because of the presence of a large spine on each apico-lateral margin of abdominal tergum III and a medial carina on tergum VII of most males. The species was first noted as representing a "new genus" in a key to genera of North American Aleocharinae provided in 1978 by Dr. Charles Seevers, but he did not give it a formal name or provide a description. Modification of pertinent couplets of Seevers' key is provided which allows for identification of specimens of Seeversiella.
25005913|The following new species, all belonging to the Eriopterine genus Baeoura Alexander, are described; Baeoura dihybosa, B. coloneura and B. schmidiana from Kumaon; B. acustyla, B. furcella, B. sternofurca from Sikkim.
25009818|Information is presented on the life cycle and larval feeding habits of Coenia curvicauda Meigen, a widely distributed and common species of the ephydrid subfamily Ephydrinae. The larvae are trophically generalized and are able to utilize a wide variety of algae as well as decomposing plant detritus. However, certain algal foods seemingly are more suitable, as they permit larval growth to be completed more quickly. In northeastern Ohio, the life cycle can be completed in 16-25 days, and there are 9-12 generations a year. The egg, mature larvae, and puparium are described and illustrated. The larval morphology is compared to that of Paracoenia fumosalis Cresson.
25010515|A list of 202 species of Miridae, or plant bugs, of Kentucky is presented, based on study of more than 4,000 specimens from the University of Kentucky and University of Louisville collections and fieldwork conducted by the authors, supplemented by a review of the literature. One- hundred seventy-six species are newly recorded from the state; 26 species previously were known in Kentucky based on the most recent North American Heteroptera catalog and a few other literature sources. The Miridae in this list are arranged alphabetically by subfamily, tribe, genus, and species. Distribution, dates, host plants, depository, and number of specimens examined are provided for each species. When a Kentucky host was not recorded, literature documenting known hosts is given, along with selected papers providing biological information.
25006002|An apparent association of an oribatoid mite, Hygroribates marinus (Banks), with rock barnacles (Balanus, spp.) is reported. The mites regularly hide in crevices of the barnacle shell plates. The occurrence of large encrustations of barnacles may favor the spread of these sluggishly moving, ovoviviparous mites.
25009944|A key and diagnoses for 28 genera of Ochlerini are provided. New genera proposed are: Barola, Catulona, Clypona, Coranda, Cromata, Forstona, Pseudadoxoplatys, Stalius and Uvaldus. New species are Barola farfala, Catulona pensa, Catulona apaga, Clypona aerata, Coranda castana, Cromata ornata, Forstona speciosa, Pseudadoxoplatys mendacis, Schaefferella fusca, Stalius trisinuatus and Uvaldus concolor. New synonymy recognized is Melanodermus Stl, 1867, as a junior synonym of Ochlerus Spinola, 1837, resulting in revival of the combination Ochlerus circummaculatus Stl, 1867, and new combinations of Coranda picipes (Stl, 1872) and Stalius tartareus (Stl, 1862). Typhoeocoris Breddin, 1903, is placed in the synonymy of Caracia Stl, 1872, and T. fulvifemur Breddin, 1903, in the synonymy of C. sexdens Stl, 1872. The holotype of Parochlerus latus Breddin, 1904, is redescribed. The male genitalia of this species are described since only the female was known previously. A redescription of Tetrochlerus fissiceps Breddin, 1904, is given, and a voucher specimen is designated inasmuch as type material of this species is unknown. A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for Ochlerus tartareus Stl, 1862.
25009439|The name Mormidea kirkaldyi is proposed for a species described previously but misdetermined. Mormidea bridarolli Pirn, 1963, is placed in the synonymy of M. montandoni Kirkaldy, 1902.
25009196|The peak emergence periods and habitats of cicadas were examined discontinuously over several years in lowland tropical rain forest of northeastern Costa Rica. Two distinctive ecological features of this region which might affect cicadas are (1) the existence of primary and secondary forest habitats, and (2) the occurrence of a short dry season. Although the data on adults concern six genera and eleven species, emphasis is placed on quantitative sampling of nymphal casts from ground plots for Zammara smaragdina, Fidicina sericans, Fidicina mannifera, Fidicina pronoe, Fidicina spinocosta, and Quesada gigas. If selection pressures favor emergence adaptations such as allochrony or habitat non-overlap among some species, it was expected that the census data would show these patterns. Generally the data support this hypothesis. For example, of the two most abundant cicadas, Z. smaragdina and F. sericans, the former emerges primarily during the long wet season while the latter emerges during the dry season. Both species occur in primary forest but Z. smaragdina also occurs in advanced secondary forest. Another, F. mannifera, is generally not very abundant, has low emergence almost continuously throughout the year, and sings at times of the day when others are less active. Others such as F. spinocosta and F. pronoe and Q. gigas emerge in young secondary forests but in different seasons. Owing to the high selective value placed upon the cicada song in breeding, temporal and spatial partitioning of the environment may be an adaptive measure that reduces interspecific competitive conflicts that could arise by adults of abundant species being active at the same times of the year or in the same habitats.
25005807|Males of A. calcarius (Actaletidae), Jamaica, have distinctive leg appendages. The other known sp. of this littoral family is European.
25010079|Pemphigus obesinymphae, n. sp., which is closely allied to P. populitransversus Riley, was discovered in Arizona and Utah and is described here. The new species forms galls on leaf petioles of Populus fremontii Watson, and produces 1st instar nymphs that possess heavy sclerotization and stout legs. The 2nd and 3rd instar nymphs are swollen and look superficially like wingless adults. The fundatrix, the 1st instar, 2nd instar and adult (alate) fundatrigeniae, the 1st instar exule deposited by the alate, the sexupara, and the gall are described. The differences found between the new species and the most similar previously described species, P. populitransversus and P. knowltoni Stroyan, are given.
25010365|Male aristae of laboratory reared Ceratitis capitata were longer, both in absolute terms and in proportion to body size, than those of females. Both male and female aristae had microtrichia which lacked membranes at the base, but female aristae had more microtrichia that were more evenly distributed than those of males. Female aristae also had more curves in the distal end. Experimental removal of female aristae resulted in less frequent mounting, and less copulation once mounting had occurred than in control females. Stimuli sensed by the female's arista may thus affect her readiness to copulate. /// Los machos de Ceratitis capitata criados en laboratorio tuvieron aristas ms largas en promedio y en proporcin al tamao del cuerpo que las de las hembras. Las aristas de machos y hembras tenan pelos de base fija sin membrana (microtrichiae); las aristas de las hembras eran cubiertas con ms pelos distribuidos de forma ms homognea que en los machos. Las aristas de las hembras adems tenan ms curvas en el extremo distal. Las hembras con aristas cortadas experimentalmente fueron menos montadas, y menos copuladas una vez que eran montadas, que las hembras control. Se concluye que posiblemente los estmulos detectados por sus aristas afectan la disposicin de la hembra a copular.
25006119|Andrioplecta, Gephyroneura, and Rhadinoscolops are described as new genera; Laspeyresia subpulverula (Java) and Grapholitha (Euspila) harmologa (Assam, India) are published as new species. The genus Cimeliomorpha Diakonoff is redescribed, several new combinations are proposed, and the male genitalia of Antichlidas holocnista Meyrick is figured.
25009525|Oncylocotis froeschneri, new species, based on an extremely brachypterous male from Zaire is described and illustrated.
25009883|Fifteen species names proposed by T. L. Casey, previously considered valid names of North American Agonum, are newly synonymized. The synonymical status of 11 additional species names heretofore considered valid species names of Agonum are also reviewed. Twenty-seven new lectotypes are designated. Olisares Motschulsky, 1864, is newly syonymized with Agonum Bonelli, 1810. Agonum imitans Notman, a putative member of the North American fauna, is diagnosed and redescribed.
25010267|The larval food plant of Hypena manalis (Walker) proves to be bog hemp, Boehmeria cylindrica (L.). Partly grown larvae rejected stinging nettle, Urtica dioica (L.). The mature larva of H. manalis is described and illustrated. It is compared to larvae of H. bijugalis, H. baltimoralis, H. madefactalis, and H. humuli.
25008779|A long-term capture-mark-recapture program was conducted on Parides (Papilioninae) butterflies (Parides arcas mycale, Parides arcas mylotes, Parides childrenae childrenae, and Parides erithalion sadyattes) visiting the flowers of two widely-separated Hamelia patens (Rubiaceae) trees in Costa Rican lowland tropical rain forest. Adult populations, composed predominantly of males, were present at these two feeding sites for more than 12 successive months. These small populations were characterized by long-lived males not subject to heavy predation, and "residential" in terms of their local movements in the jungle. Such low-turnover populations persisted at feeding sites over long periods. This persistence, in addition to similar diurnal activity periods among species accounted for an effective Mllerian mimetic association. Females were highly vagile, presumably due to searching behavior for oviposition sites, and thus irregularly appeared at low frequency at the regular feeding sites of males. The localized distributions of males at their feeding sites could function primarily for initiation of courtship behavior in the jungle, favoring effective female dispersal after successful mating. Females may act as models in mimetic associations with other species (Papilio anchisiades ideaus, Papilio sp., and Heliconius doris) seen in the jungle, but like females of Parides, adults of these species were also irregular, infrequent visitors at these feeding sites and exhibited high vagility.
25010008|Notophrudus mendozi, new genus and species, resembles the Holarctic genus Phrudus (as defined by Townes, 1971) but has a tiny though strong tooth dorso-apically on the front tibia, lacks pectination on the tarsal claws and has the 1st gastric segment uniquely slender, parallel-sided, and with its spiracle closer to the tergal base than in any other phrudine. Notophrudus inhabits Nothofagus forests in Chile's Lake District (Cautn to Osorno Provinces).
25009530|The remarkably myrmecomorphic characters of the hallodapine mirid Leaina belua Linnavuori from West Africa are described and illustrated and some comparisons made with other antlike mirids exhibiting supposed imitations of orthopteroid mandibles. Some literature on the possible role of ant mimicry in Miridae and Alydidae is reviewed. A plea is made for detailed observations on the biology of those hallodapines that display the highest degree of myrmecomorphy. Attention is further paid to the exceptionally low number of chromosomes (n = 2 and 4) in some hallodapines investigated by the author.
25009933|Three important morphological attributes of 100 worker honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) from each of four colonies were examined morphometrically. Intertegular span (a measure of overall size), corbicular area (a measure of pollen carrying potential), and wing measurement C (highly correlated to functional proboscis length) were the morphological features selected. Worker bees with larger intertegular spans (or corbiculae, or wing measurements C) did not possess other morphological features that were highly correlated in size. This lack of correspondence was true in analyses focusing upon both linear and allometric size relationships. The lack of strong size correlations between morphological features is discussed in terms of both artificial and natural selection acting upon honey bee colonies.
25009692|Martinius temporalis is described from Ecuador. The male genitalia are figured and characters to separate it from other known species are given.
25010098|Larva and pupa of the genus Paduniella are described for the first time based on specimens of Paduniella nearctica Flint from the Ozark Mountains of Missouri and Arkansas, U.S.A. Larvae of Paduniella differ from Tinodes and Lype in having well developed teeth along the concave margin of the anal claw; they can be distinguished from larvae of Psychomyia by the submental sclerites being wider than long and small rather than longer than wide and large. The pupa of Paduniella is unique among Nearctic psychomyiids in having 6-segmented maxillary palpi, 4-segmented labial palpi, and 3 pairs of labral setae. Observations on the biology of the species suggest a scraper functional role for the larva and a bivoltine life cycle.
25009946|Arocera Spinola contains two subgenera, the nominate subgenus and Euopta Stl. Diagnoses are provided for Arocera, Euopta, and all previously described species. Two new species are described: A. (Euopta) variegata from Argentina and A. (Euopta) sexpunctata from Ecuador. Arocera apta (Walker) and A. melanopyga (Stl) are resurrected from the synonymy of A. spectabilis (Drury), A. placens (Walker) is resurrected from the synonymy of A. nigrorubra (Dallas), A. aequinoxialis (Westwood) is resurrected from the synonymy of A. acroleuca (Perty), and A. repleta is resurrected from the synonymy of A. elongata and placed as a subspecies of that species. Arocera affinis Distant, 1880, A. protea Distant, 1880, A. altivola Distant, 1893, A. chiriquensis Distant, 1893, and A. contralineata Pirn, 1955 are all removed from the synonymy of A. nigrorubra (Dallas, 1851) and are placed as new synonyms of A. placens (Walker, 1867). Arocera patibulata Distant, 1880 and A. jalapensis Distant, 1893 are both removed from the synonymy of A. spectabilis (Drury, 1782) and are also placed as new synonyms of A. placens. Arocera crucigera Haglund, 1868 and A. schumanni Distant, 1890 are both removed from the synonymy of A. spectabilis; A. crucigera is placed as a new synonym of A. apta (Walker, 1867), and A. schumanni is placed as a new synonym of A. melanopyga (Stl, 1858). Lectotypes are designated for A. affinis, A. schumanni, Pentatoma aequinoxialis, Strachia apta, and S. nigrorubra. A key is provided to aid in the identification of species of Arocera.
25009509|Four new species of Tenthredinidae, i.e., Athlophorus vespiformis and A. bandatus belonging to the Selandriinae (according to Malaise's classification) and Macrophya gopeshwari and M. concolor belonging to Tenthredininae are reported from India.
25009110|Neves, Richard J., Massachusetts Cooperative Fishery Research Unit, Department of Forestry and Wildlife Management, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003. Present address of author: Virginia Cooperative Fishery Research Unit, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia 24061.-The species composition and flight periods of Plecoptera along a woodland stream in Massachusetts was studied by 3 yr of nymphal and adult sampling. Twenty-two genera and 45 species emerged between mid-February and early September. Most species were collected in May and June at stream temperatures between 8-15 C. A comparison with other stonefly surveys indicated a diversity gradient for Plecoptera in North America.
25009685|A new genus of Microveliinae, Aphrovelia, is described on the basis of a new species, A. phoretica, from several localities in western Madagascar. The unusual habits of this species, which occurs on rafts of foam along the banks of sandy rivers, are discussed. Illustrations of key characters and a discussion of the relationship of this new genus to allied genera of Microveliinae are provided.
25005938|This paper locates Peale's copy of Lepidoptera Americana (1833) in the Library of the Amer. Mus. of Nat. Hist. and not in the British Mus. (Nat. Hist.) as claimed by Brower. The locations of eight other copies are given and Peale's copy collated in detail. Bibliographic references deal with publications and activities of Peale.
25008909|A new species of introduced ant, C. ectopia, is described and figured, based on material from Orange and Los Angeles counties. All three castes are included and the species is compared to the other four species known to occur in the United States. Cardiocondyla is an Old World genus of approximately 30 species, about half a dozen of which are regularly transported by commerce into new areas. Four species have been introduced into the eastern United States (Smith, 1944); all seem to be firmly established in Florida. No species has previously been reported from California. This seems surprising since the three most commonly transported species are common in the Pacific region. The first California specimens to come to my attention were collected by R. J. Hamton at his home in Long Beach, Los Angeles Co., in 1967. During the following year, specimens were collected by K. C. Stephens in Downey and Artesia, L. A. Co. Specimens from Tustin, Orange Co., were collected in 1970 by A Mintzer, and the author found the species in his yard at Seal Beach, Orange Co., in 1972. I have been unable to associate this species with any previously described name. In order to discuss this species in the following paper, I am describing the ant as new. Hopefully the correct name, if the species is previously described, can be determined at a later date.
25006059|New synonyms of one genus and twenty-four species, as well as twenty-one new combinations and a few other notes pertaining to American spiders, most of them in the family Linyphiidae, particularly the sub-family Erigoninae, are recorded.
25009217|I examined two small individuals of a larval host plant species (Granadilla sp.) of Heliconius cydno and H. sapho (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiinae: Heliconiini) in northeastern Costa Rica to determine approximately the degree to which each one was utilized repeatedly. From the rather detailed conceptual framework and ecological studies of Heliconius butterflies I expected to find low clutch size and exploitation of fresh meristem for H. cydno and H. sapho as members of the "Granadilla-feeding" species group. The observations on one of the two plants agreed well with these expectations. On the other host plant individual, however, females of these species placed unusually high numbers of eggs on available fresh meristem. In subsequent observations when no apical meristem was present, no immature stages were found. The subtle interplay of many environmental factors, including shifting scarcities of fresh meristem on host plants, determines the intensity of oviposition on a particular plant.
25009301|The Miridae and Coleoptera on tulip tree (Liriodendron tulipfera L.) flowers were examined in June, 1979 at Ithaca, New York. The mirids are mainly Lygocoris caryae and L. omnivagus, and are probably attracted to tulip tree to feed on the flowers. The mirid-flower association changes with the age of the flower; young flowers support a larger mirid fauna than older flowers. The Coleoptera are mainly Cantharidae and Cephaloidae. Notes on the feeding behavior of these insects are recorded. These are the first feeding records for Cephaloon lepturides, Cantharis scitulus, C. rectus, and Podabrus brunnicollis, and the first records for Lygocoris caryae, L. omnivagus, L. tiliae, L. hirticulus, and L. belfragii on tulip tree.
25010432|A new species, Olixon atlanticus, is described from a secondary dry forest in Zambrano, Bolvar, Colombia. This species represents the second record of the genus from the Neotropical Region, and is close to O. banksii but can be distinguished by the length of the first flagellomere, the form of the premedian transverse carina of the first metasomal tergum, and by the presence of a weak median longitudinal impression on the second metasomal tergum that ends in a notch. Olixon atlanticus and O. testaceum are the first records of the genus for Colombia. An updated key to the species of Olixon is given. Also we record the genus and species Liosphex varius as new for Colombia.
25008818|Both sexes of the epigeal ricinuleid Cryptocellus paradoxus, new species, from Cuba are described. This is the first record of an island ricinuleid.
25009101|Thirty-five species and three subspecies of Scutacaridae are listed from New York. An identification key to the species is given. In addition, three new species and 1 new subspecies are described and figured; these are: Imparipes cupes, Scutacarus (S.) meansi, S. (S.) unicus indefinitus, and S. (Variatipes) subaffinis. The specimens were collected from bird nests, dog food, and from a cupedid beetle. Scutacarus (S.) subellipticus Delfinado & Baker, 1976 (Dec.) is a synonym of S. (S.) curtus Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello, 1976 (June). The following are transferred from Imparipes Berlese to Archidispus Karafiat: insulanus (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello), longitarsus (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello), similis (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello) and tarsalis (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello).
25008817|Modified McPhail traps baited with essences were utilized to capture male euglossine bees in British Honduras. The performance of these traps was superior to that of Steiner traps during trials in British Honduras and demonstrated that many of the euglossine species occurring in the area could be collected with little expenditure of time and effort. The presence of female euglossines in McPhail traps baited with SIB7, a partially hydrolyzed protein used in Mexican fruitfly trapping programs, is also reported.
25009392|The ability of the social parasite Psithyrus ashtoni to identify and discriminate between nest odours of different bumblebee species was investigated. Female P. ashtoni were presented with various combinations of host nest, non-host nest and nest material alone. Parasites showed preference for the odour of the host nests rather than nest material or nests of non-host bumblebees. The importance of host nest odour identification to searching parasites is discussed.
25009858|From New Zealand there are known, to date, six apterous genera of Carventinae, each with only one described species. Two new species, Acaraptera waipouensis, n. sp. and Leuraptera yakasi, n. sp., both from North Island, are described, and their general habitus and male genitalic structures are figured. Additional data are provided for Acaraptera myersi Usinger and Matsuda.
25009958|A new species, Acrolophus arboreus, of the endemic American family Acrolophidae is described from the upper Amazon of Peru. Similar larval material from Manaus, Brazil, suggests the species to be widespread through the Amazon Basin. The larvae are arboreal and construct elongate tubes of silk and wood fragments on the bark of several unrelated tree species. The larvae are believed to be scavengers on lichens and similar plant material.
25009315|Predators, parasites, and associates of the gregariously nesting solitary bee, Anthophora abrupta Say (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae), were studied in Baltimore County, Maryland during 1976-1979. Adult bees were preyed on by barn swallows (Hirundo rustica L.) and parasitized by conopid flies (Physocephala marginata Say). Immature stages were parasitized by Chrysis sp., Ganperdea apivora (Aldrich), Hornia minutipennis Riley, and Monodontomerus mandibularis Gahan. Juvenile mortality was high (about 57%), and may have been contributed to by 10 species of fungi (Eumycota) infesting 50% of the bee cells. Fifteen non-parasitic insect species also nested at the study site and possibly competed with A. abrupta for nesting space.
25009885|The larva of the myrmicine genus Blepharidatta is described for the first time and illustrated. The genus is transferred from the tribe Ochetomyrmecini to a new tribe Blepharidattini.
25009164|The egg, larva, pupa and host relations of Tatochila autodice, blanchardii, sterodice macrodice, sterodice sterodice, vanvolxemii and mercedis are described. These species occur in temperature to subantarctic Argentina and Chile. The sterodice species-group is very homogeneous and seems to be closely related to T. xanthodice from Colombia. The autodice group shows many divergences in the larva and pupa and is convergent in various characters with a number of Holarctic taxa. T. mercedis is somewhat intermediate to the autodice group in certain characters.
25005850|A study was made of the activities of adenosine deaminase, guanase, xanthine oxidase and uricase in homogenates of the foregut, midgut, hindgut, Malpighian tubules and leg muscle of the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana. Adenosine deaminase was found in all tissues except leg muscle. Its activity was higher in homogenates of the gut than in those of the Malpighian tubule. Guanase, uricase and xanthine oxidase were present in all tissues. Their activities were highest in the gut and Malpighian tubules, suggesting that these organs play an important role in purine metabolism.
25006153|Ctenophthalmus p. pseudagyrtes Baker occurs on a wide variety of mammals, and occasionally on birds. It occurs in greatest numbers on Cricetidae, Talpidae, and Soricidae. A population peak occurs in March-April in the northeast, but the species is taken throughout the year. Unlike most flea species, this one shows nearly equal collections of males and females except during the winter months. No habitat preference is clearly demonstrated, except that underground nests and burrows appear to be essential.
25008902|Caonabo, new genus, and C. casicus, new species, are described from Brazil. In this genus the spiracles are located near the lateral margins of the abdomen, while the paired trichobothria associated with each spiracle remain in a submarginal position. The spatial relationship of the spiracles and trichobothria appears unique among genera of Pentatominae.
25010410|Carabid beetle communities were compared for adjacent marsh and bog biotopes at the McLean Bogs Preserve, Tompkins Co., New York by means of pitfall-trap sampling. Though the sampled marsh and bog habitats were only 200 m distant, with the umbrotrophic bog isolated from the marsh/fen complex by a Wisconsin-aged glacial esker of only 7 m elevation, the resident wetland carabid species assemblages differed significantly between the sites during the spring and summer seasons. Of 62 species observed in the wetlands, 36 were found exclusively in the marsh biotope, 17 were exclusive to the bog site, and only 9 were found at both sites. This level of wetland habitat fidelity was maintained in spite of potential colonization of the two sites each spring by adult beetles dispersing from overwintering sites in surrounding forest edge habitats. Pitfall sampling found 59 native carabid species, of which 52 were found during a survey conducted from 1916-1925, suggesting that the McLean Bogs Preserve supports locally resident populations for the vast majority of carabid species found during this study. The McLean Bogs Preserve supports geographically southern, peripheral populations of the bog-specialist Platynus mannerheimii Dejean, as well as four marsh/fen-inhabiting species-Trechus crassiscapus Lindroth, Bembidion muscicola Hayward, B. praticola Lindroth, and Bradycellus semipubescens Lindroth-emphasizing the role this preserve plays in maintaining the distributional ranges of both bog- and marsh-resident taxa. The distinct faunas observed in these two proximate biotopes clearly illustrate that comprehensive conservation of the carabid beetle fauna of northeastern North America should involve preservation of a variety of wetland types.
25009894|The new mirine genus Gracilimiris and the new species G. litoralis, from the eastern United States, and G. strigosus and G. wheeleri from Arizona and Texas are diagnosed and described. All three species are associated with grasses (Poaceae). Male genitalia of all species are figured and a dorsal habitus is provided for the male of the type species, G. litoralis. Scanning electron micrographs are presented for the dorsal setae, scent gland ostiole, and pretarsus of G. strigosus.
25010152|Caterpillars of the moth Aphomia sociella (L.) were collected from active colonies of Dolichovespula arenaria (F.) and D. maculata (L.), the first documented new world hosts for this nest inquiline. Caterpillars held indoors were successfully reared to adults. Emergences coincided with typical flight period ranges in nature, overlapping the early phases of vespine colony development.
25009202|This is the first study of the anatomy of the male reproductive systems of the adults and pupae of the doryline ants, Dorylus (Anomma) wilverthi and D. (A.) nigricans Illiger. The external genitalia and the terminal gastric sterna are included. The reproductive systems consist of the testes and vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, the aedeagal bladder, and the external genitalia. The external genitalia of these ants are composed of a basal ring and three pairs of valves, the outer, the middle, and the inner, typical of the formicid pattern. The male systems in these two species are similar in their shapes and the arrangement of the organs. Although the testes in the nigricans adult are absent, in the pupa there are 50-55 follicles in each testis. Wilverthi has 35-40 testicular follicles in both the adult and pupa. The valves of the external genitalia and terminal gastric sterna of these two species show no individual variations, other than size, in their shapes. Male systems have been described for only three other doryline ants, the Old World Dorylus labiatus, the New World Eciton hamatum and Neivamyrmex harrisi. This system is compared in these dorylines. Important differences exist between the male reproductive systems of the two African Dorylus species herein studied and the two New World dorylines previously reported. The Dorylus species have a larger number of testicular follicles, the shapes of their accessory glands are different, the basal ring of the genitalia is fused to the outer valves, a membrane joins the ventral margins of the inner genitalic valves, and the shapes of the genitalic valves and the subgenital plate are different.
25010396|A new species of Amnestus Dallas, A. ficus, is described. Its life cycle, and immature stages are also included and illustrated. The association of Cydnidae with the fruits of various species of Ficus is reported for first time. The study is based mainly on two-year sampling in a small patch of medium rain forest on the coast of Veracruz, combined with records from Chiapas, Guerrero, and San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
25010443|A new genus of Mesoveliidae, Seychellovelia, with a single included species, S. hygrobia n. sp., is described from the islands of Silhouette and Mahe in the granitic Seychelles. This new taxon is compared to other mesoveliid genera, and its key morphological characters illustrated. Information is also provided on the habitat preferences of S. hygrobia, and an updated distributional map of mesoveliid genera on a world basis is provided, accompanied by a discussion of zoogeographical implications.
25010492|Two new species from the Chilean coastal desert, Gyriosomus granulipennis and Gyriosomus multigranulosus (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini), are described and included in the most recent key for the genus. Distributional and habitat records, habitus photographs, and illustrations of the pronotum and prosternum for these two new species are included.
25009778|The structural features of the ovipositor, its associated sensilla, and its inversion membrane were investigated by scanning electron microscopy. Anteriorly directed, scale-like outgrowths of the integument arranged in triangular-shaped quadrants cover the inversion membrane. Campaniform and trichoid mechanosensilla are found on the inner valves of the ovipositor while a series of shallow pits containing ampullae-like sensory structures occur on both the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the distal portion of the organ. The ventro-lateral margins near the ovipositor tip have distinct depressions on either side which contain two types of chemosensilla. The number of these chemosensilla is not consistent between specimens. In most cases, there are two sensilla on each side but in some specimens there are two sensilla in the right pit and three in the left. The possible functional role of all these sensilla during oviposition is postulated.
25009025|The life histories of eight species of insects which live in the water-filled bracts of Heliconia wagneriana and H. imbricata are studied. Development times of larval forms are directly correlated with the length of time an inflorescence survives on a plant. Few predators were collected from these inflorescences. It is hypothesized that low predation rates may be important in the evolution of insects living in Heliconia inflorescences.
25010037|Four new species of Ochrotrichia, subgenus Ochrotrichia, are described and figured: Ochrotrichia guadalupensis (Texas), O. contrerasi (Tamaulipas), O. cieneguilla (Nuevo Len), and O. yepachica (Chihuahua). The new species are compared to other closely related congeners.
25000077|Tabanidae of 19 species were recorded feeding on hogs of 8 herds in 1973. Species and feeding location on the animals were recorded. Though small numbers of tabanids fed on hogs, herds in wooded areas were more subject to attack by Tabanidae and Stomoxys calcitrans than those in open fields. Stomoxys calcitrans, Haematobia irritans, and 13 Tabanidae were noted on horses, 2 Tabanidae on goats and 6 on dogs.
25008937|Records are made of what little is known about William Couper, a Canadian field naturalist of the latter half of the 19th century. This is based upon the literature and Couper's letters to Herman Strecker. Couper's collecting trips to Labrador and Anticosti Island are recounted. Considerable information is given about the controversy involving Papilio brevicauda Saunders and Papilio anticostiensis Strecker, and that involving Lycaena pembina Edwards and Lycaena couperi Grote.
25006157|Scanning electron microscopy reveals two tuft organs each with an average of six hairs in Pediculus humanus Linn. Similarly located tufts of Phthirus pubis (Linn.) average nine hairs. Two pore organs on the fifth antennal segments of both these lice are also described.
25009684|Observations on host plants and descriptions of nymphs of Thionia bullata (Say) and T. simplex (Germar) are provided. T. bullata was recorded from three species of pines in Alabama and T. simplex from 12 species of herbaceous and woody dicotyledonous plants from North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and District of Columbia. Salient features of nymphs include number and arragement of body pits, spination of the metathoracic legs, and form of the abdominal waxpads.
25009529|A new genus Praecarthasis (tribe Carthasini, type species Nabis panamensis Harris) and seven new species are described: Praecarthasis nigrescens (Brazil, Peru), P. pusillus (Brazil), P. paprzyckii (Peru), P. gibbus (Panama, Ecuador, Peru), P. froeschneri (Brazil, Ecuador, Peru), Neogorpis spinicollis (Panama), Alloeorhynchus alayoi (Cuba). The following species are resurrected from synonymy: Arachnocoris panamensis (Distant), not a synonym of A. albomaculatus Scott; Lasiomerus signatus (Uhler) not a synonym of L. spinicrus (Reuter); Hoplistoscelis sericans (Reuter), not a synonym of H. nigriventris (Stl). H. sericans is considered a senior synonym of H. deceptivus (Harris) and Alloeorhynchus moritzii (Stein) of A. armatus Uhler.
25009323|A phenological emergence study was carried out in Ulster and Orange counties, New York, using the overwintering generation of the spotted tentiform leafminer, Phyllonorycter crataegella Clemens and its parasitoids, Sympiesis marylandensis Girault, Sympiesis conica (Provancher) (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) and Apanteles ornigis Weed (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). S. marylandensis was found to emerge concurrently with P. crataegella, followed in order by S. conica and A. ornigis. S. conica also hyperparasitized A. ornigis and thus served a dual role in this system.
25010522|Ten species of damaline flies are reported from Southeast Asia, of which eight are new to science: Damalis albatus, D. basalis, D. brevis, D. flaventis, D. fulvus, D. londti, D. macula, and D. politus. Damalis saigonensis Bigot is redescribed, the male is reported for the first time, and its range now includes Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam. Xenomyza thorakeraia Shi, 1995 is synonymized with Aireina paradoxa Frey (new synonymy). Aireina paradoxa is redescribed and illustrated, and D. vitalisi Frey is briefly discussed. Damalis fabricii (new name) is proposed for the Indian species, D. dimidiata Joseph & Parui. Diagnoses, illustrations, and a key of the species are provided. An updated checklist of damaline species from southeast Asia and China is included.
25010394|New provincial distribution records are provided for 40 Ephemeroptera species in Canada based on the examination of specimens held in the Canadian National Collection of Insects. Nine species are newly reported for Alberta, four for British Columbia, five for Manitoba, 12 for New Brunswick, 10 for Nova Scotia, two for Ontario, four for Quebec, and one for Prince Edward Island. Of these, Ameletus amador Mayo, Cinygmula reticulata McDunnough, and Procloeon vicinum (Hagen) are reported from Canada for the first time.
25008815|The microsporidian Octosporea muscaedomesticae Flu can successfully parasitize larval Phormia regina. The protozoan appears to attack only the epithelium of the proximal intestine. The disease generated by the protozoan is often complicated by a secondary bacterial infection which becomes systemic. About 90% of the larvae exposed to the pathogen died as larvae or pupae. The few adults produced from the larval cultures exposed to the pathogen were disease-free.
25009682|The first fossil member of the order Zoraptera (Insecta), Zorotypus palaeus, new species is described from amber originating from the Dominican Republic. The description is based on a single, apterous, chitinized female lacking eyes and ocelli. The amber came from mines located in the Cordillera Septentrional in the Altamira facies of the El Mamey formation. Sedimentary and geological evidence indicate a range of lower Miocene to upper Eocene for the amber from this region.
25010472|Males of the reduviid species Sinea diadema (F.) and S. confusa Caudell have so far been undistinguishable. The present light microscopy study revealed subtle differences in the parameres and more clear-cut differences in the genital capsules of the males of these two species. In addition, the eggs of S. confusa were studied using scanning electron microscopy. A comparison with published light microscopic observations on the eggs of S. diadema showed that the eggs of the two species differ as well. New locality records are given for S. diadema (U.S.A.: IA, TX), S. confusa (U.S.A.: PR; Mexico: Nayarit), S. defecta Stl (Mexico: Veracruz, Oaxaca, Chiapas), S. spinipes Stl (U.S.A.: CT, IA; Mexico: Vera Cruz), S. rileyi Montandon (U.S.A.: CT, WA), and S. complexa (U.S.A.: KS).
25010060|Eremochilus howdeni, a new species of the plant feeding subfamily Epilachninae, is described and figured, and a new key to species of Eremochilus is presented. Additions and modifications are made to the original generic description.
25006201|One new genus and eight new species of hesperiids are described from Mexico. The genus is named Zobera. The species described and illustrated are Urbanus viridis, Zobera albopunctata, Piruna maculata, P. sina, P. ajijiciensis, P. milpa, Amblyscirtes immaculatus, and Aedes brilla.
25005834|T. (T.) spinipes (= ruficrus) is a neotropical stingless bee living in Brasil, Paraguay and part of Argentina (Misiones). It builds an external nest, upon branches of trees. Inside the nest there is a huge and massive structure, basin or shield-like in shape, the scutellum. It is made chiefly of prepupal dejections and adult bee excrements. It also contains dead bees, cerumen, propolis, Acarina, remains of brood cocoons, etc. Besides other lesser roles, it is here suggested that the scutellum serves chiefly as a strong supporting wall for the nest's internal constructions. The author thinks that the presence of a strong wall of some sort-preexistent or bee made-is characteristic of all Meliponinae nests.
25009689|The genus Spinalanx and two included species, S. monstrablis and S. corusca, are described as new from South America. The genus is one of six genera of Pentatomini in the western hemisphere that do not have a median spine or tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter but do have the inferior surfaces, at least, of some or all femore armed. A key is provided for the separation of these genera.
25006073|Brief discussions, counts, and descriptions are given of reared melanic forms of Catocala micronympha Guen. and C. minuta W. H. Edwards.
25009178|Tabanidae are pests of man and animals in many areas of the coastal states but especially near salt marshes. The major species, Tabanus nigrovittatus and Chrysops atlanticus, move from the marshes to nearby beaches, camp grounds, golf courses, and other recreational areas and onto boats in the bays and estuaries. Chrysops congregate in dense vegetation and attack when humans or animals move into such places. Both Tabanus and Chrysops are severe problems to agricultural workers when the flies are numerous. Livestock are readily attacked by Tabanidae with consequent effects on thriftiness, weight gains and milk production and possible transmission of causal agents of disease. Biology and habits of both salt marsh and upland species are poorly known. Probably T. nigrovittatus is a species complex. Controls are inadequate though traps and vegetative barriers have been shown useful against Tabanus and some insecticides have given reduction but not adequate control of both Tabanus and Chrysops.
25005937|Interphase cells containing single, comma-shaped chromatin masses were seen in aceto-orcein squashes of adult males, and in a small percent of the embryos, larvae, and protonymphs of the moth ear mite, Dicrocheles phalaenodectes. Such cells were not found in deutonymphs or in females. When passed through a succession of hosts, fertile females produced males at intervals throughout their period of oviposition; virgin females laid only inviable eggs. Out of a total of 594 mites representing the
25010238|Two new genera of Embiidae, Gibocercus and Biguembia, are described. Gibocercus and Biguembia contain four and two species, respectively, all newly described: G. chaco (Argentina), G. beni (Bolivia), G. urucumi (Brasil), G. nanai (Per), B. copo (Argentina) and B. cocum (Brasil). The new genera form a monophyletic group and they are the sister group of Parhagadochir plus Scelembia; the four genera share, among other characters, a node on the left paraproct and a bifid process on the 10th left hemitergite. The relationships of the new genera, and their species, are discussed.
25009002|Head capsule widths on intact walnut caterpillar larvae were relatively uniform within an instar. Those from intact larvae compared favorably with widths of head capsules shed during molting for the same instar, for the 1st four instars. Head capsule widths differed from 1 instar to another and indicated that 5 instars constituted the larval stage. Finally, head capsule width can apparently be safely used to identify the instar of field collected walnut caterpillar feeding on pecan foliage in Texas.
25006214|Papilio hyllus Cramer, [1776], is the correct name for the butterfly commonly referred to as Lycaena tho Guerin-Meneville, 1931. This fact was brought to the attention of lepidopterists twice in the 19th century by A. G. Butler and each time ignored by catalogers. In view of the uncertainty about application of the "50-year" rule of I.C.Z.N. no direct action is taken at this time.
25009949|Nine new species of Oxyethira (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) are described from Costa Rica: O. apinolada, O. cuernuda, O. culebra, O. espinada, O. hilosa, O. rareza, O. sencilla, O. sierruca, and O. tica. Males of each new species are described and figured. In addition, distribution records are presented for eight previously described species occurring in Costa Rica: O. arizona Ross, O. azteca (Mosely), O. costaricensis Kelley, O. glasa (Ross), O. janella Denning, O. parazteca Kelley, O. parce (Edwards and Arnold), and O. simulatrix Flint. A key is provided to males of the Costa Rican species.
25009049|The mayfly Callibaetis vitreus Navs, 1919 is a homonymic synonym of Callibaetis vitreus Navs, 1915.
25006074|Biological observations on the parasitic bee Dioxys pomonae pomonae Cockerell are presented covering the following points: searching habits of female, oviposition, elimination of immatures of the host, feeding habits, and cocoon. Additional observations, including nest structure, are given for the host bee Osmia nigrobarbata Cockerell.
25006190|Four new genera, Compactopedia, Emersonilla, Hirsitilla, and Limulodilla, are described from Sarawak and Malaya. The 4 genera have 4 species which are all new. These are Compactopedia compactus from Sarawak and Malaya, Emersonilla longipes from Sarawak, Hirsitilla hirsutus from Sarawak, and Limulodilla limulodes from Malaya and Sarawak. Three of the new genera (all except Limulodilla) are related to each other and make up a new subtribe, Compactopedina, of the tribe Aleocharini. The other genus, Limulodilla, belongs to the subtribe Termitozyrina of the tribe Myrmedoniini. All specimens were captured in association with Longipeditermes longipes (Haviland).
25008761|Data are presented on the occurrence of the typical and melanic forms of P. titea (Cramer) in Leverett, Massachusetts from 1968-1970. Leverett is located in a rural area, where lichens abound on trees which are not noticeably darkened by soot. Melanics comprised 20.4% of the sampled P. titea population (491 individuals). Melanic percentages varied little from year to year, and from week to week within each year. However, melanic moths were taken most frequently during the first hour of activity in the evening. In 1969 and 1970, P. titea of both forms were color-marked as they rested at lights. Total recapture percentages of the typical and melanic forms were not significantly different. The implications of these results are discussed with reference to the widely-accepted explanation of industrial melanism in England.
25009389|The primary types of 37 species-group taxa of American Cerceris are discussed, and lectotypes are designated for 32 species-group taxa. Four previously designated neotypes are shown to be invalid, and three holotypes are identified.
25005927|The first and last larval instars of the oxaeine Protoxaea gloriosa Fox are described taxonomically. The last stage larva is very different from those of other Andrenidae, a fact suggesting that the Oxaeinae should be elevated to family rank. Certain similarities between Protoxaea gloriosa and the Nomada-like parasitic authophorids are also noted but are considered to be a result of convergent evolution.
25005870|Locality records are listed and distributions mapped and discussed for A. harpax, bambana and amanga. The first two are contiguous but allopatric, the equator roughly dividing them (harpax to the north). One exception is a possible widely disjunct occurrence of bambana in Upper Guinea. Subspecies of A. harpax are described: efulena (Cameroun) and ugandana (Uganda, eastern Congo). A genitalic key to species is given.
25010170|Three new species of the augochlorine genus Caenaugochlora subgenus Ctenaugochlora are described: Caenaugochlora (Ctenaugochlora) donnae n.sp. and C. (C.) beethoveni n.sp. both from Costa Rica, and C. (C.) algeri n.sp. from Panama. The subgenus was previously only known from the type species, C. (C.) perpectinata (Michener) from Panama. A key is provided for the identification of the currently recognized species.
25010548|Aphrophora willemsi Lallemand, 1946, is considered a junior synonym of the widespread willow spittlebug Aphrophora salicina (Goeze, 1778), based on examination of type material. Diagnosis of the adults, known distribution, host plants and some aspects of life history of Aphrophora salicina are presented.
25009969|The athetine genus Lypoglossa Fenyes is reviewed and redescribed. Two North American species are treated, of which one is described as new: franclemonti from the boreal region of northern North America. The following new specific synonymy is proposed: fenyesi Bernhauer 1907 (=angularis Mklin, 1853). Lectotypes are designated for Lypoglossa fenyesi (Bernhauer) and the Palearctic species L. lateralis (Mannerheim). Adult mouthpart structures are illustrated for the first time for the genus; species distributional data are recorded and mapped; all bionomic data are presented; habitus, male aedeagus, female spermatheca, and other diagnostic characters are illustrated with the aid of line drawings and scanning electron photomicrographs; and a key to species is provided.
25009144|Male crickets of the species Anurogryllus celerinictus attract mates after sunset by giving a loud sustained calling song. A predator, the heron, Florida coerulea uses this sound to locate its prey. F. coerulea was also attracted to a tape recorded song of A. celerinictus.
25008939|The nymphalid butterfly Adelpha leucophthalma tegeata Fruhstorfer is a rare member of the macrolepidopterous fauna in the central high (montane) country of Costa Rica. The life stages and developmental time are described for the first time, along with observations on the behavior of the larva and adult. The egg-to-adult developmental time is 51 days on Pentagonia wendlandia Hook (Rubiaceae). The egg is laid singly on the dorsal surface of older leaves of the food plant and both the larva and pupa (chrysalis) are very cryptic in morphology, color, and behavior. As with most species of this genus, the adults of A. leucophthalma are very skittish. This is one of the few reports on a Central American Adelpha from montane environments.
25009820|The only known Nearctic anapid, Chasmocephalon shantzi Gertsch from California and Oregon, is not congeneric with the Australian type species of Chasmocephalon and is placed in the new genus Gertschanapis.
25009924|Taxonomic relationships are detailed for 12 species in the genus Microschatia, which is distributed from north central Mexico and Baja California to southern Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California, in arid or subarid habitats. Pycnonotida Casey and Acroschatia Wilke are treated as junior synonyms of Microschatia, and a key to species is provided. Newly described are M. solieri Brown and Doyen, M. cedrosensis Brown and Doyen, M. costulata Brown and Doyen and M. planata Doyen and Brown. The first and late instars of M. championi are characterized.
25009013|Twenty-six new type concepts are proposed to alleviate the barrenness of current type methodology. The proposed type concepts are commonly used and practiced but completely unrecognized in the scientific literature. The truth inherent in these new proposals will be patently evident and should be given due consideration in light of current systematic procedures.
25009007|Nine previously unreported primary parasitoids and possibly one hyperparasite were isolated from the elm spanworm, Ennomos subsignarius (Hbner) (Lepidoptera: Geometridae), during an outbreak in Connecticut in the early 1970s. Primary parasitoids included Ablerus clisiocampae (Ashmead) (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae), Apanteles murtfeldtae Ashmead and Meteorus sp. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), Aphanistes sp. and Phaeogenes mellinus (Provancher) (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), Brachymeria intermedia (Nees) (Hymenoptera: Chalcididae), Muscina stabulans (Fallen) (Diptera: Muscidae), Boettcheria cimbicis (Townsend) (Diptera: Sarcophagidae), and Winthemia sp. (Diptera: Tachinidae). Astiphromma pectorale Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), possibly a hyperparasite, was recovered from one pupa. Incidence of parasitism of these and other parasitoids along with the chronological appearance of the more abundant larval and pupal parasitoids is presented. A review of all reported parasitoids and diseases of the elm spanworm is given.
25005982|The original description of Neurotoma willi was based upon a single male collected at Huntingdon, Pennsylvania in 1934. This paper describes the previously unknown female which was collected at Ithaca, New York in May, 1965.
25009527|The genus Tanycricos La Rivers is reviewed based on recent collections from Papua New Guinea. A new species, T. froeschneri, is described, and a new key to species is provided, accompanied by illustrations of the male and female genital structures and abdominal tergites.
25010005|There are 18 species in the wide-ranging genus Elatophilus Reuter. Five species are known predators of species of the scale genus Matsucoccus Cockerell. Several species of Elatophilus occur outside the range of Matsucoccus, suggesting other prey besides Matsucoccus may be involved, perhaps aphids.
25010279|Eubetia, new genus, is described and illustrated from Central and South America. The new genus includes two species: E. bigaulae, new species, (type species) from Venezuela, and E. boop, new species, from Costa Rica. Adults are superficially most similar to Anopina Obraztsov and Odonthalitus Razowski; male genitalia are most similar to Anopinella Powell. The male of E. bigaulae possesses a preponderance of putative secondary sexual characters, including the typical euliine foreleg hairpencil, a swollen area near the base of the forewing costa, a dense patch of elongate androconial scales on the lower surface of the forewing, modified scales in the anal and costal regions of the hindwing, and a band of specialized scales at the terminal edge of abdominal segment IX. In addition, the male of this species has an unusual row of dense, ascending scales on the lower frons, and forewing veins
25010200|A discussion is presented suggesting the transfer of Coscinocephalus from the Cyclocephalini to the Pentodontini. Coscinocephalus tepehuanus is described as new, based on immature and adult forms, from Durango state, Mexico. A key to the third-stage larvae of nine genera of American Pentodontini is presented. Finally, a brief commentary is given about life history information. /// Se presenta una discusin para justificar la transferencia del gnero Coscinocephalus de la tribu Cyclocephalini a la tribu Pentodontini. Se describe Coscinocephalus tepehuanus n. sp. con base en 6 adultos, as como su larva de tercer estadio y la pupa, recolectados en un bosque de pinos y encinos del estado de Durango, Mxico. Se incluyen: una clave para separar las dos especies conocidas del gnero, una clave para las larvas de tercer estadio de 9 gneros de Pentodontini americanos y un comentario breve sobre los hbitos de estas especies.
25008766|The cotton stainer, Dysdercus koenigii Fabr., is an important pest of cotton. By feeding on half opened cotton bolls and seeds, the oil content and seed viability is reduced and the excreta of the insect spoils the cotton lint. Eggs are oval, smooth, creamy yellow in color with an average incubation period of 6.18 days. The period of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth instars are from 3 to 4, 3 to 4, 3 to 5, 6 to 8 and 12 to 16 days, respectively. The adults live from 9 to 25 days and the life cycle extends from 51 to 61 days. This bug is present throughout the year and also feeds on okra, hollyhock, eggplant and other malvaceous plants. The alternate hosts reported for the first time are falsa, rohan and eggplant.
25010224|Protomachilinus NEW SUBGENUS, M. (P.) mexicanus NEW SPECIES and M. (P.) oaxacensis NEW SPECIES are described. The new subgenus is more plesiomorphic than any of the other three subgenera of Machilinus. Ecological and biogeographical aspects of the genus are discussed.
25009359|To promote interest in the detection of exotic insects, we provide a list of species accidentally introduced to North America and reported since 1970 as new to the Western Hemisphere, United States, or Canada. The area of detection is limited to eastern Canada (Ontario, Quebec, Newfoundland, and the Maritime Provinces) and the U.S. from Maine to Virginia and west to Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Included for each immigrant species are the country or area of probable origin, collection data relating to detection, host and habitat preferences (if known) in the area of endemism, economic importance in North America, and subsequent references to distribution or habits in North America. The list includes 70 species new to the Western Hemisphere; 6, to the United States; and 7, to Canada. The 70 insects new to the Western Hemisphere include 22 Coleoptera, 14 Hemiptera-Heteroptera, 10 Hymenoptera, 7 Lepidoptera, 7 Diptera, 6 Hemiptera-Homoptera, and 1 each for Dictyoptera, Psocoptera, Thysanoptera, and Neuroptera.
25010095|A new genus, Etapocanga, and two new species of Alticinae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), Etapocanga pysuna and Etapocanga consejera from Amazonian South America are described and illustrated. /// Se describe y illustra un nuevo gnero, Etapocanga, y dos especies nuevas de Alticinae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) de Amrica amaznica.
25010385|A recently-published phylogenetic tree, constructed using the neighbor-joining algorithm, summarized relationships among 37 species of Coleoptera (Insecta) indicated by a 400 base pair region of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene. This study included sequences from four species of the family Coccinellidae. The relationships of the four coccinellids indicated by the published neighbor-joining tree are congruent with current hypotheses of their relationships based on adult, larval, and pupal morphology. However, re-analysis of the molecular sequences for these taxa using standard parsimony methods reveals a more complex situation in which the use of different outgroups and different tree-searching algorithms yields strikingly different topologies, many of which do not correspond to the pattern of relationships derived from morphological data. These sequences may simply be too variable and too highly convergent to accurately reflect the phylogenetic history of Coccinellidae.
25009492|The new plant bug Phytocoris adenostomae is described from southern California where it breeds on Adenostoma sparsifolium Torr. (Rosaceae). The male genitalic structures are figured, and a photograph of the adult male and scanning electron micrograph of the dorsal vestiture are provided.
25009925|The pentatomid genus Arocera Spinola sensu lato is divided into two genera, one of which, Rhyssocephala, is described as new. Arocera colombiana McDonald, A. inmaculata (Pirn), A. principalis (Stl), A. rufolimbata Stl, A. rufonotata Stl, A. splendens (Blanchard), and A. verdana McDonald are all transferred to Rhyssocephala. Diagnoses are provided for all previously described species. Three new species are described: R. ecuadoriensis from Ecuador, R. mcdonaldi from Panama and northwestern South America, and R. infuscata from Mexico and Central America. Arocera colombiana McDonald, 1984, is placed as a junior synonym of Pentatoma principalis Stl, 1855. A lectotype designation is made for A. rufonotata Stl, 1861. A key to the genera that include species similar in color to Arocera and Rhyssocephala is given, as well as a key to species of Rhyssocephala.
25010546|Argiolestes kula n. sp. is described from eastern New Guinea and nearby offshore islands (Sariba, Basilaki, Fergusson), and a comparison is provided to the closely related species Argiolestes sidonia Martin. Figures of the male abdominal appendages, wing venation and breeding habitat are provided, accompanied by a distribution map. A checklist of Argiolestes species is also included.
25010287|The new genera Acutifromiris, Cephalomiroides, and Scutellograndis are described to accommodate four new species of Miridae from South America and the incertae sedis species, Eurychilopterella acutifrons Carvalho. The structures of the male genitalia are illustrated for all species and dorsal habitus views are given for selected species. Scanning electron micrographs of the head and pronotum, metathoracic scent efferent system, and the pretarsus are also provided. The relationships of Acutifromiris, Cephalomiroides, and Scutellograndris to other New World Deraeocorini genera are discussed.
25009468|A laboratory strain of Brachymeria intermedia (Nees), which has been in culture for several years and a field strain were examined for differences in parasitic activity. The gypsy moth pupae were exposed to the wasp for 30, 60, 90 and 120 min. In the latter three time periods the laboratory strain visited significantly more hosts than the field strain. In the two shortest time periods the field strain parasitized significantly more hosts. However, total mortality was the same for both strains. Possible reasons for the similarity in mortality are discussed.
25009859|Discocoris imperialis, recorded as occurring on the infructescences of the palm Socratea montana R. Bernal & A. Henderson, and of nearly twice the length of previously known species of the genus, is newly described from Colombia. Scanning electron micrographs are presented of the pretarsus, head, and nymphal abdominal scent glands.
25009573|Hypsochila wagenknechti wagenknechti from Chile is pivotal in the phylogenetic interpretation of the Andean Pierini because the adult appears to present a mixture of Tatochila- and Phulia-like characters. Its egg, larva, pupa, and aspects of its behavior and ecology are here described. Morphologically, the early stages are more like Tatochila than Phulia, but show some approach to the aberrant features of Phulia and Pierphulia in that the larva fails to eat its eggshell, is sluggish and rests on a silken mat, and the pupa is more rounded than any Tatochila yet described. The species is a Crucifer feeder, like Phulia and three of the five species-groups of Tatochila, but is unique among known Pierini of the region in laying small clutches of eggs.
25009341|Lygaeus kalmii Stl, the small milkweed bug, often is considered a milkweed specialist. A review of recent literature and observations of nymphs and adults on composites (Asteraceae) and plants of other families in Missouri, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia show that L. kalmii uses various food sources. The feeding strategies of this lygaeid are briefly compared with those of Oncopeltus fasciatus (Dallas), a lygaeine restricted to milkweeds and related plants, and the Palearctic Lygaeus equestris (L.), which prefers asclepiads but feeds on plants of numerous families.
25009895|A new species from Peru, Antiteuchus ruckesi, is described in the incurvia species-group of the nominate subgenus.
25009296|The seasonal flight of the cranberry girdler, Chrysoteuchia topiaria (Zeller) was monitored with pheromone traps for 3 years. Daily trap captures averaged at 5-day intervals were a better indicator of seasonal flight than single-day catches. Peak flight occurred at different calendar dates but was close to the mean summation of heat units (857C degree-days) for 3 years. More than 90 percent of the flight period occurred within 30-35 calendar days. Even though pheromone traps measured both flight activity and population density, a combination of pheromone trap data and cumulative heat units provided a reasonable estimate of the seasonal abundance of adults, excluding data obtained during periods of cool rainy weather.
25008793|The tracheal system of the larvae of eight species of the family Bruchidae were studied with reference to its taxonomic importance. Differences in the arrangement of the tracheal branches in the anterior region of the body and in the number of the air sacs at the subfamily level were observed. The species studied were Callosobruchus maculatus (F.), Callosobruchus analis (F.), Bruchidius saundersi (Jek.), Bruchidius albizziae Arora, Bruchus pisorum L., Zabrotes subfasciatus (Boh.), Caryedon gonagra (F.) and Caryedon languidus Gyll.
25008953|The responses of workers of the army ant Neivamyrmex nigrescens to illumination and to the presence of conspecifics were compared during the nomadic and statary phases. During the statary phase the ants were more photonegative and exhibited a stronger tendency to cluster together than during the nomadic phase. It is hypothesized that these differences in the ants' orientation are caused by corresponding changes in the level of the colony excitation during the two phases of each behavioral cycle.
25010192|The type specimens representing most of the New World species of Scutelleridae proposed by Dallas, Distant, Walker, and Westwood were examined for generic placement. A list of correctly placed species and a list of species currently considered junior synonyms are given. New combinations and synonymy are proposed when appropriate. The following new combinations are proposed: Acantholomidea porosa (Germar) from Camirus; Camirus divergens (Walker) from Chelysoma; Coptochilus neotropicalis (Distant) from Chelyschema; Diolcus cassidoides (Walker) from Ascanius; and Testrina wolfii (Fabricius) from Chelyschema. The following new synonymy is recognized: Chelysomidea Lattin junior synonym of Orsilochides Kirkaldy; Chelyschema vittata (Walker), junior synonym of Chelyschema trinotata (Walker); Chelysoma bajulans (Distant), junior synonym of Dystus puberulus Stl; Chelysoma diversa (Distant), junior synonym of Orsilochides scurrilis (Stl); Testrina laticollis Walker, junior synonym of Testrina wolfii (Fabricius); Homaemus fumeus Distant and Homaemus retostus Distant, junior synonyms of Homaemus proteus Stl; Symphylus amazonicus Kirkaldy, junior synonym of Symphylus devexus Walker. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for Symphylus vittatus Walker and Homaemus fumeus Distant. Lectotypes are designated for Augocoris gigas Westwood and Camirus pullatus Distant.
25009931|Observations of oviposition by apple blotch leafminer moths, Phyllonorycter crataegella (Clemens), on apple foliage in the field and in the laboratory indicated oviposition occurred solely on the undersides of leaves, and primarily on the middle third of the leaf (between petiole and apical tip), midway between the mid-vein and margin. A stereotypical sequence of events lasting ca. 1 min was observed prior to egg deposition. This included walking while tapping the leaf underside with the antennae, probing a small area (ca. 1 ${\rm cm}^{2}$) of the leaf with the ovipositor, and violent side-to-side shaking of the abdomen at egg deposition. Results of choice tests in the laboratory suggest apple blotch leafminer moths do not discriminate against oviposition sites previously occupied by freshly deposited conspecific eggs. Our results indicate commercial apple growers may improve control of this pest by applying adulticides just prior to or during the first warm, calm evening in early spring when foliage and leafminer adults are present.
25006089|Males of this thecline butterfly occupied a perch site during midday hours, flying out at insects which passed nearby. Mating occurred after 3:00 PM., and pairs remained in copulo until after dark, usually 4-6 hours. Both unmated males and pairs after separation remained at the perch site overnight, leaving by 8:00 or 9:00 A.M. The principal perch site under observation was occupied by successive males over periods of several days each, and these occupants mated with different females each day. Sixteen days longevity and five matings were the maxima observed for marked males. Details of mating, territorial, and sunning behavior are described.
25008875|Existence of artifacts and mimics of DDT and certain other organochlorines has been demonstrated by a few investigators over a period of eight years. This paper is a selective review of relevant world literature by these investigators. The presence of such artifacts (extraneous substance occuring in nature) and mimics (simulants) had theretofore been obscured by interferences. It was determined that such interferences are inherent in the early colorimetric and total chlorine analytical methods employed prior to the advent of the gas-liquid chromatograph. Such artifacts and mimics are masked by DDT if DDT is present. They give identical analytical reactions as DDT when the two pioneer analytical methods are used. It was disclosed in 1966 that polychlorinated biphenyls are widespread in the ecosystem. Also, PCBs were found to simulate DDT. This discovery negated the putative data that were the basis for previous alleged sensational charges against DDT. Included herein are illustrations of charts obtained from gas-liquid chromatographic analysis of pre-DDT origin soil and of PCBs. These show the presence of artifacts and mimics. The implications of these findings in view of the hazards attributed to DDT are also discussed.
25010397|For the first time, data on the habitat, feeding habits, and immature stages of Spalacocoris sulcifer are reported. This insect is unusual in living in tunnels of ginger plant stems.
25009162|Eighty species of insects, including 15 crop pests and 8 pollinators, are associated with Potentilla norvegica L. and P. recta L. in the northeastern United States. Among the pests are the strawberry root weevil, Otiorhynchus ovatus (L.), and the strawberry aphid, Chaetosiphon fragaefolii (Cockerell). A biological control program using insects against these weeds would be difficult due to the close genetic relationship between strawberries and cinquefoils, and probable consequent attractiveness of Fragaria to phytophagous insects that attack Potentilla.
25010122|The baetid mayfly genus Fallceon is currently known from Central America, the Greater Antilles, Mexico, and the United States, and includes eleven nominal species: F. alcarrazae, new combination, F. eatoni, F. fortipalpus, new species, F. garcianus, F. longifolius, new combination, F. nikitai, F. planifrons, new combination, F. poeyi, F. quilleri, F. sextus, new combination, and F. testudineus, new combination. Larvae belonging to the genus include species with consistent mouthpart morphology but variable with respect to development of a cephalic frontal keel and subapical tarsal claw setae. Caribaetis, originally considered a Cuban subgenus of Baetis, is shown to be a synonym of Fallceon. Baetis sonora is shown to be a synonym of Fallceon quilleri. Fallceon fortipalpus is described from the egg and larval stages. Larvae of F. longifolius, F. planifrons, and F. quilleri are redescribed, and the egg of F. quilleri is described for the first time. Fallceon longifolius is reported from continental North America (Mexico) for the first time. A key to the known larvae of Fallceon is provided.
25008861|This paper discusses various aspects of life cycle and natural history for the neotropical butterfly, Phyciodes (Eresia) eutropia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) as studied in the field at a mountain wet forest locality in central Costa Rica, and in the laboratory. Emphasis is placed on a description of life stages, larval food plant record, habitat selection by adults for egg laying, courtship, and mimetic interaction with other butterflies. The behavior of larvae associated with feeding and defense was also observed under field conditions. It was found that the early stages are very cryptic in coloration and this morphological crypsis is accompanied by various forms of cryptic behavior in the larvae (concealment, curling-up movement, etc.). The egg-adult developmental time in the laboratory is about 46 days when larvae are reared on cuttings of the natural food plant, Pilea pittieri (Urticaceae). Eggs are laid in large clusters on the ventral sides of leaves of this food plant, and although this plant occurs in both dark red and light green forms, females exhibit strong preference for laying eggs on dark plants. Oviposition is generally confined to heavily shaded river bottom forest where the food plant is abundant, but other aspects of reproductive behavior occur in sunlit alleys and corridors of secondary growth. There may also be mimetic association with Ithomia heraldica (Ithomiidae) here. If this is the case, then it is likely that P. eutropia is a Batesian mimic of I. heraldica since observations on the appearance and behavior of immatures in the former butterfly suggest palatability.
25008963|Species of the genus Endeodes are known only from the seashore of Pacific North America. E. fasciatus, E. rothi and E. intermedius, n. spp., are from the upper Gulf of California. A tabular key to the nine known species is given. The pronotum and elytron of each species is illustrated.
25008899|Observations on the life cycle and natural history of Philaethria dido dido (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiinae) as studied in northeastern Costa Rica are summarized. Emphasis is placed on: (1) additional descriptions of life stages, (2) a larval food plant record (Passiflora vitifolia-Passifloraceae), (3) developmental time in the laboratory (37-39 days), and (4) various behavior patterns associated with oviposition and larval development. These data and other information from the literature are discussed from the standpoint that P. dido is a specialized insect of tropical rain forests and that it has a widespread but strongly localized geographical distribution pattern in Central and South America.
25000075|The complete life cycle of Hamadryas amphinome L. is presented in this article with photographic illustrations, with a record of the foodplant exploited by the larvae in El Salvador, Dalechampia scandens L., and an account of the larval and adult behavior. This species apparently is the most evolved of the Hamadryas complex as evidenced by the notable deviations from the behavior of the other species studied: H. februa and H. guatemalena, which are solitary during all phases of the metamorphosis, and H. amphinome, which is gregarious in the larval stage and shows consistent group behavior of the adults. Emphasis is made of the behavioral adaptations the different species of the genus have gone through which gradually change from fully solitary to fully gregarious larval habits.
25006143|These beetles have been previously known in the genus Anoplitis Kirby; in this study the name is changed to Sumitrosis Butte, because Anoplitis is a junior synonym of Chalepus Thunberg. This synonymy is necessary because their types are congeneric. All names previously designated therefore represent new combinations. The 55 species from the Junk Catalogue, (Uhmann, 1957 and 1964) are now transferred to this genus. Six species compose the genus Sumitrosis in the region under consideration. These are ancoroides (Schaeffer), arnetti a new species, inaequalis (Weber), lateritia (Smith), pallescens (Baly) a new record in the United States, and rosea (Weber). Descriptions of the species are given, together with the complete list of references, and key to the species is presented. Distributional data and maps are included for each, as are illustrations of the male genitalia.
25006135|Twenty-nine additional species, subspecies, and named aberrations with their food plants are here added to the Supplemental List of Macrolepidoptera of New Jersey which was published in 1965.
25010513|Re-examination of the "pronotal gland," which is possibly synapomorphic for Saicinae and part of Emesinae (Reduviidae), showed that this structure comprises a pronotal depression and an interior process, but lacks glandular units. Observation of Reduviidae other than Emesinae and Saicinae, and non-reduviid Cimicomorpha demonstrated the presence of a homologous structure in a wide range of taxa. Dissections of prothoracic muscles in Panstrongylus herreri (Triatominae, Reduviidae) established the relationship of three thoracic muscles with the interior process, which represents an apophysis, and not a gland. Based on those observations, the hypothesis of a closer relationship of only part of Emesinae with Saicinae due to the presence of a "pronotal gland" seems unjustified.
25009175|An outbreak of the herbivorous beetle Uroplata sp. (Chrysomelidae) on the tree Bunchosia pilosa H.B.K. (Malpighiaceae) in the central highlands of Costa Rica is described. During the early phase (June) of the rainy season, adult beetles were abundant on leaves of lower branches, where they feed by stripping away tissue from the upper side of leaves. Immature stages of the beetle were not seen, nor was any mating activity observed during the morning hours. Beetles do not feed on the very pilose undersides of the leaves. No other herbivores were seen. As the rainy season advances, the Uroplata infestation spreads into the upper portions of the tree, perhaps as a response to increasing adult density and depletion of food supply in the lower region. Infestations were large during June and July (1974) but diminished by August. The phenomenon of population outbreaks in tropical herbivorous insects is discussed.
25010444|Savius terrabanus, new species (Costa Rica), Scamurius goianus, new species (Brazil) and Scamurius pucalpanensis, new species (Peru) are described and placed in the coreid tribe Discogastrini. Details of antennae, pronotum, male genital capsule and parameres are illustrated. New localities are given for Savius diversicornis.
25010491|Paradiglotta nunni new genus, new species (type locality Avamoana Split, New Zealand) is described, and habitus and line illustrations are provided for its recognition. The unusual features of this taxon are outlined and its tribal affinities are discussed. Paradiglotta is the first member of the tribe Diglottini known from New Zealand. The similarities and differences between Paradiglotta and Diglotta Champion are discussed.
25005892|Describes Bergrothiessa paranensis, Kormilevia gerali, Notoplocoris ovatus, Pictinus rhombocarinatus, and Notapictinus micropterus, five new species from Brazil.
25009711|Seasonal history and habits are presented for Rhopalus (Brachycarenus) tigrinus Schilling, based mainly on observations made in Pennsylvania during 1980-1984. Nymphs and adults of this multivoltine Palearctic rhopalid recently recorded in eastern North America feed on reproductive structures of crucifers. Developmental times of the immature stages and data on premating period, fecundity, and longevity are given. The egg and nymphal stages are described, and scanning electron photomicrographs are provided for the egg and instars I-II and V.
25010556|Species of the genus Mecyclothorax Sharp, 1903 from the island of Molokai, Hawaii are taxonomically revised. The Molokai fauna constitutes 43 recognized species, 24 newly described: M. polhemusi, new species; M. dunbarorum, new species; M. impunctatus, new species; M. debiliceps, new species; M. convexus, new species; M. subsinuatus, new species; M. subater, new species; M. trisetifer, new species; M. annae, new species; M. joni, new species; M. lisae, new species; M. lissopterus, new species; M. arcuatus, new species; M. latus, new species; M. abax, new species, M. ewingi, new species; M. latissimus, new species; M. punctatostriatus, new species; M. flavolateralis, new species; M. obscurus, new species; M. comma, new species; M. stenolophinus, new species; M. granulatus, new species; and M. cymindoides, new species. Mecyclothorax quadratus Britton is newly synonymized with M. argutor (Sharp). Various species are congruently distributed on Kamakou Volcano, allowing recognition of two areas of endemism, one to the west encompassing Kamakou and Olokui peaks, the second to the east spanning the areas from Wailau and Puu Lua to Puu Ohelo and Kainalu Gulch. Representatives of several hypothesized species pairs mutually occupy the two areas of endemism adding rigor to definition of the areas. Whereas the western Kamakou-Olokui area of endemism encompasses the State of Hawaii's Puu Alii and Olokui Natural Area Reserves and the Kamakou Preserve of The Nature Conservancy of Hawaii, the eastern Wailau-Puu Ohelo area of endemism is not comprehensively managed for conservation. Twelve of the 14 species residing in the eastern area of endemism are newly described, indicating the preliminary state of knowledge regarding the fauna of this area. Of those 12 new species, 9 are geographically restricted to the eastern area. This level of endemic richness is proposed as a criterion that justifies establishment of a comprehensive conservation plan for eastern Molokai, thereby ensuring sustainability of its distinct native forest communities. Two of the species, M. lissopterus and M. arcuatus, are cryptic sibling species, diagnosable only by configurations of the male aedeagal median lobe and female bursa copulatrix. The magnitude of the male median lobe in the two species is positively associated with size of the bursa copulatrix in females of the two species. Aedeagal and bursal configurations do not vary infraspecifically. Available evidence points most parsimoniously to origin of derived states in one of these species via developmental changes in genitalic anlagen common to the sexes, differentially expressed in males and females. Such a mechanism assumes homologous transformation of the male aedeagal median lobe and female bursa copulatrix, and removes the need to invoke more complicated hypotheses involving sexual selection.
25010033|The cladistic relationships among Tenebrionidae of the subfamily Pimeliinae (=Tentyriinae of authors) are analyzed based on 84 characters examined over 60 adult tribal or generic level taxa. Features of the mouthparts, coxal articulations, ovipositor and internal female reproductive tract are highly variable and important in determining cladistic topology. Nearly all the characters employed display extensive homoplasy, especially convergence, resulting in relatively low measures of consistency of the cladograms. Deletion of less consistent characters results in loss of cladistic detail, however, without significantly improving overall consistency, indicating that even the least consistent features are cladistically meaningful. The female reproductive tract, which shows exceptional variation that is strongly correlated with cladistic position, is illustrated extensively. Primitively the female tract comprises a bursa copulatrix and accessory gland without a separate spermatheca, as in some Cnemeplatiini and Pimeliini. Most other Pimeliinae may be placed into one of five clades based on configuration of the female tract. In most members of the cnemeplatiine-stenosine clade a capsular or short tubular spermatheca and a short, saccate gland open into the vagina through a common duct. In the pimeliine clade one to several tubular spermathecae and a tubular gland open independently into the vagina or bursa copulatrix. In several taxa of this clade the spermatheca is poorly defined or absent. The asidine clade is characterized by multiple, long, slender spermathecal tubes which open as a fascicle into the base of the accessory gland duct or into the vagina near the duct. A bursa copulatrix is absent. In the eurymetopine clade multiple, slender, tubular spermathecae are attached serially to the base of the accessory gland duct. A bursa copulatrix is often retained. In the tentyriine clade the bursa is modified to form one to several thick, tapering annulate spermathecal chambers. The accessory gland opens into one of the chambers or into the vagina. A number of tribes or genera, including Zolodinini, Falsomycterini, Boromorphini, Lachnogyini, Anepsiini, Vacronini, Nyctoporini and Cryptoglossini do not fit into any of the major clades, because they either display mostly primitive features or discordant combinations of features from different clades. The following taxonomic changes are indicated. Alaudes Horn is transferred to Cnemeplatiini; Araeoschizini and Typhlusechini are synonymized under Stenosini; Falsomycterini, containing Falsomycterus Pic and Pteroctenus Kirsch, merits recognition as a separate tribe of uncertain relationship; Boromorphini (Boromorphus) merits tribal status (probably near Caenocrypticini); Platyopini is synonymized under Pimeliini; Calognathini and Vansoniini should be placed in synonymy under Cryptochilini; Elenophorini should be retained to include Elenophorus Latreille, Megelenophorus Gebien and Psammetichus Latreille; Craniotini is synonymized under Asidini; Epitragini is restricted to its new world components; Old World genera previously placed in Epitragini belong in Tentyriini; Edrotini, Triorophini, Trientomini, Auchmobiini and Trimytini are synonymized under Eurymetopini; Salax Gurin, Trilobocara Solier, Megalophrys Waterhouse, Eremoecus Lacordaire and Derosalax Gebien are separated as the tribe Trilobocarini Lacordaire; Orthonychius Gebien is a junior synonym of Trilobocara. Pseudothinobatis Freude is transferred from Thinobatini to Epitragini. Ascelosodis Redtenbacher is transferred from Tentyriini to Eurymetopini, Achanius Erichson and Ambigatus Fairmaire are transferred from Evaniosomini to Eurymetopini. Three genera are removed from Pimeliinae: Eschatoporis Blaisdell is transferred from Cryptoglossini to Goniaderini; Ammophorus Gurin from Nyctoporini to Scotobiini; and Phtora (Germar) mistakenly included in Pimeliinae by Doyen and Lawrence (1979) to Phaleriini.
25010495|Torleya larvae are distinguished from other Ephemerellidae by characteristics associated with the legs, gills, and abdominal terga, and male adults are distinguished by genitalia. We recognize eight valid Torleya species from the Palearctic and Oriental Regions. Seven of these eight species are known as larvae and adults; only the adults of T. lutosa Kang and Yang are not known. We include new synonyms for T. major (Klaplek, 1905) (= T. nazarita Alba-Tercedor and Derka, 2003, new synonym) and T. nepalica Allen and Edmunds, 1963 (= T. glareosa Kang and Yang, 1995, new synonym; = Serratella tumiforceps Zhou and Su, 1997, new synonym; = T. arenosa Tong and Dudgeon, 2000, new synonym). Larvae of T. grandipennis Zhou, Su, and Gui are described for the first time and have maxillae with or without minute palps, paired large spines on abdominal terga, and enlarged posterolateral projections on abdominal segments 3-9 or 4-9. The first description of the larva of T. japonica (Gose) is given and shows them to be distinguished by mouthparts and abdominal armature. Torleya naga Jacobus and McCafferty new species, is described from larvae, eggs, and a male adult; it is known from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The male adult is distinguished by genitalia, caudal filaments, and abdominal color. Larvae are distinguished by having rows of spatulate setae on the head and numerous setae on the abdominal sterna. Eggs of T. naga are distinguished by having relatively thin reticulations.
25010169|Mexican and Central American species of the staphylinid genus Gansia are revised, and descriptions, keys and illustrations are provided for their identification. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for the previously described species G. bicolor Sharp, 1883 and G. tibialis Sharp, 1883. The following species are described as new: Gansia andersoni Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Mxico, Chiapas, Volcn Tacan, 4 km N Union Juarez); Gansia bipictanota Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix); Gansia flavata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Mxico, Guerrero, 63.2 km NE Atoyac de Alvarez); Gansia fortemaculata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Honduras, Olancho Prov., La Muralla, 14 km N La Union); Gansia obscura Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Costa Rica: Guanacaste Prov., Cacao Biol. Sta.); Gansia tachynota Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix); Gansia taeniata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Panam Prov., 6.9 km S. Gamboa, Old Plantation Rd.); Gansia tergopunctata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., La Fortuna, "Cont. Div. Trail"); Gansia unizonata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix). Evidence is provided that members of Gansia primarily occur in the rotting and fermenting leaves of treefalls and similar habitats where they feed on fungal hyphae and molds.
25010155|The name Gynaikothrips ficorum is retained for the leaf-galling thrips species on decorative Ficus trees that has been distributed worldwide by the horticultural trade. Observations on this species and the closely similar species Gynaikothrips uzeli suggest that they are largely distinct and host-limited, although co-existing in Southeast Asia even within a single gall.
25009637|The effect of three densities (1, 5, 10 plants/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$) of Ambrosia trifida L., a serious weed of row crops in North America and Eurasia, on seed oviposition by Euaresta festiva (Loew) was measured at three heights above the soil surface. The total number of seeds produced by each plant increased as height above the soil surface increased at densities of 1 and 5 plants/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$. The total number of seeds produced was greatest at 1 plant/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$. The number of seeds containing larvae expressed as either a percentage of total seeds or percentage of viable seeds was greatest at the 5 plant/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$ density. The implications of these results regarding the establishment of biological weed control strategies for A. trifida are discussed.
25008923|Tenuicoris myrmeforme is described as a new genus and new species from Bolivia, Peru, and Brazil. Ant-mimetic characteristics are noted. The relationships of the genus are stated to be with such neotropical species as Heraeus cincticornis Stl. A dorsal view of the holotype is presented.
25000073|Observations carried on in the neighborhood of San Salvador since 1970 on eggs, larvae, pupae and adults of Hamadryas februa Hbner are presented, giving an account of the early stage characteristics and developmental times, with photographic illustrations. The foodplants of this and related species are recorded for El Salvador. The behavior of the species is compared with the behavior of other local and South American Hamadryas spp. emphasizing the progressive change from solitary to gregarious behavior which the whole group exhibits, with the corresponding adaptations that such a change requires. Impalatability of the species to predators is suggested by the larval foodplant characteristics and the typical non-palatable way the larvae behave.
25010369|The Nerthra alaticollis species-group is defined as a monophyletic group on the basis of wing and genitalic characters. Two new species are described: Nerthra appha n. sp. and N. polhemi n.sp. Nerthra membranacea Nieser is recognized as a junior synonym of N. adspersa. Nerthra tuberculata (Montandon) and N. praecipua Todd are removed from the alaticollis species-group. Nine species are assigned to the species-group, and all species are described with illustrations. A phylogeny of species is provided.
25006051|The digestive and reproductive systems of Pseudomeloe miniaceomaculata (Blanchard) has been described. On the basis of such internal anatomical features as V-shaped folds in the stomodaeal intima, absence of a basal spermathecal diverticulum, a tubular female accessory gland, an irregularly convoluted first pair and a recurved or bent second pair of male accessory glands, this genus is placed in the tribe Eupomphini of the subfamily Meloinae. The inclusion of Pseudomeloe in Eupomphini now extends the distribution of this tribe to South America as well.
25010276|The discovery of a new species of Scydmaenidae (Coleoptera) from Hainan Island, People's Republic of China (hereafter as China), prompted this review of the East Asian Scydmaenidae. Scydmaenus hainanensis O'Keefe, n. sp., from Mt. Wu-Zhi-Shan, is the first species of Scydmaenidae described from Hainan Island and the seventh species of Scydmaenus Latreille described from China. Illustrations of the habitus, antenna, and male genitalia for S. hainanensis, a discussion of its relationship to other Scydmaenus, and a key to the Scydmaenus of China are included. A catalog of the species of eastern Asia and a discussion of their relationships to the scydmaenid fauna of other regions are presented.
25005902|Two lots of Aradidae: one from Jamaica, and another from Chile have been studied. Only two species of Aradidae were known from Jamaica, both macropterous. In the lot received from Dr. Thomas H. Farr were represented five species, of which three were new. The new species are: Rhysocoris jamaicensis n.sp., apterous Atactocoris farri n.g., n.sp., also apterous and Mezira brachyptera n.sp., brachypterous. Only three species of Aradidae were known from Chile. In the lot received from Dr. Robert L. Usinger were five specimens of a new genus and new species of the subfamily Prosympiestinae, known only from New Zealand, Australia, and Tasmania. They were named Llaimacorsis penai n.g., n.sp.
25009173|The authors studied Alloxysta megourae (Ashmead), a hyperparasitoid of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). Larval, prepupal, and pupal stages of the primary parasitoid (Aphidius smithi) found in non-mummified aphids are attacked by A. megourae. Several aspects of A. megourae development within its host differ from those described in other species of Alloxysta. The sensory structures on the tip of the ovipositor of A. megourae are described.
25009891|Two new species of Nearctic Chloroperlidae are described: Sweltsa voshelli from Virginia and Suwallia wardi from Colorado. A key is provided for the identification of adult males of the eastern Nearctic species of Sweltsa.
25009848|In northern Florida, Brachyserphus barberi was observed as a solitary internal parasitoid of larvae of the fungus beetle Mycetophagus melsheimeri. Mature larvae of the parasitoid emerge through the intersegmental membrane of the abdomen of the host larva and pupate within about 3 days; adult emergence occurs approximately 6-7 days after pupation. A review of the distribution and biology of the parasitoid and host is provided, and beetle host records of world species of Brachyserphus are summarized.
25009596|The new genus Americabrya is proposed for the three New World species formerly placed in Janetschekbrya Yosii. This taxon is differentiated from Janetschekbrya by scale structure and its less abundant head and body macrochaetotaxy. Americabrya arida is reported for the first time from Mexico and is redescribed. Although the various Mexican populations of this species differ considerably in pigmentation and may belong to several species, no consistent morphological differences were detected between them, or with paratypes of A. arida. A few complementary notes to the original description of A. epiphyta are given based on a specimen from Peru. A key to the species of Americabrya is included.
25006106|The new species, Syarinus enhuycki, is described and compared with other known species of the genus. It is apparently widely distributed through the northern Appalachian mountain region.
25010393|A new genus and a new species of ceratophyllid flea is described from Chihuahua, Mexico, taken in the nests of the thick-billed parrot, Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha (Swainson, 1827). Diagnostic features of the taxon are illustrated. Observations on the nesting habits, and the endangered status of the host are discussed and the status of our knowledge of the ceratophyllid bird fleas is summarized.
25006127|Chretienia (with five included species) and Phanetoprepa (with three included species) are described as new genera, and Laspeyresia bengalica (Bengal), L. minuta (Bengal), and Phanetoprepa agenjoi (Spain) are proposed as new species.
25010202|Adults of Charoxus spinifer Frank, from Florida, USA are described and illustrated. They bring to six the number of species in this Neotropical genus which is here transferred to the tribe Athetini (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae). Adults of C. spinifer were collected at ultraviolet light at night, in flight before dusk, and in syconia (fruits) of Ficus aurea Nuttall and F. laevigata Vahl (F. citrifolia P. Miller sensu DeWolf 1960), two fig species native to Florida, before the fruits ripened and fell from the trees. They are associated in fig syconia with adults of fig-pollinating wasps (Agaonidae) and other hymenopterous inhabitants and have been observed to prey on the wasps.
25009830|Seven new species of Ozophora are described from the West Indies: hispaniola, testacea, caliginosa, darlingtoni and pusilla from Hispaniola, alayoi from Cuba and coleoptrata from several islands in the Bahamas and from the Caicos Islands. A discussion of species living in montane habitats on Hispaniola and of a flightless species from low elevations in the Turks and Caicos and Bahamas is included. Dorsal view figures are given for hispaniola and coleoptrata. Ozophora caroli Slater and Baranowski is reported from the West Indies for the first time, from Grand Cayman and Hispaniola. Ozophora cubensis Barbar is redescribed, corrections made in the labeling of the original type series, and variation and relationships discussed.
25009329|A new distribution record for Amblyomma americanum (L.) within northeastern New York State is established. Previous reports indicate this species was limited to extreme southeastern sections of the state. The finding of three adult ticks in Saratoga County increases the recorded distribution of this species.
25009165|The concept of the neotropical genus Bakeriella is broadened to include several species formerly included in Epyris. Three species are described as new: erythrogaster (Costa Rica), quadriceps (Colombia), and grandis (Costa Rica). Females of polita Evans and inconspicua Evans are described for the first time. Range extensions for several other species are given. The 18 known species collectively range from Florida and Central Mexico to Brazil and Argentina.
25010481|Five new species of Cerambycidae from Puerto Rico, Antilleptostylus guilartensis, Leptostylopsis guanica, Leptostylopsis yukiyu, Leptostylopsis monin, and Urgleptes borikensis are described. A new combination, Antilleptostylus brunneofasciatus (Fisher), and new synonymy, Leptostylopsis oakleyi (Fisher) = Leptostylopsis gundlachi (Fisher) are also proposed. Habitus figures of the new species, keys for separating the Puerto Rican species of Leptostylopsis Dillon and Urgleptes Dillon, a key and figures for separating the species of Antilleptostylus Gilmour, a figure to help in separating Leptostylopsis gundlachi Fisher and two new related species, and a figure of some typical elytral color pattern variations in Urgleptes borikensis are presented. /// Cinco especies nuevas, Antilleptostylus guilartensis, Leptostylopsis guanica, Leptostylopsis yukiyu, Leptostylopsis monin y Urgleptes borikensis se describen de Puerto Rico. Se presenta una nueva combinacin, Antilleptostylus brunneofasciatus (Fisher); y una nueva sinonimia, Leptostylopsis oakleyi (Fisher) = Leptostylopsis gundlachi (Fisher). Se incluyen ilustraciones de las especies nuevas, claves para separar las especies en Puerto Rico de Leptostylopsis Dillon y Urgleptes Dillon, clave y figuras para las especies del gnero Antilleptostylus Gilmour y otras figuras que sirven de ayuda para reconocer to diferenciar las especies.
25009914|The clasper and sperm reservoir of 50 species in 31 genera are described, and most are figured. The sperm reservoir, and to a lesser extent the clasper, exhibit a wide variety of form. A preliminary assessment of the taxonomic value of these structures indicates that they are important at several taxonomic levels. These structures are useful in distinguishing externally similar species. Synapomorphies in these structures indicate that some genera are monophyletic, but that other genera are clearly composite and in need of review. Genera are also combined into related groups based on putative apomorphic characters. Bocundostethus Scudder, Kinundastethus Scudder, and Microlugenocoris Scudder are transferred from the Lethaeini to the Antillocorini because they lack synapomorphies characteristic of the Lethaeini.
25010398|A nest of Vespula squamosa (Drury) is described including colony size, biomass, and ecological impact. This is the largest vespid nest described from North America to date.
25010075|The West Indian taxa of Coccidulini are reviewed, and a key to the genera is given. Two new species of Psorolyma Sicard, Psorolyma doyeni, n. sp., and Psorolyma baorucensis, n. sp., are described, a revised key to species is presented, and pertinent morphological structures are illustrated.
25010193|The composition and characterization of the ignava species group of Phyllophaga (s. str.) are reviewed, and two new species belonging to this group, P. invisa and P. rolstoni, are described from Texas. Genitalia are illustrated for each new species and enface views of the parameres are given for P. ignava (Horn) and P. idonea Sanderson, two previously described members of the group. The range, habitat, and flight periods in Texas are presented for each species belonging to the group. A lectotype is designated for P. ignava.
25006145|H. arenaria is reported for the first time from North America, with records from Florida and the Yucatan Peninsula. Among characters studied, the most important variation is in wing length. Floridian specimens are flightless and apparently well isolated from those of the West Indies and the Yucatan Peninsula. They also differ in habitat, being found in an intertidal situation rather than at or near the high tide line. Specimens from Quintana Roo are smaller, have fewer elytral setae, and have slightly reduced wings. The most probable routes of dispersal to both mainland areas have been from the Greater Antilles.
25009833|The family now contains 37 species in this region, including Aderus populneus (Panzer), apparently introduced from Europe. One new genus, Gymnoganascus (type-species G. stephani) is described. New generic synonymy is Aderus Westwood (=Phomalus Casey), Ariotus Casey (=Scanylus Casey), and Ganascus Casey (=Sandytes Casey). New species described are Elonus hesperus (Oklahoma, Missouri, Arizona), Gymnoganascus stephani (Oklahoma, Texas, Kentucky, Mexico, Cuba), Vanonus balteatus (Oklahoma, Texas, Kansas), V. macrops (Missouri), V. musculus (Oklahoma), V. oklahomensis (Oklahoma), V. uniformis (Florida to Arkansas), V. valgus (Oklahoma to Florida), Zonantes floridanus (Florida), Z. mississippiensis (Mississippi), Z. ouachitanus (Oklahoma), and Z. pallidus (Oklahoma to Florida and eastern Canada). New combinations are Aderus brunnipennis (LeConte), A. saginatus (Casey), A. tantillus (Champion), Ariotus luteolus (Casey), and Ganascus ptinoides (Schwarz). New specific synonymy is Pseudariotus notatus (LeConte) (=Pseudariotus amicus Casey), Elonus basalis (LeConte) (=Elonus princeps Casey), Emelinus melsheimeri (LeConte) (=Emelinus ashmeadi Casey), Ganascus ventricosus (LeConte) (=Ganascus opimus Casey, G. palliatus Casey), Vanonus huronicus Casey (=Tanilotes densus Casey), Vanonus piceus (LeConte) (=Xilophilus tuberculifer Hamilton, Vanonus congener Casey, V. fusciceps Casey), Vanonus sagax Casey (=V. floridanus Casey), Zonantes fasciatus (Melsheimer) (=Z. tricuspis Casey), and Zonantes hubbardi (Casey) (=Z. schwarzi Casey). Type-species are designated for the Casey genera Ariotus, Elonus, Emelinus, Ganascus, Phomalus, Pseudariotus, Tanilotes, Vanonus, and Zonantes. Lectotypes are selected for Axylophilus yuccae Casey; Euglenes signatus Haldeman; Ganascus palliatus Casey; Xilophilus tuberculifer Hamilton; Xylophilus brunnipennis LeConte, X. fasciatus LeConte, X. impressus LeConte, X. melsheimeri LeConte, X. nebulosus LeConte, X. piceus LeConte, X. ptinoides Schwarz, X. quercicola Schwarz, X. subfasciatus LeConte, and X. ventricosus LeConte; and Zonantes tricuspis Casey.
25005912|Descriptions are given for four species, two of which are new: Colpocephalum harterti from Mulleripicus pulverulentus harterti and C. pulverulenti from M. p. pulverulentus. Colpocephalum longicorne Rudow is synonymized with C. inaequale Burmeister.
25008954|Sixteen species of mites are reported associated with Popilius disjunctus (Illiger) (Coleoptera: Passalidae) in eastern United States. Two new species are described: Macrocheles disjunctus and M. whartoni. Changes in nomenclature are as follows: Cosmolaelaps passali Hunter and Mollin = C. trifidus (Pearse and Wharton), new synonymy and new combination; Dendrolaelaps passalorum (Pearse and Wharton), new combination. Diagnostic features, as well as distributional and biological information are given for most species.
25005962|Comparative studies of the transverse nerve suggest that the motor axons of this nerve to the spiracular muscles become incorporated in the lateral nerves in those insects in which a transverse nerve appears to be absent.
25010134|A new species of the polistine genus Agelaia Lepeletier is described, and its relationships to other species of the genus are discussed.
25008851|Cochliomyia macellaria, Phormia regina, and Drosophila melanogaster were highly susceptible to Octosporea muscaedomesticae. Hylemya antiqua, Phaenicia sericata, Musca autumnalis, and Muscina stabulans were slightly susceptible. Calliphora terraenovae, C. vicina, C. vomitoria, Lucilia illustris, Fannia scalaris, Haematobia irritans, Myospila meditabunda, and Stomoxys calcitrans were not susceptible. The significance of these findings is discussed.
25010516|Processina n. gen., belonging to the Cicadellinae (Cicadellidae), is described to contain two new species P. dashahensis n. sp. and P. taiwanana n. sp., collected from Guizhou Province and Taiwan respectively. The male genitalia are illustrated for each species, and a key to the 24 Chinese genera of the Cicadellinae is provided.
25005960|This paper reviews the classification of the North American Pieris "napi" species based upon androconial scales and lists geographically all names. A new name for the summer form Pieris narina mogollon is proposed.
25009623|A diagnosis and description for the genus Agroecus Dallas and diagnoses for all previously known species of the genus are given. Agroecus reticulatus, from Argentina, is described as new. A key to the species is provided. Agroecus tenebricosus Buckup, 1957, is placed in the synonymy of A. griseus Dallas, 1851, and lectotypes are designated for A. griseus, A. ecuadoriensis Jensen-Haarup, and Euschistus lizerianus Pennington.
25005911|Prepupal exuviae weigh 2.19, while those of the pupa 1.09 mg. Values for water content are 11.35 and 17.18%, respectively. In each case these means are statistically different. Nitrogen is approximately 10.7% of dry weight in each case. Lipid N (Fraction A), expressed as % total N, is 0.75 in prepupal and 0.66 in pupal exuviae. Water soluble N fractions (B soluble, and C insoluble in tungstic acid) are significantly lower in prepupal than in pupal exuviae. Values for B are 8.06 and 15.65; and for C, 1.19 and 2.92, respectively. Those for insoluble N (Fraction D) are 89.95 and 80.78, respectively.
25009687|Diagnoses are given for the genus Ablaptus Stl and the type species, A. amazonus Stl. Two new species, A. brevirostrum and A. tavakiliani, from Central America and French Guiana, respectively, are added to the previously monotypic genus.
25010118|The South American species of the ant genus Probolomyrmex are revised. Three species boliviensis, brujitae, new species, and petiolatae are recognized. The synonymy of angusticeps with boliviensis is confirmed. A key to the species is given.
25009421|A distinct propleural suture, well developed proepisternum and considerably reduced proepimeron are clearly represented in Pamphiliidae, Xyelidae, Argidae, Tenthredinidae, Diprionidae and Cimbicidae. In Cephidae, this suture has shifted slightly backward, thus, further reducing the area of proepimeron. In Xiphydridae, the backward shift is more pronounced and the posterior half of this suture has become marginal. In Siricidae, the entire propleural suture has become almost marginal and the epimeral area if any is in the form of a thickened posterior margin of propleural plate. In most of the apocritan families the same state is maintained. In Formicidae even the thickened posterior margin of propleuron is absent. These observations collectively help to establish a systematically changing pattern to which can be attached some evolutionary significance within the order Hymenoptera.
25005793|The following new species from Sikkim are defined: Gonomyia (Protogonomyia) clista; G. (P.) acustylata; G. (P.) distifurca; G. (P.) megalomata, and G. (P.) thiorhopala. An additional species, G. (P.) khasiana is from the Khasi Hills, Assam.
25009862|Canthonella howdeni, n. sp. and C. baorucensis, n. sp. are described from the Sierra de Baoruco of Pedernales Province, Dominican Republic. A key is provided to distinguish them from previously described West Indian congeners. Diagnostic characters of the head, labium, legs and male genitalia are illustrated for the new species and C. isabellae Matthews.
25009605|Ten species of Chimarra (Trichoptera: Philopotamidae) are recorded from eastern North America, three of which are described as new: C. falculata, C. holzenthali and C. parasocia. Illustrations of male genitalia of each species are presented along with notes on distribution, a discussion of variation a key to species, and a phylogeny for the species.
25006216|A beetle, Chlorida festiva (Cerambycidae), exhibited defensive behavior including: (1) motionless concealment, (2) stridulation, (3) "attack" with spined elytra, and (4) flight. This escape-attempt series is similar to that exhibited by many other insects, although the predatory pressures leading to its evolution have not yet been identified in this insular situation (Puerto Rico).
25006189|The subtribe Termitotelina is revised and the single included genus, Termitotelus, is redescribed and illustrated. The 1 previously described species is redescribed and the following 4 new species are described: T. sheasbyi, T. coatoni, T. niger, and T. neoschultzei, all from Cape Province, Republic of South Africa. A new subtribe, Hodoxenina, is proposed to contain a new genus, Hodoxenus, which is described. The single included species, H. sheasbyi, from Cape Province is described as new. All species are found with Microhodotermes viator. A summary of previously collected species from Hodotermitidae nests is presented.
25005930|Locality records of the West African sibling species Dapidodigma hymen Fabricius and D. demeter Clench are given and the distributions mapped and discussed, showing an area of sympatry from Ghana to Nigeria. The distribution, subspecies and characters of another two sibling species are given: Iolaus (Iolaus) eurisus Cramer (Sierra Leone to Nigeria) and I. vexillarius (Senegal to Gabon). Iolaus (Iolaus) bolissus Hewitson is divided into three subspecies: bolissus (western Congo), azureus (Cameroun, Liberia) and aurora (Uganda). Iolaus (Epamera) aphnaeoides aethes is described from Cameroun (the species previously was known only from eastern Africa).
25009367|The sexual behavior of whirligig beetles is more complex than has previously been described. Precopulatory mounting is a behavior pattern performed by males, and proleg-up is performed by females. These interactions are more in accord with the potential complexities of mate selection and sexual synchronization than earlier accounts of whirligig courtship behavior.
25006066|The occurrence of Epicordulia princeps (Hagen), a crespuscular dragonfly common to the central and northeastern United States, at a street light was studied on successive evenings from June 18 to July 4, 1966 (11:00 PM to 1:30 AM-CST) in Chicago, Illinois. Both sexes were usually present with males always predominating. Curiously, the dragonflies repeatedly aggregated (loosely) on a certain portion of the illuminated surface (of stone wall) throughout the study period. Dragonflies arrived and departed singly with either process usually being accomplished, for all individuals present, within 20 minutes. It was not clear if the dragonflies, when attracted to the light, were actually foraging or whether perched (resting) on nearby trees and other suitable resting sites. An anomalous behavior of curving the abdomen upwards when perched on the wall was observed.
25009597|Dr. Asa Fitch, the first professional entomologist appointed by a state legislature, described three tick species and what he questionably believed to be a fourth. These specimens have been rediscovered, and lectotypes have been designated.
25009297|The hesperiid butterfly Calpodes ethlius is very widely distributed in the subtropical and tropical regions of North, Central, and South America, where the larval stage is a specialized herbivore of various Cannaceae, mostly Canna. The larvae are known to be occasional defoliators of cannas, including ornamental species. Some quantitative aspects of the interaction between C. ethlius and several patches of an ornamental species Canna edulis, were examined at Mazatlan, State of Sinaloa, Mexico, at the beginning of the dry season. Defoliation from C. ethlius was very severe during the previous wet season as indicated by aging conspicuous leaf damage to most plants in all patches, lack of new vegetative growth, and an abundance of old fecal pellets from larvae. Only a few late instar larvae and adults were present at this time. A large number of pupae were found in the host plant patches but more than 90% were parasitized, apparently by a chalcid wasp. Although C. edulis blooms profusely here in the early dry season, very few flowers and fruits were present. Presumably the larval population of C. ethlius peaks during the latter half of the wet season following a period of steady increase in response to an abundant food supply. The dry season interrupts this trend in abundance and the population drops off. Severe attack by chalcid parasites in the late wet season intensifies this change in population structure. The parasites cause mortality in the pupal stage thus precluding any regulatory effects on the larval population. Such interactions lower the ability of the infested larvae to produce flowers and fruit. Other aspects of these interactions are discussed.
25009647|Heteromurus (Heteromurtrella) greensladeae and H. (H.) affinis are described from material collected in various localities in Sulawesi Utara (Celebes). Heteromurus (Alloscopus) tenuicornis is reported for the first time from Sulawesi.
25010525|Larvae of Enallagma davisi and E. recurvatum have round gill tips similar to E. minusculum but final stadia are significantly larger (total length 11.4-13.8 mm for davisi and recurvatum combined vs. 9.5-9.7 mm for minusculum) and the lateral carinae of abdominal segments 2-7 have distinct stout setae. The prementum of E. davisi (length 1.85-2.30 mm, width 1.56-1.80 mm; n = 10) is slightly larger than that of E. recurvatum (length 1.75-1.85 mm, width 1.48-1.53 mm; n = 5). The cerci of E. davisi in lateral view are wider than long in males and about as wide as long in females; in E. recurvatum the cerci are longer than wide in both sexes.
25009280|The temporal distribution of Chironomus decorus, inhabiting a shallow, brackish pond, was determined over the course of one season. Data on larval abundance and adult flight activity were collected at regular intervals to study population trends. Initial population levels, following thaw of the winter ice cover, were relatively low. As temperatures rose throughout the spring and early summer, midge abundance gradually increased. Larval density peaked in mid-summer, averaging 700 third and fourth instar larvae per 0.02
25010121|A new Guatemalan species of Cyclocephala is described and modifications to Endrodi's key to the genus are included to allow their identification. New country records for Guatemala are given for C. aequatoria Endrodi, C. alexi Ratcliffe and Delgado, and C. prolongata Arrow.
25009832|Morphological evidence indicates that the North American galerucine genus Ophraella is a strictly monophyletic taxon, closely related to Monoxia LeConte and Erynephala Blake. Host associations for all species, including several hitherto lacking host records, are listed; all hosts are in the Asteraceae. Distinguishing morphological features of adults are described, and descriptions of immature stages of most of the species are provided. O. macrovittata LeSage is placed in synonymy with O. sexvittata (LeConte), and the possibility of conspecificity of O. pilosa LeSage and O. americana (Fabricius) is raised. A new species, Ophraella artemisiae, is described from Texas. Several features of the life history are described. Phenological data indicate that northern populations and species are univoltine, whereas more southern populations are generally multivoltine. Cocoon formation differs from previous reports in that the cocoon material issues from the rectum. Several natural enemies were observed, including, in O. communa LeSage, a eulophid genus not previously recorded in North America. Geographically isolated populations of O. communa display partial sexual isolation, as do closely related sympatric species (O. communa and O. notulata [Fabricius]) which occupy different host plants. A difference in host affiliation is therefore not the only barrier to gene exchange.
25009403|In 1978-1979, parasitized green peach aphids (GPA) were recovered from collards in adjacent weedy and weedless habitats. During each season, 22 percent of GPA were parasitized, primarily in weedless plots wherein Diaeretiella rapae comprised 94 percent of primary parasitism. Parasitism by Aphidius spp. was concentrated on GPA from collards in weedy plots. Secondary parasitism occurred much more frequently in weedless plots, wherein 59 percent of primary parasitoids were parasitized. Secondary parasitoids were: Asaphes lucens (53 percent of all parasitoids recovered), Aphidencyrtus aphidivorus (34 percent), Alloxysta nr. megourae and nr. discreta (7 percent), Phaenoglyphis ambrosiae and n. sp. (3 percent), Dendrocerus niger (3 percent) and D. incompletus (<1 percent); A. lucens was more abundant in 1978 than 1979 while the reverse was noted in Alloxysta spp. Secondary parasitoids were evidently attracted to higher densities of primary hosts on collards located in weedless plots.
25009863|The North American distributions and adventive nature of Simplocaria semistriata (F). and Chaetophora spinosa (Rossi) are reviewed. Previous inferences regarding their status as European immigrants is supported, within the context of C. H. Lindroth's criteria for identification of non-native organisms. Notes on the host mosses, life history, and habitats of both species are provided.
25009614|To investigate the effect of inclement weather on mortality in adult butterflies, black swallowtails were tethered to typical night roosts and monitored during favorable and adverse weather periods. Fair weather mortality averaged less than 10%, yet mortality during weather-prolonged roosting was about 35%. This significant difference was primarily due to increased predation during daylight periods. Starvation was restricted to older butterflies since freshly-emerged individuals could survive 7 or more days without feeding. Vertebrates, particularly birds, accounted for 65% of the predation. Predators attacked the sexually dimorphic males and females equally which supports the role of the more similar ventral patterns in effective mimicry. Predators showed no preferences for individuals roosting on living or dead roosts. Predation on roosting individuals is probably a primary source of mortality for many butterfly species, especially when inclement weather forces individuals to extend roosting during daylight periods.
25009023|The Mexican and Central American species of the lepturine genus Strangalia are reviewed. All known species are characterized and new distributional records listed. New synonymy is presented and the following new species described: Strangalia doyeni (Mexico); S. montivaga (Mexico); S. opleri (Costa Rica); and S. westcotti (Mexico). A key to the Mexican and Central American species of Strangalia is provided.
25009000|Three species of periodical cicadas occur intermixed in roadside vegetation, ovipositing at eye level within easy reach. By collecting these, and noting the plant species on which each individual is ovipositing, one can assess the oviposition preferences of a given species relative to those of other species. The data thus far indicate that both 13-year and 17-year counterparts of Magicicada septendecula prefer hickory more than do the other two species, also that both counterparts of M. septendecim prefer (more than does M. cassini) those tree species that are capable of becoming canopy dominants in mature upland forest.
25009452|The 57 genera and 475 species of Coccinellidae occurring in America north of Mexico are treated taxonomically. Keys to all taxa, descriptions of the higher taxa, species diagnoses, synonymies, and host records are included. Two new tribes, Cephaloscymnini and Selvadiini, are erected for the genera Cephaloscymnus Crotch and Selvadius Casey. New species are described as follows: Brachiacantha barberi; B. rotunda; B. schwarzi; B. soltaui; B. stephani; Exoplectra schaefferi; Gnathoweisea ferox; G. hageni; G. micula; G. texana; Hyperaspidius algodonus; H. andrewsi; H. hardyi; H. nanellus; H. simulatus; Hyperaspis caseyi; H. deludens; H. dobzhanskyi; H. imitator, H. ornatella; H. schaefferi; H. uteana; Nephus (S.) timberlakei; Zagloba satana; Zilus horni. A chapter on biological control involving the family Coccinellidae includes discussions of the introduced species established in North America, and tables listing all the species that have been introduced whether established or not.
25009622|A complex of species of Ozophora in the West Indies is discussed and a key presented to distinguish the species. Two new species are described: Ozophora umbrosa (wide-spread in the Greater Antilles and known to occur in the Bahamas) and Ozophora archboldi known only from Dominica. Ozophora fuscifemur Scudder, known from Little Cayman I. and Cayman Brac, is reduced to a subspecies of Ozophora pallidifemur Scudder from Grand Cayman. Ozophora levis Slater and Baranowski is reported from several islands of the Bahamas. There are descriptions of the nymphs and notes on the habitat of Ozophora umbrosa. Twelve illustrations of distinguishing details of the genitalia are included.
25009996|Three new species of Trichogramma from the New World tropics and one new species from Australia are described. These taxa differ from all congeners by the unjoined funicular and club segments of the male antenna, and the two-segmented maxillary palp. The New World species also are distinguished by the unique structure of the aedeagus. All four new species are retained tentatively within the nominate subgenus of Trichogramma. Their relationship to other species of the genus is discussed.
25009510|Adult weevils infesting cultivated and wild plants were sampled by dislodging them from foliage and by trapping them in pit-falls or under boards at six sites in Connecticut. The black vine weevil, Otiorhynchus sulcatus (F.), comprised 79-95% of the samples obtained by the three methods during June and July 1983. Less abundant species, which were concentrated on unsprayed plants, were: the strawberry root weevil, O. ovatus (L.); the rough strawberry root weevil, O. rugosostriatus (Goeze); and the twobanded Japanese weevil, Callirhopalus bifasciatus (Roelofs). Otiorhynchus sulcatus was the most abundant weevil on foliage of 71% of hosts surveyed in June and on 86% in July. Collectively, the results indicate that adults of O. sulcatus cause most of the foliar notching attributed to weevils. Possible wild reservoirs for O. sulcatus are given, and 17 new hosts for the four weevils are listed. Removal of adult hosts from field borders may minimize the establishment of wild reservoirs.
25009344|The melanic morph of Phigalia titea (Cramer), "deplorans" (Franclemont, 1938), comparised 18.7 percent of 3,906 specimens collected at various light sources at a single location in central Massachusetts between 1968 and 1981. There were no discernible trends in melanic frequency over that period. Three different light sources (incandescent, fluorescent and mercury vapor) yielded similar estimates of melanic frequency. There was a decline in melanic frequency late at night (after 2300 hours), and an increase in melanic frequency during the second half of the flight season. The implications of these results are briefly discussed.
25009515|The life history of Stenocranus lautus Van Duzee was studied in Missouri from April to November 1984, it was reared in the laboratory and the immature stages were described. S. lautus feeds and reproduces on Carex lurida Wahl., is bivoltine and apparently overwinters as eggs. Field collected adults kept on potted C. lurida in the laboratory laid eggs which hatched and were reared to adults. Durations of the five nymphal stadia were 5.4, 7.5, 16.0, 10.5 and 11.0 days, respectively. Nymphal instars differed in body size, number of pit-like sensoria, development of wingpads, number of metatibial and metatarsal spines, and shape and dentition of metatibial spurs.
25009104|Speleognathopsis michigensis Ford is redescribed and placed in the genus Speleorodens. Speleorodens clethrionomys Fain and Lukoschus is placed in synonymy with S. michigensis. The characters used in delimiting genus group taxa within the Speleognathinae are discussed and the taxonomic system of Domrow is rejected in favor of that of Fain. A new genus, Domrownetes, is created for Paraspeleognathopsis exul Domrow.
25009030|Twenty-one species of tarsonemid mites are reported from New York, of which 11 are described and figured as new: Steneotarsonemus oconnori, Tarsonemus ascitus, T. dubius, T. imitatus, T. insignis, T. irregularis, T. neotalpae, T. nidicolus, T. praesignis, T. similis and T. smileyi. The majority were collected from nests of birds, mammals and insects, and from barn debris. Stored grain tarsonemids were also found in nests of birds, which suggests primary sources of stored grain infestations.
25009671|The aleocharine genus Tachiona Sharp and the single previously described species T. deplanata Sharp from Mexico are redescribed. A lectotype is designated for T. deplanata from the syntype series. Two new species, T. nitida Ashe and T. latipennis Ashe, are described from material collected in Mexico and Panama respectively. A key is provided for separation of the known species of Tachiona. Larvae collected in association with adults of T. latipennis from the interior of a web covering a tree wound were presumed to be conspecific with them, described, and compared with larvae collected with a female of T. nitida from a similar web-covered tree hole. Illustrations of diagnostic features of adults and larvae are provided. Based on mouthpart structure, particularly the styliform labial palpi and elongated maxillary lobes, Tachiona is shown to be a member of the probably monophyletic bolitocharine subtribe Silusina. Within the Silusina, members of Tachiona are very similar to those of Diestota Mulsant and Rey in a number of characteristics, especially form of the spermatheca and aedeagus. More precise analysis of relationships among the Silusina must await a more detailed survey of structural features among included taxa.
25009772|Three new ochlerine pentatomid species, Lincus hebes, L. spurcus and L. malevolus, are described from specimens collected in Peru on various palms.
25006171|Dyschirius Bonelli and its close relatives are placed in the subtribe Dyschiriina. The marinus group (= Akephorus LeConte) is the oldest and most divergent group of American Dyschirius. No described South American species are related to the marinus group, and the species described as Akephorus bruchi, A. bryanti, A. darwini, and A. ogloblini by Kult are new combinations in Dyschirius closely related to the tridentatus group. All North American Dyschirius which lack discal elytral setae are keyed and discussed. D. exochus is a new species from Texas, and is placed in a separate group. D. dentiger LeConte is reduced to synonymy with D. aratus LeConte. Species reported from Mexico for the first time are D. aratus, D. erythrocerus, and D. sublaevis. The criddlei, exochus, filiformis, politus, and sellatus groups are a monophyletic unit. Sister-group relationships proposed are: exochus-filiformis and criddlei-politus-sellatus; and criddlei-politus and sellatus.
25009113|Plakidas, John D., 8506 Forest Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15237.-Epiblema scudderiana (Clemens) was studied for two successive winters 1974-1975 and 1975-1976, to evaluate the moth's economic importance as a winter host reservoir for parasitic insects in Southwestern Pennsylvania. From the collection of 5,609 galls for the two year study, an average of 11.12% primary parasitism was observed. Results reveal that E. scudderiana harbors 12 primary parasites, including 6 ichneumonids, 4 braconids, 1 eupelmid, and 1 tachinid. Seven of these parasites are known to parasitize a variety of insect pests during their summer generations. As an economically beneficial winter host reservoir, E. scudderiana increases the natality of these parasites during periods when alternate hosts are scarce.
25010072|A new genus and four new species from New Guinea are described in the tribe Colpurini (Coreidae). The relationships of the genus are stated to be with Hygia. Dorsal view illustrations, and drawings of the head, pronotum and male and female genitalia are provided.
25009757|The Cyrtogaster-group, which includes the genera Cyrtogaster Walker, Novitzkyanus Boucek, Tricyclomischus Graham, and Callicarolynia, n.g., is defined as containing those miscogasterine pteromalid genera that possess three symmetrically arranged clypeal denticles and a weakly sculptured petiole with a distinct median and pairs of sublateral and lateral carinae. A phylogenetic analysis of relationships among these genera and their relationships to other miscogasterine genera is presented. Polycystus Westwood is herein synonymized with Cyrtogaster Walker. Seven Nearctic Cyrtogaster species are treated: C. anapodisis, n. sp., C. britteni Askew, C. capitanea, n. sp., C. clavicornis Walker, C. reburra, n. sp., C. tryphera (Walker), and C. vulgaris Walker. Keys to the Nearctic Cyrtogaster species and a summary of the biology of the genus and each species are presented. A new Hawaiian species, C. annectens, n. sp., is also described. Polycystus clypeatus Girault is transferred to Thinodytes Graham; Polycystus propinquus Waterston, Polycystus nigriscapus Howard, and Polycystus luteipes Howard are transferred to Halticoptera Spinola; and Polycystus nigritus Howard belongs in a new genus near Thinodytes Graham. A new genus Callicarolynia is described to accommodate a single Nearctic species, C. eruga, n. sp.
25008808|Analogous mechanisms to escape predation by Anomma driver ants are employed by a terrestrial pulmonate mollusk and by lepidopterous larvae. Each involves dropping on the end of a thin cord of secreted material that the ants cannot traverse. Theoretically, this mechanism could be used by diverse organisms having the ability to secret or form such cords.
25009467|Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), we have demonstrated the presence of bacteria on the outer surface of the tarsi of adult male and female German cockroaches (Blattella germanica), collected from natural populations. Our results indicate that the microorganisms are relatively tightly attached, supporting the hypothesis that mechanical transmission is important in introducing bacteria into human habitation, and may play a role in infections of humans and domesticated animals.
25008949|The results of observations carried on for a period of five years on one species of the Callicorinae, Diaethria astala Gurin, are presented. An account is given of the external morphological characteristics of the early stages, of the time elapsed in the metamorphosis, of the progressive sizes of each stage, and of the foodplants in El Salvador. The evident similarities between the early stages of this species and of Catagramma titania Salvin, and C. pitheas Latreille, on one hand, and the early stages of species belonging to the Catonephelinae are pointed out, suggesting a close phylogenetic relationship between the three groups. The probability of the species having developed impalatability against predators is deduced a priori from the noxious properties of the foodplants exploited by the larvae, and a posteriori from the brilliant coloration exhibited by the adults.
25009758|Worker honey bees of two subspecies (Apis mellifera mellifera and A. m. ligustica) were bioassayed in the laboratory to determine their willingness to sting at various ages. Foragers returning to field colonies of both subspecies were captured, bioassayed for stinging behavior, and the sugar concentration and volumes of their nectar loads were measured. Residual value theory, which has previously been demonstrated to be a good predictor of the intensity of risky nest defense by parental birds, was used to interpret these data. Workers of the more highly defensive A. m. mellifera displayed residual value sensitivity in their stinging behavior, while the less defensive A. m. ligustica did not.
25009526|The life history of Belostoma lutarium was studied in southern Illinois, and the immature stages are described. The bug also was reared from egg to adult in the laboratory. This apparently bivoltine species overwintered as adults in leaf litter and detritus in very shallow water along the shoreline and became active in early March. Eggs were found between the 3rd week of April and early August and were laid on the backs of males. First instars appeared in early May followed by marked overlapping of the subsequent instars. Active adults were last observed in November. This species was reared on Chaoborus americanus larvae under a 16L: 8D photoperiod at 26.7  1.5C. The incubation period averaged 9.9 days. Durations of the 5 subsequent stadia averaged 6.3, 6.4, 10.7, 12.9, and 13.7 days, respectively.
25005980|Attempts to find an organized muscle layer surrounding the midgut of the early instar larval Aedes aegypti mosquito have not been successful. But, by studying whole mounts of larval midguts of various stages, muscle cells were found to be present from the earliest stages of larval life. The early, first-instar muscle layer consists of two pairs of longitudinally arranged rows of muscle cells connected by two circular bands of muscle cells. Beginning at about the second instar, these cells begin to undergo mitotic divisions, eventually giving rise to a muscular network, completely encircling the larval midgut. The network present in the prepupal midgut apparently remains during metamorphosis to become the muscular coat of the adult midgut.
25009974|Frankliniella alba Moulton and F. bratleyi Watson are junior synonyms of F. bondari Hood (New Synonymy). The seven species and varieties of Frankliniella treated as junior synonyms of F. cephalica (Crawford) in the "Catalogue of the Thysanoptera of the World" (1974), are not synonyms. Frankliniella bispinosa (Morgan), F. bruneri Watson, F. echinodora Moulton, F. melanommata Williams and F. reticulata (Crawford) are treated as valid species. Euthrips tritici var. projectus Watson and Frankliniella cephalica var. masoni Watson are junior synonyms of F. bispinosa (New Synonymy).
25009444|The harvestman genus Leptobunus Banks is revised. Leptobunus californicus Banks and Leptobunus borealis Banks are redescribed, and Leuronychus parvulus Banks is transferred to Leptobunus and redescribed. Lectotypes for L. borealis and L. parvulus are designated. Leptobunus aureus n. sp. and Leptobunus pallidus n. sp. are described from California, U.S.A. and Bering Island, U.S.S.R., respectively. Leptobunus atavus Cockerell, Leptobunus koreanus Roewer, Leptobunus mexicanus Goodnight and Goodnight, and Leptobunus spinulatus Banks are all excluded from the genus Leptobunus. The North American Tertiary fossil species is maintained as Amauropilio atavus (Cockerell), whereas all Recent species excluded from Leptobunus are reported in the following new combinations: Mitopus koreanus (Roewer), Paranelima mexicana (Goodnight and Goodnight), and Metopilio spinulatus (Banks). In conjunction, the Mexican species Diguetinus raptator Roewer is removed from synonymy with "Diguetinus" spinulatus (Banks). All the species are illustrated, including the male and female genitalia, for which new anatomical terminology is presented. A dichotomous key to the species and many new distributional records from western North America and northeast Asia are provided. The history of the family-group name Leptobunidae is discussed and the name is attributed to Banks (1901). The family is abandoned and morphological characters traditionally used for the classification of "Leptobunidae" are discussed. The type genus of the Leptobunidae, Leptobunus Banks, is transferred to the Phalangiidae, subfamily Phalangiinae. The genera Cosmobunus Simon, Leuronychus Banks, and Homolophus Banks are transferred to the Gagrellidae, subfamily Leiobuninae, and Trachyrhinus Weed is maintained in the Gagrellidae, subfamily Gagrellinae. The North American genus Protolophus Banks is tentatively placed in the Gagrellidae, subfamily Sclerosomatinae. The South American genus Thrasychirus Simon is retained in the Neopilionidae, subfamily Enantiobuninae. The North American genus Globipes Banks is maintained in an assemblage that is as yet unnamed. The New World members of the genera Homolophus and Cosmobunus are not congeneric with Old World members referred to those genera.
25009458|The natural history of Oncocnemis piffardi (Walker) is described and the larva and pupa are illustrated. Larvae have been field-collected as well as cultured on Spiraea latifolia (Art.) Borkh., its natural host. Elpe semiothisae (Brooks) (Tachinidae) and an apparently undescribed Mesocharus (Ichneumonidae) were reared from field-collected larvae. The Mesocharus is a hyperparasite of yet another ichneumonid.
25009688|The genus Mathiolus Distant, 1889, is transferred from the pentatomid subfamily Discocephalinae to the nominate tribe of the Pentatominae. A diagnosis is given for the genus. The type species is redescribed and a lectotype designated. Two new species are added to the genus, M. labiatus from Venezuela and M. tumidus from Ecuador.
25009755|Tanystoma diabolica, new species, is described from Baja California, and a key to the five species of Tanystoma is presented. A cladistic analysis of the species permits elucidation of past vicariant events leading to the present-day species. The long-time disjunction of the California fauna by vicariance at the Salinas Valley is supported by the area cladogram derived for this group.
25009917|A new genus of Micrelytrinae (Alydidae) is erected and three new species collected in Mexico are described. Its resemblance with Bactrophya Breddin, Bactrocoris Kormilev, and Slateria Ahmad, as well as its relationship within the Micrelytrinae, are discussed. The host plant of each species is a Guadua spp. (Bambuseae). A key is given to distinguish the known species. Illustrations include a dorsal and lateral view of the head, the antennal segments, and details of the pygophore and the genital plate of the female.
25010311|Two new species of Tanycricos are described and illustrated from the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya, comprising western New Guinea: T. jaetipi n. sp. and T. ziwa n. sp., both from the upper Wapoga River basin. Additional records are given for previously described species of Tanycricos in Irian Jaya, and island wide distribution maps are provided for all species in the genus.
25009464|We describe a simple procedure for rearing colonies of the Texas leafcutting ant, Atta texana (Buckley), from foundress females in the laboratory. The progress and outcome of cooperative colony foundation attempts by several females is described. The results show that cooperative colony foundation (pleometrosis) in A. texana can lead to large polygynous colonies.
25008951|The overwintering capabilities of sibling calliphorid species Phaenicia sericata (Meigen) and Phaenicia pallescens (Shannon) are compared. P. pallescens is not capable of overwintering in the Chicago region in an unheated shelter while P. sericata can overwinter as larvae.
25008885|In previous papers, eleven species of fleas have been reported from Connecticut. The present list, consisting largely of specimens collected by the senior author in Windham and Tolland counties, adds eleven species to those previously recorded from the state. The additional species include: Atyphloceras bishopi Jordan, Catallagia borealis Ewing, Tamiophila grandis (Rothschild), Nearctopsylla genalis genalis (Baker), Stenoponia americana (Baker), Rhadinopsylla orama Smit, Megabothris asio asio (Baker), Orchopeas leucopus (Baker), Peromyscopsylla hamifer hamifer (Rothschild), Peromyscopsylla hesperomys hesperomys (Baker), and Peromyscopsylla scotti I. Fox. A hypothetical list of twenty species is appended.
25010490|The species of the genus Drapetis Meigen from China are reviewed, and a key to the species of the genus from China is presented for the first time. The following new species are described and illustrated: D. guangdongensis and D. nanlingensis.
25009235|Melissodes agilis, an anthophorid bee that is oligolectic on sunflowers, was found nesting in and adjacent to a planting of commercial sunflowers in northern Utah. Observations and excavation of nests yielded information on nest architecture, larval morphology, foraging activity, and parasites. The species will probably be most valuable as a commercial pollinator where minimum- or no-tillage agricultural practices are appropriate.
25009634|Using direct observation and sticky trap captures, larvipositing female Euphasiopteryx depleta were studied in central Brazil. Females were attracted by phonotaxis to sound traps that broadcast synthesized calling songs of Scapteriscus mole crickets. Mean permanency at sound traps during larviposition was less than 3 secs, with females orienting upwind to sound sources in windy conditions. Data suggest that E. depleta populations are highly mobile, with activity periods corresponding to mole cricket calling periods. The number of females attracted to sound traps varied with respect to broadcast sound intensity.
25009732|Six specimens of the genus Metopina are reported from the late Oligocene amber of Chiapas, Mexico, the lower Miocene amber of the Dominican Republic, and with one of the specimens, Metopina goeleti, n. sp., the oldest known phorid, from the late Cretaceous amber of New Jersey. Details of the morphology and distribution are discussed with respect to living members of the genus. Species distinctions between the specimens in the Oligomiocene ambers are not apparent. Taxonomic placement of the Sciadoceridae previously described from Cretaceous amber of Canada is discussed, and it is hypothesized that the Phoridae s.s. appeared much earlier than the late Cretaceous.
25009594|A diagnosis for the Neotropical genus Dushinckanus and a key for species identification are presented. Myodocha inermiba Distant is transferred to Dushinckanus, new combination, and two new species, D. ashlocki from Brazil, and D. camelopardus from Ecuador are described. Line drawings of the head and pronotum of D. camelopardus and D. ashlocki and a full dorsal view illustration of a male of D. crassicornis Brailovsky, 1981 are provided.
25004249|Thermal constants for beginning emergence and maximum emergence of the overwintered generation and the first summer generation of codling moth, determined by summation of day degrees of effective temperature, exhibit a sufficiently small amount of variation from year to year to render them satisfactory indicators of time when insecticidal applications should be made for the control of the larv of that insect entering apples, but that the dates, as determined by the thermal constants, should be checked against the codling moth bait pan records in order to make sure that the season in question does not exhibit some unusual type of variation. While the dates of beginning emergence and maximum emergence of the overwintered generation and the first summer generation seem to vary according to the latitude and altitude phase of the bio-climatic law, the writer feels that further data should be secured before dependence is placed upon this principle for determining the dates of insecticidal applications. When the average weekly minimum temperature approaches 60 F. codling moth transformation from larva to pupa ceases. It is probable, however, that the determination of this tendency of larv to pupate occurs under a somewhat higher average minimum than 60 F. and it seems, in the writer's experience, that this determination of tendency takes place before the larva starts to spin its cocoon.
25009474|The typical and melanic morphs of Phigalia titea (Cramer) exhibited different background preferences in an experimental apparatus, the typicals behaving like species known to rest on many tree species in nature, and the melanics behaving like species known to rest preferentially on white birches. Field observations of Cosymbia pendulinaria Guene indicate that some melanic moths are cryptic on gray (Betula populifolia) and paper (B. papyrifera) birches. It is suggested that the successional characteristics of these birches in New England forests may provide the basis for a recurring advantage of melanism, and that increases in the abundance of these birches since colonial settlement may explain the melanism seen in the region today.
25009441|The karyotype (2N = 26) of the ant Conomyrma flava is reported from material collected in central Texas. The chromosome numbers and morphology match those of Conomyrma bicolor from the western U.S.A. more closely than those of Conomyrma spp. from Peru and Brasil. A lactic acid dissociation, air-drying technique with Giemsa staining for ant chromosomes is described.
25010436|New records of five species of batflies (Diptera: Streblidae and Nycteribiidae) on vespertilionid bats are provided from So Paulo State, Brazil.
25008819|The digestive system of the house-dust mite was studied by means of light microscopy, and transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The system consists of: 1) a prebuccal cavity which is surrounded by mouthparts comprising a gnathosoma, 2) a cuticle-lined foregut which consists of a muscular pharynx and a thin-walled esophagus, 3) a microvillous midgut which is divided into a large anterior portion with two caeca and a bulbous posterior section, and 4) a cuticle-lined hindgut consisting of a broad anterior portion and a narrow posterior section. The relationships of the mouthparts, the morphology of the systematic components, and the varying cell types are demonstrated. Discussed are possible digestive processes including formation of a peritrophic membrane and the production of salivary secretions which originate in the idiosoma and are channeled anteriorly to be utilized in the prebuccal cavity. An attempt is made to homologize the diverse nomenclature previously used for naming the gut regions of the Acari.
25010240|Two new species of the Australian ant genus Melophorus are described. M. majeri new species is morphologically very distinct from all the other species with spines on the propodeum, and the worker caste extremely elongate. It has so far only been collected at two localities in Western Australia in heath vegetation. M. anderseni new species was found once in the backyard of the CSIRO labs in Darwin. It displayed a perplexing behavioral pattern, with hugging and rubbing intimately the worker of the meat ant Iridomyrmex sanguineus, rushing into their nest and carrying out their larvae without being interrupted by the hosts. A possible reaction of the meat ant might be the blocking of the nest entrance of the robbers by piling up little stones over their nest entrance.
25010371|The genus Ptilomera is revised for New Guinea and nearby islands. Four previously described taxa are redescribed and discussed: P. aello Breddin, P. papuensis Hungerford & Matsuda, P. breddini Hungerford & Matsuda, and P. cheesmanae Hungerford & Matsuda, the latter newly elevated from subspecies to full species rank. Eighteen new species are described as follows: P. waigeo from Waigeo Island, P. misoolensis from Misool Island, P. yapenana from Yapen Island, P. arfak from the Vogelkop Peninsula of Irian Jaya, P. timika from southern Irian Jaya, P. etna from western central Irian Jaya, P. iriana from north central Irian Jaya, P. wapoga from north central Irian Jaya, P. kiunga from southwestern Papua New Guinea, P. omo from southern central Papua New Guinea, P. kutubu from the southern highlands of Papua New Guinea, P. jimi from the central highlands of Papua New Guinea, P. wewak from northern Papua New Guinea, P. morobe from northeastern Papua New Guinea, P. biroi from northeastern Papua New Guinea, P. insularis from Umboi Island, P. novabrittanica from New Britain, and P. bismarckensis from New Ireland. Keys to all species occurring in the New Guinea region are provided for both males and females, accompanied by range maps, and figures of the male genitalic complex, male parameres, male endosoma, and female terminal abdomen in lateral view.
25009214|Larvae of the tortricid, Argyrotaenia velutinana Wlk., have been recorded feeding on the seeds of the orchid, Platanthera cristata (Michx.) Lindl., on Long Island, New York.
25006067|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Gnophomyia (Gnophomyia) diacaena n. sp., from Assam; Gonomyia (Lipophleps) pentacantha n. sp., Kumaon; Toxorhina (Ceratocheilus) bistyla n. sp., Assam; T. (C.) fulvicolor n. sp., Assam; T. (C.) fuscolimbata n. sp., Assam; and T. (C.) simplicistyla n. sp., Assam.
25009432|The black grass bug genus Irbisia Reuter is revised. Over 20,000 specimens were examined and information concerning the biology, host plant and distributional relationships of the species is compiled. In addition to external characters, the male parameres and vesica, and the female dorsal labiate plate of the bursa copulatrix and sclerotized rings are used to distinguish the species. Thirty-four characters selected from male genitalia, and external morphology are cladistically analyzed. Twenty-three species in five species groups are recognized in the genus. Two keys to the species are presented. Two new species, Irbisia bliveni and I. cascadia, are described. The following synonymies are proposed: I. brachycera (Uhler) = I. gorgoniensis Bliven, I. paeta Van Duzee, I. tejonica Bliven and I. vestifera Bliven; I. californica Van Duzee = I. eurekae Bliven, I. paenulata Bliven and I. umbratica Bliven; I. elongata Knight = I. retrusa Bliven; I. mollipes Van Duzee = I. upupa Bliven; I. setosa Van Duzee = I. ustricula Bliven; I. silvosa Bliven = I. paulula Bliven; I. sita Van Duzee = I. neptis Bliven; I. solani (Heidemann) = I. inurbana Bliven and I. lacertosa Bliven. Irbisia species diversity is greatest in the Coastal, Peninsular, Sierra and Transverse Ranges of California and decreases northward, northeastward and eastward. Major centers of endemism are located in California and the Rocky Mountains northwest of the Wyoming Basin; a minor center is located in the Siskiyou Mountains of southwestern Oregon. The distribution of the Irbisia species appears to be delineated by climatic conditions; late winter and early spring precipitation is required for growth of their cool season grass hosts. Over twenty native and introduced species of grasses are utilized by nymphal and adult stages of Irbisia in the Pacific Northwest. Larval feeding is observed on four species of nongrass monocots, and species of Lupinus and Lathyrus (Fabaceae). There appears to be no grass host specificity among the Irbisia species. However, all the grass species utilized are in the subfamily Pooideae; genera from the tribes Avenae, Poeae and Triticeae predominate. Irbisia species are the earliest mirids to consume the grass resource, completing their life cycle before grass seed is mature. Many Irbisia species, upon maturity, leave grasses and congregate on conspicuous nearby shrubs and trees. Their dispersal is correlated with the blossoming of these plants; adult feeding on pollen, nectar or honeydew is suspected.
25006203|A large mimicry complex occurring in the montane cloud forest of northern Venezuela was observed during the summer of 1967. Distinct preferences were shown by many of the species for specific microhabitats and light intensities. The dominant family in the complex was the Ithomiidae, and over 90% of the individuals in the complex were Mllerian mimics. Some species of the complex were shown to belong to more than one mimicry complex, with the pattern of the complex centered around the Ithomiidae and the behavior of other complexes. It is concluded that the mimicry complex is much larger than usually thought and that members of a mimicry complex do not have to resemble each other perfectly. Habitat differences and the selective advantage of cryptic coloration favor the evolution of a generalized pattern. It is hypothesized that a predator would find it easier to learn a single generalized pattern than several specific ones.
25010406|The Neotropical genus Flintiella is reviewed and eight new species are described and illustrated: F. alajuela from Costa Rica, F. boraceia from Brazil, F. panamensis from Panama, F. tamaulipasa from Mexico, F. yanamona from Peru, F. heredia from Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Peru, F. astilla from Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela, and F. pizotensis from Columbia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, and Peru. New illustrations are provided for F. andreae Angrisano. Keys are provided to separate the males and the associated females of the nine known species in the genus.
25006161|Lethe eurydice (Johansson), 1763, a Nearctic butterfly, has heretofore been considered a single species with four subspecies. However, two of its supposed subspecies fly at the same time and in close proximity, but they occur in different environments and have constant superficial differences. The conclusion is reached that they are sibling species and probably have different food plants. The names recognized for them are Lethe eurydice (Johansson) and L. fumosus (Leussler), 1916.
25005943|The history, ecology, and occurrence of Hemiargus huntingtoni is given, together with characters that are useful in the recognition of this species. Two new subspecific names are proposed: continentalis, from Colombia, and hannoides, from Mexico; nominate huntingtoni was described from Trinidad, and may occur in Venezuela.
25009462|Males of four species of Cercerini have been found to defend territories and to scent-mark stems on the peripheries of the territories: Eucerceris flavocincta, E. cressoni, E. superba, and Cerceris nigrescens. Males of E. flavocincta form aggregations resembling leks in which large males are more likely to maintain possession of a territory because of their advantage in aggressive interactions. Data are also presented on nest distribution and prey of these species.
25009244|The effect of egg numbers on parasitism of Euphydryas phaeton (Nymphalidae) was examined by comparing single and multiple egg clusters on leaves. Some 65 to 80% of the clusters lost eggs to parasitism and predation, with 5 to 9% of the eggs lost per cluster. For total clusters, single clusters and multiple clusters, the numbers of parasitized clusters were significantly different between years. It appeared that when the overall level of parasitism was greater one year, multiple clusters were attacked more frequently than single clusters. However, the number of egg clusters per leaf had no effect on the number of parasitized eggs per cluster. The sequence of egg clusters deposited on a leaf did not affect the level of parasitism and number of parasitized eggs per cluster. Thus, these egg clusters composed of several hundred eggs each lost only a small fraction of eggs to parasitoids and predators and did not appear to benefit from aggregation of egg clusters.
25009345|The larvae of 19 species of flies belonging to 7 families were found to feed in the rotting portions of leaves, petioles, and flowers of skunk cabbage. Among flies bred from this plant, drosophilids were by far the most numerous, but there is considerable geographic and seasonal variation in composition and abundance of the fauna. The sex ratio of one species, a Bryophaenocladius sp. (Chironomidae), reveals it to be parthenogenetic. The breeding biology of the flies, with particular reference to other dipteran-aroid relationships, is reviewed.
25008805|Eight species of Penenirmus from the Picidae are recognized and discussed. Neotypes are established from P. serrilimbus (Burmeister, 1838) and P. heteroscelis (Nitzsch, 1866). Paranirmus Zlotorzycka, 1964, is considered congeneric with Penenirmus. New synonymies include: P. macrotrichus (Kolenati, 1858) and P. tuktola (Ansari, 1947) (=P. pici (Fabricius, 1798)); P. fiebrigi Eichler, 1953, P. serrilimbus asyndesmus Emerson and Johnson, 1961, P. s. pileatus Emerson and Johnson, 1961, P. pici rivolii (Carriker, 1963), P. p. caurensis (Carriker, 1963) and P. silesiacus Zlotorzycka, 1966 (=P. auritus (Scopoli, 1763)); P. accuratus Zlotorzycka, 1964 (=P. heteroscelis (Nitzsch)); P. villosus Emerson and Johnson, 1961 (=P. jungens (Kellogg, 1896)). Species from 18 genera and 60 species of Picidae were examined. A key is given, and all species are illustrated and or re-described.
25009205|Populations of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in Maryland and New Jersey and of associated parasites changed greatly in the period 1966-70. The alfalfa weevil declined rapidly during the period under the increasing pressures of the introduced parasites Bathyplectes curculionis (Thomson), Tetrastichus incertus (Ratzeburg), Microctonus colesi Drea, Microctonus aethiopoides Loan and Bathyplectes anurus (Thomson).
25009255|Preceding pupation, Dytiscus verticalis larvae burrow into soil above the waterline. They construct pupal cells using mandibles, legs, and body wriggling. Pupal cells are nearly spherical and the openings are sealed from the inside with soil placed there by mandibles. Beetles spent 20 to 34 days in pupal cells. Newly eclosed adults are white but darken in 8 to 14 h. Pupae are described.
25010541|We surveyed apple orchards in the Finger Lakes region of New York State. Pollinator guilds included many honey bees and native bee species known to be effective pollinators of apples. Of the 31 native bee species collected, 14 species belong to eight subgenera of Andrena. Cavity-nesting mason bees were represented by a single female blue orchard bee, Osmia lignaria Say. The most numerous bees were mining bees in the genus Andrena. This paper serves as a preliminary look at the native bee pollinators in apple orchards in New York State.
25009918|Previous works on the Leptopodomorpha of Madagascar and nearby Indian Ocean islands are reviewed, keys to genera and species are provided, and the following new taxa are described: Leptopoides n. gen. to hold Leptopus horvathi Drake and Hottes (type-species) and Leptopoides poissoni n. sp.; Erianotoides oculatus n. gen., n. sp. (Leptopodidae); Mascarenisalda n. gen. to hold Saldula mametiana Drake (type-species); Capitonisaldoida cryptica n. gen., n. sp.; Rupisalda slateri n. sp., Rupisalda vincenti n. sp., and Rupisalda atra n. sp. (Saldidae). Additional descriptive notes are given for Leptopoides horvathi (Drake and Hottes) and Saldula madagascariensis Cobben. Other described taxa occurring in the region are discussed.
25010014|The extant world genera of the family Hemerobiidae are revised; and the literature on fossil hemerobiids is reviewed. A key is provided to the 25 extant genera recognized. An intergeneric cladistic analysis utilizing 107 characters, 24 ingroup genera, and 3 outgroup species provides a basis for (1) justifying the holophyly of the family, (2) recognizing holophyletic subgroups within the family, (3) proposing a new nine-subfamily classification of the family, and (4) identifying putative synapomorphies for nearly all recognized named taxa. Traits used in the cladistic analysis include characters from the head, forewing, and male and female terminalia. The biogeographic patterns exhibited within the family are discussed in light of the cladistic classification. For each genus, a synonymical listing, a differential diagnosis, a list of proposed synapomorphies, and notes on distribution and included species are given. To the extent possible from the material available for study, representative forewings, hind wings, and several aspects of the male and female terminalia, are illustrated for each genus. Phylogenetically important character complexes are analyzed in the comparative framework of the familial classification. The hemerobiid genitalic structure previously termed the "parameres" is here considered a unique evolutionary novelty of the family, and renamed the parabaculum. This structure is not a homologue of the "parameres" (=9th gonocoxites sensu Adams) of other neuropterous families. A new terminology is proposed for the putatively homologous regions of the gonarcus, facilitating comparative analysis of this complex sclerite.
25008825|At present, 242 species of aphids on 313 plants are known to occur in New Jersey. This paper is based on collections made in 1969, 1970, and 1971 and on several records omitted from my four previous papers on New Jersey aphids. Here are listed 52 species of aphids from 68 plants and records of five aphids and two food plants new to the state.
25010135|Uranocoris maculatus is described as a new species from New Guinea. Comparison is made with U. suavis Walker, which is the only previously known species of the genus. Habitus view illustrations and drawings of the male genitalia are provided to help distinguish these taxa.
25010278|Eggs, larval instars and pupae of Psyllobora gratiosa Mader, 1958 are described and illustrated using scanning electron micrographs. Some notes about the life habits are also provided.
25009979|The life history of Prokelisia crocea (Van Duzee) was studied in Missouri from May to October 1988 and the immature stages described. P. crocea feeds and reproduces on prairie cordgrass, Spartina pectinata Link, is trivoltine and overwinters as nymphs. Nymphal instars differed in body size, development of wingpads, number of metatibial spines, and shape and dentition of metatibial spurs.
25009490|The genus Cynipencyrtus is moved to the Tanaostigmatidae from the Encyrtidae. Characters are given to distinguish this genus from Encyrtidae, and from other Tanaostigmatidae. A redescription of the genus is given.
25009699|The spider genus Cyrioctea, previously known only from Chile and Argentina, is newly recorded from Namibia (C. whartoni, C. hirsuta, and C. namibensis, new species) and Queensland (C. raveni, new species).
25009815|The genus Proelymiotis Schaus is placed in synonymy with Nystalea Guene. The N. aequipars species complex is defined, and contains four species. Two new species, N. corniculans and N. montana are described. Diagnoses and illustrations are provided for all species in the aequipars complex. A brief description of nystaleine genitalic and prothoracic leg structures is also provided.
25008886|The life cycle of Epiphile adrasta adrasta Hewitson (Nymphalidae-Catonephelinae) and its natural history were studied in several localities of El Salvador during a period of two years. Special attention was given to the description of the life-cycle stages, time spent in the different stages of the metamorphosis, foodplants during the larval period, and behavior of the early stages and adults. The apparent correlation between the Catonephelinae and Callicorinae is discussed, emphasizing the paradoxical behavior of the species at times suggesting palatability and at times unpalatability to predators.
25009593|Derephysia foliacea (Falln) (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Tingidae) is recorded from North America for the first time, based upon specimens collected in western Oregon, chiefly on or near Mary's Peak, Benton County, Polk County, and the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, eastern Lane County on the west slope of the Cascade Mountains. Several other Holarctic genera and species of Hemiptera: Heteroptera occur with D. foliacea, suggesting a true Holarctic distribution rather than an introduction. In the Palaearctic Region, the tingid is known from Western Europe, North Africa and eastward to Siberia, Mongolia and Japan.
25009143|Larvae of Euaresta bella (Loew) and E. festiva (Loew) destroy seeds of Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and A. trifida L., respectively; E. bella has been colonized in the USSR for ragweed control. The univoltine adults feed on honeydew and ragweed sap. In Maryland, E. bella adults reach peak abundance in mid-August, E. festiva a month later. Courtship behavior by both sexes is complex, involving several stereotyped wing movements, proboscis and foot contact, head butting, and male territoriality or lekking. Oviposition occurs in the young female flowers.
25009381|A study of the population dynamics of fleas associated with the gray-tailed vole, Microtus canicaudus Miller, was conducted on three sites surrounding the city of Corvallis, in Oregon's Willamette Valley. Over a period of 12 months, 22,641 adult and larval fleas representing eight species were recovered from 377 comparable voles and 256 nests. On all sites, adult and larval flea populations experienced spring and early winter peaks followed by drastic summer and midwinter declines. These fluctuations are consistent with the thesis that humidity and temperature are the chief factors influencing flea populations.
25010151|Guentheria formosa Lallemand is transferred from the Phenacinae of the Fulgoridae to the Eurybrachidae. Hellerides Lallemand of the Limoisini of the Aphaeninae of the Fulgoridae is synonymised with Zophiuma Fennah of the Lophopidae. Two new specific combinations Z. guineae (Lallemand) and Z. butawengi (Heller) are established.
25006211|The bee Kelita chilensis (Friese) is reported to be a nest parasite of Psaenythia parvula Friese (Panurginae). The following details of the biology of K. chilensis are described: the flight behavior of males and females, the egg, and the egg insertion in the cell wall of the host.
25005901|The principal characteristics of Parnassius apollo are given, a survey of the treatment this insect has received in German literature by Friedrich Schnack is made, and experiences in searching for and capturing this arctic relict in the Bavarian Alps are related.
25009491|A newly observed character, apparently unique to liphistiid spiders, supports a hypothesis of their monophyly. Flattened spurs situated distally on the prolateral and retrolateral sides of tibiae I-III can contact slightly raised, oval, unsclerotized areas situated proximally on the sides of metatarsi I-III. The character is found in juvenile and adult females and in juvenile males, and may function as a proprioceptor of lateral leg deflection.
25009604|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by J. C. M. Carvalho alone or in coauthorship from 1943 to January 1985 is presented. Included are 1 subfamily, 5 tribes, 254 genera, and 1,260 species and subspecies. For each name the original reference is cited, and for holotypes the permanent depository is given.
25009174|Gregarious behavior was observed in the pupae and adults of Calopteron terminale (Say) (Coleoptera: Lycidae). Predatory habits in the adults were not confirmed by experiments. The larva and pupa are described and illustrated.
25009567|The nesting biology and other aspects of the natural history of Exomalopsis nitens (Exomalopsini) are described and compared with the ethology of other members of the genus. This bee nests in walls of cracks in claylike soil in southern California; cells range in depth from 20 to 54 cm. Numerous females use a single surface entrance to the fissures, but each apparently constructs an individual nest in the crack face. Cells are arranged either singly or in series of two and agree in shape and other details with cells of other species in the genus. Provisions are formed into smooth elongate loaves, each supported by a 'foot' at the front. Elongate, curved eggs are deposited on top of the food masses toward the front and feeding larvae crawl around the masses. Fully fed larvae either defecate and pupate immediately, or spin cocoons incorporating fecal material and then enter diapause, depending upon factors not fully understood. The structure of the cocoon differs in certain respects from that of other Exomalopsis. An undescribed species of cuckoo bee belonging to the genus Melanomada (Nomadini) attacks the host nest by entering just after the Exomalopsis females depart to forage, and then depositing eggs in the cell wall. Melanomada larvae crawl as they feed and enter diapause without cocoon spinning.
25006146|The genus Gosodesmus Chamberlin is reviewed. With a relatively large series of G. claremontus Chamberlin from a number of localities in California, a more thorough evaluation of this species is presented. Until now a series of disjunct populations have been given specific rank, but our studies indicate G. claremontus to represent a polymorphic species. Herein, we place the genus Eucybe Chamberlin, including the species E. clarus Chamberlin (1941), E. longior Chamberlin (1950), and E. auctus Chamberlin (1954) under the synonymy of Gosodesmus claremontus.
25004534|Firebrats were reared at 37 C. The cycle from egg to egg was completed in about eleven weeks. Growth and molting continue after sexual maturity. Rolled oats and beef are suitable food. Development was more rapid when water was provided. The eggs and tiny nymphs are highly resistant to dessication.
25009249|This paper calls attention to an anonymous publication on butterflies and satisfactorily establishes the authors thereof.
25008988|The structure and possible function of the supracoxal glands of the house-dust mite, Dermatophagoides farinae, have been described. Light and electron microscopical techniques were used to study this extremely complex gland. There is one pair of supracoxal glands in the house-dust mite. Each gland is composed of eight cells that make up four two-celled functional units. Three of the two-celled units are similar to each other, whereas the fourth unit is smaller with a distinctly different morphology. The cells of the glands are characterized by several criteria, but common to all are numerous mitochondria, infolded cell membranes, microtubules, and a cuticle-lined duct. The ducts of all the functional units have a point of common attachment from which an anteriorly directed duct goes to the outside. Repugnatorial and osmoregulatory functions are discussed.
25010404|Seven new Neotropical deltocephaline leafhopper genera are described and illustrated: Hecadula (Cicadulini); Stenogrampta, Penthigrampta, and Perugramptella (Penthimiini); and Chimaerotettix and Idioceromimus (incertae cedis). Together these genera are based on 11 new species from Ecuador, Peru, and Brazil, including ten from rainforest canopy-fogging samples. Male, female, and (for four genera) fifth-instar characters are described and illustrated. Perugrampta Kramer is redescribed and transferred from Nirvaninae to Penthimiini, together with four new species, and a key to the six known species is provided. This and the three new penthimiine genera apparently represent an endemic Neotropical clade distinct from the Old World Penthimiini. Hecadula is the only known endemic South American representative of the largely Holarctic tribe Cicadulini. Chimaerotettix and Idioceromimus display unusual combinations of deltocephaline and non-deltocephaline traits and, thus, may represent endemic South American deltocephaline lineages distinct from currently recognized tribes.
25009041|Egg proteins and hemolymph proteins of larval, pupal and adult forms of the gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar, Linnaeus) were analyzed electrophoretically. Six isoenzymes: polyphenol oxidase, malic acid dehydrogenase, alcohol dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, and lactic acid dehydrogenase were followed electrophoretically in the metamorphic forms of the gypsy moth. Changes in isoenzyme concentration were observed during development of the insect, and in some cases these differences were sex associated.
25009698|The larvae of worker and sexual castes of the ant Notostigma carazzii from Australia are described and illustrated.
25005818|A parental age study of 2 strains of house flies, Musca domestica, was undertaken. In the CSMA strain 18 consecutive generations, from the first eggs laid in each generation, and 2 consecutive generations from the parental, the
25009380|Diel activity cycles of carrion arthropods and microclimate in and around carcasses were recorded using a bait trap and electronic telethermometer apparatus, respectively. Arthropod collections and temperature data were gathered for 24 hours each on 2 collection dates in 12 consecutive 2-hr intervals. Ants, histerid and dermestid beetles were active throughout the 24 hr period. Temporal segregation was observed between diurnal muscoid flies and nocturnal trogid beetles. Small numbers of maggots emerged from carcasses between 1 AM and 9 AM MDT. In the microclimate experiments, highest temperatures were noted on the soil surface (50C), whereas the carcass surface (47C), carcass interior (42C), and surrounding air temperatures (36C) were notably lower. Highest mean temperatures were recorded in the carcass interior and were probably attributable to internal heat generation by bacteria and maggots.
25009710|Reuteria craigi is described as new from Missouri, where it occurs on sugar maple, Acer saccharum Marshall (Aceraceae). The male genitalia are illustrated. Henry's (1976) key is modified to incorporate the new species.
25006076|The last-stage larva of Dioxys pomonae pomonae and D. productus productus? are described taxonomically and compared with the previously published account of the larva of D. cincta (Jurine). The three other larval instars and the pupa of D. pomonae pomonae are also described and the adaptive significance of some of the anatomical features of the larvae are discussed. A preliminary key is presented to distinguish among the genera of parasitic megachilid bees on the basis of the last larval instar.
25006040|The characteristic feeding habit and position of mature larvae of Panthea furcilla (Packard) (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae) on Pinus strobus is described and illustrated.
25005959|Describes six new genera and nine new species of discocephaline pentatomids as follows: Placidocoris bivitattus (Argentina), Tetragonotum megacephalum (Brazil), Pandonotum punctiventris (Brazil), Uncinala tau (Brazil), Grassator sinuatus (Costa Rica), Grassator reticulatus (Costa Rica), Patronatus binotatus (Panama), Patronatus punctissimus (British Guiana), Patronatus flavicrus (Venezuela). Gives phyletic relationships of genera.
25006081|This paper contains the description of a new genus and species of neotropical Berytidae. Acanthoberytus wygodzinskyi n. gen. and n. sp., described from Peru, is related to Acanthophysa Uhler, 1893 and Hoplinus Stl, 1874, by having the head and pronotum armed with long spines. The new genus differs mainly by its wide unarmed hemelytra and by having large bullae on the membrane.
25010389|The tenebrionid genus Epipedonota (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini) consists of 23 species from southern South America. A cladistic analysis of the species of Epipedonota is conducted suggesting that this genus forms a monophyletic group defined by synapomorphies from external morphology and male genitalia. A cladistic biogeographic analysis of 14 areas of endemism in southern South America is performed using seven taxa inhabiting this area. Subtree analysis to these taxon-area cladograms leads to 84 general area cladograms. A consensus tree is presented to show the common vicariant events from all cladograms. The proposed vicariant events which split the ancestral biota are the uplift of the Andean mountain range and resulting ecological and climatic change as well as marine transgressions. The status of area conservation for Epipedonota is examined using the phylogenetic information. Illustrations of external morphology, internal skeletal anatomy and genitalic features, cladograms, and a map with the areas of endemism are included.
25005878|The taking of Tabanidae as prey by the wasp Crabro monticola is confirmed. Chrysops venus is added to the previously known species used as prey.
25009727|Larvae of Sthenopis auratus (Grote) were found tunneling in the artichoke-like leaf bases and stems of several ferns: Ostrich Fern (Matteuccia struthiopteris (Linnaeus) Todaro), Marginal Shield Fern (Dryopteris marginalis (Linnaeus) Gray), Mountain Wood Fern (Dryopteris campyloptera (Kunze) Clarkson), and Lady Fern (Athyrium filix-femina (Linnaeus) Roth), all Polypodiaceae. An ichneumonid parasite, Pterocormus devinctor Say, was associated with a cocoon of S. auratus. The early evening calling behavior by males is described. The male has prominent androconia on the hind tibia presumably for dissemination of a pheromone. Males did not seek out females, but rather adopted sessile calling displays on emergent understory vegetation. Additional locality records are given for this rare northeastern moth. The larva and pupa are described and illustrated in detail.
25010275|The genus Empedocles Stl is redescribed, and one new species collected in Brazil and Argentina is described; new distributional data for E. tenuicornis (Westwood) is included; dorsal view illustrations, and drawings of antennal segments, pronotum, hind leg, and male and female genitalia are provided.
25009326|Founding queens of Camponotus pennsylvanicus were collected in the field from early March through the middle of July from 1977 to 1981. No synchronization of population nuptial flights was detected. Sex ratios of colonies are male biased, contrary to previous reports.
25010190|A new species of the South American genus Spinalanx is described from southern Brazil. The primary differentiating characters are found in the genitalic structures. The new species is named in honor of the distinguished hemipterist, L. H. Rolston.
25008814|In Trinidad the parasitic Exaerete dentata (Linn.) develops in the cells of Euplusia surinamensis (Linn.) and a second species in the cells of Eulaema terminata Smith. The female of E. dentata opens the recently sealed cell and removes the host's egg and after ovipositing reseals the cell. Females of Exaerete sp. were observed to enter a nest of E. terminata but activities within the nest could not be observed. In the discussion the behavior of Exaerete spp. is compared with other parasitic bees.
25006102|In the noctuid moth Panthea furcilla (Packard) melanism is increasing rapidly in Putnam, Connecticut, an area not subject to appreciable industrial pollution. Wholly melanic and very strongly melanistic are dominant over normal gray, and wholly melanic is dominant over very strongly melanistic. Larval melanism is independent of adult melanism. Results are given of unbiased collections of adults, the reared progeny of wild-caught females and crosses of such progeny.
25009549|Drosophila caputudis, new species, from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia is described and figured. It is the only Hirtodrosophila known to have males with heads that are laterally distended.
25008974|The genus Sibaria is redefined, a diagnosis given for the two species previously known, and S. englemani new species, which ranges from Mexico to Colombia, is described.
25010323|Notiobiella thaumasta, new species, is described from four specimens preserved in Dominican amber. Probably of mid to early Miocene age, this species appears to be closely related to the extant Notiobiella species (particularly israeli) that currently occupy Cuba, Hispaniola and the adjacent Central and South American mainland. The specimens reported here are the first hemerobiids to be described in detail from New World amber and are the first reported fossils of the genus Notiobiella.
25009233|Dosage-mortality responses of third-instar grubs of the Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman, showed that a population from Fairfield (Conn.), when compared at the
25009475|In the North American Miridae, nine new synonyms for species and one for a genus are proposed, replacement names are given for two homonyms, ten species are transferred to different genera, and six lectotypes are selected.
25009340|The food plant of Lygaeus turcicus (F.) is shown to be the false sunflower, Heliopsis helianthoides (L.) (Sweet) (Asteraceae) rather than species of milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae). The literature is reviewed and the records of L. turcicus on milkweeds are believed to pertain to Lygaeus kalmii Stl. Laboratory rearing records are summarized for L. turcicus on seeds of Heliopsis helianthoides, Asclepias syriaca L. and sunflowers. Nymphs of all five instars and the egg are described. The nymphs are compared and contrasted with those of Lygaeus kalmii.
25010214|The neotropical waterscorpion genus Curicta Stl 1861 (Heteroptera: Nepidae) is comprehensively reviewed for the first time, based on examination of type specimens from all but three previously named species as well as approximately 1,200 nontype specimens. Three invariant characters are unique to the genus among waterscorpion genera: absence of an ejaculatory reservoir in the male phallus, presence of a tubular vesicle rod in the phallus, and convergence of sutures delimiting the abdominal sterna and parasterna on the midline of abdominal segment 6 in males. Examination of male and female genitalia failed to reveal species specific characters. Therefore, species decisions were made on the basis of perceived disjunctions in nonreproductive morphological characters. Because many of the nongenitalic characters used previously in the taxonomy of the genus, e.g., pronotal, antennal, and paramere shape, were found to vary significantly within well defined morphospecies, a species concept that emphasizes polymorphism has been adopted. Characters that have proven useful for species delimitation include: shape of the profemur, number and position of profemoral teeth, presence or absence of profemoral sulcal teeth, presence or absence of granulations on the pronotum and hemelytra, presence or absence of longitudinal carinae on the last abdominal tergum and on the mesosternum, and shape of the prosternum. On the basis of these and other characters, one new species (C. decarloi, from eastern Brazil) and 13 new synonymies are designated, reducing the number of species in the genus from 29 to 16. All 16 species are described, or redescribed, and a key to these species is provided. A numerical cladistic analysis of species within the genus, using the waterscorpion genera Nepa and Telmatotrephes as outgroups, produced a single most parsimonious cladogram of length 98 and RC 0.481. Seven synapomorphies supported the monophyly of the genus but only six of thirteen hypothesized clades within the genus received unambiguous support. Thus, further study will be required to elucidate, with more assurance, the cladistic relationships of curictan species.
25010262|Peristenus digoneutis Loan, an introduced parasite of the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) (a native species), has spread from its original establishment point in northwestern New Jersey into six additional states. It has been found in 36 counties, but likely is more widespread. Its dispersion has mostly been to the northeast, and has not occurred south of latitude 40N. Peristenus conradi Marsh, an introduced parasite of the alfalfa plant bug, Adelphocoris lineolatus (Goeze) (an introduced insect), has spread from its initial establishment location in northern Delaware into two other states. It is known from a total of nine counties, but probably also is present in others. Both parasitic wasp species are now established widely enough that field studies can be conducted in several states.
25010346|The mirine plant bug genus Chilocrates Horvth, previously synonymized with Deraeocoris Kirschbaum in the subfamily Deraeocorinae, is restored and transferred to the tribe Mirini of the Mirinae. Two species, Chilocrates patulus (Walker, 1873) and Chilocrates chelonia (Distant, 1904), the only confirmed members of the genus, are diagnosed with respect to color pattern and genitalia, and reported from Bhutan and Nepal for the first time. The following synonymies and taxonomic changes are established: Chilocrates Horvth, 1889 = Shana Kirkaldy, 1902 = Liocoridea Reuter, 1903 = Gismunda Distant, 1904; Chilocrates patulus (Walker, 1873) = Chilocrates lenzii Horvth, 1889 = Shana ravana Kirkaldy, 1902 = Liocoridea mutabilis Reuter, 1903 (including var. nigra Reuter, 1903 and var. testacea Reuter, 1903) = Deraeocoris variabilis Distant, 1904 = Gismunda modesta Distant, 1909 = Lygus szechuanensis Hsiao, 1941 (including var. ruficephalus Hsiao, 1941); and Chilocrates chelonia (Distant, 1904) = Deraeocoris variabilis 'var. a-d'. Lectotypes of Gismunda chelonia and Deraeocoris variabilis are designated.
25010448|Crepidodera bella Parry (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Alticini), previously known only from Florida, South Carolina, Alabama, and Louisiana, is discovered in central Maryland. This species is sympatric with C. browni Parry on Salix nigra growing along swamps in the McKee-Besher Wildlife Management Area (390430N, 772300W). Morphological features of the integument and genitalia are described and compared to C. browni.
25005804|The larvae, pupa and case of this species are described for the first time. The immature stages substantiate the separate generic status recently given the species.
25006085|New information is presented on the distribution of six species of the neotropical weevil genus, Metamasius, subfamily Rhynchophorinae.
25009730|The larvae of four species of ants in the genera Platythyrea, Plectroctena and Streblognathus are described. The larvae of Streblognathus and Simopelta are characterized for the first time. Included also are a few additional references to ponerine larvae found in the literature.
25010524|Included among numerous native insects that have colonized the introduced African bunchgrass Eragrostis curvula in the southern United States are four little-known fulgoroids not previously documented as grass feeders: the fulgorids Amycle vernalis Manee, Cyrpoptus belfragei Stl, and C. reineckei Van Duzee, and the dictyopharid Rhynchomitra microrhina (Walker). Male and female genitalia and nymphs of these planthoppers are described and illustrated; the distributions and host plants, both native and introduced, are listed; and notes on habitat associations and seasonal histories are provided. All four species appear to be at least bivoltine and grass generalists that use hosts in several subfamilies. Host-range expansions and colonization of novel plants by herbivores are discussed; we suggest that the architectural complexity of weeping lovegrass has played an important role in its colonization by native planthoppers.
25009211|Nesting females of Tachytes tricinctus (F.) were observed on San Salvador Island, Bahamas, during June, 1978. This paper reports the first published data on nest construction and predatory behavior in this species. Females captured acridid grasshoppers, Ophullela pelidna pelidna Burmeister and Delia sp., which were carried to the nest in flight. The nests were multicelled with one to five cells per nest; cells were located below the level of the main burrow, and contained two to nine prey. Evidence is presented that females of this species capture all the prey for a particular cell before ovipositing on one of the prey.
25010449|An isolated population of Moneilema appressum LeConte was discovered above Long Park in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona (315244N, 1091712W) during July 2001. Specimens of this flightless lamiine cerambycid were observed hiding and walking in the junctures of Echinocereus coccineus Engelmann (Cactaceae) at 2,760 m (9,055 feet). These data represent new host plant and elevation records for this species.
25010466|Descriptions and illustrations are given for four new species of Myrsidea Waterston from manakins. They and their type hosts are: M. edgarsmithi ex Pipra erythrocephala from Trinidad, M. andyolsoni ex Heterocercus linteatus from Brazil, M. rekasii ex Pipra mentalis from Costa Rica, and M. baileyae ex Pipra erythrocephala from Trinidad. These represent the first species of this chewing louse genus to be described from the members of the passerine family Pipridae.
25010245|Two species of Buprestidae are added to the Antillean insect fauna. Agrilus jamaicensis is described as the second member of that genus known from the island of Jamaica. Taphrocerus chalumeaui is reported from Guadeloupe, taken on the leaves of the palm Euterpe globosa. Both species are more closely related to Central American forms than to known Antillean species. Agrilus hispaniolae is proposed as a new name to replace A. klapperichi Hespenheide, a primary homonym of A. klapperichi Obenberger.
25008816|Prodidomus tirumalai sp. n., P. palkai sp. n., P. venkateswarai sp. n., and P. papavanasanemensis sp. n. are described from the State of Andrah Pradesh.
25006213|During July 1969, virgin female gypsy moths were used as decoys to sample male gypsy moth populations on Long Island. Although most common near an area in which larvae had completely defoliated tall oaks, male moths dispersed into areas where infestations were sparse or nil. Increases in the average size of male moths were noted at several trapping sites during the sampling period, this change being attributable to the early emergence of small moths in severely defoliated areas.
25010056|A new species of the lecontei group of Plusiotis is described, based on recently collected material in the state of Veracruz, Mexico. The distinctive characteristics are illustrated, a key to separate the species of the lecontei group is presented, and its eco-geographical distribution is outlined and compared with that of the fir forest. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Plusiotis del grupo lecontei con base en material recientemente colectado en el estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Se ilustran sus caracteristicas distintivas comentando sus relaciones con las demas especies del grupo. Se presenta una clave para la separacion de las especies comprendidas dentro del grupo lecontei y por ultimo se comenta su distribucion ecogeogrfica discutiendo sus relaciones con el bosque de abeto.
25010294|A redescription of Amecocerus senilis (LeConte) (Coleoptera: Melyridae: Dasytinae) is provided based on the author's examination of 875 specimens of this species. The male genitalia of A. senilis are illustrated and compared with those of A. suckeri Hatch, a related species from Washington and Oregon. Adults of A. senilis occur abundantly on flowers in open forests of Pinus ponderosa Douglas in the vicinity of Estes Park, Colorado. Flowers on which adults of A. senilis were collected during this study include Achillea lanulosa Nuttall, Cerastium arvense L., Erigeron annuus (L.) Persoon, Eriogonum heracleoides Nuttall, Gaillardia aristata Pursh, Geranium viscosissimum Fischer and Meyer, Grindelia squarrosa (Pursh) Dunal, Potentilla gracilis Douglas, and Solidago occidentalis (Nuttall) Torrey and Gray.
25009420|Eight species of the genus Ommatius Wiedemann are reported from Hispaniola in the Caribbean Islands. Seven of the species are described as new (O. haitiensis, O. nigellus, O. russelli, O. gwenae, O. stramineus, O. cinnamomeus, O. hispaniolae), O. vitreus Bigot is redescribed, and illustrations and a key are included.
25010059|A new species of neotropical Aradus is described from Surinam. Habitus, male genitalic and other structures are illustrated. A key is given for the six South American species of Aradus with bicolored antennae and their antennae are figured.
25006048|Collection records of the Palaearctic bee Anthidium manicatum (L.), reported by Jaycox in 1967 as being adventive in the United States, are brought up to date. New flower host records are included. European literature on the aggressive behavior of the male is briefly summarized. Observations on the behavior of A. manicatum in 1965 and 1966 show the male to be territorial and aggressive. The female works without hindrance while other species of bees are struck and driven from the territory being patrolled by the male. No bees showed any inclination to defend themselves against the attacking male of A. manicatum. It is believed that A. manicatum is a rather unique subject for further study, including distribution, behavior, nest building, flower preferences and genetics.
25000064|Determinations were made on the vitamin content of the fat bodies of normal and aposymbiotic cockroaches. Of the 10 vitamins studied (ascorbic, folic, nicotinic and pantathenic acids, biotin, cyanocabalamin, inositol, pyridoxine, riboflavin and thiamine), only 3 (ascorbic, folic and pantathenic acids) were present in considerably larger amounts in the normal fat body. Cultured symbionts were able to synthesize them. The lighter cuticular color, sluggishness and reduced reproductive ability of the aposymbiotic insect may be explained by the absence of these vitamins.
25009010|The East African army ant Aenictus eugenii Emery includes 1 subspecies and 3 varieties. One of these, A. kenyensis Santschi, is placed in synonymy, and a taxonomic history of the species is presented. The queen for the species is described for the first time and is compared with the 3 other known African Aenictus queens. Observations of A. eugenii foraging behavior show that it is a column raider and a specialized predator of ants, particularly the immature stages, that the workers move along the foraging trails in single file in small tandem groups and that they normally subdivide their prey only when it is larger than they.
25010353|The South American genus Callyntra (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini) comprises 16 previously known species distributed in central Chile, plus a new species described from the central coastal mountain range: C. cantillana n.sp. A cladistic analysis of the 17 species of Callyntra is conducted. Callyntra comprises a natural group of species, characterized by nine synapomorphies from external morphology and internal skeletal anatomy. The species relationships are resolved. The paper includes scanning electron micrographs of the pronotum and clypeus of the new species. A discussion concerning the status of conservation of the five areas of endemism for Callyntra using the phylogenetic information is presented.
25006238|The European skipper has greatly expanded its range on the Allegheny Plateau in central New York, east to Chenango County. The first record from the Pocono Plateau in Pennsylvania is reported. Populations on the Piedmont in Bucks County, Pa. and Mercer County, New Jersey reached outbreak proportions in 1970. The skipper's range is expected to become continuous across the northeastern United States.
25010482|An intensive survey for Cerambycidae of El Yunque National Forest and many of the state forests in Puerto Rico showed 49 species representing over half of the hitherto reported species from the Island. Two tribes and four genera are recorded from Puerto Rico for the first time. The description of a new genus, Pseudothonalmus Guerrero, is included. Four new species are described: Elateropsis julio Lingafelter and Micheli, Pseudothonalmus woodleyi Lingafelter, Micheli, and Guerrero, Styloleptus taino Lingafelter and Micheli, and Distenia puertoricensis Lingafelter and Micheli. The larva of Parandra tavakiliani is described. Locality data and method of collection are provided for all encountered Cerambycidae. /// Una expedicin para colectar Cerambycidae en el Bosque Nacional El Yunque y varios otros bosques estatales de Puerto Rico encontr 49 especies lo cual representan ms de la mitad de las especies reportadas para la Isla. Dos tribus y cuatro gneros son reportados por primera vez para Puerto Rico. Se describen un nuevo gnero, Pseudothonalmus Guerrero, y cuatro especies: Elateropsis julio Lingafelter and Micheli, Pseudothonalmus woodleyi Lingafelter, Micheli, and Guerrero, Styloleptus taino Lingafelter and Micheli y Distenia puertoricensis Lingafelter and Micheli. La larva de Parandra tavakiliani se describe. Datos de localidad y mtodo de coleccin se proveen para todos los Cerambycidae encontrados.
25009669|Two new ground beetles species in the tribe Cychrini are described from western Arkansas: Scaphinotus (s. str.) parisiana and Scaphinotus (Nomaretus) infletus. Distribution records within Arkansas are given for four additional cychrine species. A cladogram of relationships for the five known species in the subgenus Nomaretus is proposed.
25010203|The larva and pupa of Nola pustulata (Walker) are described and illustrated. Lyonia ligustrina (L.) DC. [Ericaceae] is established as a host. The moth is much more restricted in distribution than its food plant. The species is univoltine, overwintering as an egg that is deposited on the twigs of the food plant. Hatching coincides with bud burst. A keel-shaped cocoon is produced and adults emerge in early June. A parasitoid, Distatrix sp. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), and a predator, Nabis inscriptus Kirby (Heteroptera: Nabidae) are reported.
25005817|A list of all the known host ants and beetle species (Cremastocheilini) is given along with a detailed description of the behavior and habits of C. stathamae with the honey ant Myrmecocystus mimicus. Information on the feeding habits and behavior of the ant are included. It is determined that the true relationship between the species of the genus Cremastocheilus and their host ant species is not yet known and that these beetles are found associated with at least 11 different genera of ants.
25008852|This paper describes the nest and other aspects of the biology of Andrena (Pterandrena) accepta Viereck and provides a taxonomic description of its postdefecating larva. This species is the first North American representative of the genus known to nest communally. Details of the nest structure are discussed, the provisions are described, and a fly larva (Conopidae) is recorded from the metasoma of an adult female. Characters of the mature larvae of Andrena are presented that tentatively permit the larvae to be distinguished from those of the andrenid subfamily Panurginae.
25009643|Metriocnemus yaquina from Oregon coastal rock pools is described in all life history stages as new to science. The generic diagnosis of Metriocnemus is emended and the disparate larval ecologies exhibited within the genus are reviewed and supplemented.
25010467|The study of population variability and the reexamination of type material of certain Ephemerellidae species has revealed changes in status and new synonyms. Ephemerella dorothea Needham, 1908 [=E. infrequens McDunnough, 1924, new synonym, =E. mollitia Seemann, 1927, new synonym] is divided into two subspecies: E. d. dorothea, new status, and E. d. infrequens, new status [=E. mollitia, new synonym]. New synonyms were discovered for the following: Ephemerella excrucians Walsh, 1862 [=E. inermis Eaton, 1884, new synonym, =E. argo Burks, 1947, new synonym, =E. crenula Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. lacustris Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. rossi Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. rama Allen, 1968, new synonym], E. invaria Walker, 1853 [=E. rotunda Morgan, 1911, new synonym, =E. vernalis Banks, 1914, new synonym, =E. feminina Needham, 1924, new synonym, =E. fratercula McDunnough, 1925, new synonym, =E. inconstans Traver, 1932, new synonym, =E. choctawhatchee Berner, 1946, new synonym, =E. simila Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. floripara McCafferty, 1985, new synonym], E. mucronata (Bengtsson), 1909 [=E. moffatae Allen, 1977, new synonym], Serratella micheneri (Traver), 1934 [=E. altana Allen, 1968, new synonym], S. serrata (Morgan), 1911 [=S. sordida (McDunnough), 1925, new synonym, =S. carolina (Berner and Allen), 1961, new synonym, =S. spiculosa (Berner and Allen), 1961, new synonym], and S. tibialis (McDunnough), 1924 [=S. sequoia (Allen and Collins), 1968, new synonym]. The larval description of E. altana is based on E. excrucians larvae that were associated erroneously with an adult of E. altana (=S. micheneri, new synonym). Variability and new distribution data are documented for each species, and records based on misidentifications are corrected. New diagnostic characters are provided for certain species.
25009508|Brachydeutera longipes Hendel, a species previously known from the Orient, is reported to occur in eastern North America (Maryland south to Georgia). This is the 4th species of Brachydeutera for North America and the only adventive one in recent times. The natural history of the species, mostly based on published records from India, keys, a description, and illustrations are provided to facilitate identification and future research on the species.
25009791|The history and present distribution of Orius minutus (Linnaeus) in North America is summarized. The systematic position of O. minutus is reviewed, showing that this introduced species is the only member of the subgenus Heterorius Wagner in North America. The adult and nymph of O. minutus are illustrated and distinguished from the native sympatric species Orius tristicolor (B.-White). The ecology and potential benefits of O. minutus as a predator in agroecosystems are discussed.
25005841|Forty-four queens (including five callows), several hundred workers of the polymorphic series, and males of the two species are studied, covering all systems but with particular attention to glandular cytology as between queens and workers. The post-pharyngeal gland of the queen fills most of the head cavity anterior to the brain; that of the worker is smaller but similar. Small glands at the bases of the legs contain increasing numbers of cells through the polymorphic series; most of all in the queen. The metasternal gland is conspicuous in the queen's thorax but not so in the worker's; the poison glands of the queen are larger than in the worker and present still other differences. The reproductive system of the queen is described in terms of differences in specimens collected at various points in the functional cycle of the colony, also in terms of differences between callow and functional queens and in contrast to the simple system of workers. Differences in the muscular, nervous and respiratory systems of queen and worker are described. In dorylines these last systems are similar to those in other ants except for secondary details related to physogastry in the queen. Included are 17 detailed plates.
25009466|Dictyla echii (Schrank), a Palearctic lace bug associated with boraginaceous plants, has been recorded previously in North America from Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia; additional records are cited for these states, and new records are given for New York and Ohio and for Ontario, Canada. The seasonal history and habits of D. echii on viper's bugloss or blueweed, Echium vulgare L., in southcentral Pennsylvania are presented. A diagnosis of the adult and a summary of its habits in the Old World are provided.
25009379|A total of 2,397 individuals representing 8 species of carrion beetles (Silphidae) and 2,336 individuals representing 4 species of "carrion beetles" from 4 other families were collected on carrion in the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge during June, July and August in 1980 and during April and May in 1981. Beetles were trapped in 3 habitats-forest, field, and marsh. Of the 8 silphid species, 5 manifested a strong preference for a given habitat. These species were Oiceoptoma noveboracense (forest), Necrophila americana (field), Nicrophorus orbicollis (forest), Nicrophorus pustulatus (forest); and Necrodes surinamensis (forest). Two silphid species manifested a slight preference for a given habitat: Oiceoptoma inaequale (field), and Nicrophorus tomentosus (field). One species, Nicrophorus marginatus, manifested a probable preference for the field. Insofar as other "carrion beetles" are concerned, 1 species, Onthophagus hecate (Scarabaeidae) showed a strong preference for the field. Three species manifested slight preferences for given habitats: Omosita colon (Nitidulidae) and Dermestes caninus (Dermestidae) for the forest, and Euspilotus assimilis (Histeridae) for the field.
25005976|Describes a new varicolored species of Mecistorhinus Dallas from Ecuador and calls it M. variegatus. Heteroptera, Pentatomidae, Discocephalinae.
25010383|Corrections to the 1995 catalog of Miridae entitled "Plant Bugs of the World" are presented. These include taxa and references omitted from the catalog, corrections of synonymies, and corrections of other errors such as spellings of scientific names and incorrect distributional information. A new replacement name Rondonegeria nom. n. is proposed for the preoccupied name Egeria Carvalho and Costa, 1993.
25009577|A new spider, Panjange sedgwicki, remarkable for its prolonged eye stalks, is described from Sarawak.
25009487|Twenty-four new cerambycid host associations are reported from southeastern Texas. Specimens were reared from Cercis canadensis, Sesbania drummondii, Sophora secundiflora, Zanthoxylum clava-herculis, and Zanthoxylum fagara. Plectromerus dentipes is recorded for the first time from Texas.
25006082|The eight fully known species of Microcrambus Bleszynski occurring in North America are characterized and differentiated. The male genitalia of all are figured. Three of the species, M. copelandi, kimballi and matheri, are described as new.
25005925|The segmental nerve plan in the pregenital segments of the abdomen in the tettigoniid Neoconocephalus exiliscanorus (Davis) anod the gryllacridid Ceutophilus gracilipes gracilipes (Haldeman) was found to conform to a pattern previously described in other orthopterous families and in the Lepidoptera, and shares some of its features with the Plecoptera and the Megaloptera.
25005830|The problem of what has occurred to the sting accessories of the stingless bees is considered. Primitive Meliponini retain the sac homologous to the sac of the acid gland of stinging bees; evolved stingless bees do not have this sac in the workers but do have it in the queens. Since Apis mellifera lose their stings as a result of use of the sting in defense, the authors suggest that new methods of defense evolved which do not exact a heavy toll of the colony. The fact that there are at least thirteen ways in which stingless bees protect themselves, makes stings obsolete. In 24 species of Apinae it has been possible to correlate different levels of evolution with: nests, communication systems, mandibular glands and cytology. A diagrammatic representation of evolutionary levels reached by each species is presented.
25005865|Nomadopsis (Micronomadopsis) euphorbiae (Cockerell, 1925) is a junior synonym of N. (Micronomadopsis) helianthi (Swenk and Cockerell, 1907).
25009670|The phylogenetic relationships of the genera of Stenogastrinae are investigated using cladistic methods. The cladogram here proposed is: Liostenogaster + ((Eustenogaster + Stenogaster) + (Anischnogaster + (Metischnogaster + (Holischnogaster + Parischnogaster)))). Holischnogaster is newly synonymized with Parischnogaster.
25010154|The Neotropical genus Neocordulia is a rare, small, and very poorly known group of dragonflies, including eight species known to date. Only the larva of N. biancoi has been described. The larva of N. b. longipollex is characterized by: body densely covered with scale-like setae; frons strongly produced anteriorly in a shelf; antennae short with the third joint the longest; prementum abruptly narrowed basally; premental setae 5+4, palpal setae 5. Meso- and metasternum strongly hollowed out for reception of labium. Abdomen without lateral spines or dorsal protuberances; segment 10 reduced. Differences in frontal projection, proportion of antennomeres, number of premental and palpal setae, and presence/absence of abdominal spines, permit the separation of the larva of N. b. longipollex from that of N. biancoi.
25009443|The aedeagal bladder in the male reproductive system of the fire ant Solenopsis invicta Buren lies within the external genitalia. The lumen is lined by a single layer of squamous epithelium surrounded by heavy musculature. In mature, sterile and mated males it contains a milky substance but no fluid is found in newly eclosed males. The fluid in the bladder consists of fatty acid esters (glycerol monodecanoate and glycerol monododecanoate) in a proteinaceous matrix. The function of the secretion remains unknown.
25009060|Grossfield, Joseph, Department of Biology, City College, N.Y., N.Y., 10031.-The behavior of three quinaria group species of Drosophila, D. falleni, D. occidentalis and D. guttifera was observed. Males of each species were given a choice of normal and decapitated conspecific females. Males of D. occidentalis and D. guttifera fail to inseminate any decapitated females while D. falleni inseminates significantly fewer decapitated females. Normal females are courted preferentially as evidenced by either the number or the sequence of courtships. Of the three species, D. guttifera is the most effective in converting courtship to inseminations with an effective courtship ratio (C/I) of 1.2. Decapitated females do not give acceptance signals. This excludes the possibility that this motor pattern is part of a reflex arc analagous with vertebrates. For some species visual stimuli are involved within the courtship sequence as well as in the initiation of courtship. The recognition by males of these visual signals serves as a gating point for the next step in his courtship sequence. The acceptance response can serve as trigger mechanism for the male motor response. The behavioral architecture of these species differs from the D. melanogaster pattern. The discriminatory mechanisms responsible for specific stimulus recognition represent the intrinsic component of behavior least sensitive to environmental modification.
25009383|This paper presents the anatomy and histology of the reproductive system, the external genitalia, and the terminal gastric sterna in the male adult and advanced-stage pupa of the Old World doryline ant, Aenictus gracilis. The male reproductive system consists of the testes, the vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the short bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, the aedeagal bladder, and the external genitalia. The testes are enclosed in a thin common capsule, and each testis is composed of about 32 follicles. The epithelium of the testicular follicle in the adult consiss of a basal and an inner layer of cells around a central lumen, which contains scattered or clustered spermatozoa. In the pupa, the epithelium is composed of irregularly-shaped cells, each with a large central vacuole filled with spermatozoa. The seminal vesicles are U-shaped in the adult and pupa. The epithelial cells in the pupa are taller than those in the adult. In the adult, spermatozoa were present throughout, but in the pupa, sperm were absent throughout. The accessory glands are tubular and bent around the proximal region of the intestine. The epithelium is more folded in the pupa than in the adult. In the adult, some regions contain an acidophilic secretion, some basophilic, and some both. In the ejaculatory duct, a cuticular wedge is present on the lateral and ventral walls; this wedge is more complex in its structure in the adult. The duct enters the dorsal, posterior surface of the aedeagal bladder. The epithelium of the bladder consists of small cells covered by a thick, wrinkled intima. The muscle fibers that surround the bladder are larger in diameter than the visceral muscles of the ejaculatory duct. The lumen of the bladder is devoid of secretion. The basal ring of the genitalia, the three pairs of valves, and the eighth and ninth sterna are described. They are quite different in shape from those of the New World dorylines, Eciton hamatum and Neivamyrmex harrisi, but in some respects resemble those of the Old World dorylines, Dorylus wilverthi and nigricans. Comparisons made with previously described Old and New World species have revealed structures and features that lend support to the concept of the triphyletic origin of the dorylines.
25009408|The life history of Euschistus ictericus was studied in southern Illinois, and the immature stages were described. The bug was also reared from egg to adult in the laboratory. Adults emerged from overwintering sites in early May, began feeding on Carex comosa Boott, and reproduced shortly thereafter. Eggs were generally laid on C. comosa and nymphs were found only on this plant. No individuals were found after mid-August. E. ictericus was reared on green beans under a 16L:8D photoperiod and constant temperature of 23.9  1.1C. The incubation period averaged 7.33 days. Durations of the 5 subsequent stadia averaged 3.99, 7.72, 7.27, 9.03, and 12.62 days, respectively. The external anatomy of the egg and each of the 5 nymphal instars is described.
25006088|Alloperla concolor is removed from synonymy. New notes and figures for the recognition of Alloperla idei are presented. A. onkos is shown to have only a very restricted range and not to replace A. mediana in the northeast as hitherto believed. A figure of the previously unillustrated female of A. voinae is given. Extensions of the range of several species are given and a key to northeastern and central Alloperla is presented.
25009189|This paper presents the first description of the anatomy and histology of the alimentary tract, the postpharyngeal glands, the salivary glands, the Malpighian tubules, and the mandibular glands in the male adult and pupa of the Old World doryline ant, Aenictus gracilis. The alimentary tract consists of the cibarium, the buccal tube, the infrabuccal chamber, the pharynx, the oesophagus, the cardiac valve, the ventriculus, the pylorus, the intestine, the rectal valve and the rectum. In the adult the infrabuccal chamber lies posterior to its usual position in ants under the posterior floor of the buccal tube and the anterior pharynx, while the pupa has a recess where the infrabuccal chamber is usually present. The pharynx is divisible into a broad anterior, an indented middle, and a tubular posterior region into which the postpharyngeal glands open. The epithelium of the pharynx has flattened cells in the adult and low columnar cells in the pupa. The intima of the postpharyngeal glands and ducts bears long hair-like projections. Maxillary glands are absent. The epithelium of the oesophagus has small folds in the pupa and the lumen is wider than in the adult. The continuation of the oesophagus into the ventriculus is the cardiac valve. A crop and a proventiculus are absent. The ventriculus has a dorsal concavity toward its posterior half. The ventricular epithelium of the adult consists of digestive and regenerative cells. In the pupa the ventricular epithelium has disintegrating and regenerating regions. The regenerating digestive cells are of three distinct types that represent stages in the maturity of the epithelium. The pylorus is internally divided into an anterior region where the 18-20 Malpighian tubules enter, and a posterior region. The posterior extension of the intestine into the rectum is the rectal valve. The inner wall of the rectum has 3 rectal pads. The very small salivary glands are of the simple branched acinar type, and their ducts have a tortuous cuticular lined lumen. The mandibular gland consists of about 12 pyriform cells and a reservoir. Comparisons made with the other Old World and New World species previously described have revealed features of phylogenetic importance that lend support to the concept of the triphyletic origin of the dorylines.
25009652|A key to the Rhysodini of Sulawesi and the nearby Banggai Archipelago is provided. Six new species are described and illustrated: Omoglymmius (s. str.) ferrugatus, from Banggai, and the remainder from Celebes: Plesioglymmius (s. str.) moorei, Omoglymmius (s. str.) wallacei, O. (s. str.) brendelli, O. (s. str.) seriatus and O. (Indoglymmius) astraea. Comparisons are made with the two species previously recorded from Sulawesi, and a key to all eight species is included.
25010539|Papuamorbus rostellus, new genus and new species, is described from Papua New Guinea, and included in the tribe Amorbini. A dorsal view illustration and drawing of male genital capsule are provided. A key to the known genera of Amorbini is given.
25006087|A new species of membracid Leptocentrus rufotibialis is described and figured.
25010337|Adult and mature larval characters of Blepharida atripennis, B. rhois, B. sacra, Diamphidia sp., Euplectroscelis xanti, Ophrida marmorea Podontia affinis, P. lutea and P. dalmani, were studied as representatives of their respective genera or subgenera from the Blepharida-Group of approximately 16 genera worldwide, presumed to be related. The similarities and relationships of these and other genera based on adult and larval morphology and biology are discussed. The mature larvae of these nine species are illustrated in detail, three for the first time (Ophrida marmorea, Euplectroscelis xanti, and Diamphidia sp.). Adult external morphology and the metafemoral spring were compared and indicated several overlapping similarities. Some discussion of the classification of the Galerucinae and Alticinae is provided.
25009550|A new species, Myolepta graciliventris Wiegmann (Diptera: Syrphidae), is described from Nepal. A revised key to the Oriental Myolepta is included. Phylogenetic relationships among subgroups of the genus are reviewed.
25010313|Three new genera of phyline Miridae are described from North America to accommodate two taxa removed from Plagiognathus and five newly recognized species from the western part of the continent. Coniferocoris, new genus comprises the type species C. pinicolus and two additional new species, C. abiesicolus, and C. polhemi; Piceophylus, new genus comprises the type species P. keltoni, new species; and Pinophylus, new genus comprises the type species Plagiognathus rolfsi Knight, Plagiognathus carneolus Knight, and the new species Pinophylus stonedahli. Two new species are placed in Psallovius Henry: P. nigroantennatus and P. dimorphicus, and new distributional and host records for P. flaviclavus (Knight) are given. The male genitalic structures of all species are illustrated, and scanning electron micrographs are presented for the head, dorsal vestiture, and pretarsus of representative species. Habitus views as photographs or illustrations are provided for all species.
25009967|The new hydropsychid caddisfly, Hydropsyche franclemonti, is described, illustrated and its distribution plotted (Connecticut, New York, North and South Carolina, Virginia and Quebec). It is differentiated from its closest relatives in the scalaris group, H. rossi and H. mississippiensis, and their distributional patterns are discussed.
25009273|The genus Erora Scudder is characterized and discussed. Characteristics of E. laeta (Edwards), E. quaderna quaderna (Hewitson) and E. quaderna sanfordi dos Passos are given and evaluated. The early stages, ethology, ecology and geographic distributions of E. laeta and E. quaderna sanfordi are described. The peculiar dense vesture of the larvae, and a "bald" area (the calvarium) on the prothorax, are potentially significant in generic taxonomy. Full, annotated synonymies and lists of distributional records are given. Possible phylogenies are discussed.
25010437|The 21 reported Chrysomelidae types in the Hunterian Museum were examined. Cassida quadripustulata Fabricius and Chrysomela morio Fabricius were not found in the collection. The specimens of Altica nigripes Fabricius, Chrysomela flavicornis Fabricius, and Cassida discoides Fabricius are not types. Chrysomela decimaculata Fabricius is a Coccinellidae; Chrysomela histris Fabricius is an Erotylidae. The syntypes of Altica anglica Fabricius appear to be lost. The 16 valid types are documented. Chrysomela clavata Fabricius is transfered to Anomoea and synonymized with A. laticlava (Forster).
25010380|Mirabilamorbus monteithi, new genus and new species, is described from Northern Territory and Western Australia. It is placed in the coreid tribe Amorbini. Comments are made on the variability in body size and shape of hind femora. Dorsal view and details of the male genital capsule and parameres are illustrated. A key to the Australian genera of Amorbini is included.
25009160|The families of Pentatomoidea of the Western Hemisphere (Acanthosomatidae, Canopidae, Corimelaenidae, Cydnidae, Cyrtocoridae, Dinidoridae, Megarididae, Pentatomidae, Phloeidae, Scutelleridae, Tessaratomidae), the subfamilies of Pentatomidae (Asopinae, Discocephalinae, Edessinae, Pentatominae, Podopinae), and the tribes of Pentatominae (Halyini, Mecideini, Pentatomini, Sciocorini) are keyed and diagnosed. Edessinae is raised from tribal status and Pantochlora Stl included in this subfamily. All Western Hemisphere genera formerly included in Halyini except Brochymena Amyot and Serville are removed from this tribe. Caracia Stl, Marghita Ruckes and Janeirona Distant are transferred to Pentatomini. Janeirona is a senior synonym of Zimmerana Ruckes.
25008830|A diagnosis is given for the genus Menecles, M. insertus (Say) is redescribed, and a new species of the genus described from Texas.
25010445|The Veliinae of Vietnam are reviewed, and the new species Velia tonkina described from the Huong Lien Son mountains in the far north of the country. Three additional species of Veliinae, Chenevelia stridulans, Angilia bispinosa, and Angilia orientalis, are recorded from Vietnam for the first time. Distribution maps are provided for all these species, dorsal habitus illustrations are provided for Velia tonkina and Chenevelia stridulans, and illustrations of male genitalic structures are provided for Velia tonkina.
25008976|Some insect predators of the alfalfa weevil commonly found in the alfalfa fields of Western Nevada were screened for their predatory efficiency against the alfalfa weevil larvae and the pea aphids. By offering each predator species a combination of the alfalfa weevil larvae and pea aphids as diet, their preference for the host insects was determined. The three lady beetle species, the big eyed bug and the nabid bug preferred to feed upon the pea aphids; whereas, the soft winged flower beetle, Collops bipunctatus Say, significantly preferred to feed upon the alfalfa weevil larvae and hence could be of importance in the biological control of the alfalfa weevil.
25008777|The history of melanism in Panthea furcilla, and methods for rearing and mating this moth are presented. Based on rearing data of P. furcilla it is tentatively concluded that melanism in P. furcilla is controlled by a single, sex-linked, dominant gene.
25010153|The life history of Phylloscelis pallescens Germar in Missouri is summarized and the egg and nymphs are described and illustrated. P. pallescens is univoltine, has five nymphal instars and apparently overwinters as eggs. This dictyopharid planthopper feeds exclusively on slender mountain mint [Pycnanthemum tenuifolium Schrad. (Lamiaceae)]. Nymphal instars can be separated by body size, number of pit-like sensoria, size of wing pads, metatibia and tarsomere spination, and number of metatarsomeres.
25009749|A new genus and species of fossil solpugid, Happlodontus proterus, is described from Dominican amber. This is the first Tertiary record for the order, the second described fossil solpugid and the first solpugid fossil described from amber. On the basis of this fossil and the present distribution of the family Ammotrechidae, phylogenetic aspects of the group are discussed.
25009012|In this list 43 species, subspecies and named aberrations with larval hostplant, where known, are added to the Supplemental List of Macrolepidoptera of New Jersey, 1965.
25006030|An alphabetical listing of the generic and subgeneric names in the families Tortricidae and Phaloniidae is presented; it is complete up to approximately the end of 1964.
25009980|An undescribed Amycle fulgorid planthopper nymph that mimics jumping spiders when viewed from behind is recorded from Guerrero, Mexico. The nymph has 4 smooth, polished dark areas on its metathorax and hind wing pads that resemble the anterior eyes of jumping spiders. The middle and hind legs, which project posteriorly and have flattened femora and tibiae, were moved in an up and down manner similar to those of salticid legs and pedipalpi. It is hypothesized that such mimicry affords protection from predation by salticids only, not predators in general.
25009231|The relative susceptibility of the American dog tick, Dermacentor variabilis, to selected insecticides was determined in the laboratory by larval exposure to insecticide-treated surfaces and by adult exposure to topically applied insecticides. Subsequent field experiments were conducted with caged ticks to determine the potential of these insecticides for use in area control of D. variabilis adults. Results from both field and laboratory experiments indicate that emulsifiable formulations of naled and chlorpyrifos were highly effective acaricides, more toxic to larval and adult ticks than acephate, propoxur, pyrethrins and ronnel, as demonstrated by
25008806|The range of temperatures encountered at hibernation sites of Vespula maculata (Linnaeus), Vespula arenaria (Fabricieus), and Polistes fuscatus (Fabricius) during the winter and spring of 1971-72 are presented. The tolerance of each species to temperatures below freezing was determined. All individuals of both Vespula species tested were killed by -10C, while all Polistes fuscatus tested were killed at -20C. These lethal temperatures were lower than the minimum temperatures observed at the hibernation sites.
25009026|The shortened life expectancies of female head lice, Pediculus humanus capitis DeGr., due to increased copulations by males when overcrowded, was examined in natural and reared louse populations. Natural populations were too small to verify if a detrimental influence upon females by males does occur, while the number of reared females was not significantly reduced in the denser populations indicating female longevity does not decrease when overcrowded. Results from individually isolating newly emerged females with a number of like males showed the former survived a considerably shorter time than their normal life expectancies. The shortened lives of these females was attributed to their not being fully sclerotized prior to copulating, causing injury and death, and not as the result of frequent copulations by males.
25009926|Both sexes of two new species of Teratembiidae from Argentina, are described and illustrated. Oligembia mini, n. sp. is closest to Oligembia bicolor Ross, 1944. Diradius erba, n. sp. is closest to Oligembia unicolor Ross, 1944 (which seems to belong to Diradius).
25010020|The genus Dorcadothrips is reviewed for Hawaii and North America. Dorcadothrips oahuensis, new species, on sweet basil in Hawaii is described and the males of D. cyperaceae (Bianchi) and D. xanthius (Williams) are described for the first time. A key to identify the females and males of these three species and D. walteri (Crawford) is provided.
25010535|Blackburnia kavanaughi, new species, previously misidentified as Blackburnia asquithi Liebherr, is described from the western portion of the Alakai Plateau, Kauai, Hawaii. The species is placed phylogenetically based on cladistic analysis including all known Hawaiian Blackburnia, supporting membership in the subgenus Metromenus Sharp. The new species is hypothesized to be most closely related to B. debilis (Perkins) of Molokai and B. kuiki Liebherr of East Maui, sharing enhanced pubescence of the antennal pedicel, reduction in number of the dorsal elytral setae, and elongate ventrolateral setae of tarsomere 5. Individuals of all three species reside in deep arboreal moss mats associated with ohia lehua trees (Metrosideros polymorpha: Myrtaceae). Blackburnia debilis, previously known only from the single male holotype collected in 1902, was recollected in 2005 from Uapa summit, Molokai, in arboreal moss on the mesic leeward edge of ohia lehua forest. Discovery of B. kavanaughi on Kauai implies an additional colonization event from Kauai to newer islands during the diversification of Blackburnia, while corroborating the previous general biogeographic pattern of progressive colonization of the Hawaiian Islands by this clade. Phylogenetic placement of B. debilis + B. kuiki as adelphotaxon to B. kavanaughi results in a hypothesized sister-group relationship between sympatric sister species-the epigean B. calathiformis (Sharp) and the troglobitic B. howarthi (Samuelson and Liebherr)-corroborating F. G. Howarth's general hypothesis for the evolution of Hawaiian troglobites.
25009644|The biology and mature larva of Hemipimpla pulchripennis (Saussure), are described for the first time. The relationships among the tribes of Pimplinae are discussed with emphasis on the Ephialtini, of which Hemipimpla is a member.
25009147|Polyphagous southern armyworms, Spodoptera eridania, are extremely efficient at assimilating ingested biomass and nitrogen in foliage of forage legumes. Variable efficiencies of processing the digested food (E.C.D.) were observed, however, and these differences reflect metabolic costs which may be related to biochemical factors mediating varietal differences in host plant resistance to other kinds of insects. Armyworms are apparently able to compensate for low conversion efficiencies with increased consumption rates such that their relative growth rates (mg. gained/mg. tissue/day) are virtually independent of digestive efficiency. In fact, larval growth rates of southern armyworms on these 15 legume varieties were among the greatest observed in a comparison with 22 other species of Lepidoptera in 140 similar feeding experiments. It appears that the combination of high leaf water content (80-91%) and high nitrogen content (4.2-5.5% dry) of legume foliage are key factors permitting such growth. Allelochemics such as coumarin or the various saponins known to be present in these legumes were ineffective "barriers" to larval feeding and growth of armyworms in no-choice situations.
25009190|A third species of Fecelia, F. biorbis n. sp. from Haiti, is added to the genus. It is described, figured and compared to the other species of Fecelia.
25005811|Describes Parantiteuchus hemitholus from French Guiana as a new genus distinct from Antiteuchus Dallas by virtue of the longer head, sinuate anterolateral pronotal margins, gibbous scutellum, crenulated abdominal margin, and ramose veins in the hymelytral membranes. While sorting an old accumulation of miscellaneous Neotropical Heteroptera which have been residual in the collections of the American Museum for a number of years, the following interesting specimen was discovered. It is sufficiently distinctive to warrant description.
25008775|When eggs of the mealworm, Tenebrio molitor, were allowed to develop at 30 C., 85.1% of them hatched. Treatment of eggs at different stages of development with ultrasonic vibrations of 20 kilocycles per second for 15 seconds at 10, 20, and 30 watts resulted in values ranging from 1.8 to 46.8%. Earlier stages were more sensitive than the later ones. Correspondingly, the rate of oxygen consumption was reduced more during early development than at later stages. There was a significant decrease during the first four days, whereas during the last two days the decreases were not significant. These effects may be correlated with the embryological events occurring within the eggs at the time of their treatment and with the structure of the egg membrane.
25009528|Two new species of Apronius, froeschneri and granulosus, are described as new and a key is provided for the five species now included in the genus.
25010040|The genus Cubaniella Russo is synonymized with Tanaostigmodes Ashmead, and the placement of C. trotteri within Tanaostigmodes is discussed. /// El gnero Cubaniella Russo es sinonimizad con Tanaostigmodes Ashmead, y se reconoce a C. trotteri dentro de ste ltimo.
25010041|A key is provided to the three species of Orothrips, and two new synonyms are recognized. Two of these species are from western U.S.A. but the third is from southern Europe. This discontinuous distribution, also similar distribution patterns amongst other taxa in the basal clades of the Thysanoptera which involve the five areas of the world with a Mediterranean climate, is discussed. The systematic significance of the duplicated antennal sensoria found in Orothrips species is briefly discussed.
25010433|Detailed descriptions and illustrations of the larvae of Erpetogomphus boa Selys and E. cophias Selys, are provided. Comparison with other larvae of the crotalinus-subgroup (sensu Garrison, 1994) is also included. Both species are easily separable by general body coloration, length and shape of ligula, and details of male's epiproct.
25006050|Listed are 93 aphids arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 101 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. Of the aphids 20 species and of the food plants 26 have not previously been recorded from New Jersey. At present 227 aphids on 267 plants are known to occur in New Jersey.
25006240|The larval stage of Rhyacophila vuphiphes Milne is described. It appears to prefer small rivers. Water quality parameters are given.
25009881|Two new species of Caliothrips, C. floridensis and C. multistriatus, are described from the United States. Caliothrips insularis (Hood) is a new record for the United States. A key is provided for ten Nearctic species.
25009353|The pathogenicity of Entomophthora culicis for the mosquitoes Anopheles stephensi and Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus was determined by exposing healthy adults to conidial showers from cadavers of naturally infected Chironomus decorus and from cultures grown in vitro. While 100 percent of the A. stephensi succumbed to infection, only 20 percent of the C. pipiens quinquefasciatus did so. Explanations for these differences are suggested. Some morphological characteristics of the E. culicis used in this study are presented.
25009310|The larva of Trichordestra tacoma (Strecker) (Lepidoptera; Noctuidae) has been misidentified in the past, resulting in a discrepancy in the phylogenetic placement of this species in separate works based on adults and on larvae. Both larva and adult prove to be similar to T. rugosa (Morr.) and T. liquida (Grote). The larva is described and illustrated, and a host list is presented.
25009502|The Western Hemisphere species of Cosmopepla Stl are revised and a key provided for identification. Eysarcoris intergressus Uhler is transferred to this genus. C. humboldtensis Bliven is a junior synonym of C. intergressa (Uhler).
25010295|A new species of Ephemerellidae, Crinitella permkami sp. nov., is described from southern Thailand. Illustrations of the dorsal habitus and mouthpart structure are provided. This is the first species of Crinitella and only the fifth species of Ephemerellidae reported from Thailand.
25010415|The new stilt bug Hoplinus paulai is described from Minas Gerais, Brazil. Habitus photographs, scanning electron micrographs of selected structures, illustrations of male parameres, and a revised key are provided to help distinguish this species from other members of the genus. New distribution and/or host records are given for Hoplinus scutellatus Henry, Oedalocanthus ornatus Henry, and Xenoloma princeps Harris, and a discussion pertaining to the rediscovered name-bearing type of Neides spinosissimus Signoret, the type species of Hoplinus Stl, is provided.
25010405|Two new monotypic genera of stactobine microcaddisflies (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae), Orinocotrichia, and Tizatetrichia, are described and illustrated from Venezuela and Costa Rica, respectively. Keys are provided for males and females of the New World genera comprising the tribe Stactobiini.
25005955|This paper presents the first description of the anatomy and histology of the male reproductive system for this doryline ant. Anatomical descriptions of the eighth and ninth sterna are included. The male system consists of the testes, the vasa deferentia, the accessory glands and ducts, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct, and the genitalia. The testes, situated in the third gastral segment, lie between the proximal arms of the U-shaped vasa deferentia and are covered with a single capsule. Each testis has about 22-25 tubular follicles. The vasa deferentia are packed with spermatozoa, and a granular mass fills their posterior ends. The coiled acessory glands lie on either side of the fourth gastral segment, and they contain a dense, homogeneous, basophilic secretion. Their ducts meet medially and become surrounded with circular muscle to form the bound accessory gland duct; two lumina are present throughout the length of the bound accessory gland duct. At the posterior end of this duct, the two lumina unite into one to form the ejaculatory duct in which a sclerotized wedge is located. The position of the wedge in the duct and the unicellular glands at the posterior end of the duct are described. The ejaculatory duct opens on the dorsal, posterior region of the aedeagal bladder, which empties between the inner valves of the genitalia. The aedeagal bladder contains a granular, basophilic secretion. Three pairs of valves and a basal ring constitute the genitalia. Sperm gutters are present on the inner valves. Comparisons are made with the male systems for two dorylines previously reported, Dorylus labiatus and Eciton hamatum, which place Neivamyrmex anatomically closer to Eciton than to Dorylus.
25009505|Acetropis americana Knight, from the Willamette Valley of Oregon, is compared with A. longirostris Puton of eastern Europe and they are recognized as sister species. The male, female and nymphal habitus and male and female genitalia of americana are presented.
25008940|A diagnosis is given for the genus Holcostethus and descriptions are provided for six species. A new species is described from Arizona and a key is provided for the identification of all North American species.
25009291|Colonies of the grass-cutting ant, Acromyrmex landolti fracticornis, ranked potential fungal substrate in field preference bioassays as a function of the dominant grass species in the field in which they were located. Mahalanobis distances between and among colony preferences between and among habitats revealed that there was less variability among colonies within any habitat than between habitats. These results suggest that fungal substrate preferences are environmentally induced, probably as a result of early experience of workers.
25010054|A new species, Oligembia vetusta, is described on the basis of a male in lower Tertiary amber from the Dominican Republic. The new species is the first fossil representative of the family Teratembiidae. The systematic position of the new species is discussed, as is the paraphyletic nature of the genus Oligembia. A cladogram of teratembiid genera is presented.
25009970|Using external and internal adult morphology, clarification of status and determination keys are provided for Blepharida Chevrolat and the eight New World genera either related to it or placed near it in recent catalogues. The morphological reasons (e.g., pattern) for maintaining Blepharida and Notozona Chevrolat as separate genera are discussed. The Afrotropical genus Blepharidina Bechyn is lowered to subgenus status within the genus Blepharida in light of morphological similarities and differences with New World Blepharida. Blepharida haitiensis Blake is transferred to Acrocyum Jacoby. Morphological evidence (e.g., metatibial emargination, eye shape, and metafemoral spring shape) for placing the monotypic Euplectroscelis Crotch close to Blepharida is given. Blepharida franclemonti is described as a new species known to date only from the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico.
25010100|Two new species, Atractotomus bicolor and A. teopisca, are described from the state of Chiapas in southern Mexico. The male genitalic structures of both species are illustrated, and scanning electron micrographs are provided for the dorsal vestiture, femoral spines and pretarsus of A. teopisca. The relationship of these species to other New World members of the genus is discussed.
25009571|Protesilaus illuminatus (Niepelt), unrecorded since its 1928 description, is given species status based on study of recent specimens from the Rio Putumayo valley of Colombia, syntypical material and wing and genitalic characters of congeners. A lectotype is designated.
25009150|From 1974 to 1978, we released 14 species of European parasites (ca. 82,000 insects from 3 agromyzid host species on alfalfa) as part of a biological control effort against the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), in the USA. A list of release locations, dates, and parasite numbers is presented. Techniques for rearing 4 of the species are briefly described. Two species, Dacnusa dryas (Nixon) (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) and Chrysocharis punctifacies Delucchi (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae), have been established in Delaware. Sufficiently large field populations of these species were present in 1978 so that insects were collected by sweeping and moved to other release locations.
25009615|Cochylis caulocatax Razowski was previously known only from the type series, 2 males, from Venezuela. The adults, male and female genitalia, larva, and pupa are described and illustrated. Larvae feed on stamens of Eustoma grandiflorum (Raf.) Shinners (Gentianales: Gentianaceae) in early instars, then burrow into ovaries feeding on developing seeds and supporting tissues. The moth is known from north central Kentucky, southeastern Texas, eastern Mississippi, south central Florida, and central Venezuela. Two generations per year occur in the Nearctic: 1) mid-June through July and 2) September to mid-October. Collections from Venezuela were in mid-February. Two parasites were reared, a braconid, Bracon sp., and a chalcidid, Spilochalcis sanguiniventris (Cresson).
25009635|Contract rates between individual stream-dwelling gyrinids increased with increasing temperature, while those for pond-dwelling gyrinids remained fairly constant. In aggregated pond beetles, interindividual distance increased with increasing temperature up to 21C, and then declined. These observations may be explained by the different constraints of the two habitats, and the function of whirligig beetle aggregations.
25006091|The holotype of Harpaphe telodonta (Chamberlin) has been relocated and is redescribed herein. Illustrations of gonopods of the male and shape of body segments are presented. The present location of the holotype is in the United States National Museum, Washington, D. C.
25009062|Huckett, H. C., Long Island Vegetable Research Farm, Cornell University, Riverhead, New York 11901.-A survey of the Anthomyiidae and Muscidae occurring on the upper region of the Presidential Range in New Hampshire was made during the early summer of 1954, 1955, 1956, from bases at the Lakes of the Clouds and at Madison (Maps 1 and 2). The collections of adults included 62 anthomyiid species and 1 subspecies and 117 muscid species and one subspecies out of a total of 5,667 specimens. To this has been added separately a number of specimens in the collections of Mrs. A. T. Slosson, made at the turn of the century, and that I have been able to identify. The names cited in her records as Coenosia albicornis and Aricia vagans are misapplied. I regard these specimens as belonging respectively to the species Coenosia (Limosia) compressa Stein and Lasiops albibasalis (Zetterstedt) new synonymy.
25010344|Twelve species in eight genera of the New World subfamily Larginae are discussed. The following species are redescribed and/or compared with their original descriptions: Acinocoris calidus (F.), A. decoratus Brailovsky and Barrera, A. includens Walker, A. lunaris (Gmelin), A. stehliki Van Doesburg, Astemma nigrocapitata Brailovsky and Barrera, Fibrenus bullatus White, Stenomacra marginella Herrich-Schaeffer, Therenais constricta Stl, and Vasarhelyecoris ophthalmicus Brailovsky and Barrerra. The measurements of the following species were compared with published measurements: Acinocoris calidus, A. decoratus, A. lunaris, A. stehliki, Astemma nigrocapitata, and Fibrenus bullatus. Instars of the following species are described: Largulus parallelus Hussey (third and fifth instars), and Thaumastaneis montandoni Kirkaldy and Edwards (fifth instar); the fifth instar of Largulus parallelus is figured. The following are new country records: Acinocoris elegans Van Doesburg: Peru; A. includens: Venezuela; A. lunaris: Bolivia; A. stehliki: Venezuela; Therenais constricta: Ecuador; and Thaumastaneis montandoni: Bolivia.
25009880|Stictolethaeus slateri, new genus, n. sp., is described from Argentina and Uruguay. A new type of sexual dimorphism suggests male pheromone production. Coleopteroid forewings and the lack of hind wings apparently preclude flight.
25005866|The genera of the family are listed and the synonomy of Oribatodes Banks 1895 is discussed briefly. Sphodrocepheus tridactylus, n. gen., n. sp., is described and figured. Distribution records of the species are indicated for Utah, California, Oregon and Washington.
25010038|A new species, Acroneuria kosztarabi is described from Tazewell County, Virginia. The new species is distinguished from related species in the male by the penial armature, and in the female by the completely punctate egg and subgenital plate shape.
25009089|Rolston, L. H., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803.-The genus Odmalea is redescribed and a key provided to distinguish among the closely related genera Brepholoxa, Dendrocoris, Odmalea, and Thoreyella. Odmalea norda n. sp. from Venezuela and O. vega n. sp. from Colombia are added to the genus, the other four members are redescribed, and a key is provided for the separation of the species. NEW COMBINATIONS are Odmalea basalis (Walker) from Euschistus, Odmalea concolor (Walker) from Thoreyella, and Odmalea pallida (Jensen-Haarup) from Thoreyella. NEW SYNONYMY recognized is Thoreyella pulchra Jensen-Haarup as a junior synonym of Odmalea basalis (Walker), Odmelea quadripunctula Bergroth and Odmalea quadripunctula modesta Ruckes as junior synonyms of Odmalea concolor (Walker), and Odmalea olivacea Ruckes as a junior synonym of Thoreyella brasiliensis Spinola.
25009272|The catalog lists 272 generic-group names previously associated with the family Glyphipterigidae auctorum of the world and segregates these generic names to Glyphipterigidae sensu stricto (Copromorphoidea), Immidae (Immoidea), and Brachodidae and Choreutidae (Sesioidea), as well as 21 other families. Transfers to other families are based on examination of the type-species of each genus, in some cases only on literature references and notes from colleagues. Generic synonyms, homonyms, and type-species, with their designations, type localities and depositories, are given when known. Lectotypes are designated for 19 of the generic type-species listed. A complete bibliography is given for all included taxa, as well as an index to cited species. V. O. Becker contributes the new name, Rectiostoma Becker, replacing Setiostoma Zeller, 1875 [not Setiostoma Felder and Rogenhofer, 1875] in Oecophoridae (Stenomatinae).
25009790|The five North American species of the genus Neottiglossa are reviewed. Diagnoses are provided for the genus Neottiglossa, for the two subgenera, and for the North American species. Neottiglossa trilineata (Kirby) and N. undata (Say) belong in the nominate subgenus, while N. cavifrons Stl, N. sulcifrons Stl, and N. tumidifrons Downes belong in the subgenus Texas Kirkaldy. Neottiglossa coronaciliata Ruckes, 1957 is placed as a junior synonym of Neotiglossa cavifrons Stl, 1872; and N. californica Bliven, 1958 is placed as a junior synonym of N. undata (Say, 1832). A key is provided for the identification of species.
25010022|Evidence is given to support the discovery of type material for Aelia spiniceps Herrich-Schffer, 1840 and Pentatoma scabricorne Herrich-Schffer, 1844. A lectotype designation is made for Aelia spiniceps. Platistus and P. spiniceps are redescribed.
25009163|156 species of phytophagous and pollinating insects and 3 phytophagous mites are associated with the introduced Eurasian chickweeds, Stellaria media L. (Cyrillo) and S. graminea L. in the northeastern United States. Among these are 16 crop pests, including three known vectors of crop viruses that also infect S. media. Pollinators are primarily Apoidea, Syrphidae and Formicidae. The collection of Tmetothrips subapterus (Haliday) on S. graminea represents the first Western Hemisphere record. Stellaria media ranks among the ten most important weeds in the United States. A biological control program is possible, although it may be difficult due to the habit and habitat of this winter annual.
25009188|Nocturnal observations and excavations of honey ant colonies in the vicinity of Colorado Springs, Colorado provided information on pre- and post-nuptial behavior and the seasonal appearance of the reproductive brood. The mating flights of three different nests were observed on the evenings of July 24, 25 and 28. The nuptial activity at one formicary lasted an hour and a half and peaked between 7:26 and 7:36 PM when the sexuals took wing. During this period 56 queens and 100-110 males were counted. Dealated queens were observed after the nuptial flights. Queen larvae were uncovered in nests between October and February and queen cocoons were unearthed in May and June. Winged queens and males were taken from nests approximately one month prior to swarming and were noted outside colony entrances several days before and after the nuptial flights. A single wingless queen was recovered from each of the three completely excavated colonies.
25006147|Information is given on the life history of the cuckoo bee Thyreus lieftincki and on its host, Anthophora braunsiana Friese. Biological data are also presented on Anthophora krebsi Friese, the nests of which are attacked by the cuckoo bee Coelioxys (Liothyrapis) lativentris Friese. The adults of T. lieftincki, new species, are described.
25006200|Six species and two subspecies are reported from North American rodents including the new species Sciurocoptes tamias from the Eastern Chipmunk, Tamias striatus. Synonymies are given.
25010007|A key and diagnoses are provided for the 21 described species in the incurvia species-group of the nominate subgenus of Antiteuchus Dallas. Three new species are described: A. rufitarsus from Venezuela, A. englemani from Ecuador and A. rideri from Brazil. Antiteuchus ratcliffei Engleman, 1983, is placed in the synonymy of A. marmoratus (Erichson, 1848). Lectotypes are designated for A. pallescens Stl and in the parallela species-group, A. sepulcralis (Fabricius).
25010325|The taxonomy of the creeping water bugs belonging to the genera Sagocoris and Aptinocoris, which are endemic to New Guinea and nearby islands, is revised. The following new species are described: Sagocoris intermedius from central Irian Jaya, Sagocoris irianus from northern Irian Jaya, Sagocoris flavinotum from northern Irian Jaya, Aptinocoris sogeri from southeastern Papua New Guinea, Aptinocoris minutus from northern Papua New Guinea, Aptinocoris boikiki from northeastern Papua New Guinea, and Aptinocoris ziwa from northern Irian Jaya. The following new generic assignments are proposed (new combinations given second): Sagocoris fenneri = Aptinocoris fenneri; Sagocoris sedlaceki = Aptinocoris sedlaceki; Sagocoris cheesmanae = Aptinocoris cheesmanae; Quadricoris asymmetrica = Sagocoris asymmetricus. The following new synonyms are proposed (junior synonyms listed first): Quadricoris La Rivers = Sagocoris Montandon; Truncocoris La Rivers = Aptinocoris Montandon; Sagocoris browni La Rivers = Aptinocoris papuus Montandon. The supergenera Margodes and Margallus proposed by La Rivers are considered invalid names since they refer to a taxonomic category that has no official status under the present Code. Illustrations are provided for the male genital structures and female pregenital structures for all Sagocoris and Aptinocoris species, along with maps detailing the distributions of these species within New Guinea.
25005939|A living, nonflashing firefly begins to flash intermittently when ozone is added to ambient air. A firefly may stop intermittent flashing because of apparent fatigue or because the air contains insufficient ozone. Intermittent flashing is triggered by a chemical, ozone.
25009591|The diagnostic characters of Epipedus Spinola, 1837, are enumerated and Calagasma Bergroth, 1914, synonymized with this genus. Epipedus histrio Spinola, 1837, type species by monotypy, is redescribed and a lectotype designated.
25009611|A description is provided for Acrosternum (Chinavia) cubensis, n. sp. New locality records are given for A. wygodzinskyi Rolston from Puerto Rico. A key to the eight species of Acrosternum known to occur in the West Indies is provided.
25010370|A total of 173 species of mayflies, representing 15 families and 45 genera, are reported from the state of New York. First state records for 43 species and 891 new county reports for 129 species are included. Previously published reports are summarized, and pertinent remarks on species are annotated. The occurrence of Dannella provonshai, Heptagenia julia, and Plauditus gloveri in New York represent significant range extensions. The discovery of Epeorus frisoni in New York represents only the second report of the species. Species potentially of environmental concern are noted.
25008948|The initial part of this short series of papers concerning the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal 82: 279, 1974 and concerned the tribe Pediciini. At this time I am discussing the Eriopterine genus Gonomyia and provide descriptions of seven undescribed species, Gonomyia (Idiocera) curticurva, G. (I.) laterospina, G. (I.) orthophallus, G. (I.) spinistylata, G. (Gonomyia) basilobata, G. (G.) elburzensis, and G. (G.) oxybeles, from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran.
25008887|For the first time a complete description, including photographs, of the life cycle of Temenis laothe liberia Fabricius is presented, as well as a record of the foodplants in Central America. Behavior during early and adult stages is described and compared with behavior of closely related species. The findings are discussed with relation to the possibility that this species is protected against predators as a result of the poisonous properties of its foodplants.
25009199|Epistylis cambari was found attached to the dorsal abdominal surface of 30% of the dragonfly nymphs examined. Colonies ranged from 20-30 individuals with but one colony attached to each dragonfly nymph.
25009426|Compsidolon (Coniortodes) salicellum is recorded for the first time from in the United States, feeding on aphids on cultivated filberts in western Oregon and Washington.
25006000|This paper describes the mature larva of Panurgus dentipes Latreille and compares it with the previously published accounts of other species in the genus.
25008807|The occurrence of Cheiridium museorum (Leach) and Allochernes peregrinus Lohmander in North America is recorded for the first time.
25009735|Froeschnerana mexicana, a new genus and new species, is described from the Mexican states of Aguascalientes, Guerrero, Jalisco, Oaxaca and Puebla. Its relationship to the genus Bothynotus (Clivinemini) is discussed.
25010080|Ambrysus relictus, n. sp. is described from thermal springs in Ash Meadows, Nevada, and compared to Ambrysus amargosus La Rivers, another thermally endemic species occurring in the same area. The warm spring habitat of the species is discussed, and figures are provided of the dorsal habitus, male abdominal terminalia, and female subgenital plate.
25000072|Geary (1959) listed 42 species of Siphonaptera from New York. The present list includes numerous additional distributional records, and adds three species to Geary's list: Peromyscopsylla h. hamifer (Rothschild), Ceratophyllus diffinis Jordan (previously reported but missed by Geary), and Epitedia (cavernicola Traub?). Geary also removed from the state list Echidnophaga gallinacea (Westwood), but we consider the published record to be a valid one.
25009993|A new genus of Neotrichiini, Kumanskiella, and new species K. karenae, from the Greater Antilles are described and illustrated. Mayatrichia aliena is transferred into this new genus. Keys to the genera of Neotrichiini are provided and a proposed phylogeny of the tribe presented. Kumanskiella appears most closely related to Neotrichia with Taxatrichia the sister group to Mayatrichia, Kumanskiella and Neotrichia.
25010120|Pseudevoplitus Ruckes is revised on the basis of morphological characters with emphasis on the genitalia of both sexes. Four species are recognized, three of them new: P. paradoxus Ruckes, 1958, P. costalimai, n. sp., P. peruvianus, n. sp., and P. vittatus, n. sp. The species P. longicornis Ruckes, 1959, P. casei Thomas, 1980, and P. mexicanus Brailovsky and Barrera, 1982 are transferred to a new genus, described in another paper.
25009950|The spider genus Zavattarica Caporiacco, and the monogeneric subfamily Zavattaricinae, were based on the supposed presence of a reduced number of spinnerets. However, both described species actually have the normal gnaphosid complement of six spinnerets, and Zavattarica Caporiacco is placed as a junior synonym of Zelotes Gistel.
25010416|The genus Plinachtus (Heteroptera: Coreidae: Gonocerini) from Madagascar is revised and two new species are described. A key to the known species is provided, as well as illustrations of antennal segments, pronotum, male genital capsule and dorsal view. Gonocerus madagascariensis Kiritshenko is transferred to the genus Plinachtus and new distributional records are given.
25009642|A new species of dung feeding Scarabaeidae, Aphodius aenictus, is described from southeastern Canada and northeastern United States. It is integrated into the existing key to eastern species of Aphodius, and pertinent diagnostic characters are illustrated.
25009776|The male, female, and pupa of Piezosimulium jeanninae are described and illustrated. These specimens (consisting of various portions of 2 males, 1 female, and associated pupal parts) represent a new genus and new species in the family Simuliidae. The new genus is readily distinguished from all other genera of the family by the presence of a conspicuous sperm pump, and a distinct, sclerotized, setose plate situated ventrally between the bases of the male gonocoxites. This is the first record of such structures in the family Simuliidae. The sclerotized plate is of unknown homology, but it might be a remnant of sternite 9 (hypandrium). A combination of several other characters, especially the slender katepisternum, the erect to semi-erect pile on the scutum, the large calypter, and the small eyes of both sexes are also characteristic. Under the present family classification this genus is a member of the tribe Prosimuliini, and is possibly the sister group to the other taxa in this assemblage, and possibly the sister group to all known black flies.
25009659|The new species differs from the six other nearctic members of the genus by the strongly developed ventral lamella of the mucro. Epitoky is reported in reproductive males. The nearctic distribution of Agrenia appears to have two components: A western montane species complex and a corresponding eastern complex which is still largely unknown. The new species is the first verified eastern species. A second undescribed species was seen in an old sample from North Carolina.
25010205|To document the life history of Brachymeria intermedia in the U.S., we monitored the presence of reproductively active wasps in the field using trap hosts over an 8-week time period in early summer. The overall level of recovery of wasps was low (8% peak parasitism on average), yet, all parasitism occurred within one week. Reproductively active B. intermedia seemed to be fairly synchronized with gypsy moth pupation, suggesting that they might be univoltine and monophagous. However, we cannot conclude unequivocally that B. intermedia is monophagous, because these wasps appear to disperse readily to other habitats where their behavior is unknown.
25009054|Lanham, U. N., University of Colorado Museum, Boulder 80309.-The position of the stigma relative to the rest of the venation in the forewing of Apoidea offers a diagnostic character of generic and higher rank. This new character is strongly correlated with the relative sizes of the jugal and vannal lobes of the hind wing.
25009595|The biology of Stobaera concinna (Stl) was studied in south Florida from 1 June 1985 to 1 February 1986; it was reared in the laboratory and the immature stages described. Stobaera concinna feeds and reproduces on Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and is polyvoltine. Field collected adults were returned to the laboratory and allowed to lay eggs on potted A. artemisiifolia. Upon emergence nymphs were separated and reared to adults. Durations of the five nymphal stadia were 4.57, 3.72, 4.00, 4.45, and 6.50 days, respectively. Nymphal instars differed in body size, number of pitlike sensoria, development of wingpads, number of metatibial and metatarsal spines, and shape and dentition of the metatibial spur.
25009325|Cool spring temperatures suppressed the activity of predatory stinkbugs (Podisus spp.) but did not prevent the bugs' prey, tent caterpillars (Malacosoma americanum (F.)), from feeding and developing rapidly. Thus a cold snap in 1977 temporarily reduced the number of stinkbugs at caterpillar tents near Ithaca, New York, and enabled the prey to escape predation by growing to large sizes before warm weather returned.
25009653|Thamiaraea americana Bernhauer, an athetine aleocharine staphylinid rarely encountered in North American collections, is redescribed; illustrations of structural features are provided; and lectotype and paralectotype designations are made. Thamiaraea lira is described as new from Pennsylvania. Male members of North American Thamiaraea are distinctive due to a setiferous sex patch on the dorsum of the head and the structural modifications of the eighth tergite.
25005996|Six new species of the Eriopterine genera Ormosia and Erioptera are described, including Ormosia (Oreophila) licina n. sp., from Kashmir and Kumaon, and Ormosia (Parormosia) atrotibialis n. sp., Ormosia (Ormosia) subpulchra n. sp., and O. (O.) umbripennis n. sp., from Sikkim: Erioptera (Ilisia) diadexia n. sp. and E. (I.) epicharis n. sp., from Sikkim.
25009779|The genera Rhicnocoelia Graham and Callimerismus Graham are delimited and their relationships with other genera of the Pteromalidae are discussed. Both genera are reported from the Nearctic region for the first time. Rhicnocoelia has two North American species-R. punctifrons n. sp., and the Holarctic species R. constans (Walker). A key to separate these species is given. The first host record for Rhicnocoelia, from a puparium of the chloropid Meromyza americana Fitch, is presented. Callimerismus has one Nearctic species, C. inusitatus n. sp. Callimerismus latipennis (Ashmead) is removed from the genus, but its correct generic placement is uncertain.
25010309|Asteliamiris johnpolhemi, a new genus and new species of stenodemine Miridae, is described from the island of Maui, in the Hawaiian Islands. Unlike most members of the Stenodemini which breed on grasses or sedges, both nymphal and adult stages of A. johnpolhemi are associated with Astelia menziesiana Smith, a member of the Liliaeceae. Dorsal habitus photographs, scanning electron micrographs of the head, scent gland efferent system, and pretarsus, illustrations of the male and female genitalia, and a distribution map are provided.
25000065|Descriptions are given of the egg and larvae. The mature larva is figured. The mature larva is strongly aposematic in coloration.
25010141|A population of Orchelimum silvaticum (Tettigoniidae: Conocephalinae), previously unknown east of Ohio, was discovered on Long Island, Suffolk Co., NY. Available information on disjunct distributions for the entire genus Orchelimum is briefly summarized and discussed. Information on the history and current status of two introduced katydids previously reported from Long Island is also summarized.
25010057|Two new North American species (Aradus froeschneri and Neuroctenus unistellatus) are described.
25004435|Ethylene oxide is used at the rate of 2 pounds per 1,000 cubic feet for two hours at 75 F. destroyed adults and larv of the Japanese beetle, adult Colorado potato beetles, and adult Mexican bean beetles. Ethylene oxide may be used as herein described without any appreciable damage to raspberries and blackberries, but is slightly injurious to blueberries and severely injures wet green bananas. When used at the rate herein mentioned, ethylene oxide is injurious to the foliage of Azalea and Hydrangea. Since the development of a method for fumigating fresh fruit with carbon disulphide to destroy the adult Japanese beetle, experiments have been underway to develop a fumigant for this purpose which would be equally effective as an insecticide and as non-injurious to the fruit, but which in addition would be less inflammable and explosive than carbon disulphide. The preliminary experiments with different compounds indicated that ethylene oxide, a chemical whose insecticidal properties were discovered by Cotton and Roark might be substituted for carbon disulphide for this purpose. Cotton and Roark have shown that a dosage of 1 pound per 1,999 cubic feet of space for 20 hours proved to be 100 per cent lethal to specimens of the webbing clothes moth, Tineola biselliella Hum.; the black carpet beetle, Attagenus piceus Oliv., and the furniture carpet beetle, Anthrenus vorax Csy.; the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryza L.; the Indian meal moth, Plodia interpunctella Hbn.; the saw-toothed grain beetle, Oryzphilus surinamensis L.; the red-legged ham beetle, Necrobia rufipes DeG.; and the confused flour beetle, Tribolium confusum Duv. Ethylene oxide, according to Back, Cotton, and Ellington, has been used as a fumigant with success in destroying infestations of the webbing clothes moth, the furniture carpet beetle, the confused flour beetle, the rice weevil, and the saw-toothed grain beetle.
25010500|Five new synonyms and ten new combinations are proposed for taxa in Elaphidiini. Brief characterizations of the genera involved (Anelaphus Linsley, Anopliomorpha Linsley, Elaphidion Audinet-Serville, Parelaphidion Skiles, Stizocera Audinet-Serville, Trichophoroides Linsley, Xeranoplium Linsley) are included to provide bases for these taxonomic decisions. The following new combinations are proposed, all transferred from Elaphidion: Anelaphus cinnabarinum (Fisher); Anelaphus crispulum (Fisher); Anelaphus mutatum (Gahan); Anelaphus fasciatum (Fisher); Anelaphus hispaniolae (Fisher); Anopliomorpha antillarum (Fisher); Trichophoroides dozieri (Fisher); Trichophoroides signaticolle (Chevrolat); Trichophoroides variolosum (Fisher); Xeranoplium gracilis (Fisher). The following new synonymies are proposed: Elaphidion truncatipenne Fisher with Anelaphus fasciatum (Fisher); Elaphidion monticola Fisher and Anopliomorpha xylebora Cazier & Lacey with Anopliomorpha antillarum (Fisher); Elaphidion jamaicensis Fisher with Elaphidion tuberculicolle Fisher; Stizocera punctiventris (Cazier & Lacey) with Stizocera insulana (Gahan). A checklist of the 55 species of Elaphidion is provided.
25010023|A new genus and species of tubuliferan Thysanoptera is described, Domatiathrips cunninghamii, which seems to be related to a group of moss-feeding species. With an adult body length of scarcely 1 mm, all life stages of the thrips were found living solitarily inside leaf domatia of a Rubiaceous under-story rain-forest tree in Costa Rica. The literature on the significance of leaf domatia and their relationships to arthropods is discussed.
25005877|The abdominal nervous system in the nymph of Pteronarcys proteus Newman, and in the adult of P. californica Newport is described. The ganglia of segments 3 and 4 are coalesced. The transverse nerves of segments 4, 5 and 6 arise from the ganglia of the immediately-following segments. Only the first three segments contain both dorsal and ventral nerves. The muscles and nerves of the genital segments are described.
25009846|Two new species of the Polycentropus confusus species-group are described. Polycentropus alabamensis, n. sp. is found in small streams primarily in northeastern Alabama and P. vernus, n. sp. was collected from small headwater and intermittent streams of the Cumberland Plateau. Also included is a checklist of the P. confusus species-group. This group comprises 14 species in addition to the new species described herein. All species of this group occur in eastern North America.
25009773|The tenebrionid subfamilies Tenebrioninae and Coelometopinae are diagnosed. The tenebrionine tribes Tenebrionini and Alphitobiini are defined, and most genera previously included in Tenebrionini are transferred to Coelometopini. Centronopini and Acropteronini are proposed as new tribes of Tenebrioninae. The coelometopine tribes Coelometopini, Strongyliini and Talanini are defined. Cnodalonini, Misolampini and Nodotelini have been based on superficial characters which primarily reflect loss of flying ability. Each of these groups consists of paraphyletic assemblages derived several times independently from Coelometopini, and they are placed as junior synonyms of that tribe. Keys are provided to the genera of these beetles for North and Central America.
25010247|New distributions are given for Thasus neocalifornicus Brailovsky and Barrera, T. gigas (Klug), T. acutangulus (Stl), T. luteolus Brailovsky and Barrera, and T. rutilus Brailovsky and Barrera. Measurements of several instars and a key to the last three instars of the first three species are given. These new country records are given: T. acutangulus, El Salvador; T. luteolus, Panama; T. rutilus, Bolivia. The distribution of T. neocalifornicus is discussed, as are differences among its populations and between them and T. gigas. We conclude, tentatively, that T. neocalifornicus from the United States-Mexican landmass more closely resembles the neocalifornicus-gigas common ancestor than do T. neocalifornicus populations from Baja California Sur.
25010382|The four new species Hyalochloria apicata, H. bispina, and H. marginatus from Brazil, and H. baranowskii from Panama and Trinidad, are described; H. rondoniensis Carvalho is synonymized under H. scutellata Henry; males of H. antilleana Carvalho and H. araripensis Carvalho are described for the first time; confusion pertaining to the identity of H. caviceps and H. unicolor is clarified; a lectotype for H. caviceps Reuter is redesignated; and numerous new distribution records are given. Photographs of adults, illustrations of male antennae, and a revised identification key to the 20 known species are provided to facilitate recognition.
25010421|Netechma similis, new species, from Costa Rica, is described and illustrated, and Netechma caesiata (Clarke), new combination, from Venezuela, is redescribed and illustrated. Netechma Razowski belongs to a group of genera in Euliini characterized by one or more sparganothine-like features of the male genitalia, including a spiny transtilla; a long, slender, hooklike uncus; and densely scaled socii. Adults of the two treated species are superficially most similar to species of Icteralaria Razowski, with a forewing that features a broad, dark, medial band on a pale yellow ground color.
25009897|First, third, fourth and fifth instar nymphs of Pissonotus delicatus Van Duzee collected from camphorweed (Heterotheca subaxillaris (Lam.) Britt. and Rusby: Asteraceae) in Florida are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions; spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, and metatarsomeres; and number of metatarsomeres and body pits.
25009225|The predacious mite species Phytoseiulus persimilis Athias-Henriot and Neoseiulus californicus (McGregor) (Acari: Phytoseiidae) were reared on potted red clover, Trifolium pratense L., in the greenhouse at ambient temperatures (min. 12C). Twospotted spider mites, Tetranychus urticae Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae), were placed on the plants as prey. Red clover leaflets, on which were predators and prey, were removed and placed on potted alfalfa, Medicago sativa L., in the same greenhouse. One pot of red clover produced 5,000-8,000 predators per year, sufficient for satisfactory control of T. urticae on 50 pots of alfalfa. The technique requires minimal time, greenhouse space, and expense.
25009215|Bees are generally supposed to be descendants of sphecid wasps, largely on the basis of similarities in thoracic structure. If it be assumed that these similarities are convergent, resulting from independent evolution for high-precision flight, then an argument can be made for a close relationship between bees, ants, and scolioid wasps.
25010140|The potential of using Agistemus exsertus to control Panonychus citri was studied in both laboratory and citrus grove. Functional response studies showed that A. exsertus adult females had the highest instantaneous rate of discovery (a = 1.430) and shortest handling time (Th = 1.67 hr) when provided with P. citri eggs as compared to other prey stages. In comparison with adults of both sexes, A. exsertus deutonymphs had the lowest a (0.102) and longest Th (4.32 hr) when P. citri eggs were provided as prey. A. exsertus females clearly exhibited a prey-stage preference; an average of 75.2% of prey consumption consisted of eggs as compared to 16.6 and 8.2% nymphs and adult males, respectively. The intrinsic rates of natural increase (rm) of A. exsertus were higher at 20 and 25C, but lower at 30 and 35C than that of P. citri. A. exsertus demonstrated a satisfactory control of P. citri in the greenhouse release study. Under natural conditions, the population of A. exsertus was very low in the winter and increased steadily from May through October.
25009050|Third instars of Lymantria dispar (L.) reared from egg masses collected from eight field locations covering northern, central and southern New Jersey were compared for susceptibility to insecticides by topical application. There was no difference in acephate tolerance for three widely separated populations nor in DDT tolerance in the two populations (northern and southern) tested. Significant differences in carbaryl susceptibility were detected for several of the eight collections but the differences were small (2-fold, or less) and were not considered indicative of incipient resistance.
25006062|Experiments were conducted to determine the influence of various horizontally orientated textured surfaces on the congregating behavior of the German cockroach, Blattella germanica (L.). Various grades of sandpaper and sheets of sandpaper with the sand removed were used as testing surfaces. When these sheets were stacked in battery jars with spaces between them for the cockroaches to congregate, and the jars contained no food or water, the cockroaches showed a preference for the smoother surfaces. However, when food and water were supplied to these same jars, strong preferences for a surface of any one texture no longer existed. When, instead of being stacked, the textured surfaces were placed on the same horizontal level and the food and water were added, this species showed a strong tendency to congregate on the smoother surfaces.
25009361|A study of the relevant types in the genus Cerceris has resulted in the following synonymy (junior subjective synonyms in parentheses): C. acanthophila Cockerell (=C. chilopsidis Viereck and Cockerell), revised synonymy; C. cockerelli Viereck, revised status (=C. minax Mickel), new synonymy; C. gandarai Rohwer (=C. micheneri Scullen), new synonymy. Two species are left without names and are described as C. grisselli Ferguson n. sp. (=C. minax, sensu Bohart and Grissell, nec Mickel) and C. rohweri Ferguson n. sp. (=C. gandarai, sensu Scullen, nec Rohwer).
25008877|The present and future use of polyhedral insect viruses for biological control justifies extensive tests for their safety, not only as possible disease agents of various hosts but also as possible inducers of other virus infections, transforming factors, and causes of allergies. This paper describes the retention of an insect polyhedral virus in cultured human cells. No deleterious effects of this virus on growing cells was observed. Polyhedral inclusion bodies (PIB) and free virions of the nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of Heliothis zea (cotton bollworm) were studied to determine their effects on several human cell cultures. No cytopathic effect (CPE) was observed in cultures of primary human amnion (PHA), foreskin (HF), embryo (EM), lung (WI38), and leucocytes (LEU) inoculated with both PIB and virions. Cell viability studies employing HF and LEU cultures revealed no difference between controls and cultures inoculated with PIB over a 3-week period. PHA and WI38 cultures inoculated with virions and stained with hematoxylin and eosin showed no presence of inclusion bodies or other cytopathic effects. However, virus was recovered from PHA, WI38, and LEU cultures by bioassay 4 weeks after inoculation. Immunofluorescence of PHA cultures inoculated with the NPV failed to detect antigen over a 5-week period. DNA synthesis of LEU cultures was unaffected by exposure to the virus as assessed by autoradiography, nor did such cultures ever transform. PHA cultures inoculated with NPV did not show the presence of any transformed foci over a 4-month period. A neutralization test whereby antiserum could be tested for its neutralizing capacity in a bioassay test was developed.
25010286|Two new species of Laccotrephes are described from Indonesia, L. celebensis from Sulawesi, and L. sondaicus from Sumbawa and Flores. Nomenclatural and distributional notes are given for Laccotrephes species occuring in the Malay Archipelago.
25006117|The male genitalia of eight species is described: S. crandalli Curran, S. fusca Loew, S. hamifera Loew, S. interrupta Williston, S. kahli Snow, S. liturata Williston, S. longicornis Loew and S. quadrifasciata Say. A key based on the terminalia is provided for the species studied.
25009581|The hemerobiid, Micromus remiformis is described as new from western North America. Illustrations of the male genitalic structures of M. remiformis and the closely related Nearctic M. montanus are presented.
25009686|The establishment of Tetyra bipunctata (Herrich-Schaeffer) in Qubec is reported. Associated plants and overwintering sites of the species are determined for the province.
25008857|Fifty-six more species, subspecies, and named aberrations with given foodplant, where known, are here added to the Supplemental List of Lepidoptera of New Jersey (1965).
25004501|The phylogenetic relations of twenty-five North American genera have been studied. The data for this study have been derived from the following characters: wings, genitalia, gills, and mouth parts. Intensive study of the wings supports Lameere's view of the primitive insect wing structure. By boiling the wings in KOH, it has proved possible to separate the two surfaces, and thus show that the mayflies possess every major vein that was to be found in the Dictyonurid. Apparently the Ephemerida have the most primitive wings of all living insects. The genitalia and mouth parts have been interpreted in accordance with the findings of Crampton and Walker. The gills have been of great value as phylogenetic indicators. Four distinct lines of development are recognized within the family. Two of these are monotypic and are represented by Caenis and Baetisca, respectively. The Heptageniid, the Batid, and the genus Siphlonurus make up the third branch. The Ephemerid, Blasturus, Leptophlebia, Choroterpes, Tricorythus, and Ephemerella constitute the fourth evolutionary stem.
25009091|Woodiel, Neil L., and Tsai, James H., Postdoctoral Research Associate and Asst. Professor of Entomology, respectively, Agric. Res. Ctr., University of Florida, 3205 SW 70th Ave., Fort Lauderdale, Florida 33315. Present address of senior author: Arrowhead Drive, Box 422, McMinnville, Tenn. 37110.-A rotary flight trap was successfully devised to sample flying insects associated with the palm community in south Florida. This machine consisted of a triangular support unit, and a boom and net assembly powered by an electric motor. Traps were operated three weeks per month for 12 months during 1974-1975. Although over 50 species of insects were periodically collected, Haplaxius crudus (Van Duzee) was trapped throughout the year. The flight activities of this insect appeared to be high in March, May, September and November. While in operation, the nets sampled 4,741 cu m of air per hour for insects. A list of materials necessary to construct this sampling unit is presented.
25009243|A breeding program of Morpho peleides insularis Fruhstorfer in Trinidad led to successful rearing of large broods of this butterfly on Paragonia pyramidata (Bignoniaceae). Crossing with M. achillaena Hbner from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, gave good fertility to the F4, while crossing with Morpho achilles Fruhst. from Belm, Par, Brazil did not lead to generations beyond the F1. The appearance of melanic forms of peleides, which occurred on two separate occasions in captivity, was followed by means of selective breeding; this revealed that the melanism had a genetic basis but was probably also influenced by the physical environment (especially excessive sun and heat exposure of juveniles in the breeding cage), and that at least two melanic characters (and possibly three) were segregating independently.
25010308|The micropterous Promiorrhynchus polhemusi new genus, new species from Veracruz, Mexico, is described and figured. The new taxon is related to but distinguished by a combination of characters from the macropterous Neotropical genera Miorrhynchus Usinger & Matsuda, Rhynchomirus Kormilev and Saileriessa Usinger & Matsuda. The only micropterous Neotropical genera known to date are Delnocoris Kormilev and Kelaino Kormilev, which show a similar alary reduction but are distinct different taxa.
25010362|The intrinsic rate of increase of a population in terms of fecundity, developmental time, and longevity, is known to affect the colonizing ability of species. We present evidence that Polistes dominulus, an invasive European paper wasp introduced to the United States, exhibits life-history traits that predispose it to successful colonization. This predisposition is not simply due to the more frequent pleometrosis of P. dominulus. Many authors have speculated, based on cursory observations, that P. dominulus is replacing native species including P. metricus. The possibility of replacement in light of the data is discussed.
25009539|The new pyrrhocorid genus Froeschnerocoris and new species F. denticapulus, are described from Assam in northeastern India. Its relationship to the genus Dysdercus is discussed, with special significance given to the structural differences in the metathoracic scent-gland ostiole and male and female genitalia.
25009470|Late instar larvae of a Neotropical species of Scotocryptus, tentatively identified as S. meliponae Girard and associated with adults determined as that species (Coleoptera: Leiodidae) are described from the nest of a stingless bee (Hymenoptera: Apidae: Meliponinae) in Manaus, Brazil. Habitus drawings and illustrations of selected characters are given to facilitate recognition of scotocryptine larvae and several characters are suggested to be adaptive apomorphs related to inquilinism, including dorso-ventral body compression, loss of stemmata, presence of stout spines, porelike cuticular structures, and an inverse c-shaped curvature of the body.
25008966|Part II of this series of papers concerning the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal (82: 279-284, 1974). In that report various species of the Eriopterine genus Gonomyia were considered and in the present paper further new species and records in the Eriopterini are provided. The species here described are Lipsothrix iranica, Cheilotrichia (Empeda) gnoma, Erioptera (Pseuderioptera) schmidi, E. (Psiloconopa) cancriformis, and Molophilus (Molophilus) pallidipes, all from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran. Additional to the above novelties, 13 further previously described European species are added to the list of species of Tipulidae from Iran.
25009796|Two apomorphic features of the larval mouthparts in Notodontidae (Lepidoptera are described and illustrated, and their taxonomic distribution within the family is documented. One hundred and fifty-four species of notodontid larvae were examined. These represent 90 genera and all currently-recognized subfamilies and tribes. The stipital lobe, a membranous projection on the dorsoposterior portion of the maxillary complex, varies in size and shape but occurs in 143 of the species studied. It does not occur in the Noctuidae, Lymantriidae, or Arctiidae. The majority of notodontid larvae exhibit a distinct developmental change in mandibular morphology, from a serrate cutting edge in first instars to a smooth edge in later instars. A serrate mandible is typical of all instars in other noctuoids. Like the stipital lobe, presence of a smooth mandibular margin is broadly distributed among notodontids. Speculations concerning the functional significance of these mouthpart modifications are presented, and their potential use as synapomorphies for the family is discussed.
25009849|The pupa of Pararhophites orobinus (Morawitz) (Pararhophitinae) is described, illustrated, and compared with the known pupae of other Megachilidae. The pupa is distinct from those of the megachilid subfamilies Fideliinae, Lithurginae, and Megachilinae. The similarities and differences of the pupae of the four subfamilies of the Megachilidae are discussed.
25005964|Collections of Ceratopogonidae were made in Salem County, New Jersey by means of mosquito light traps operated daily at five locations from June through August. Species of Culicoides collected in order of decreasing frequency were C. variipennis, C. venustus, C. stellifer, C. hollensis, C. crepuscularis, C. biguttatus, C. sanguisuga, C. arboricola, C. melleus, C. piliferus, and C. villosipennis. Collection of C. arboricola, and C. piliferus are new records for New Jersey. Detailed analysis of taxonomic features are given for the first eight of these species.
25010417|Three genera and 15 species of Vietnamese wasps belonging to the subfamily Vespinae of the family Vespidae are recorded. Among them, one genus and three species are new records for Vietnam, and the record of one species is doubtful.
25009203|Small colonies of Polistes fuscatus can suffer significant mortality due to attacks by house wrens. The wrens apparently compete with the wasps for nest sites.
25010501|Cryptobates Esaki, 1929 (Gerridae: Heteroptera) is a junior homonym of Cryptobates Fairmaire, 1882 (Tenebrionidae: Coleoptera); Lathriobates nom. nov., is proposed as a replacement name, with type species Gerris raja Distant, 1910. Cryptobatoides J. Polhemus, 1991 (Gerridae: Heteroptera) is a junior homonym of Cryptobatoides Kaszab, 1941 (Tenebrionidae: Coleoptera); Lathriobatoides nom. nov., is proposed as a replacement name, with type species Cryptobatoides brunneus J. Polhemus, 1991. Hydrometra akekawati Sites and J. Polhemus, 2003 is a junior synonym of Hydrometra okinawana Drake, 1951.
25006174|A new notation is proposed for the naming of complex venational dendroids in insect wings, in which is incorporated an objective summary of structural branching characteristics. The notation is designed for statistical comparison of fragmental and whole specimens. Although developed for use with fossils, the notation may facilitate determination of insects in modern fecal and stomach samples, and may prove useful for primary description in some taxa.
25006209|A new subspecies, Oeneis alberta capulinensis, has been found in the grassy patches at the crater rim of Capulin Mountain, New Mexico. The butterfly is on the wing in mid-May and the flight is over in early June. This is essentially the same flight period as that of O. a. oslari Skinner, although the locality is about 1,000 feet lower and well over a hundred miles southeast of the nearest known oslari colony. The Capulin subspecies is quite variable but seems to approach alberta alberta closer than it does any other subspecies. The types and type series are deposited in the American Museum of Natural History.
25010039|The monotypic genus Pentacanthoides Metcalf, 1952, is synonymized with the genus Sinophora Melichar, 1902. A diagnosis is given for the genus. One new combination, S. brunnea (Lallemand), is established. Evidence is given to support the placement of Sinophora in the tribe Aphrophorini.
25009811|A new genus and species of myrmecomorphic phyline Miridae, Myrmecomiris madecassus, is described from the spiny forest region of southwest Madagascar. The new genus is most closely related to the myrmecomorphic genera Pangania and Systellonotopsis which occur in southern Africa. The new Malagasy taxon was collected on several plant species, including an Acacia and a succulent Euphorbia.
25009360|A study of the type material of the 52 species-group taxa of Cerceris and one species of Eucerceris described by Nathan Banks is reported. Lectotypes of 25 species-group taxa of Cerceris are designated. Banks designated holotypes in his original descriptions for two species of Cerceris, and the types of the remaining 25 species-group taxa of Cerceris and one species of Eucerceris are accepted as holotypes since the original descriptions state or imply that only one specimen was involved and only one specimen was found.
25009309|The age at which females first become phonotactic to conspecific calling song, and the age at which females first mate were studied in the house cricket, Acheta domesticus L. (Orthoptera: Gryllidae). The average age at which virgin females first showed positive phonotaxis to tape recorded male calling song was 5.4 days after the last molt. In another group of adult female A. domesticus, the average age at which females first mated was 6.9 days, a significantly later age than that for phonotaxis. Early onset of phonotaxis may function to increase mate availability when females become sexually receptive.
25009538|Ligyrocoris barberi new species is described from southeastern United States. A key is presented to the nine species of Ligyrocoris sensu stricto in eastern United States. In Texas L. barberi, a pterygopolymorphic species, inhabits dry prairie communities where the bug feeds on ripe seeds of Rudbeckia hirta L. (Compositae). L. barberi is shown to be reproductively isolated by behavior from its nearest relative, the more northern L. diffusus.
25009134|The nest of the Neotropical social wasp Clypearia weyrauchi Richards is described for the first time. It consists of a single comb of sessile cells built directly on a tree trunk and covered by a domed envelope with an entrance below the center. The envelope does not contact the comb and is not thickened. It is unusual in having its outer surface coated with a layer of transparent film, probably a glandular secretion. This film serves to strengthen the crumbly, granular carton, which consists primarily of stone cells. The same film coats and strengthens the cell walls. Despite the fact that one of the two colonies examined appeared to be completing its cycle, its nest had not been enlarged beyond its initial size, a rare phenomenon among social wasps.
25009339|The genus Lincus is redefined and Minilincus Ruckes, 1958, placed in synonymy. The 30 known species of Lincus are described or redescribed and a key provided to assist in their recognition. New species are: anulatus, breddini, convexus, croupius, fatigus, incisus, laminatus, leviventris, manchus, modicus, operosus, repizcus, singularis, sinuosus, substyliger, tumidifrons, vallis, vandoesburgi and varius.
25009797|A new species of the Neotropical spider genus Leprolochus, L. stratus, is described from inland Venezuela; records and illustrations are provided for related species.
25005997|The activities of the parasitic bee Stelis (Odontostelis) bilineolata (Spinola) in specially constructed box nests of its host Euglossa cordata (Linnaeus) are reported. The female enters the nest, forces the attendant Euglossa female to abandon the nest, and remains in the nest for several days. She opens those cells containing eggs or small larvae, seals, removes, and destroys them and after depositing her own egg reseals the cell. Cells with older stages of Euglossa are not opened but the larva or pupa contained therein is killed. Feeding behavior of the small and large larvae and construction of the cocoon are described.
25010391|One new species of Copris Geoffroy with two subspecies is described from the mountains of Mexico, Guatemala and El Salvador. Copris boucardi Harold is redescribed. Drawings of the dorsal habitus, pronotum and a distribution map are provided.
25010378|The new riodinid genus Dachetola, tribe Riodinini, is described and illustrated from Central and South America. Four species are recognized: azora Godart, [1824], and virido Lathy, 1958, are transferred from Chalodeta Stichel to Dachetola (comb. novs.), and caligata Stichel, 1911, and pione Bates, 1868, are transferred from Calospila Geyer to Dachetola (comb. novs.). Dachetola is hypothesized to be most closely related to Metacharis Butler.
25010129|Kukalov-Peck (1991) and Kukalov-Peck and Lawrence (1993) proposed new characters to support a sister-group relationship between Strepsiptera and Coleoptera based on hind wing venation. Through the use of scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and light microscopy, we have examined these putative synapomorphies in multiple strepsipteran taxa and find discrepancies between the author's presentation of strepsipteran venation and those veins we could observe on the specimens themselves. We find that most of the authors' putative synapomorphies are defined imprecisely and do not consist of discrete character states. While the authors have expressed their results in cladistic terminology, they have failed to use standard cladistic methodology in character evaluation. We object to the authors' use of hypothetical groundplans for defining synapomorphy prior to formal cladistic analysis, the heavy reliance on evolutionary scenarios in phylogenetic inference, the lack of adequate outgroup comparison, and the absence of a simultaneous parsimony analysis of the character data. Based on observational discrepancies and methodological improprieties, we conclude that the authors' putative synapomorphies as currently constituted provide no evidence to support a sister-group relationship between Strepsiptera and Coleoptera.
25009641|Meluchamixia olea (Costa Rica) and Vivianadema magna (Peru) are described as new genera and new species and included in the Tribe Nematopodini. Beutelspacoris sanchezi (Argentina) is described as a new genus and new species and included in the Tribe Acanthocerini. Three new species Eubule sandaracine (Colombia), Spartocera melas (Brazil) and Sephina quintanarooana (Mxico) belonging to the Tribe Spartocerini are described. Dorsal view illustrations are provided for all new species, as is a key to the genera of Nematopodini.
25009093|Shapiro, Arthur M., Department of Zoology, University of California, Davis, California 95616.-The egg, larva, and pupa of Tatochila xanthodice from moderate elevations in the Cordillera Central of the Colombian Andes are described. There are numerous suggestions of affinity to the Holarctic Pieris callidice group. The pupa is unusual in the reduction of the frontal prominence and concomitant enlargement of the supraocular ones, and in the reduction of the dorsolateral prominences.
25006084|Reducing compounds, expressed as glucose, increased in weight in both groups. In eggs from young mealworms, the weights were 0.13, 0.15, and 0.18 mg. on 0, 1, and 2 days, respectively. Corresponding values for eggs of old beetles were 0.13, 0.15, and 0.19 mg. A reduction in trehalose occurred from 0.36 on 0, to 0.29 on 1, and to 0.22 mg. on 2 day eggs of young beetles, and from 0.37, to 0.29 and to 0.23 mg. on corresponding days in those of old beetles. Trehalose may be converted to glucose for use by the developing embryo. Neither reducing carbohydrates nor trehalose can account for differences in rates of larval growth between offspring of young and old beetles.
25009200|The concentration of free amino acid (FAA) pool in relation to the various morphogenetic events occurring during embryogenesis of Chilomenes sexmaculata Fabr. was determined at different incubation periods. During the first 12 hours of embryogenesis, when the zygote undergoes an active cleavage, the concentration declines gradually. However, it rises sharply at 15 hours of development when the cleavage energids undergo an active migratory activity. The amount of FAA decreases at 24 hours and remains almost steady up to 35 hours of incubation when the embryo starts elongation and segmentation. From then on there is a continuous increase in FAA up to 75 hours followed by a declining trend towards hatching as the yolk gets depleted.
25009752|Two new species of the baetid genus Pseudocentroptiloides Jacob are described: P. usa from the Nearctic, and P. christineae from the Orient. The genus and its type species P. shadini (Kazlauskas) are redescribed in a comparative format, and larval keys to species are provided. The Oriental species P. christineae and P. ceylonica Glazaczow are sister species with several synapomorphies. The Palearctic species P. shadini is the most closely related to this pair, sharing certain other apomorphies with them. The most basally derived species is P. usa. Neither cladistic nor phenetic relationships of species support subgeneric classification as previously proposed.
25010150|Austrotinodes texensis, new species, from the Edwards Plateau region of Texas, is described and illustrated. The new species appears most closely related to Austrotinodes sedmani Flint from Central America, but differs primarily in the aedeagus having only two pairs of lateral processes and in the shape of the intermediate appendages. The genus now is represented in North America by five species. A checklist of the 34 known species of Austrotinodes and their distributions is presented.
25010496|A remarkable new cylapine genus and species, Rhyparochromomiris femoratus, is described from specimens taken in canopy-fogging samples in Orellana Province, Ecuador. This new myrmecomorphic taxon is unique in the Miridae in having greatly enlarged forefemora, five-segmented antennae in both sexes, and unusual male genitalia. A description, dorsal and lateral photographs of the adult male and female, antenna, foreleg, and claw, and illustrations of the male genitalia are provided to help distinguish this new mirid from other Cylapinae.
25005851|The following new species are defined: Gonomyia (Progonomyia) bisiculifera; G. (P.) protensa; G. (Gonomyia) tanaocantha, from Sikkim; G. (Lipophleps) kama; G. (L.) varsha from Kumaon and West Bengal, and G. (L.) mizoensis from the Lushai Hills, Assam.
25009869|Scaptomyza australis Malloch is a common species widespread throughout Australia, and most recently reported as well from Norfolk Island, ca. 900 miles off the east coast of Australia. It is reported for the first time from Pitcairn Island and Tanna, Vanuatu, which extend the range considerably east and north, respectively. Male genitalia of the Pitcairn specimens is described, and slight variation in sternite 8 of the female is documented. The distribution and monophyly of the subgenus Bunostoma is briefly discussed, with particular regard to the endemic Hawaiian fauna.
25009282|Nine cultivars and selections of the Kentucky bluegrass, Poa pratensis L., were examined for susceptibility to a natural infestation of the larvae of the bluegrass billbug, Sphenophorus parvulus Gyllenhal. There was a significant correlation (r = 0.767, df = 7, P < 0.05) between larval infestations and percent damage to the bluegrasses. 'Kenblue' was among the least damaged entries and had minimal infestation. This established cultivar is characterized by narrow leaves, an upright (taller) posture, and high susceptibility to the leaf spot and melting-out disease incited by Drechslera poae (Baudys) Shoem. The other cultivars and selections had broader leaves, lower growth, and showed less disease damage. Possibly, these characteristics render these other bluegrasses more apparent than Kenblue and, thereby, are preferred over Kenblue for oviposition by the adult billbugs.
25006194|Daily records were kept on the numbers of individuals of the tropical, day-flying moth Urania fulgens (Uraniidae-Heterocera) migrating on a large scale as seen at three different localities located in the central part of Costa Rica. Less regular observations made at several other localities indicated that the migration was a widespread phenomenon in Costa Rica. This migration of Urania, studied from its very early phase and on through its termination, lasted from 12 August to 24 September 1969 and was carefully studied for 30 of these 42 days. On the basis of the 54,625 moths counted using one method of sampling the migrating population, flight activity pattern on a daily basis was found to be bimodal. The peaks of most flight activity (largest numbers of moths flying) were equal and these occurred between 7:00 to 11:00 AM and between 3:00 and 6:00 PM (C. S. T.) with very few moths flying between 11:00 AM and 3:00 PM. Samples of several hundred netted individuals taken at various times over the course of the migration, revealed that sex ratio in the population was always unity and with females carrying large numbers of eggs. That the migrating population was composed of young adults was indicated by the fresh appearance of these moths; an assay was conducted to estimate life expectancy and for males, it was 28 days and for females, 34 days. Traffic rate, speed, and density of the migration were estimated to describe the consistency of the population on a day-to-day basis. A brief discussion is given concerning ecological experimental approaches that could be used to study insect migrations in general.
25009847|Macrochlidia, new genus, is described from Colombia and Venezuela; it includes two species: M. major, new species, and M. minor, new species. Females of M. major are the largest moths in the Chlidanotinae (Tortricidae). The male genitalia of Macrochlidia are characterized by fusion of the hami and socii; the characteristic chlidanotine "asteroid" signum of the female is greatly reduced. The Neotropical fauna of Chlidanotini currently includes 25 described species placed in six genera; over half of the Neotropical Chlidanotini species represented in major collections worldwide are undescribed.
25010156|The painted grasshopper Poecilocerus pictus F. feeds on the poisonous milkweed Calotropis gigantea. Cardenolide content in the various tissues of gravid females of this insect has been analysed and significant differences in the levels of cardenolides have been found in different tissues. The metathoracic scent gland, ovary and egg have been found to sequester higher concentrations of cardenolides. The accessory salivary system (reservoir), that is closely associated with the crop and the midgut, has been found to excrete the cardenolides, as evidenced from the analyses of the spittle emitted as droplets by satiated life stages.
25010293|Aphodius kiowensis, n. sp., from Kansas and the Texas panhandle, is described and illustrated. Its biology and habitat are discussed, as are the species of rodents having Aphodius associates in collecting areas in southern Kansas. The pertinent Kansas habitats and possible biological scenarios are discussed.
25010239|Heliothrips zucchi is described as a new species from south eastern Brazil. It is very similar in structure to H. haemorrhoidalis, the greenhouse thrips. Because nearly all known males of H. haemorroidalis have been found in the western part of the Amazon basin, it is suggested that this is the area of origin of this worldwide pest. The only other member of the genus is from southern Africa, and a key is provided to distinguish the three species.
25009486|Anthrenus pimpinellae F., a widespread Palearctic dermestid, is reported from Delaware and Pennsylvania, the first confirmed records of this species for the Western Hemisphere. Anthrenus lepidus LeConte and A. occidens Casey, considered junior synonyms of A. pimpinellae since the early 1900's, herein are removed from synonymy with A. pimpinellae. A table of external morphological characters separating these 3 species is given. The biology and habits of this introduced dermestid are reviewed and summarized from the European literature. A diagnosis and illustration of the adult are provided, along with a new key to the species of Anthrenus occurring in North America east of the Mississippi River.
25008768|Field observations of the rarely collected ant, Cheliomyrmex morosus (F. Smith), are recorded. The ant is hypogaeic with a majority of its burrows appearing in the upper 6 inches of the soil. Internal and external features of the abdomen considered to be of importance in understanding the phylogeny of this ant are discussed. Included are descriptions of portions of the gastral digestive system, the reproductive system, and the sting apparatus. Malpighian tubule counts in C. morosus and 6 other New World dorylines are compared.
25010117|Ten species of caterpillars in the genus Dichomeris were collected on Solidago and Aster spp. in the northeastern U.S.; an eleventh species was collected on Solidago in Florida. New host records are presented. Most species fly in summer and overwinter as partly grown larvae. Some species are restricted to open habitats; others occur in both forest and field. Larvae can be distinguished by color pattern. All but one of the species are leaf folders; some species fold leaves tightly and others loosely. Overall forms of leaf folds vary among host plant species, reflecting differences in position of natural bends in the leaves which larvae always choose as starting points for leaf folds. Ovipositing adults D. leuconotella and D. ochripalpella prefer tall ramets, so that eggs and summer-hatching larvae are concentrated on the tallest host plant species (S. altissima). Partly grown caterpillars redistribute themselves more evenly among host species in the following spring. Adults of at least four species avoid ovipositing on S. caesia, although S. caesia is much used by the single apparently spring-hatching species, D. bilobella. Parasitoids are shared among the summer-hatching caterpillar species; D. bilobella is attacked by a different set of parasitoids.
25009506|The genus Idiocarus is reviewed based on recent collections in Papua New Guinea. Three new species, I. isolatus, I. sepikanus, and I. papuus are described, distribution notes are given for three previously described species, and a key to all species is provided, accompanied by figures of the male and female genital structures. Idiocarus litus La Rivers is reduced to a junior synonym of I. elongatus Montandon.
25005864|Descriptions of the nests of two African subterranean meliponid species, namely, Meliplebeia tanganyikae medionigra (Cockerell) and Plebeiella lendliana (Friese) are given. In both species, the nest proper consisted of brood area, area of old cerumen layers, and of pollen and honey pots. The combs are horizontal in both species, the mode of building is concentric in M. t. medionigra while clockwise-spiral in P. lendliana. In both species, the nests are connected to the exterior by means of an entrance burrow, of which the uppermost section forms a turret protruding above the soil surface. An interesting lower blind burrow was observed in M. t. medionigra apparently for the drainage of excess moisture. Both species can be transported to artificial hives, but the maintenance of the colonies under this condition is difficult.
25005888|Geographic distribution of stingless bees and the number of species per continent are given. South America is considered the center of origin and dispersion of stingless bees because it has: a) 183 species against 32 in Africa, 42 in Asia plus Indonesia West of the Wallace-Weber line, 20 in Australia, New Guinea, and the Solomon Islands; b) primitive species with n = 9 chromosomes etc; c) highly specialized species. Possible migration of stingless bees since the Paleocene is studied. Their progress can be followed through six maps included in the paper. The fossil Meliponorytes succini Tosi is considered close enough to Meliponula bocandei (Spinola) to justify joining them in one genus. Meliponorytes devictus was re-studied and found to be a valid Trigona, close to T. iridipennis of the subgenus (Tetragonula) and renamed Trigona (Tetragonula) devicta (Cockerell). Methods of dispersal in the stingless bees are briefly discussed.
25008979|The amount of blood ingested by the female stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans, was studied in all combinations of 23, 32, and 38C and 7, 43, 75, and 97% relative humidity. No significant differences existed in the amount of blood ingested between the 12 temperature-humidity combinations. Data show that the percentage of flies which feed is dependent on temperature-humidity relations. The percentage of flies feeding is greatest at high temperature and low humidity and lowest at low temperature and high humidity.
25006033|The incidence and size of the larval tapeworm burden in young, middle-aged, and old confused flour beetles was studied. The influences of sex and length of starvation period were also observed. Virgin beetles from young parents were permitted to feed for 24 hours on whole gravid proglottids and then returned to the medium for at least fourteen days prior to being preserved, dissected, and examined for cysticercoids. A quantitative approach to feeding eggs to the beetles was unsuccessful. Old females generally had a significantly smaller burden and incidence of cysticercoids when compared with young or middle-aged females, whereas middle-aged males generally had a significantly higher incidence only when compared with young or old males. Apparently an age resistance to the establishment of H. diminuta in T. confusum occurs in the females only.
25009568|The larvae of six species of ants in the genera Acromyrmex, Orectognathus, Oxypomyrmex, Procryptocerus, Rogeria and Zacryptocerus are described. The larva of Oxyopomyrmex is characterized for the first time. Included also are references to the larvae of myrmicine ants found in the literature.
25009816|The new genus Orcya is described to include a monophyletic group of twelve species distributed from Mexico south to central Argentina. Nine species are transferred from Thecla, ahola Hewitson, anthracia Hewitson, aunia Hewitson, bassania Hewitson, catharina Draudt, cordelia Hewitson, larseni Lathy, marmoris Druce and orcynia Hewitson, and three new species described, O. hewitsoni (northwest Andes), O. obliqua and O. supra (Argentina). Lectotypes are designated for T. ahola and T. anthracia. Numerical cladistic analysis (PAUP) indicates Orcya is the sister group of Noreena Johnson, MacPherson and Ingraham and Contrafacia Johnson (Theclinae, Eumaeini).
25006235|Seven new species from Neotropics are described and the male characteristics of Stenus postnotatus L. Benick are described for the first time.
25009234|Ocherini is proposed as a new tribe of Discocephalinae. The tribe is characterized and 23 genera assigned to it.
25009463|The orientation behavior of Polyergus breviceps was studied in an oak-juniper woodland in southeastern Arizona. Target colonies of Formica gnava were scattered in all compass directions around the Polyergus nests. Tests conducted at the front of the slave-raid swarm showed that optical stimuli, especially polarized light, are the principal cues for worker orientation. There was no evidence that the ants were following a chemical trail previously deposited by a successful scout. After the slave raid, workers of Polyergus returned to their home nest by responding simultaneously to optical cues and to a chemical trail that they had deposited during the outbound raid. Although it is possible that naive individuals, scouting for the first time, may indeed rely more heavily on a chemical trail, all evidence to date indicates that experienced scouts utilize optical orientation.
25005926|The three journals involved are Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Phila. 13, 14; Proc. Ent. Soc. Phila. 1-6; Trans. Amer. Ent. Soc. 1-11. The content and publication dates of each of E's. articles is discussed and a summary in the form of an alphabetical list containing 224 species names given. For each name the date of release of the preprint and the date of publication of the volume part containing the name is given. An informal opinion of the Commission on Zoological Nomenclature establishing the validity of preprints for purposes of priority is quoted.
25010229|Holdings of Lepidoptera type material in the Tepper collection at Michigan State University are completely evaluated and annotated. Acquired in 1889, the collection contains types of 180 nominate Lepidoptera, predominately noctuids described by H. K. Morrison. A brief curatorial history of the collection as well as handwriting examples for authors of the type material in the collection is presented. The types are completely annotated with bibliographic citation, type locality, condition, and a complete discussion of the status of each type. The following Morrison lectotypes are also designated: Tarache crustaria, Agrotis decolor, Calocampa germana, Hadena congermana, Agrotis acclivis, Segetia orbica, Tarache patula, and Eurois astricta.
25006104|This list reports 86 species not previously reported from western Pennsylvania, and contains additional records for species reported from Carnegie Museum's Powdermill Nature Reserve.
25009915|A new genus, Orphnotrechus, and new species, O. slateri, are described. Orphnotrechus is placed in the tribe Rhyparochromini and is most closely related to Peritrechus. A key to the genera of North American Rhyparochromini is provided.
25008791|Phonotaxis occurs in males of two Orchelimum species. Conspecific male song transmitted by a speaker elicited rapid direct approach over distances up to 2 meters. Certain individuals responded repeatedly as the speaker was relocated, the latency of their response decreasing in successive trials. This taxis is interpreted as the approach phase of male aggression.
25005988|The musculature and innervation of the thorax, sound mechanism, and the fourth abdominal segment of the male annual cicada, Tibicen chloromera (Walker) are described. The ventral nerve cord consists of a subesophageal ganglion, prothoracic ganglion, and a thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass. There are no ganglia present in any of the abdominal segments. The prothoracic ganglion supplies innervation to some of the muscles of the cervical area and the muscles of the prothorax. The thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass provides innervation to the posterior tergo-sternal muscles of the prothorax, the muscles of the prothorax, the muscles of the mesothorax, metathorax, and all of the abdominal segments. The abdominal segments are innervated by lateral nerve branches which arise from a pair of nerves that originate from the posterior portion of the thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass located in the mesothorax. No median nerves are visible between the subesophageal ganglion, prothoracic ganglion, and the thoracic-abdominal ganglionic mass. The median nerves are probably included within the interganglionic connectives.
25009625|The sensilla and setal patterns of the antennae of the goldenrod gall fly were investigated by scanning electron microscopy. Sexual dimorphism is clearly evident on the first flagellomere and arista of the flies. On the flagellar surface, the female exhibits only one type of trichoid sensillum while the male exhibits three types; a trichoid type like that of the female and two sizes of basiconic sensilla. The point of attachment of the arista of the female bears an additional cup-like articulation that is not present in the male and the female also has an obvious button-like protuberance on the lateral border of each arista near the distal end, which is absent in males.
25009697|Hepialus gracilis Grote [1865], is transferred to the genus Korscheltellus Brner, 1925, a palearctic genus previously unrecognized from North America. Hepialus furcatus Grote, 1883, H. mustelinus Packard [1865], and H. labradoriensis Packard [1865], are synonymized under Korscheltellus gracilis. K. gracilis is redescribed, illustrated and its distribution and biology reviewed. The interception in Florida of a related species K. fusconebulosus (De Geer, 1778) is noted.
25009587|Information is presented on nest architecture, provisioning, ontogeny and certain other aspects of the natural history of the squash bee Peponapis utahensis (Cockerell) and compared with what is known about other species in the genus. /// Se presenta informacin sobre la arquitectura de los nidos, aprovisionamiento de la celda, ontogenia y otros aspectos de la historia natural de la abeja de la flor de calabaza Peponapis utahensis (Cockerell). Estos datos son comparados con la informacin conocida para otras especies de este mismo gnero.
25009632|A total of 310 birds of 41 species were examined for ticks during a 1 year study in a Lyme disease endemic area located in Westchester County, New York. Ticks were found on 28% (88) of the birds and 46% (19) of the species sampled. All of the 231 ticks found were immatures and all but 4 were either Ixodes dammini Spielman, Clifford, Piesman, and Corwin (51%) or I. dentatus Marx (47%). From May until September, I. dammini parasitized 36% of the birds of species found to host ticks and I. dentatus parasitized 26% from September to June. Based on the prevalence and seasonal distribution of ticks on birds at this site, we suggest that birds may be important in local and long-distance dispersal of I. dammini and thus also possibly important in the dispersal of the etiologic agent of Lyme disease.
25006229|The present research on the life history of Oppia nitens C. L. Koch adds another species of oribatoid mite which has been successfully reared under standard laboratory conditions. For the first time culturing was carried through the
25005893|The eight genera of the cerambycid tribe Methiini presently known from Mexico and Central America are treated. These genera, Atenizus, Tristachycera, Malacopterus, Sphagoeme, Pseudomethia, Styloxus, Methia, and Placoeme, new genus, are separated in a key. Keys are also presented for Styloxus and Methia. New species include: Placoeme vitticollis, Styloxus oblatipilus, S. parvulus, S. fuscus, Methia subvittata, M. maculosa, M. vittata, M. dentata, and M. accidentalis.
25005880|The growth and development in size and weight are given for four tarantulas. Tarantulas reach maturity in from 8 to 13 years. Mature males usually live for 2-3 months; mature females may live ten or more years. Very young tarantulas may be fed on termites; older ones on grasshoppers and June beetles.
25009636|During 1983-1985, females of Atylotus bicolor were collected in dry-ice baited canopy traps at 4 sites in Connecticut. Parity and stage of follicle development were determined for 52 females, all of which completed at least one gonotrophic cycle and had terminal ovarian follicles in early stages of development. Nearly half of the females contained detectable amounts of fructose. It is suspected that females produce eggs without blood meals during the first ovarian cycle and metabolize sugars for survival and dispersal.
25006131|Seven specimens of Paleacrita vernata Peck, 1795, which have male and female structures combined in single specimens, are described.
25006075|The genus Termitodiscus Wasmann is redescribed, illustrated, and a key differentiating this genus from the other two genera of the tribe is provided. All of the previously described species of the genus are redescribed and new characters illustrated. Six new species are herein described, T. coatoni from South Africa, T. emersoni from the Congo Republic, T. krishnai from Burma, T. latericius from South Africa, T. sheasbyi from Southwest Africa and T. vansomereni from Kenya. Distribution maps are presented which show the distribution of all species. Diagrams are presented showing the relationships among the species using both the phylogenetic and the phenetic approach. A summary of the host relationships is presented showing 100% host specificity to species of Odontotermes of the species now known. Observations on the behavior and distribution of selected species within the nests are presented which support the interpretation of the species as integrated termite guests whose principal adaptation to life within the nest is that of avoidance. The relationship of the tribe Termitodiscini with the Myrmedoniini is documented and discussed.
25009322|Varying densities (0, 8, 15, 23 or 30) of newly eclosed first generation Colorado potato beetle Leptinotarsa decemlineata larvae were maintained on eggplant to describe their effects on vegetative growth, flowering and yield. Significant depression of height and leaf area was detected 5-6 weeks post-infestation only for 30 larvae/plant. However, all densities temporarily disrupted flower production. Densities above 8 larvae/plant temporarily reduced yield. Beetles were excluded in all treatments during the second generation during which the plants compensated for early yield losses. Total yield for the season was the same in all treatments.
25008929|The mites here described were collected from Long Island, Lake Champlain region, and the Mohawk Valley area, New York, in June-October of 1973. The new species described are: Tarsocheylidae, Hoplocheylus similis, H. americanus; Paratydeidae, Scolotydaeus simplex; Pseudocheylidae, Anoplocheylus transiens. Twenty-six figures are presented. The genus Neotydeus Baker is synonymized with Scolotydaeus Berlese.
25010230|A structurally complex patch of forest canopy in Manu National Park (Peruvian Amazonia), consisting of two trees and eleven associated vines, was sampled using insecticidal fog. Approximately 62,000 ants were collected and sorted to species. The total biomass (dry weight) of adult ants in the sample was close to 49 g. Dolichoderus bispinosus, the dominant species in the sample, made up 64.2% of the ant biomass and 69.0% of the individual ants. The four most abundant species (Dolichoderus bispinosus, Dolichoderus decollatus, Azteca sp. 1, and Paraponera clavata) together comprised nearly 95% of the biomass and individuals in the sample. In spite of the clear dominance of the sample by a few species, a total of 85 species in 29 genera were found, making this the most species-rich point sample of a canopy ant fauna ever documented. Sampled at the level of a small number of trees, the rainforest canopy ant fauna reveals a pattern of remarkable species richness accompanied by strikingly low equitability in the rank-abundance distribution, or ecological diversity. A small number of species overwhelmingly dominate the ant assemblage but fail to exclude other ant species. Competition appears to limit the number of dominant species that can coexist in small areas, but a large majority of species present do not compete with the dominants and exist to a greater or lesser extent independently of them. The low ecological diversity observed in the sample may be in part a function of the spatial scale of sampling, and increased sampling should lead to a change in this pattern. The extent to which the species abundance distribution would become more equitable cannot be determined at this time. Finally, the structural complexity of the canopy may promote high species richness by creating microhabitat-linked species associations that effectively function as separate, non-competing ant assemblages.
25009263|Many dipterous prey records exist for Stictia carolina (F.). Only one study reports the use of hesperiids and cicadas in addition to flies as prey items. The present study confirms the use of hesperiids as prey of S. carolina; of 9 unicellular nests examined, 4 contained hesperiids in addition to dipterous prey.
25010201|A slight dimorphism between queens and, workers and intermediates was found in a colony of Protopolybia exigua exigua collected in Pedregulho, southeastern Brazil. Mean sizes of all nine measured body parts of queens (n = 30) were statistically larger than those of workers and intermediates. Canonical discriminant analysis also showed some differentiation among them, with Mahalanobis' intercaste distance (
25010074|The definition of Procleticini is broadened to include a total of eleven genera: Aleixus McDonald, Brepholoxa Van Duzee, Dendrocoris Bergroth, Lobepomis Berg, Neoderoploa Pennington, Odmalea Bergroth, Parodmalea, new genus, Procleticus Berg, Terania Pirn, Thoreyella Spinola, and Zorcadium Bergroth. Characters which unite these genera into a homogeneous group are those involving both the male and female genitalia. Parodmalea rubella, new genus, new species is described from Brazil (Mato Grosso). Neoderoploa willineri Kormilev, 1955 is placed as a junior synonym of N. bruchii Pennington, 1922. Diagnoses are given for the tribe Procleticini and for all previously described procleticine genera. Redescriptions are provided for several relatively rare species: Lobepomis peltifera Berg, Procleticus corniger Berg, Terania guachipasi Pirn, and Neoderoploa bruchii Pennington. A key to aid in the identification of the included genera is provided.
25010188|Adevoplitus, n. gen. is proposed for the previously described species Pseudevoplitus longicornis Ruckes, P. casei Thomas, and P. mexicanus Brailowsky & Barrera. Two new species are also described Adevoplitus venezolanus, n. sp. and A. costaricensis, n. sp. from Venezuela and Costa Rica respectively. Previously known species are redescribed herein, and a key is provided for the identification of all known species.
25005794|The genus Megachile is divided into three genera, Megachile, Chelicodoma, and Creightonella, differing in their nesting habits as well as structure. The following subgenera are described: Callomegachile, Chalicodomoides, Chelostomoda, Callochile, Chalicodoma (Callomegachile) mystaceana is described from Australia; this species has usually been called mystacea Fabricius, a name properly used for Megachile (Callochile) mystacea Fabricius (=M. ustulatiformis Cockerell).
25010053|A new species of Saica is described from eastern United States. The forewing, male genitalia, and apex of the male and female abdomen are illustrated. A key to the Saicinae in America north of Mexico is provided and notes are provided for the other members of the subfamily in this geographic area.
25009216|Many insects are known to communicate with percussive vibration and vibrations transduced with acoustic songs via plant tissue. Artificial percussive vibrations degrade in acceleration and velocity away from a vibration source along plant stems; the free and distorting and loosing energy faster than the fixed end. Woody stemmed plants vibrate within a narrow frequency band and thus transmit signals further than fleshy ones.
25010250|The total number and distribution per antennal flagellomere of sensilla placodea (olfactory disks), sensilla coeloconica, sensilla ampullacea and sensilla campaniformia were determined in workers of Nannotrigona testaceicornis Lepeletier a stingless bee species quite common in Brazil. The distribution of the sensilla was uniform, with the largest number occurring in flagellomere 10 and gradually decreasing in the direction of the basal flagellomeres in a way similar to that observed in Scaptotrigona postica Latreille. Nannotrigona testaceicornis had a larger number of sensilla ampullacea and a smaller number of sensilla coeloconica and sensilla campaniformia than Scaptotrigona postica. Although Nannotrigona testaceicornis does not communicate through the formation of pheromone trails, this species presents a larger quantity of sensilla placodea (relative to the length of the flagellum) than Scaptotrigona postica.
25006120|Known distributions of three northeastern woodland Pieridae argue against the occurrence of Pieris napi oleracea Harris in southern New Jersey.
25010395|The distributions of the 6 genera and 23 species of Helotrephidae now known from Thailand are summarized and additional records given. Fischerotrephes is recorded from Thailand for the first time. Distributions of the individual genera within Thailand are discussed and a maps depicting collection records of all species known from Thailand are presented.
25009503|Oncideres santarosae and Lochmaeocles tessellatus costaricae are described as new from Costa Rica. Known hosts are listed and a dorsal view figure of O. santarosae is provided.
25009313|The 5 immature stages of Myndus crudus Van Duzee, an apparent vector of lethal yellowing disease of palms, are described and illustrated and a key for separating nymphal instars is provided. Features useful in distinguishing nymphal instars include the number of metatarsal segments (2 in first through third instars, 3 in fourth and fifth instars), the presence of a tooth on the profemora of fourth and fifth instars, and the increase in body size, wingpad size, and number of pits during nymphal development.
25005795|Notes are presented on the nesting behavior of A. bicolor Say and A. leuthstromi Ashmead. Two papers are added to the bibliography presented in review of the ethology of this genus published in the same Journal in 1957.
25010509|Species diversity and abundance of scarabaeoid dung beetles (Coleoptera) attracted to fresh cow dung were studied in three habitats of New Jersey: Hutcheson Memorial Forest (HMF) disturbed field, HMF old growth forest, and Rutgers University Bovine Farm. Over a one year period, baited pitfall traps yielded a total of 15,206 beetles representing at least 26 species. Onthophagus hecate was a dominant species in all three sites, accounting for 55.1% of all individuals collected. Onthophagus pennsylvanicus and Copris minutus were present in high numbers in the field, comprising 25.1% and 3.8%, respectively, of specimens collected in that habitat, while O. orpheus and C. minutus were numerous in the forest (20.8% and 13.3%, respectively). Two introduced species, Aphodius lividus (68.5%) and O. taurus (9.6%), were the most numerous species on the farm. Nine species accounted for more than 96% of all scarabaeoid dung beetles collected during the year-long study. The majority of the beetles were collected during the warmer months (May-September), with general peaks appearing to be correlated with temperature. A total of five introduced species were collected: five in the farm site, two in the field site, but none in the forest; 80% of the individuals collected on the farm were introduced.
25010052|The genus Meleon Wanless is restricted to three African species: M. guineensis (Berland and Millot), M. solitaria (de Lessert) and M. kenti (de Lessert). Linus guineensis Berland and Millot is removed from the synonymy of M. solitaria and re-established as a valid species. Portia falcifera Wanless is placed in the synonymy of M. solitaria, while a male previously assigned to M. solitaria is considered the male of M. guineensis. Portia oreophila Wanless is placed in the synonymy of Portia madagascarensis Wanless. Meleon madagascarensis and M. russata (Simon) are shown to be misplaced in Meleon.
25005983|Collecting areas have been determined from which the type locations should be selected for the material described by Kirby from the "Upper Canada" collections of Bigsby.
25010354|A revision is presented of the water treaders in the genus Mesovelia Mulsant & Rey occurring on New Guinea and nearby islands. A key to species is provided, followed by a taxonomic treatment and distribution of the species. The following new species are proposed: M. melanesica J. Polhemus & D. Polhemus from Papua New Guinea and Irian Jaya, and M. stysi J. Polhemus & D. Polhemus from southern Papua New Guinea. The following new synonymy is proposed: M. horvathi Lundblad 1933 = M. japonica Miyamoto 1964.
25006038|Eleven species are transferred from the subfamily Tortricinae to other groups.
25009660|An experimental investigation of the host discrimination of Monodontomerus obsoletus, a gregarious parasitoid of immature alfalfa leafcutting bees, Megachile rotundata, was conducted. Naive or experienced parasitoids distinguished two classes of parasitized hosts from unparasitized hosts, based on the time interval since initial parasitization. Hosts parasitized 72 or more hours before exposure to a second female were rarely superparasitized. Hosts parasitized 24 hours prior to exposure to a second female were usually superparasitized but fewer eggs were deposited in second broods than in first broods. A significant inverse correlation was observed between the size of first and second broods in 24-hour hosts. This suggests that superparasitizing females were able to approximate the size of first broods and adjusted the size of their own broods accordingly.
25008794|This paper summarizes various studies on the biology of Morpho polyphemus (Lepidoptera: Morphinae) in El Salvador. Emphasis is placed upon the interpretation of observed life cycle, larval host plant specificity, parasitism of eggs and larvae, larval behavior, and adult behavior in terms of a generalized adaptive evolutionary strategy that accounts for the ability of this butterfly to successfully colonize isolated patches of second-growth forest. In Central American countries the butterfly is generally confined to the canopy of undistributed primary-growth rain forest (Costa Rica). In El Salvador, where virtually all primary-growth forest has been destroyed through land-clearing agricultural practices (slash-burn systems), the species has survived in small second-growth habitats where a major larval host plant, Paullinia pinnata (Sapindaceae), is abundant. Comparisons of development time with two subspecies of Morpho peleides, indicate that the ability of Morpho polyphemus to survive in second-growth forest communities is a relatively recent event. Various hypotheses are advanced to account for observed seasonal differences in adult abundance since the dry season is pronounced at the study site.
25008917|The poison gland secretion is the source of the trail pheromones in the myrmicine genera Myrmica, Manica, Pogonomyrmex, and Veromessor. Transposition studies demonstrate that poison gland products of Myrmica, Manica, and Pogonomyrmex species lack intra- and intergeneric specificity. The unpredictable lack of trail specificity identified with myrmicine venoms is discussed in terms of common trace natural products which may be utilized as trail pheromones by species in unrelated taxa. The persistence of chemical trails is discussed as a function of the foraging strategies employed by myrmicine species.
25009845|The first U.S. record of the Palearctic Psallus lepidus Fieber is given. Previously known in the Nearctic region only from the Canadian Maritime Provinces, this phyline is reported from Massachusetts on Old World species of ash, Fraxinus. The deraeocorine Deraeocoris piceicola Knight and mirine Dichrooscytus latifrons Knight are recorded from spruce, Picea spp.: the former in Connecticut, Maine, New York, and Vermont and the latter from Maine, New Hampshire, New York, and Vermont. These are the first records of the western Deraeocoris piceicola in eastern North America and the first northeastern U.S. records for Dichrooscytus latifrons, not previously known east of Michigan in the United States. Psallus lepidus is adventive in eastern North America, whereas Dichrooscytus latifrons and Deraeocoris piceicola are considered indigenous in the East.
25006237|Scanning electron microscopy is used to demonstrate the possible use of antennae of Anoplura for taxonomic purposes. Of the five Haematopinus studied there are sensilla coeloconica, one on the distal posterior aspect of the fourth, and one on the posterior aspect of the fifth antennal segments. There are two pore organs that appear associated with the sensilla coeloconica of the fifth segment. The sizes of the atria of the sensilla coeloconica and the location and distinctness of the pore organs are found to vary considerably and thus may be of taxonomic significance.
25010136|Baryscapus megos, a new species of tetrastichine Eulophidae, is described and illustrated. This species is unusual in having a very large mouth opening. A key is presented to separate it from other species of North American Tetrastichinae with such a large mouth.
25010507|Arcofaciella verrucosa Fennah, 1956 (Hemiptera: Fulgoroidea: Delphacidae) is here reported from Fujian in southeastern China and Tibet in southwestern China for the first time. This represents the first record of the genus Arcofaciella Fennah, 1956 in mainland China. These new species records extend the range of Arcofaciella westward considerably, the genus having been previously known only from Hong Kong and Taiwan. Identification characteristics, dorsal habitus and diagnostic and male genitalic illustrations of Arcofaciella verrucosa Fennah are provided for the recognition of the species in China.
25009728|Formerly monotypic Noreena Johnson, MacPherson & Ingraham (Theclinae, Eumaeini) is revised to comprise a monophyletic group of nine species distributed from east-central Mexico to northwestern Argentina. Four new species are described, N. guianivaga (Guyana Shield), N. luxuriosa (Maraon area of endemism, Ecuador), N. pritzkeri and N. galactica (Rio de Janeiro area of endemism, Brazil), and four species are transferred from Thecla, T. cambes Godman and Salvin, T. comana Hewitson, T. molena Jones and T. lemona Hewitson. Lectotypes are designated for T. lemona and T. molena. From ten eumaeine out-groups studied by numerical cladistic analysis (PAUP, Swofford), the sister genus Contrafacia is described, including four new species, C. rindgei (Sonora, Mexico), C. mexicana (montane central Mexico), C. australis (Paraguay/eastern Bolivia), and C. minutaea (Rio de Janeiro area of endemism, Brazil). The "orcynia" and "orios" species complexes of thecline grade genus Thecla are indicated as the sister group of Noreena/Contrafacia and their species composition further defined.
25008762|A new species of Sphecoid wasp, Cerceris rozeni, is described from Florida. Structures of the male and female are illustrated.
25010381|The water strider species of the genus Ptilomera occurring in Indochina are reviewed, and two new species are described and figured: P. fang from northern Thailand, and P. burmana from northern Burma. Keys to species for both males and females are provided for all taxa found in the region, accompanied by detailed distributional records and range maps.
25009483|A list of names proposed and a bibliography are presented for Herbert Ruckes.
25009639|Recent studies of bumble bee foraging (Bombus spp.; Hymenoptera: Apidae) stress the importance of examining this behaviour from a colony standpoint. The possible advantages of this approach are demonstrated, employing a methodology which allows repeated measurements of individual pollen and nectar loads brought back to the nest, without disturbing the bees.
25009292|A new species of fungus-growing ant, Trachymyrmex kempfi, is described from the Chaco Basin of Paraguay. This species necessitates an expansion of the concept of the generic limits of Trachymyrmex.
25010430|Papeocoris frontalis n. gen., and n. sp., and Viklundocoris humerosus n. gen., and n. sp., belonging to the New World tribes Nematopodini and Coreini respectively, are described from specimens collected in Peru. An adult dorsal habitus, antenna, and head are illustrated for each.
25010392|Xanthonia dentata from Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico and Texas and X. pilosa from Arizona and Utah are described as new, illustrated, and compared to known species.
25006215|Observations were made on several populations of red-banded leaf rollers exposed to high levels of granulosis virus within forty-eight hours after the larvae had hatched. Not only is the adult population decreased in size, but the sex ratios are different from those found in healthy pupal and adult populations.
25009770|Ten species of whiteflies (Aleyrodidae) representing seven genera are reported from Bermuda. One species, Aleurodicus cocois (Curtis), has not been found since its original collection and apparently is not established in Bermuda. Nine species were introduced from eastern United States or the Caribbean region, and one species, Aleyrodes proletella (L.), was apparently introduced from Great Britain. Collection data, hosts, and general distribution are presented for each species, and comments are made about the economic importance of several species.
25009230|Since 1954, the United States Department of Agriculture has maintained a high containment biological research laboratory on Plum Island, New York, involved with research and disgnoses of exotic communicable animal diseases. Isolation from the Long Island mainland provides a physical barrier to foreign disease transmission to mainland livestock and of domestic animal diseases to Plum Island livestock. At the request of the Plum Island Animal Disease Center administration, this survey was conducted to define the entomological fauna of medical and veterinary importance and to determine potential vectors of both native and migrating species. In addition to the insect survey, mosquito pools were used for native virus isolation attempts, sera from mammalian and avian specimens were used for detection of antibodies to arboviruses and engorged mosquitoes were used for blood meal identification. Twenty native culicid and fifteen tabanid species predominated in the collections in addition to at least three species of migrants from the Orient Point, New York salt marshes. All mosquito pools and avian sera were negative when screened for CEV, EEE, SLE, WEE and POW viruses or antibodies. Two mammalian sera reacted by HI to California and St. Louis encephalitis viruses at low titers. Mosquito blood meal analyses showed an avian host preference for the Culiseta species and a rodent host preference for the Aedes species.
25009132|Laccobius reflexipenis and L. spangleri are described from eastern North America. Holotypes and paratypes are designated. Male genitalia and pronotal maculation are figured. Distribution maps are included.
25010497|Micronecta minajerwi, new species, from western New Guinea, is described and illustrated. A key to the species of Micronecta Kirkaldy occurring on New Guinea is provided.
25009654|The family Cydnidae (Heteroptera) is represented by 2 known specimens in fossil amber from Chiapas, Mexico. One is an immature which cannot be placed with certainty; the other is in the Amnestinae, Amnestus guapinolinus, new species. The specimens are approximately 24 million years old and are the first fossil Cydnidae reported from amber.
25005950|This is a supplement to the recorded Lepidoptera of New Jersey, Smith's List of 1910, and Comstock's Butterflies of New Jersey 1940. Additional species, subspecies, and named variations are listed.
25009793|Platynus prognathus Van Dyke is redescribed and reinstated in Platynus Bonelli. Shared-derived characters indicate that it is most closely related to other North American species of a redefined hypolithos group; P. hypolithos (Say), P. angustatus Dejean, P. cincticollis (Say), and P. mannerheimii (Dejean). The American hypolithos group can be diagnosed by spermathecal configuration, and the species are consubgeneric with the European Batenus Motschulsky (=Platynidius Casey NEW SYNONYMY). The American decentis group members share a fundamentally different spermathecal configuration that is also present in Platynus assimilis (Paykull), the type species of Platynus sensu stricto (=Limodromus Motschulsky). This spermathecal configuration is also present in other Neotropical lineages of the genus.
25009384|Unusual cuticular marks on the yellow regions of the gastral terga of worker yellowjackets of two species (Vespula vulgaris and V. maculifrons) were studied. These resembled marks found on the gastral terga of physogastric Vespula foundresses. The marks were associated with ovarian development among workers of queenless V. vulgaris colonies, and the change in structure of pigment granules was similar to that occurring in physogastric queens. Cuticular marks of V. maculifrons workers from queenright colonies were not related to ovarian development and the constituent pigment of the marks differed from that of foundresses and laying workers. The evidence presented supports the hypothesis of Ishay and Shimony that changes in structure of the pigment granules of ovipositing wasps are due to components of the granules being shunted to the production of nucleic acids.
25009606|Zapada katahdin, n. sp. male, female and nymph are described from Baxter State Park, Maine. Descriptions are enhanced by original drawings. Paratypes are recorded from Maine, New Hampshire and Quebec. Zapada katahdin, n. sp. is univoltine and emerges during late April. Nymphs were collected only from cold, permanent streams and appear to be restricted to the headwater regions.
25008985|Type specimens representing some of the binomina proposed by Dallas, Distant, Walker and Westwood for Pentatomini from the Americas were examined for generic placement. These names are listed and synonymy or generic misplacement noted where recognized. The following new combinations are proposed: Acrosternum grave (Walker) from Nezara; Acrosternum montivagum (Distant) from Chlorochroa; Acrosternum scutellatum (Distant) from Nezara; Acrosternum sparnium (Dallas) from Nezara; Banasa parvula (Dallas) from Thyanta; Chloropepla luteipennis (Westwood) from Loxa; Rio politulus (Distant) from Holcostethus; Tibilis fulvicornis (Walker) from Brachystethus; and Tibilis piceola (Walker) from Brachystethus. The following new synonymy was recognized: Acrosternum montivagum (Distant) = Nezara majuscula Distant; Chloropepla vigens (Stl) = Dichelops pulchricornis (Walker); Euschistus integer Stl = Trichopepla dubia Distant; Mayrinia curvidens (Mayr) = Dichelops mutabilis (Walker); Mormidea cubrosa (Dalls) = Mormidea punctifer (Walker); Oebalus poecilus (Dallas) = Mormidea prominula Dallas; Pharypia generosa Stl = Arocera nigropicta (Walker); Placocoris viridus Mayr = Mentisa smaragdina Walker; Thyanta antiguensis (Westwood) = Crato urbicus Distant; Thyanta Stl = Crato Distant. The generic placement of Padeaus bovillus Distant is incorrect and that of Pellaea panamensis (Distant) is suspect, but new combinations are not proposed for these species. A lectotype and paralectotype(s) are designated where synonymy involves syntypes.
25006155|Three experiments were conducted on a variety of bark-like geometrid and noctuid moths, using an experimental apparatus which allowed a choice between black and white backgrounds. These experiments indicated that the appropriate background selections of the moths studied in this apparatus were not the result of (1) simple photo-tactic escape responses, (2) "imprinting" processes occurring shortly after emergence, or (3) reflectance-matching mechanisms, involving comparisons of wing and background reflectances. These results are viewed as additional evidence for genetically fixed reflectance preferences in bark-like cryptic moths.
25009409|Amaurochrous cinctipes (Say) was reared in the laboratory under a 16L:8D photoperiod and constant temperature. Egg and first instar development averaged 6.13 and 4.98 days, respectively. The second through fifth stadia for nymphs reared on Sagittaria latifolia Willdenow averaged 15.91, 16.80, 15.33, and 20.00 days, respectively; and on green beans averaged 14.20, 18.67, 15.67, and 17.00 days, respectively. The external anatomy of the egg and each of the 5 nymphal instars is described.
25009264|Two closely-spaced individuals of the woody composite Vernonia patens H.B.K. were severely defoliated by the brightly-colored, gregarious larvae of the moth Pericopus leucophaea Walker (Lepidoptera: Pericopidae) in northeastern Costa Rica. Although many other individuals were examined, no other V. patens were found to be defoliated. A group of 66 larvae was found on the larger tree and 20 on the smaller one. At the beginning of a three-day period of observation, about 70% of the larger tree and 40% of the smaller tree was defoliated. Defoliation apparently begins on the lower leaves and spreads towards the top. No larvae disappeared during the study period, suggesting high survivorship. Although individuals of the social paper wasp Polybia simillima Smith (Hymenoptera: Vespidae: Polistinae: Polybiini) made repeated attempts to capture larvae, all were unsuccessful. When disturbed by wasps, larvae drop from the plant, either suspending themselves on silken threads or falling into the dense undercover. Larvae thus dislodged successfully relocate the plant as they are capable of very rapid locomotion. When prodded with forceps, larvae exhibit strong thrashing movements and exude droplets of a clear fluid which may have a defensive function. Both the aposematic appearance and behavior of the larvae (and adults) suggest unpalatability. Unusually attractive conditions of individual plants, and high survival of egg masses and larvae, probably promote defoliation. Various factors are predicted to determine intensity of defoliation and comprise a basis for further study of this interesting system.
25009109|Messina, Frank J., Section of Ecology and Systematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. 14853.-The mirid fauna associated with oldfield goldenrods (Solidago spp.) was sampled from May 10 to October 25, 1977 in Ithaca, N.Y. Twenty-three species belonging to 16 genera were recorded; 97% of all individuals (1,099) belong to 6 genera (Lygus, Slaterocoris, Lopidea, Plagiognathus, Adelphocoris and Polymerus). The tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris, was the most common species. The dominant mirids can be divided into 2 fairly distinct guilds, Lygus lineolaris, 2 Plagiognathus spp. and Adelphocoris rapidus feeding primarily on goldenrod flowers, and 3 Slaterocoris spp., Lopidea media and Polymerus venaticus feeding on the immature foliage. The phenological pattern exhibited by these species can be broadly explained by this difference in resource utilization. Observations on the biology of certain species are presented.
25006101|The homologies of three medial structures are established: the triangulin is the fused first valvulae; the arcus is the fused second valvulae; and an unnamed more posterior structure is the fused second valvifers. The eighth paratergites are connected by an "inter-paratergal bridge," as are also the ninth paratergites.
25010349|The taxonomy of the masarine genus Ceramiopsis is reviewed, and two described species are separated: gestroi Zavattari and paraguayensis Bertoni, revised status.
25009588|The following species are described as new: Prepopsoides jaliscoensis from the state of Jalisco, Mexico; Prepops bicoloroides from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico; Prepops englemani from Panama; Prepops nicaraguensis from Nicaragua; Prepops nuevoleonensis from the state of Nuevo Leon, Mexico; Prepops vittatus from the state of Campeche, Mexico; Oncerometopus mexicanus from the states of Zacatecas and Mexico, Mexico; Platytylus binotatus from the state of Jalisco, Mexico; Platytylus rubriventris from the state of Oaxaca, Mexico; and Platytylus veracruzensis from the state of Veracruz, Mexico.
25009709|A new species of Isometopinae, Magnocellus madagascariensis, is described from the spiny forest of southwestern Madagascar. This is the first actual record of Isometopinae from the island. Comparison is made between this species and other members of Magnocellus. Habitat notes, a habitus illustration, and a distribution map are provided.
25009913|An inventory of the Miridae associated with scrub (bear) oak, Quercus ilicifolia Wangenh., was conducted in northeastern pitch pine-scrub oak barrens and related natural communities from Maine to Virginia, nearly the complete range of this plant. Samples were taken throughout the season in an extensive pine barren near Frackville, northeastern Pennsylvania. Accounts of the 44 species collected (33 at Frackville) include a review of known distribution and biology, new state records obtained during the study, and data on seasonal history and habits on scrub oak. Three patchily distributed, rarely collected antlike (myrmecomorphic) mirids were discovered: Pilophorus furvus Knight, Schaffneria davisi Knight, and S. schaffneri Knight. These were collected only in or near aphid colonies tended by the ant Dolichoderus taschenbergi (Mayr), and they may be Batesian mimics gaining protection from predators because of their resemblance to ants. The rich fauna of Q. ilicifolia consists of phytophagous and predacious mirids, including early-season specialists on staminate catkins, and appears to be more diverse than that occurring on some larger (canopy) oak species. Faunal composition varied among the communities inventoried and, at a given site, changed with seasonal progression. Species richness was greatest in larger pine barrens; few Miridae were collected in remnant pine barrens or in most ridgetop barrens. Several plant bugs are abundant on (but not restricted to) scrub oak, and may be considered indicator species of pine barrens and similar communities.
25010094|The neotropical coreid genus Thasus is revised. Of the eight species, five (carchinus, luteolus, neocalifornicus, odonnellae, and rutilus) are described as new. One of these, T. neocalifornicus, extends into the southwestern United States, where it has been misidentified as T. gigas or acutangulus. The species are keyed and analyzed cladistically, their distributions are discussed, and aspects of their morphology are illustrated.
25005961|This paper lists 29 species of jumping spiders collected in the five boroughs (counties) of New York City giving locality, sex, date, and collector of the specimens examined. A new jumping spider, Sitticus barnesi, is described.
25009417|The neotropical genus Arocera Spinola is revised and two keys are provided to species, one based on color the other on the male genitalia. Two new species are described, A. colombiana from Venezuela and Colombia and A. verdana from Panama and Costa Rica. The following new synoymies are recognized: A. spectabilis (=A. apta Walker, =A. jalapensis Distant, =A. patibula Distant, =A. melanopygai Stal, =A. crucigera Haglund); A. nigrorubra (=A. affinis Distant, =A. altivola Distant, =A. chiriquensis Distant, =A. contralineata Piran, =A. placens Walker, =A. protea Distant); A. elongata (=A. repleta Van Duzee).
25009058|Jones, Tobin K., Department of Zoology, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003.-Field studies were undertaken to determine the nature and extent of melanism in two populations of the cryptic moth, Panthea furcilla. Melanic frequencies significantly increased over a three year period in both populations of P. furcilla sampled. Predation experiments showed that melanics suffer less predation than typicals. However, life expectancies for typical and melanic morphs were nearly equal as computed from mark-release-recapture data. Accordingly it is suggested that one advantage melanics enjoy is their greater vigor prior to the imaginal stage. Acid-rainfall, as a Northeast regional problem, is advanced as a possible cause for the increase in melanic frequencies.
25006041|During embryogenesis of the mealworm, total nitrogen remains constant at 1.27 mg./100 eggs. Approximately 24% of the total was converted from water soluble to water insoluble material. The utilization of albumin accounted for almost 50% of this material. An increase in globulin accounted for 25% of the change in water insoluble protein, while synthesis of scleroprotein accounted for 30%. The remaining materials were not defined by the procedures employed.
25009100|Twenty-one species of Tarsonemus known from New York are keyed. Five new species are described and illustrated: Tarsonemus acerbilis and T. edwardi found associated with eriophyid mites in galls, and T. blakemorei, T. socius and T. vulgaris taken from bird nests and stored grain. Five tarsonemid mites previously reported from nest habitat are newly recorded from stored grain; these are: T. ascitus Delfinado, T. confusus Ewing, T. granarius Lindquist, T. imitatus Delfinado and T. waitei Banks.
25010206|A single season (1995) of ground beetle collecting on Nantucket Island, Massachusetts yielded 102 species in 18 tribes (Coleoptera: Carabidae). Fifty-seven species not previously recorded from the island were taken, including five species not currently listed for Massachusetts. Globally rare habitats including Maritime Heath/Grasslands, Morainal Frost Bottoms and Coastal Plain Ponds were intensively assayed. A high species turnover rate is implied by this preliminary analysis.
25009777|The myrmecophilous butterfly caterpillar of Thisbe irenea is shown to gain growth benefits from not only feeding on leaf tissue, but by also drinking the extrafloral nectar of its hostplant. Since both the plant and caterpillar use ants as defenses, it is suggested that a conflict is generated between plant and herbivore for the attentions of ants, and that such conflicts may be widespread in ant-plant, and ant-herbivore systems. It is further suggested that this study points to the possibility that in such systems, 2-species mutualisms may be susceptible to invasion and exploitation by a third species.
25009327|We investigated the thermal requirements for development and survival in the giant silkworm, Hyalophora cecropia (L.) (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae) at 5 temperatures (L:D 16:8). The developmental times ranged from an average of 50 days at 15.6C to 17 days at 26.7C. Males developed slightly faster than females at all temperatures except 26.7C. In females, the lower thermal threshold, t, and the thermal constant, K, were 10.4C and 276 degree days (d), respectively. In males, the respective t and K values were 9.2C and 301d. The percentage mortality (pupal to adult) was very low (0 to 11%) at all temperatures. The sex ratio was approximately 1:1.
25006202|The tribe Chiloini of the pyralid subfamily Crambinae is characterized and its North American genera and species listed. The North American species of the chiloine genera Eoreuma Ely and Xubida Schaus are characterized and discussed, and their male genitalia figured. The following new species are named: Eoreuma evae (Arizona), confederata (Texas), callista (New Mexico), and crawfordi (Iowa); and Xubida relovae (Florida) and lipan (Texas). A neotype is designated for Spermatophthora multilineatella Hulst, here placed in Xubida.
25008764|Three species of Brueelia from the Picidae are recognized and discussed; two of which are newly described: B. goertae from Mesopicos goertae; and B. guatemalensis from Phloeoceastes guatemalensis. Nirmus superciliosus Nitzsch, is placed in Picicola not Brueelia, in which it was included by Hopkins and Clay (1952:62). Specimens from 8 genera and 15 species of Picidae were examined. A key is given and all species are illustrated.
25009547|This article describes the five species of formicine larvae that have accumulated since the publication of our 1982 supplement to our 1976 monograph. The genus Aphomomyrmex has not been described previously; the other genera are Paratrechina and Dendromyrmex. Also included are references to formicine larvae in the literature.
25008848|Seven varieties of the eggplant Solanum melongena L. were selected for an evaluation of resistance to the two-spotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae Koch. The Sinompiro variety which was observed in the field to be highly resistant to mites did not exhibit a high level of resistance when tested in the laboratory. The Black Beauty and Sinompiro varieties exhibited some resistance to the mites. The Dingras #1 and #3 varieties showed a lower level of resistance than the Black Beauty and Sinompiro varieties.
25010006|The biogeographical and ecological characteristics of Melanocoris pingreensis (Drake and Harris), M. nigricornis Van Duzee, and M. longirostris Kelton are examined (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Anthocoridae). A key to species, distribution maps and habitus figures are included. Although predaceous, each bug species usually is found on a particular species of conifer. Sometimes more than one bug species is on the same host species. Past migrations of these hosts, chiefly in response to climatic changes, may have influenced the present distribution of Melanocoris. The hosts included P. contorta, P. flexilis, P. jeffreyi, P. monticola, P. ponderosa, and P. strombiformis. Host species movements may have resulted in the species formation of M. pingreensis, presently known only from southeastern Wyoming and central Colorado. Melanocoris nigricornis occurs from southern British Columbia south through the Rocky Mountains to Colorado and south through the Cascade Mountains and Sierra Nevada Mountains to northern Baja California, Mexico. Melanocoris longirostris has a similar distribution but also occurs in southern Utah, Arizona, and southern New Mexico.
25009865|Anisostena testacea Pic, 1934 from Argentina is redescribed and transferred to Sumitrosis Butte, 1969. A revised key of Sumitrosis occurring in Argentina is presented.
25009512|The genus Barylaus is proposed for 2 endemic West Indian species of Carabidae; Colpodes estriatus Darlington (type species) from Puerto Rico, and Colpodes puncticeps Darlington from the Dominican Republic. The genus is described, and diagnoses and distributions of the species are presented. Barylaus is placed in the subtribe Caelostomina (tribe Pterostichini), based on synapomorphies shared with the genera Mallopelmus Alluaud, Caelostomus MacLeay, and Hemitelestus Alluaud. Cyrtolaus Bates is also transferred to the Caelostomina, making the subtribe pantropical. Based on an amphi-Atlantic vicariance hypothesis, the origin of the Caelostomina is estimated at 75-100 million years ago. A cladistic analysis is presented which supports the new subtribal limits. Recognition of the Caelostomina in the new sense results in the recognition of Pterostichini and Platynini as sister taxa.
25008968|Part III of this series of papers that concern the crane flies of Iran was published in this Journal. In this paper species belonging to the tribe Eriopterini were treated. In the final report here provided I am treating species in the major tribes Limoniini and Hexatomini. The new species here described are Limonia (Dicranomyia) nigritorus, L. (D.) schmidiana, L. (D.) subdidyma, Dicranota (Dicranota) ophidia, and Limnophila (Elaeophila) albofascia. In addition to the above novelties about a score of other species in these two tribes are added to the previous limited list of crane flies presently known from Iran.
25009645|Detailed character analysis has allowed a more natural classification in the Baetidae as follows. Pseudocloeon Klaplek must presently be restricted to the type species, P. kraepelini Klaplek, a species known only from adults. Certain Pseudocloeon species are placed in the genera treated here. Liebebiella, new genus, includes: L. orientale (Mller-Liebenau), new combination (type species); L. ambigua (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. atoki (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; Liebebiella deigma, n. sp.; L. difficila (Mller-Liebenau); L. klapaleki (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. proxima (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; L. siveci (Braasch), new combination; and L. vera (Mller-Liebenau), new combination. Acentrella Bengtsson is revised to include: A. lapponica Bengtsson (type species); A. ampla Traver; A. carolina (Banks), new combination; A. chantauensis (Kluge), new combination; A. fenestrata (kazlauskas), new combination; A. gnom (Kluge), new combination (=Pseudocloeon ultimum Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy); A. insignificans (McDunnough), new combination; A. lata (Mller-Liebenau), new combination; A. sibirica (Kazlauskas), new combination; A. sinaica Bogoescu; A. tonneri (Braasch and Soldn), new combination; and A. turbida (McDunnough), new combination. Baetiella Ueno (=Neobaetiella Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy) is revised and includes: B. japonica (Imanishi) (type species); B. aino (Matsumura), new combination; B. armata Braasch; B. ausobskyi Braasch; B. bispinosa (Gose), new combination (=Neobaetiella macani Mller-Liebenau, new synonymy); B. imanishii Braasch; B. innotata (Braasch), new combination; B. ladakae Traver; B. marginata Braasch; B. muchei (Braasch), new combination; B. tuberculata (Kazlauskas), new combination; and B. ursina (Kazlauskas), new combination. Neobaetiella imanishi Mller-Liebenau is a nomen nudum, and Neobaetiella uenoi Mller-Liebenau is an unavailable name.
25009125|Three species of subfamily Pyraustinae referable to the unrevised genus Pyrausta Schrank were collected from North-West India between November 1972 and November 1974. A critical examination of these species leads to the erection of a new genus Rattana with type species P. euryphaea Meyrick and the description of a new species, Coclebotys mutuuri. The characterization of the new genus and the description of the new species are recorded.
25008903|The mature larva and pupa of Dione juno andicola Bates are described from Baos, Ecuador, and compared with those of other subspecies of juno. The differences are sufficient to cast doubt upon the assignment of andicola to the species juno. The egg and five larval stages of Agraulis vanillae lucina Felder & Felder are described from Baos, Ecuador. Although the imago of lucina is quite different from those of other subspecies of vanillae, the larval stages support assignment of lucina to vanillae.
25006086|On the authorship of the generic name Tagalis and the invalidity of the family-group name "Tagalidae" (Hemiptera, Reduviidae). Tagalis must be credited to Stl (1860); it is a nomen nudum in Dohrn (1859) and Baerensprung (1860). Tagalidae Dohrn (1860) was a nomen nudum when published, and has been a nomen oblitum ever since.
25009283|Various aspects of the natural history of the Neotropical butterfly Morpho granadensis polybaptus Butler (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Morphinae) in a zone of geographical overlap with M. peleides limpida Butler in Costa Rica are reported for the first time. The work reported is part of a long-range study on the comparative natural history of Central American Morpho, represented in Costa Rica by at least five valid species. Of particular interest is the comparison of M. granadensis with M. peleides since both species are closely related forms in the South American achilles "superspecies" complex. Morpho granadensis is exceedingly rare in museum collections and the type specimen is from Costa Rica. The species is narrowly restricted in Costa Rica to a band of tropical rain forest within about 100 to 600 meters elevation along the Caribbean watershed of the Cordillera Central and adjacent highlands. The early stages are strikingly similar to those of M. peleides, including various aspects of caterpillar behavior. Oviposition is single. Although the caterpillars are legume-feeders, either the scope of food plant suitability is narrower or different between this species and M. peleides, since the former cannot survive on at least one common food plant (Mucuna urens) of the latter. Morpho peleides has a much wider geographical range that M. granadensis, and probably utilizes a greater range of food plants. The species is also sympatric with M. amathonte Deyrolle; baiting studies indicate that M. granadensis is about half as abundant as the other two species. A model for further comparative study of the two species is presented.
25010289|Microvelia cavicola sp. n. and Microvelia karunaratnei sp. n. are described from water-filled treeholes in Panama and Sri Lanka respectively. Distributional and synonymical notes are given for other veliid species inhabiting treeholes.
25008863|Hymenarcys aequalis (Say) seems to have a phylogenetic origin different from that of H. nervosa (Say), H. reticulata Stl and H. crassa Uhler. A diagnosis of Hymenarcys Amyot and Serville and a key to the four included species is given. Parts of the genitalia of both sexes of these species are figured.
25008850|The geographic distribution of the immature stages of aquatic lepidopterans (genus Parargyractis) was studied in 43 streams throughout the American section of the Lake Erie and Lake Ontario watersheds. Parargyractis populations were commonly distributed throughout the watersheds, but the distribution was somewhat localized. In 64% of the streams where Parargyractis were found, larvae and/or pupae were relatively abundant. The immature stages were frequently encountered within the same community of insects that usually require clean stream conditions for survival (Plecoptera, Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera).
25010173|The genus Aradacrates Slater has been previously known only from a single species from Madagascar. Aradacrates malayensis is described and illustrated as a new species from Malaya. Included is a discussion of the possible function of shining raised abdominal plates and notes on an early instar nymph. The second species of Praetorblissus Slater, Praetorblissus brailovskyi is described from bamboos in Costa Rica.
25006170|Experiments were conducted to investigate the stimuli used by the American Copper Underwing moth Amphipyra pyramidoides Guene in selecting its daytime resting place. Light seemed to be the primary factor and tactile stimuli are important, also, because the moths preferred to rest in a dark crack, offering positive tactile stimuli, over a dark flat surface. Likewise, grouping in the same crack, or under the same substrate, occurs.
25008916|The genus Basiceros is expanded to include Aspididris due to the finding of a new species, B. conjugans (Amazonian Ecuador and Colombia), which connects them. Basiceros is redefined and the male caste formally described, and keys are provided for the known forms of both sexes. The known distribution of B. singularis is extended to northern Mato Grosso and of B. discigera to Espirito Santo State, Brazil, and to subandean Colombia. B. singularis is confirmed as a termite predator.
25010055|Aphelocheirus bengkulu n. sp. is described based on collections from southern Sumatra. Illustrations are provided of the dorsal habitus and the male and female genital structures. Supplemental couplets are given to incorporate this species into the key of Polhemus and Polhemus (1988) to species occurring in tropical Asia. Addenda are noted for the checklist of world Aphelocheirinae, based on recently published works.
25009590|Two new monotypic genera, each based on a new species, are described from eastern Peru and western Brazil. These genera are among those of the Pentatomini tribe that do not have a median spine or tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter, and among the few South American genera of this group with much elongated ostiolar rugae. A key to these genera is provided.
25010435|Records of seventy four species of scarab beetles are summarized from nine of Massachusetts' offshore islands. The scarab fauna of these areas is characterized through a combination of recent collections from over 30 locations on eight of the islands, museum specimens and the literature. Though the bulk of recent collecting effort has been devoted to the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, scattered species records are also collated from Naushon, Nashawena, Pasque, Tuckernuck, Muskeget, Penikese, and Cuttyhunk Islands. With 56 documented species, Martha's Vineyard, the largest of the islands, appears despite sampling bias to support the most diverse scarab fauna, followed by Nantucket, with 46 species. These two faunas account for 71 of the 74 species known from all the islands. A subset of these data consisting of scarabs from 2,700 pitfall trap samples is used to compare species richness and relative abundance at five sites on the two islands under varying degrees of conservation management. Although recent conservation has focused on grassland habitats, these represent a minority of the communities that occurred historically on these landscapes, and shrubbier habitats appear to support greater species richness than the less structurally complex grasslands.
25006241|Based on a detailed morphological study of the family Ephemeridae, a new genus, Litobrancha, is erected to include Litobrancha recurvata (Morgan) comb. n. which was previously placed in the genus Hexagenia Walsh. The description is based on several previously unstudied characters along with some heretofore regarded as being of only specific importance. Both nymphal and adult stages of Litobrancha are compared with those of Hexagenia. The relative phylogenetic position of the new genus is discussed, and the distribution and biology of L. recurvata are reviewed.
25009610|Ischnodemus variegatus (Signoret) is resurrected from synonymy with Ischnodemus oblongus (Fabricius). Important differences between the nymphs of the two species and differences in genitalia and meristic characters of the adults are discussed. Ischnodemus oblongus appears to be chiefly Central American in distribution and I. variegatus South American. Trinidad records of I. oblongus are referred to variegatus. Host plants are mentioned. Figures include the fifth instar nymphs, parameres, sperm reservoirs and male genital capsules of both species.
25009598|Color-marked house flies (Musca domestica) with advanced infections of Entomophthora muscae were added to a test group of healthy young adult flies within a poultry building. About 6 to 8 days after the flies in the marked-infected group died, those in the test group also died. Cadavers of flies that succumbed to the infection were found on various surfaces within the building. This probably serves to promote the distribution of infective conidia within the general environment. Deaths attributable to the mycosis in the test group probably approached or reached 100%. It is suggested that E. muscae can be used to control house flies in the field.
25005951|The nervous system of the pregenital abdominal segments of the male nymph of Acroneuria sp. is described. The ganglia of the first two abdominal segments are coalesced with the metathoracic ganglion. The transverse nerve in segments 2 through 8 arises from the ganglion with the dorsal nerve, splits off in the area of the ventral internal lateral muscles, and terminates in the alary muscles of the heart. Ventral nerves are present in all segments. The musculature of the pregenital segments is described.
25010473|Additional distributional records are given and discussed for Thasus gigas (Klug), T. acutangulus (Stl), and T. neocalifornicus Brailovsky and Barrera. In particular, we emphasize the almost certain absence of T. neocalifornicus from New Mexico, and we discuss its population centers near Tucson, Arizona, and at the southern tip of Baja California Sur. Sinaloa and Chihuahua (Mexico) are new state records for T. gigas, and Chihuahua is a new state record for T. neocalifornicus.
25010132|Protopolybia bituberculata, a new polistine species from the Neotropics, is described and the nest illustrated.
25010347|Salamancaniella, new genus, is erected to include one species originally described in Meropachus De Castelnau and later transferred to Hirilcus Stl as the binominal H. alternatus (Dallas 1852); new distributional records are given; and habitus illustrations and drawings of male and female genitalia, hind leg, metathoracic peritreme and thoracic mesosternum and metasternum are provided. The genus is compared to Hirilcus and Meropachys.
25009390|Thirty-seven lectotype and two neotype designations are made for Nearctic species of Phytocoris (Hemiptera: Miridae) described by O. M. Reuter, P. R. Uhler, and E. P. Van Duzee. One holotype is identified, and eight species are considered as new synonyms. Species are listed alphabetically; and for each, year of publication, original page number, exact label data, type depository, pertinent body measurements, and discovered paralectotypes are given. Comments are provided on distributions, hosts, identification keys, and male genitalia.
25009731|The seasonal history, nesting activity and other aspects of the biology of Andrena (Plastandrena) crataegi Robertson are described. This species is the second North American species of Andrena known to nest communally. Nest structure, orientation by females to the nest and nest site, and parasitism are discussed.
25010092|Three new fossil species of burrower bug (Heteroptera: Cydnidae) are described based on four specimens from Tertiary Dominican amber. The three new species, Dallasiellus succineus, Amnestus electricus, and Amnestus priscus, are assigned to extant genera.
25000076|The gross morphology of the male reproductive system of Pachycondyla harpax (Fabr.), Eciton hamatum (Fabr.), Neivamyrmex sp., Pogonomyrmex barbatus (F. Smith), Crematogaster laeviuscula Mayr, Solenopsis invicta Buren, Atta texana (Buckley), Iridomyrmex pruinosum (Roger), Conomyrma insana (Buckley), Formica canadensis Santschi, F. subintegra Emery and Polyergus breviceps Emery was studied. As the ants matured the spermatozoa descended into the vas deferens and were retained there while the testes progressively decreased in size. The dilated vasa deferentia where mature spermatozoa are retained should be called "seminal vesicles" and what was formerly called "seminal vesicle" should be referred to as "accessory gland." Two types of accessory glands were found in ants. In the first type which is found so far only in the Ecitonini, the glands are long, coiled and both enclosed in a single capsule. In the second type the glands consist of two distinct bodies and are either ball-shaped, bean-shaped, or elongated.
25005796|A new species, expolitum is described from Colombiana Farm, Santa Clara Province, Costa Rica from workers and a dealate female. In addition, the four other known species are briefly redescribed: diversum Mann of Honduras; felixi Mann of Mexico, Honduras and Costa Rica; manni Wheeler of Mexico; schmidti Menozzi of Costa Rica. A key is furnished for the identification of the workers of the five species.
25009405|The previously unknown nymphs of the planthopper Oecleus borealis Van Duzee were found in the subterranean nests of the ant Paratrechina arenivaga (Wheeler). The nymphs appear to associate only with this ant species. Food plants of the O. borealis nymphs are suspected to be the roots of sand pine Pinus clausa (Engelm.) Sarg., saw palmetto Serenoa repens (Bartr.) Small, or turkey oak Quercus laevis Walter, although radioisotope experiments to establish this were inconclusive.
25010290|Data and observations from 1995, 1996 and 1997 wet season surveys of natural and artificial tree holes suggest that hole morphology and size are important predictors of the distribution and abundance of Microvelia cavicola Polhemus. The bugs occurred in 42% of the natural holes sampled and <3% of artificial hole censuses. The distribution of M. cavicola was not associated with holes in particular tree species or with hole height above the ground. Abundance increased with hole size and decreased with hole height. Analyses of presence/absence data showed significant within- and between-year microhabitat fidelity in this species. Microvelia cavicola reduced the emergence success of mosquitoes in a laboratory experiment, but their quantitative effect on mosquitoes in natural conditions is unknown.
25006100|The earwig Forficula auricularia is reported as prey of a Nearctic vespine wasp, Vespula maculifrons, for the first time. Ten percent of 120 prey collected from provisioning workers on 7 August 1967 proved to be adult earwigs. Most individuals had parts of their head, legs, and cerci amputated by the wasps. Some of the captured dermapterans exhibited rhythmic movements of the appendages.
25006144|The recent discovery of the first human case of onchocerciasis in Colombia has prompted this review of the entomological literature related to simuliid black flies in this country. Fifteen named species and two other forms distinguished by letters are recorded as occurring in Colombia. For each species published data on geographic distribution and hosts are given.
25004364|Certain robber flies frequently feed on honey bees and have been known as "bee-killers." In North America, Promachus fitchii O. S. and in the Argentine, Mallophora ruficauda Wied. have been recorded as causing losses to bee-keepers. In the United States five genera, Stenopogon, Deromyia, Promachus, Mallophora and Proctacanthus, contain species which commonly kill bees, while two genera, Bombomima and Erax, contain species which occasionally do so. A control measure is suggested in the rare cases where economic losses are caused.
25005952|A brief account of the nesting habits of Neolarra (Neolarra) pruinosa Ashmead is given and the resting position of the adult is described. The following details are discussed in relation to Holcopasites (Trichopasites) insoletus (Linsley), H. (Odontopasites) arizonicus (Linsley), H. (Holcopasites) knulli (Linsley): daily activity period of adults, host associations, nesting habits, sleeping position, and activities of larvae.
25006173|Seven new species of eriopterine crane flies from Nepal, Sikkim, and Assam are described, all belonging to the genus Cheilotrichia Rossi, subgenus Empeda Osten Sacken. These are Cheilotrichia (Empeda) apemon, C. (E.) cheloma, C. (E.) fuscoapicalis, C. (E.) fuscostigmata, C. (E). melanostyla, C. (E.) nigristyla, and C. (E). tumidistyla.
25009902|Gelotia lanka n. sp. is described from Sri Lanka based on both sexes and is distinguished from its close relative G. syringopalpis Wanless of Malaysia. The new taxon represents a significant extension of the range of the genus Gelotia, previously known only from Southeast Asia.
25010498|Two new species of Stalius are described from Guatemala and Costa Rica. The new species are illustrated and a key provided to separate the members of the genus. /// Dos especies nuevas son descritos e ilustrados de Guatemala, Mxico y Costa Rica. Se da una clave para la separacin de las especies del gnero.
25010244|Probolomyrmex guanacastensis (n. sp.) from Guanacaste, Costa Rica is described from a queen and worker collected from sifted leaf debris in a riparian habitat. This is the fourth known species of Probolomyrmex in the New World extending the northern distribution limit from Barro Colorado Island, Panama to Guanacaste, Costa Rica. It is also the first record of an ergatoid queen in the Probolomyrmex. A revised key to the species is given.
25010357|Two species of Pseudacteon are described from parasitoids attacking fire ants, Solenopsis saevissima from Gois and So Paulo states, Brazil. Pseudacteon disneyi new species, is closely related to P. arcuatus and P. pradei while P. fowleri new species, is a very singular species. A modification of Borgmeier's original species key is given for species identification, as well as for the insertion of P. lenkoi.
25010461|The effect of the sexually dimorphic face color as a visual stimulus during courtship was tested by painting male faces of laboratory-reared Ceratitis capitata. Experimental males were less successful copulating, due to their lower courtship activity. However, female responses in all the courtship steps were similar to both experimental and control males. Dimorphic face color may have lost relevance in sexual selection by the females of this species during courtship. Examination by scanning electron microscopy and a light stereoscope suggest that this sexually dimorphic character is caused by differences in cuticle color between males and females and is not related to structural differences or microtrichia density of the male face.
25009063|Batra, S. W. T., Beneficial Insect Introduction Laboratory IIBIII, Agr. Res. Serv., USDA, Beltsville, Maryland 20705.-Larvae of Acentropus niveus (Olivier) on watermilfoil in Lake St. Lawrence, N.Y. overwintered in water-filled cocoon-like hibernacula attached to host propagules. Feeding from newly constructed summer shelters on fresh plant growth commenced in June, they produced a single generation of short lived rudimentary-winged aquatic females and winged males which reproduced in July-September. After some feeding, the resulting small larvae entered hibernation in October. In the laboratory, larvae fed on Myriophyllum spicatum L., M. spicatum var. exalbescens (Fernald) Jepson, Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, Elodea canadensis Michx. and Ceratophyllum sp. Since diapause apparently is caused by low water temperature rather than by short daylength, this insect may adapt to Florida conditions for possible Hydrilla and Myriophyllum control. Behavioral details are given, damage to host plants is evaluated and additional host-specificity testing is recommended.
25010034|The morphology, natural history and behavior of Morpho cypris immature stages are described for the first time. The location and use of two secretory glands, one that was previously undescribed, are noted and discussed with respect to glands found in other groups of Lepidoptera. A comparison of Morpho cypris early stage development, behavior, defenses, and host plant use within the context of the genus Morpho, and the subfamily Morphinae is provided.
25009277|The insects associated with the gall of Asphondylia helianthiglobulus Osten Sacken (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) were reared during the summer and winter of 1979-1980. Only those galls formed on the flower disc of Rudbeckia laciniata L. (Compositae) were investigated. From the gall cells of A. helianthiglobulus three hymenopterous species were reared: Rileya americana Girault (Eurytomidae), Torymus advenus O.S., and Torymus sp. (Torymidae). Dipterous larvae associated with the gall were represented by the families Agromyzidae, Cecidomyiidae, Chloropidae, and Drosophilidae.
25010315|Cleotopetalops new genus, and three new species, C. bicolor, C. cyanocephalus, and C. polhemi, collected in Ecuador and Peru, are described, illustrated, and included in the tribe Acanthocephalini (Coreidae). Each species is compared with the closest one.
25009043|Adults and cephalic structures of the final instar of a new species of Gelis from eastern Canada are described. The adults and the cocoon from which each had emerged were found in the egg sac of the spider Schizocosa saltatrix (Hentz.). The cephalic structures were extracted from the cocoons. Adults and final instars are compared with those of other species of Gelis.
25009404|The historical background to Fitch's and Emmons' publications on Homoptera is discussed. Correct publication dates and authorships of new taxa described in Fitch's Homoptera catalogue and Emmons' report on injurious insects are established using information derived from recently discovered Fitch manuscript notes and correspondence and from obscure government documents. Collecting data and specimen numbers are provided for types of new species of Membracidae described in Emmons' report. Types of Homoptera described in Fitch's catalogue are discussed briefly.
25009843|The new genus Pseudosaica is described to accommodate Saica florida Barber and the new species P. panamaensis from Panama. Forewings, male genitalia, and other structures are illustrated. Its relationship to the genera Saica and Polytoxus (Saicinae) is discussed.
25008827|The color dimorphism of pupae of the swallowtail butterfly Papilio polyxenes is thought to be an adaptation to variable surroundings in which the insect pupates. Laboratory experiments suggest that pupal coloration is determined by an interaction between photoperiod during larval development and background color immediately before and during pupation. Short photoperiod evokes brown pupal color regardless of background, a result consistent with the situation in nature, where short photoperiod presages a long overwintering period. Long photoperiod permits flexibility of pupal color development, allowing green or brown pupal color depending on the background color, or on the intensity of light reaching the underside of the larva just before pupation. Some "mistakes" occur, and the failure of natural selection to have eliminated all such inappropriate responses may be due to their selective advantage in some years.
25010521|The Mecyclothorax (Sharp) fauna of isolated forest habitats in and near Polipoli State Recreation Area, Kula Forest Reserve, Maui Island, Hawaii comprises eight species, five of which are newly described: Mecyclothorax aeneipennis, new species; M. consobrinus, new species; M. cordithorax, new species; M. giffardi, new species; and M. superstriatus, new species. An identification key to Mecyclothorax species of Polipoli is presented along with diagnoses, distributional maps and illustrations. Lectotypes are designated for M. laetus (Blackburn), M. ovipennis Sharp, and M. perstriatus Sharp. Four species-M. aeneipennis, M. consobrinus, M. giffardi and M. superstriatus-are precinctive to Polipoli, and constitute respective adelphotaxa to four allopatric species distributed from the Waikamoi region thence eastward along the windward face of Haleakala Volcano. The Polipoli endemics define the forest regions of Kula Forest Reserve as an area of endemism distinct from the windward forest to the northeast. Incorporation of adelphotaxic distributional information into the delimitation of these areas of endemism provides a cladistic foundation that is lacking from most other previously proposed definitions, though it harkens back to Wallace's (1855) "Law which has regulated the introduction of new species." Native Mecyclothorax beetles occur in both native and non-native forest microhabitats at Polipoli, illustrating the ability of these geographically restricted island endemic taxa to colonize and persist in novel situations populated by alien plants.
25009609|Based on fieldwork and study of collections, Hemisphaerodella mirabilis Reuter is shown to be the immature stage of Cyrtocapsus caligineus (Stl). The monotypic genus Hemisphaerodella Reuter, therefore, is considered a junior synonym of Cyrtocapsus Reuter, and H. mirabilis, a junior synonym of C. caligineus. A key to the species of Cyrtocapsus is provided to help workers recognize and associate adults with the respective nymphs.
25010175|Zenoria roberti, new species from Brazil, is described and illustrated. This new taxon and five more (Gordon, 1972) are integrated into the existing key to species.
25005891|Lists 33 species of fleas collected in Vermont by locality, date, host and numbers of each sex. Seven additional species taken adjacent to Vermont from hosts known to occur in Vermont are included. It is indicated that the distribution of Hoplopsyllus glacialis lynx may be influenced by the presence or absence of the cottontail rabbit Sylvilagus. H.g.lynx has not been found on the varying hare Lepus or the bob cat Lynx where Sylvilagus is found.
25008922|For a period of three years eggs, larvae and pupae of Pyrrhogyra hypsenor Godman & Salvin have been collected, reared, observed, and photographed in El Salvador. In this paper the results of the observations are published for the first time, placing emphasis on the morphological and behavioral similarities existent with other Catonephelinae and at least with some Callicorinae. Record is made of the larval food plants of the species in Central America. The strong probability that the species is protected against predators is inferred from the conspicuous coloration of the larvae and adults and from the known poisonous properties of the food plants. Finally it is noted that apparently there is a preference for parasitizing Diptera and Hymenoptera to deposit their eggs on the larvae of species protected against predators by the unpalatable and/or poisonous substances sequestered from their food plants, probably to ensure the safety of their own eggs and larvae.
25004552|House flies (Musca domestica) and several blood sucking Diptera are repelled by unsaturated cyclic esters, including certain substances which are without odor to man. Acetates of terpine alcohols are in every case superior to the corresponding alcohols.
25009438|The genus Horridipamera Malipatil is revised. Two new species H. medleri from West Africa and H. compacta from South India are described. A key to species, a cladogram, and discussion of phylogenetic relationships are included. All species are diagnosed. Extensive distributional data are included. A dorsal view drawing of H. medleri and 33 drawings with details of genitalia are given. There is a discussion of the relationships of Horridipamera to other genera.
25010549|The apparently aposematic immature stages of a tropical shining leaf beetle, Lema insularis, are described, the host plant is revealed to be Dioscorea mexicana, and observations on the camouflaged larvae of a co-existing herbivore, the sawfly Acorduloceridea compressicornis, and the adults of a co-mimic, Diabrotica godmani, are made.
25006105|Information is recorded (1) on the nests and larval development of Colletes c. compactus Cresson and (2) on the female searching behavior, egg deposition, larval activity, and development of Epeolus pusillus Cresson. This information is compared with similar data concerning some related bees.
25009911|A cladistic analysis of the Cimicomorpha is conducted, including 19 family-level terminal taxa and 51 characters with 127 states. The literature is reviewed and found to contain much relevant character information on gross morphology and attributes of reproduction. Previous classificatory efforts, individual characters, and new morphological information are discussed. The following sequenced classification is proposed: CIMICOMORPHA-Reduvioidea (Pachynomidae, Reduviidae); Velocipedoidea (Velocipedidae); Miriformes (Microphysoidea: Microphysidae; Joppeicoidea: Joppeicidae; Miroidea: Thaumastocoridae, Miridae, Tingidae); Cimiciformes (Naboidea: Medocostidae, Nabidae; Cimicoidea: Lasiochilidae, Plokiophilidae, Lyctocoridae, Anthocoridae, Cimicidae, Polyctenidae).
25010517|Studies were conducted on the biology and behavioral ecology of sympatric populations of spider wasps, Pepsis cerberus and P. mexicana from the Chihuahuan Desert. Females selectively hunt the theraphosid spider Aphonoplema steindachneri as their host. Adult body size was related to the size of the host spider that larval wasps fed upon. Mean body length and head capsule width for males and females of P. cerberus was 18.9 and 21.9 mm, respectively, as compared to 19.8 and 22.8 for P. mexicana. There were no significant interspecific differences in fecundity, and fecundity was related to female body size. Number of eggs in ovarioles ranged from 5 to 26 (P. cerberus) and 4 to 20 (P. mexicana). Mean values for length (mm), width (mm) and weight (mg) of eggs for P. cerberus were 4.25 mm, 1.31 mm, and 7.21 mg, as compared to 4.31, 1.23, and 7.14 for P. mexicana. Both species exhibited five larval instars (L1-L5). Under laboratory conditions (22  0.5C, 60-70% relative humidity), 1st-instar larvae of both species emerged within 3.2-4.1 days after oviposition. The amount of time required from oviposition to cocoon formation for P. cerberus and P. mexicana ranged from 19 to 22 and 20 to 24 days, respectively. The duration of the pupal stage ranged from 14 to 18 days. First-instar larvae (L1) fed initially on the cuticular lamellae and underlying connective tissues in the area of the host's book lungs, then proceeding to medial regions of the midgut, and finally to the heart and cerebral ganglion ingested. Peak period of activity for P. cerberus and P. mexicana were between 1,000 to 1,359 and 1,400 to 1,759, respectively. Adults of each species exhibited differences in the plants visited to obtain nectar.
25009879|Two new genera and one new species of Trepobatinae (Gerridae) are described from South America. The new genera are compared with other American genera of the subfamily Trepobatinae. The new taxa described are: Telmatometroides new genus, monobasic, from estuarine habitats in the eastern tropical Pacific region, type-species Telmatometra rozeboomi Drake and Harris 1937; Cryptobatoides new genus, monobasic, from small headwater streams near Manaus, Brazil, type-species Cryptobatoides brunneus, n. sp.
25009844|The Palearctic species of Anthocoridae, Brachysteles parvicornis (Costa), is newly recorded from two localities in North America. It is considered an accidental introduction from Europe.
25009551|Heraclides matusiki, new species, is described from a unique specimen collected in Sucre State, Venezuela, in 1912, based on an analysis of wing and genitalic characters of the Heraclides anchisiades species group.
25009575|The Miridae associated with chaparral shrubs in the genus Adenostoma were collected throughout 1983 at two sites in southern California. Six species were taken from Adenostoma fasciculatum H. & A., and two from A. sparsifolium Torr. Although both shrubs commonly occur together their mirid associates overlap minimally. Only the widespread Rhinacloa forticornis Reuter occurs on both.
25010242|A new species of the paper wasp genus Metapolybia Ducke is described, and its similarities to other species of the genus are discussed.
25005840|The wax glands of bees of the subfamily Apinae are actually specialized hypodermis which internally covers the exoskeleton in certain abdominal areas. Characteristics of glandular tissue are distinct only during the period of active secretion, and is difficult to distinguish from unspecialized hypodermis during the inactive period. These glands are situated in sterna IV to VII in honeybees (Apis) and from terga IV to VII in the meliponids (Melipona and Trigona). In the bumblebees (Bombus), the most primitive social Apinae, they are found both in terga (IV to VII) and sterna (IV to VII), though more developed dorsally. In Euglossa, a unique non-social group of Apinae the wax glands are restricted to tergum VII. There is no marked difference in the histology of these glands among the species observed. Glandular tissue, histologically similar to the wax glands, was confirmed within the mandibles of Apis and the meliponids. The scent glands were studied in Bombus workers, Apis workers, and meliponid queens. Scent glands were situated in the anterior part of tergum VII and showed no histological difference among species examined.
25009774|Pityogenes bidentatus, a widespread and abundant bark beetle in Europe, has been intercepted numerous times at U.S. ports of entry. It now has become established in the northeastern United States. A recent collection was made of this beetle from dying specimens of Bosnian pine, Pinus leucodermis, in a nursery plantation in Livingston County, New York, in April 1988. North American interception records, host plants, and habits of this bark beetle are summarized from the literature. An existing key to the North American species of Pityogenes is modified to include this newly detected immigrant, and scanning electron photomicrographs of diagnostic male and female structures are provided.
25010506|A new genus of Epipsocidae, Rogojiella, is described and illustrated. This new genus is close to Goja Navas and Ianthorntonia Garca Aldrete, and was collected near Chuspipata on the descent to Coroico in the Yungas area, Department of La Paz, Bolivia. The holotype is deposited in the National Insect Collection, Instituto de Biologa, Universidad Nacional Autnoma de Mxico, Mxico City.
25009813|A key and diagnoses are given for the 14 genera of the tribe Discocephalini that have the interocular width equal to or greater than the length of the head, the basal segment of the rostrum reaching onto the prosternum, and the base of the abdominal venter unarmed. The genus Beroaldus Distant, 1890, is recognized as a junior synonym of Phoeacia Stl, 1862. The male of Placidocoris bivittatus Ruckes, previously known only from the female holotype, is described.
25005999|This paper describes taxonomically the first and last larval instars and the pupa of this species. It compares the mature larva with that of other known Stelis, and although there is considerable intrageneric variation, the larvae of Stelis cannot be distinguished as a group from those of other Megachilidae. The pupa of this species agrees in most respects with those of other megachilid bees.
25009554|Descriptions are provided for Acrosternum (Chinavia) dubium, new species; A. (C.) solitum, new species; and A. (C.) triangulum, new species, all occurring in Mexico. A key to all eight species of Acrosternum known to occur in Mexico is given.
25006063|Crambus bigelovi (type locality Pinedale, Wyoming) and C. harrisi (type locality Guadalupe Mts., New Mexico) are described as new, characterized and differentiated from related species. The male and female genitalia of both species are figured.
25009994|The external morphology and chaetotaxy of first instar Korscheltellus gracilis (Grote) and Sthenopis auratus (Grote) are described. The larvae of K. gracilis are smaller and have fewer microtrichia than S. auratus. The only difference in chaetotaxy involves the absence of pore Va from the head of S. auratus. The setal nomenclatures of Hasenfuss (1969) and Wagner (1987) are evaluated and used for description. The classifications of Hinton (1946) and Hasenfuss (1969) are compared for the homology of cranial setal groups. In a comparison of the P and V setae we suggest that homologies are treated as apomorphies by Hasenfuss, while Hinton's setal homologies represent plesiomorphies. Hasenfuss's (1969) nomenclature renders the cranial chaetotaxy of Hepialidae identical to the Ditrysia. We suggest that the prothoracic association of SD1, SD2 and D2 may represent an exoporian apomorphy. Cladistic criteria provide a useful technique for resolving homology problems and choosing between alternative systems of chaetotaxy.
25008831|Adult males of Platypus rugulosus Chapuis and adult females of Xyleborus ferrugineus (Fabr.) were found in the trunks of stem bleeding diseased coconut palms (Cocos nucifera L.) at Dorado Beach, Puerto Rico. The stem bleeding disease organism, Ceratocystis paradoxa, was recovered from the tissues of affected palms. The role of P. rugulosus, common on the island, and of the very rare X. ferrugineus in the decline of palms is obscure. Bud rot caused Phytophthora palmivora as well as water logged soil were also found to be affecting palms of various ages at the same location.
25008911|Few comparative studies in functional biology have been made at the genus level. In the tribe Myrmicini, the latest morning hour the workers are aboveground was compared for 58 species in 9 genera and the hour of mating flight for 40 species in 13 genera. In each case there is more difference in phase of rhythm among than within genera. When the possible influence of season, altitude, latitude, average rainfall, and average temperature is statistically removed by analysis of covariance, the generic diversity remains significant. This evidence suggests a taxonomic explanation of the diversity (as opposed to a strictly ecological or geographical explanation).
25008847|Only 5% of this country's total crop acres receive insecticide treatment, and about half of this is applied to cotton and tobacco acres. Despite the large increases in insecticide use, crop losses due to insect pests are also increasing and are now estimated by the USDA to be nearly 13%. In part, these trends are due to the practice of substituting insecticides for sound bioenvironmental pest controls (e.g., crop rotation and sanitation) and also to higher consumer standards. If pesticides were not used, crop losses, based on available data, were estimated to increase 7% (representing $2.1 billion). Overall, except for supplies of crops such as apples, peaches, and onions, most food crops would not be seriously affected by discontinuing use of pesticides. Although pesticides should not be eliminated, a need exists to treat only when necessary, to reduce aircraft spray drift, and to reactivate sound bioenvironmental controls. Also, additional acreages of some crops could be profitably planted to offset crop losses due to pesticide reduction. Concerning the toxicity of pesticides, the prime danger appears to be to those who apply these poisons. Unfortunately, the available data on long-term, low-level effects of pesticides to public health are inconclusive. Existing levels of pesticide pollution already have been responsible for kills of some species of beneficial insects, fishes, and birds. This serious pollution has occurred when only a small percentage of the crop acres are being treated with pesticides. A systems approach to pest management, in which the multiple factors of pests, crop culture, costs, benefits, and risks to environment and health are evaluated, is suggested as meeting the needs of agriculture and society as a whole.
25009712|The species of the genus Sympherobius of America North of Mexico are revised. Two species groups containing seventeen species are recognized. Two species, S. constrictus, from California, and S. quadricuspis, from Arizona, are described as new. The previously unknown male of S. pictus is also described. Four new specific synonyms are proposed (junior synonym(s) first): S. brunneus Nakahara and S. stangei Nakahara = S. angustus (Banks), S. gracilis Carpenter = S. umbratus (Banks) and S. texanus Nakahara = S. killingtoni Carpenter. A lectotype is designated for S. perparvus (McLachlan). Annotated synonymical listings summarize the existing literature on each species. Species ranges are summarized and mapped, including known records from regions extralimital to the continental United States and Canada. The relative relationships among the treated species are inferred from a cladistic analysis. An integrated key using forewing and male genitalic characters is presented. The following new terms are proposed for male genital structures or their subdivisions: gonopons, hemigonarcus, extragonarcus, intragonarcus, intrahemigonarcus, extrahemigonarcus, gonopleuron, gonoplax, paragonarcal membrane, pseudomediuncus, basipseudomediuncus and distopseudomediuncus. The monobasic Neotropical genus Sympheromima Kimmins is proposed as a new synonym of Sympherobius. A synonymical listing of the world species of Sympherobius is appended. In this list two new combinations, Sympherobius marginata (Kimmins) [from Sympheromima] and Sympherobius exiguus (Navs) [from Micromus] are proposed.
25006251|Listed are 102 aphid species arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 128 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. Sixteen species of the aphids and 44 of the food plants have not been previously recorded from New Jersey. At present 237 aphids on 311 food plants are now known to occur in this state.
25005991|This study of a series of midgut whole mounts of larval and pupal Aedes aegypti shows that basal or regenerative cells first appear as a distinct cell type in the mosquito midgut at about the ninth hour of larval life. These cells seldom take part in forming the epithelial lining of the larval midgut. After their appearance, frequent mitotic divisions occur in the basal cells throughout the larval instars resulting in the presence of a large number of these cells in the prepupal midgut. During metamorphosis in the pupal stage, the basal cells remain to form the epithelial layer of the imaginal midgut.
25006019|A study of mites of the Trombiculidae, Myobiidae, Pyemotidae, Tetranychidae, and Acarinae collected from mammals in New Jersey included 26 recognized species and 3 probable new species. New records for the state and host and date-locality records are included.
25009964|The genus Hypsoropha (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is revised and two new species, H. franclemonti, and H. baja are described. Male and female genitalia and adult habitus are illustrated for all known species in the genus. Character states and resulting cladogram are presented.
25009616|Six new species of Tenthredo are described from India: garhwali, manganensis, flatopleura, muchei, corrugatocephala and valvurata. The genitalia are illustrated and the new species are separated from previously described related taxa. The population variation is also discussed.
25009583|Carabus auratus L. and Clivina fossor L. are newly recorded from Maine. The Pacific Coast distribution for C. fossor is extended to southern Oregon.
25006098|Two areas in a sand pit at Groton, New York, each 105  50  15 cm, were excavated and sifted through a screen. The nest contents of digger wasps, their cocoons, and their parasites were sorted and identified. In both areas, nests of the sphecid Oxybelus bipunctatus were more numerous than those of other digger wasps and parasitic flies combined. Puparia of at least two species of miltogrammine sarcophagids, Phrosinella fulvicornis and Senotainia trilineata, were next most abundant. Nests of the digger wasp Tachysphex terminatus were third most numerous.
25009729|Aphaenogaster punctaticeps, n. sp. is described from the northern Chihuahuan Desert of south-central New Mexico, USA. It is closely related to Aphaenogaster texana (Emery). The workers of the two species can be easily distinguished in that the posterior border of the head of A. punctaticeps is moderately pointed (rounded in A. texana) and the dorsum of the head is primarily punctate (rugose with punctures in the interrugal spaces in A. texana.).
25008878|Since the paper of Malcolm and Chamberlin (1960) on "The pseudoscorpion genus Chitrella," a number of new specimens have come to hand, giving further support to the idea that this genus is widely represented in the eastern United States. In 1963 the present author redescribed the tritonymph holotype of Obisium cavicola Packard and assigned the species to Chitrella. This paper describes, for the first time, adults of Chitrella cavicola (Packard) and extends our knowledge of the range of that species, describes a male of C. regina Malcolm and Chamberlin, describes a new cavernicolous species, C. superba, from Virginia, and discusses the relationships of C. transversa (Banks) from New Mexico.
25006172|Data are presented on 28 species of Siphonaptera which have been collected in the counties of Clinton, Essex, Franklin, Hamilton, St. Lawrence, and Warren in northern New York.
25010204|A key is given that allows identification of either live or alcohol preserved first and second instars of Coccinella septempunctata Linnaeus, Coleomegilla maculata (De Geer), Cycloneda munda (Say), Harmonia axyridis Pallas, Hippodamia convergens Guerin, and H. parenthesis (Say). These six species are the most commonly collected Coccinellidae in alfalfa fields in Montgomery County, Virginia. The main emphasis in this key is on the relative placement and characteristics of the most prominent setae on the tergum of the abdomen. This is the first key ever written specifically for early instars, and the first that does not rely on color patterns of live larvae.
25009126|I examined the effect of different host densities at low host: parasitoid ratios (1:1-6:1) on parasitism by four larval parasitoids of the alfalfa weevil in the laboratory. The mortality inflicted was independent of changes in host density. This is due to the short handling times (<5 sec) of the Bathyplectes spp. and to the ability of Tetrastichus incertus (Ratzeburg) to parasitize only 4-5 hosts/day.
25008884|"Niche breadth" as reflected by occurrence in nine ecological regions of New York State is examined by family for the 142 species of butterflies recorded in the state fauna. Species/genus ratios are also examined by families and regions. Data on voltinism and immigration are presented. It is concluded that "niche breadth" is smallest in the Lycaenidae and Hesperiidae and that the ecological distribution of species in these families in the regions with the largest faunas (excluding immigrants) tends to increase the species/genus ratio.
25009812|Gigantometopus rossi, a new genus and species of Isometopinae from Sumatra, which is almost three times the length of any previously known isometopine, is described and illustrated.
25009646|A new species Metatropiphorus alvarengai (Surinam, Brazil, Argentina) is described.
25009929|A purebred "spotless' line of Nicrophorus orbicollis was produced by inbreeding. Spotless beetles completely lack orange markings on the basal portion of the elytra. The spotless trait appears to be largely under the influence of a single gene and is an excellent genetic marker for paternity or maternity in a variety of competitive breeding situations. In the laboratory, individuals possessing the spotless trait were as reproductively successful as normally marked beetles. The spotless marker was used to demonstrate that males which pair with a female achieve a high level of paternity. Paternity remained high in a second brood even when the male was separated from the female in the interval between reproductive attempts.
25009814|Cryphia galva (Strecker) 1898, described from Clyde, New York, is identified as a Colorado species, Cryphia olivacea Smith, 1891, NEW SYNONYM. The adult moths and dissections of the male and female genitalia are illustrated.
25006057|A new species of liphistiid spider, Heptathela bristowei, is described on the basis of a female from Szechuan, China. In a discussion the author concludes that the family Heptathelidae cannot be maintained and that the species with a posterior colulus (Heptathela) be given only generic ranking.
25010484|Eleven species of Heteroptera in seven families, including the first record of the family Alydidae, are reported from the Galpagos Islands. The first Galpagos Island records are given for the following: Alydidae [Neomegalotomus parvus (Westwood)]; Coreidae [Vazuezitocoris andinus Brailovsky = Anasa mimetica Brailovsky]; Miridae [Halticus bractatus (Say)]; Pentatomidae [Mecidea minor Ruckes, Nezara viridula (Linnaeus), Piezodorus guildinii (Westwood), and Podisus distinctus Stl]; Reduviidae [Heza ephippium (Lichtenstein)]; Rhopalidae [Niesthrea ashlocki Froeschner, Niesthrea sidae (Fabricius)]; and Tingidae [Leptobyrsa decora Drake]. For each species, we give a diagnosis, dorsal photograph, a summary of the distribution and host plants, and provide information to facilitate identification. With the discovery of these new taxa and the correction of several misidentifications, the number of Heteroptera known from the Galpagos Islands is increased from 20 families, 71 genera, and 131 species to 21 families, 76 genera, and 140 species.
25010078|Octotoma puncticollis, new species, is described. A partial revised key to Octotoma species is presented.
25009423|Pollen foraging Halictus ligatus and both pollen and nectar foraging Ceratina calcarata were timed on early-summer flowers on Long Island in New York State. Pollen-collecting H. ligatus worked inflorescences of Erigeron annuus (Asteraceae) more rapidly (ave. time 9.7 sec) than did C. calcarata (ave. time 18.3 sec). Handling time by nectar foragers did not differ significantly from pollen collectors of C. calcarata. Handling time was longer on young inflorescences of E. annuus that had numerous florets presenting pollen than on older inflorescences with fewer florets. Halictus ligatus worked inflorescences of E. annuus faster than the larger inflorescences of Chrysanthemum leucanthemum (Asteraceae). In addition to working inflorescences faster, H. ligatus flew between inflorescences faster than did C. calcarata. This suggests that handling time reflects the general pace of bee movement, which differs among bee taxa.
25006022|The occurrence in New Jersey of Pieris narina oleracera recorded by earlier entomologists but ignored by later authors as misdeterminations has been verified by the capture of a male specimen near Springdale, Sussex County, New Jersey on July 8, 1966.
25009586|The larva and cocoon of an undetermined species of the eucerine bee Thygater are described and the larva illustrated and compared with those of other eucerine genera. The conservatism in morphology exhibited by eucerine larvae extends to this genus.
25010534|Blackburnia riparia, new species is described from the summit of Mt. Waialeale, Kauai, Hawaii, incorporated into a phylogenetic analysis of Blackburnia Sharp, and thereby placed as the adelphotaxon to two other allopatric Kauai species, B. lata Liebherr and B. atra Liebherr. The new species occurs in riparian habitats, including vertical rock-faced seeps and algal mats, and is documented to feed on aquatic larvae of Micropsectra Kieffer (Diptera: Chironomidae). Blackburnia elegans (Sharp) adults also occur in streams on Waialeale summit where they were found walking under water on the undersides of large, flat rocks. Based on documented prey and observed behavior, both species appear to forage under the waterline. The abdominal and elytral anatomy of adult B. riparia and B. elegans is suitable for retention of a subelytral air bubble, suggesting these species respire underwater. Adults and associated larvae of Blackburnia mandibularis Liebherr inhabit moss-mats along falls' margins at Waipoo Falls, Kokee State Park, Kauai, indicating that this species' active life stages also reside in the riparian zone. Attributes of the larval head capsule and mandibles for B. riparia and B. mandibularis are associated with homologous characters expressed in adult anatomy, ontogenetically linking larval and adult head and mouthpart specializations. The various evolutionary origins of riparian habits are examined across Blackburnia. Via one route, occupation of the montane riparian zone has evolved from terrestrial moss-mat habitation, with concomitant evolutionary reduction of adult compound eyes. A second evolutionary route to the riparian zone is based on occupation of open, disturbed or ephemeral habitats, in some cases assisted by adult winged dispersal.
25008846|The capture of two females of a black fly species of the subgenus Simulium (Ectemnaspis) in the foothills of the Catskill Mountains, in Ulster County, New York, is reported. The females are indistinguishable, in color and structural characters, from bicoloratum, the type of Simulium (Ectemnaspis), and two very closely related species. The subgenus has previously only been reported from South America.
25009419|A total of 955 specimens came from 39 nests in 34 localities west of the Yukon Territory, 1974-1978. Two Holarctic species were Ornithophaga anomala Mikulin with 371 specimens from 21 nests (mostly Downy Woodpecker and Three-toed Woodpecker) in 20 localities and Ceratophyllus zhovtyi Emel'yanova and Goncharov with 28 specimens from three nests (two Flicker and an unknown species) in three localities. Two Nearctic species were C. adustus Jordan with 168 specimens from 15 nests (mostly Three-toed Woodpecker) in 13 localities and C. rauschi Holland with 388 specimens from eight nests (seven Flicker) in six localities.
25008965|Observations on the nesting behaviors of the Nearctic Lindenius armaticeps, L. buccadentis, and L. columbianus errans are presented and the world literature on the ethology of the Palaearctic L. albilabris, L. panzeri, and L. pygmaeus is reviewed. Behavioral features shared by all species include construction of nests 3-12 cm deep in firmly-packed sand or fine gravel, presence of a vertical main burrow leading frequently to a short horizontal passage, absence of a temporary nest closure during provisioning, attachment of the egg to the neck of a prey along the ventral midline, and distribution of the prey remains evenly over the surface of the cocoon. Valuable characteristics for separating species or species groups include the kinds, proportions, and stages of the prey, chronological placement of cells in the nest, method of prey storage, absence or presence of impalement of the prey during transport, exiting behavior, and number of prey per cell.
25010468|Nerthra tuberculata (Montandon), an enigmatic species of toad bug (Heteroptera: Gelastocoridae), is redescribed, with a detailed description of its morphology, and novel information on its habitat. A discussion of its systematic position within Nerthra is provided, and it is placed in its own species-group.
25009982|Three new species of Pterostichini from North America are described: Pterostichus enodis (type locality: Texas), and P. mutoides (type locality: Georgia) which belong to the subgenus Gastrosticta Casey, 1918, and P. spathifer (type locality: Isabella Creek, Clearwater Co., Idaho) which is a member of the subgenus Pseudoferonina Ball, 1965. Three species of Gastrosticta are redescribed: P. obesulus LeConte, 1873; P. punctiventris Chaudoir, 1878; and P. ophryoderus Chaudoir, 1878. Pterostichus amnicola (Casey, 1918) is listed as a new junior synonym of P. punctiventris (Chaudoir, 1878). A key to all known species of Gastrosticta is included.
25010265|The last instar larva and pupa of Rhyparonotus altarensis (Olliff) (Curculionidae: Molytinae: Anchonini), from Ecuador, are described and illustrated. Larval characters are compared with those of other Molytinae, e.g., Molytini, Hylobiini, and Phrynixini, and their phylogenetic value is discussed.
25009197|An episode of simultaneous utilization of a foraging trail by two attine ants, Acromyrmex versicolor (Pergande) and Atta mexicana (F. Smith), is described. No aggressive behavior between the two species was noted, except near an Acromyrmex nest entrance. This observation of simultaneous trail use is of particular interest because both species have similar habits and they overlap in selection of food plant species in the Sonoran Desert.
25010420|Paraminota is revised and Chabriella Medvedev, 1990 and Schawalleria Medvedev, 1990 are synonymized with Paraminota. Chabriella minuta Medvedev, 1990 is synonymized with Schawalleria lamprosomoides Medvedev, 1990. A new species, P. lauribina from Nepal is described. A key to species of Paraminota and illustrations of all these taxa are provided.
25008901|A five-month study of the Sphinigidae at Turrialba, Costa Rica, was made. A total of 565 specimens of 66 species was collected, of which Errinyis ello was the most common. A monthly record of these data is presented. Selected data from other Costa Rican sites are included; they bring the total number of species discussed to 80. The known distribution of ten species is extended. Statistical data on the times of flights are given for the Turrialba species, particularly for those that are common. Differences in temporal activity of closely related species may be the result of competition.
25006065|In this paper twelve new species are described: adversa, alabama, aviceps, barri, bruneri, diablo, floirdana, frosti, heteracantha, howdeni, pullata, sericeoides, and one new subspecies: perigonia eremicola. Ten previously described species are figured: alleni, anthracina, castanea, ensenada, mackenziei, oliveri, peregrina, pilifera, rossi, and sericea. Four species names are reduced to synonymy: joaquinella to oliveri; mendota to pruinipennis; michelbacheri to fimbriata; and searli to alleni. The spelling "atricapilla" is corrected to atracapilla, and trociformis blatchleyi is given specific standing. Supplementary distribution notes are given beyond those recorded in paper #IX of this series.
25010191|New data are presented concerning the morphology of the monobasic genus Tahitocoris, especially its female genitalia and the distribution of its abdominal trichobothria. It is concluded that the subfamily Tahitocorinae should fall as a synonym of Podopinae.
25010307|A new species of the New World waterscorpion genus Curicta Stl from Brazil is described. This species is dedicated to the eminent heteropterist, John T. Polhemus, in celebration of his 70th birthday.
25009042|A number of properties of hemolymph were determined on two major forest pest insects: the gypsy moth and the European pine sawfly. The parameters measured include: pH, visible absorption spectra, sedimentation coefficients, electrophoretic patterns of proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and isoenzymes, and amino acid analyses.
25006180|Nine species and a possible tenth are now known in the genus Kaestneriella. Eight of these are here described as new and are named as follows: K. guatemalensis, K. maculosa, K. mexicana, K. minor, K. obscura, K. occidentalis, K. pacifica, K. setosa. An augmented diagnosis of the genus is presented. Figures of genitalic and forewing characters for all of the new species are included. A key to the known species is presented. The taxonomic treatment is based on examination of 185 adult specimens. The location of the major types of each new species is mentioned in its description. A brief discussion of phylogenetic relationships within this genus is included and is summarized with a dendrogram. The genus Kaestneriella is now known to occur from Costa Rica north to southern Arizona.
25009928|Four new species of Theraneis Spinola, collected in Venezuela, Brazil and Peru are described and illustrated. Theraneis is reported for the first time from Venezuela. The distribution pattern of the silvery pubescence as well as the color of the hemelytra are shown to be good characters to distinguish the species. A key for the separation of most of the species is included.
25009294|Larvae hatching from unchilled egg masses of a "non-diapause" gypsy moth strain (Lymantria dispar Linnaeus) were reared to determine the hatch sequence of males and females. Males tended to hatch from non-diapause egg masses before females, which is the reverse of the hatching sequence of chilled wild egg masses. These results were obtained with an outcrossed non-diapause strain as well. The reversed hatch sequence is not due to a skewed sex ratio or to differential mortality.
25006133|A study of the food gathering behavior of a single colony of Camponotus noveboracensis (Fitch) revealed that its food sources, during the period studied, were the honeydew produced by the membracid, Vanduzea arquata (Say), the sap exudate flowing from a wound in the trunk of a common lilac, Syringa vulgaris, and the carcasses of dead insects. The behavior of the worker ants in exploiting each of these sources is discussed in detail.
25008989|Twenty-one species of mites belonging to eight families are reported found in nests of birds from New York; three are new to science: Cheiroseius hurlbutti n. sp., Lasioseius tridentatus n. sp. and Pellonyssus nidicolus n. sp. The fauna includes important biting and stored products species, and those associated with house-dust allergy. Tyrophagus longior (Gervais) (Acaridae) and Dermatophagoides evansi (Fain), Hughes & Johnston are the two most common mites found in birds' nests. The male of Sturnophagoides bakeri (Fain) is described for the first time. Notes and information on distribution and habitats are provided, together with illustrations of certain species. Gamasellodes americanus (Garman) is a new synonym of Gamasellodes bicolor (Berlese).
25009027|Parachipteria travi, Achipteria catskillensis and Achipteria clarencei from the Catskill Mountains of New York State are described and figured and comparisons in size and morphological features are made with described species of similar features.
25009966|The sibling species Pontia protodice and P. occidentalis occur on altitudinal gradient across the Sierra Nevada in California, with a mid-elevation belt on the west slope in which neither is a permanent resident. A similar pattern occurs in a variety of unrelated butterfly genera. Studies of the occurrence and breeding of the two Pontia across the Sierra for 20 years fail to demonstrate any association (positive or negative) between them in the "no man's land" on the west slope, thus arguing against competitive exclusion as the mechanism maintaining the separation. Occurrence of P. protodice at 1,500 m and 2,100 m is also independent, implying that its presence in the montane Sierra is not simply an epiphenomenon of outflow from a single source in the lowlands. 1991 was an unusual year in which the entire region was colonized, seemingly in a wave emanating from the east. Sporadic competition between the species is not ruled out by these findings, but is unlikely to be important.
25009976|The Anthocoridae fauna found on the widespread western North American pine, Pinus contorta, is reviewed. Ten genera and 18 species are reported. Three of these species (Anthocoris spp. and Orius tristicolor) are considered casual visitors to the tree. Biological, ecological, and taxonomic information is presented for each species and the pertinent literature reviewed.
25009204|Over 350 females of the social wasp P. fuscatus were found overwintering in southern Ontario in two old D. arenaria nests. Most of the wasps were in a damaged nest that was attached to the southern side of a building and fully exposed to the sun. Mid-winter mortality was 2.8% or less. A test nest fitted with thermistors and placed in the original location of nest A showed that although the overwintering wasps can occasionally gain a moderate amount of protection (2.5C) from low ambient temperatures in the intact nest, there was essentially no protection in a damaged nest. This study presents further evidence that adult P. fuscatus can survive nearly complete exposure to the midwinter temperature regime of southern Ontario.
25009817|A drosophilid specimen in Dominican amber, Protochymomyza miocena Grimaldi, has phoretic macrochelid mites attached to it. This find is compared with extant phoretic associations between macrochelid mites and adult drosophilids.
25009293|Seventeen-year cicada nymphs feed on xylem sap of most species of deciduous trees. They attain very great densities in apple orchards and are known to damage apple trees during oviposition. Newly hatched nymphs were removed from certain apple trees in 1979 and the growth of these trees was compared to trees where the nymphs had not been removed. During 1980, trees without cicada nymphs experienced significantly increased annual wood accumulation compared to control trees with cicadas. There was no difference in growth between the 2 treatments in 1979 (the emergence year). Despite the small sample size, these results suggest that cicada nymphs reduce apple tree wood increment in the years following the emergence.
25010187|A mirid genus, Rolstonocoris, and four species are all described from Mexico as new. The type species is R. arteagensis n. sp. from the state of Michoacan. Additional species are R. totolapanus n. sp. from Oaxaca, R. xochipalensis n. sp. from Guerrero and R. colimai n. sp. from Colima.
25009860|Six new species of Toonglasa are described from Mexico and one from Venezuela. A revised key to all known species is included, together with habitat and host plant data. Most species live upon various species of bamboo with several instances of more than one species occurring on the same host plant. Additional distributional data are given for Toonglasa barrerai, forficuloides, tumorosis, tylosis, munda, thackstonae and umbrata. A dorsal view is included of T. elegans and figures of the genitalia of T. bifida.
25010422|This study was conducted to determine if early feeding experience can affect subsequent prey choice in lynx spiderlings (Oxyopes salticus). After emergence from the egg sac, three groups of 10 spiderlings were each fed exclusively for a one-week period on one of three naturally-occurring prey species (crickets): group 1 fed on nymphs of Oecanthus californicus; group 2 (Neobarrettia spinosa); group 3 (Ceuthophilus conicaudus). Following this, they were tested for subsequent prey preference in choice tests conducted in a plastic arena. Each spiderling was presented simultaneously with one individual of each prey species in a randomized design. Spiderlings exhibited a significant first preference for the original diet. Thus, experience with certain foods encountered by newly hatched spiderlings can affect subsequent prey preference in this species.
25009484|The genus Tanystoma Motschulsky is revised, with a key to species, synonymies, and descriptions provided for T. maculicolle (Dejean), new combination, T. cuyama, new species, T. striata (Dejean), and T. sulcata (Dejean). Lectotypes are designated for the Dejean species. The cladistic relationships of Tanystoma are analyzed, and speciation events within the clade are attributed to Pleistocene oscillations of California grassland-chaparral. The vicariance pattern hypothesized for Tanystoma is compared to that exhibited by other groups of plants and animals and is found to represent a general pattern. This pattern entails sequential south to north vicariant events; the first isolating the Southern Coastal and Peninsular mountain ranges in California from coastal areas north of Monterey; the second event separating coastal mountain habitats in the Northern Coastal range of California from those in Oregon.
25008914|The present known ranges of the imported fire ants Solenopsis richteri and S. invicta in North America and South America are shown. Hypothetical answers are given to the questions of how far the species will spread in North America, why both species first became established in the Mobile, Alabama, area, why S. invicta has an extremely elongate, narrow, north-south range in South America, and why it is absent from areas of South America which appear ecologically favorable.
25009059|Vasey, Carey E., Biology Department, State University College of Arts and Science, Geneseo, N.Y. 14454.-Xylomya terminalis, n. sp. collected from Allegany County, New York is described. Three specimens, two from New York State and one from Kalamazoo County, Michigan are included in the type series.
25010540|In 2001 Brood VII of the periodical cicada in central New York emerged over a reduced geographic range, as predicted by Pechuman (1985). We found no evidence in Livingston or Cayuga Counties of periodical cicadas emerging in the populations studied by Pechuman during the 1984 emergence, and the majority of the brood is now limited to populations in Onondaga Nation Territory. The decline of Brood VII during the 20th century has occurred in spite of an increase in the total area of potentially suitable habitat across New York and specifically in the counties in which the cicadas were historically present. The observed reduction in range is discussed in terms of a historical spatial bottleneck followed by fragmentation of historically-occupied habitat combined with the poor abilities of these cicadas to disperse to new habitat.
25006230|The seasonal occurrence and ecological distribution of five Pterostichus species were analyzed by pitfall trapping. Two species, melanarius and coracinus, exhibited one activity-abundance cycle per year which extended from May or June to September or October. Reproduction occurred throughout most of this cycle. These species apparently overwinter both in the larval stage and as teneral adults. The remaining species, pensylvanicus, lucublandus, and mutus, each showed two cycles per year. The first extended from April to July during which reproduction occurred. A period of decreased abundance and activity in midsummer was followed by a second cycle of varying length and intensity between September and November. This was a non-productive cycle composed of progeny of the spring reproductive period. These three species apparently overwinter almost entirely as teneral adults. P. pensylvanicus was taken mostly in wooded areas, while lucublandus occurred almost entirely in non-forested areas. The remaining species were found both in forest and open areas: coracinus principally in forest or forest edge, mutus also mainly in forest but also in some open areas, and melanarius mostly in grassland with some woods. No temporal or sexual difference in distribution was noted.
25010189|Rolstoniellini and Rolstoniellus are proposed as replacement names for Compastini Distant, 1902 and Compastes Stl, 1867, respectively. Genera and species currently placed in Rolstoniellini are listed, including the following new combinations within Rolstoniellus: Rolstoniellus boutanicus (Dallas, 1851); R. exstimulatus (Distant, 1902); R. javanicus (Yang, 1935); R. malacanicus (Yang, 1935); R. minor (Atkinson, 1888); R. neoexstimulatus (Yang, 1935); R. spinosus (Distant, 1887); and R. taurus (Distant, 1911).
25010469|Rhagovelia nigranota n. sp., is described from southern Mexico, and represents the first species in the robusta group to be recorded from that country. Figures of the male and female dorsal habitus and male genitalic structures are provided, accompanied by a distribution map.
25005889|The emergence of Brood 11 of the periodical cicada in Connecticut in 1962 provided an opportunity to add some data on the biology and ecology of this insect. Nymphal patterns, the effects of soil temperature, and bird predation are discussed in relation to emergence. Also noted is a prolonged period of emergence, daytime adult transformation, and distribution in Connecticut.
25006167|Carrion-baited ground cans were used to collect carrion beetles during the summers of 1961 through 1965. Fresh chicken legs were used as bait and were left in the cans for two-week periods of time. Practically all of the flesh was eaten or decomposed by the end of this period. All collected beetles were identified to family, all Silphidae to species, and all Leptodiridae to genus or species. The members of the Silphidae, Leptodiridae, Histeridae, and Staphylinidae were consistently attracted to carrion and accounted for the bulk of the beetles that were trapped. The Silphidae was the dominant family and the seven species collected accounted for almost half of all the beetles collected. The numbers of individuals of this family were maintained at about the same level throughout the seasonal periods of study in 1961 and 1963. There was no apparent succession of Silphidae species on carrion during the period of time required for total decomposition. The carrion seemed to be most attractive to these beetles from the fifth to the tenth days when it was in the fresh-bloated, bloated, and decay stages. There was a seasonal pattern of change in dominant populations of Silphidae during the six-week summer periods of study. Silpha noveboracensis, the dominant species of early summer, decreased steadily and virtually disappeared by middle summer. Nicrophorus sp., on the other hand, was present in small numbers in early summer but increased steadily and became the dominant species in middle summer. Silpha noveboracensis was the dominant species in three shrub areas during early summer. It was most abundant in the Maple-leaved Viburnum shrub area.
25010004|Frankliniella brunnea Priesner, F. fuscipennis Moulton, F. inopinata Moulton, and F. tridacana Hood are junior synonyms of F. reticulata (Crawford), NEW SYNONYMY. The lectotype of F. adadusta Moulton is a junior synonym of F. simplex Priesner, NEW SYNONYMY, and the paralectotype is a different species, F. reticulata.
25009440|Pellaea candens (Distant, 1890) is placed in the synonymy of Pellaea stictica (Dallas, 1851), and Pellaea santarosensis, a new species from Costa Rica, is described. A lectotype is designated for Rhaphigaster sticticus Dallas, 1851.
25009898|Males of Tachiona deplanata Sharp and T. nitida Ashe are described and illustrated. Specimens of Tachiona were collected from the inside of larval excavations of Hepialidae (Lepidoptera) in Buddleja parviflora.
25010456|The phyline genus Platyscytisca Costa and Henry is reviewed and one new species, P. nelsoni, is described from Bahia, Brazil. Platyscytisca nelsoni, the second species recognized in the genus, represents a considerable northern range extension for the genus from the state of So Paulo. Provided for P. bergmannae Costa and Henry and P. nelsoni are illustrations of the adults, figures of male genitalia, and a key to help separate these two species.
25010021|The new species most closely resembles Lestes tenuatus, L. pictus, and L. henshawii, but it is distinctive in color pattern, in the form of the male cerci, and in the form of the ovipositor. Brief notes on its ecology and probable relationships, as well as a key to regional species, are provided. /// La nueva especie se parece a Lestes tenuatus, L. pictus, y L. henshawi, pero es distintiva en su coloracin y en la forma de los cercos del macho y del ovipositor. Se provee, adems, breves notas acerca de sus ecologa y probables relaciones especficas, as como una clave para identificar las especies de la regin.
25010318|Three new species of Micronecta are described: M. drepani n. sp. and M. lemnae n. sp. from Thailand and M. polhemusi n. sp. from Thailand and Vit Nam. A key for identification of Micronectinae of Thailand and adjacent areas is presented.
25005833|O. schwarzi n.sp. is described. This species has the mandible broadly expanded and obliquely truncated at its apex and it is provided with a basal, inner tooth. The tegument of the abdominal terga is entirely black and here in the males the green metallic luster is almost completely lacking in the marginal depressions.
25010266|A new Mexican species of Anopsiostes Paulian is described and illustrated; this monotypical genus was previously known only from Ecuador. The distinctive characters of both species and the Antillean genus Nesopalla Paulian and Howden are commented.
25008763|The number of cysticercoids of the tapeworm Hymenolepis diminuta established in the insect intermediate host, Tribolium confusum, were found to be significantly influenced by the temperature at which the beetles were maintained, the number of days starvation of the beetles before infection, the period of exposure to the parasite eggs, and the age of the beetles. The higher the temperature in the range 20-35C., the longer the period of starvation up to 8 days, the older the beetles up to 15 days, and double the period of exposure to the parasite eggs, all resulted in an increase in the average parasite burden per beetle. In heavily parasitised hosts the effect of crowding resulted in smaller cysticercoids. Infectivity was not impaired.
25009424|The male of Cheliferoides segmentatus F. O. P.-Cambridge is redescribed and the female is described for the first time; Cambridge's hypothesis that these spiders mimic pseudoscorpions is supported by the discovery of specimens living with chernetids.
25006193|Continuous Malaise trap collections at four sampling stations yielded 40,348 individuals over 13 weeks in summer 1967. Greatest numbers of insects were collected in early June, fewest in late July. Diptera comprised 44.7% of the catch, followed by Plecoptera (20.8%), Hymenoptera (14.7%), Lepidoptera (7.2%), Hemiptera (7.1%), Coleoptera (2.4%) and other orders (3.1%). The majority of Diptera were Nematocera; in contrast to other reports, mosquitoes and Tabanidae were seldom collected. The unusual abundance of Plecoptera was due almost exclusively to one species, Nemoura albidipennis Walker, which swamped collections of one trap during the first four study weeks. Thirty-five families of Hymenoptera exclusive of the Chalcidoidea were taken, Ichneumonidae and Tenthredinidae being most abundant. Lepidoptera were almost exclusively moths, those less than 3.0 mm in body length comprising 49-69%. Cicadellidae and Cercopidae accounted for nearly all of the Hemiptera taken. Seasonal occurrence patterns of selected taxa are discussed.
25006148|Six new species of eriopterine crane flies are described, all from Assam and Sikkim. These are Trentepohlia (Mongoma) fuscogenualis, Teucholabis (Teucholabis) diperone; T. (T.) eremnopoda; Baeoura aka; B. latibasis; and B. obtusistyla.
25008898|The genus Pterallastes Loew is reviewed, its phylogeny and distribution discussed, the key to and figures of its species are given, Pseudozetterstedtia Shiraki is synonymized under it, and bomboides (China) is described as a new species of it.
25008829|A preliminary survey was made of the anthomyiid and muscid flies on the upper regions of Mt. Katahdin during the early summer of 1957, 1958, 1959, from a base on Chimney Pond at 2,914-feet elevation. Sixty-nine species and one subspecies were recognized as belonging to the family Anthomyiidae sens. str., and 112 species to the Muscidae, a total that included the unpublished records of 3 muscid species that were not found during the foregoing visits. The species Chirosia setifer, Spilogona broweri, S. concomitans, S. katahdin, Lispocephala aemulata, Mydaea grata, and Phaonia cauta are described as new to science, and Delia tarsifimbria (Rondani), as newly recorded from North America.
25010363|Peristenus digoneutis was discovered in one new state (Maine) and in 15 new counties in Maine, New Hampshire, New York, Pennsylvania, and Vermont during 1997-1999. These new records increased the number of counties where this parasite has been found by 42%, to a total of 51 counties in eight states. No permanent establishments of P. digoneutis have been found south of New York City, which suggests that high summer temperatures are limiting its spread southward. A good agreement was found between the parasite's southernmost establishment locations and a maximum summer temperature/duration of 30C (86F) for 14 to 30 days. This temperature limit suggests that P. digoneutis can disperse westward both north and south of Lake Erie, across southern Ontario and northern Ohio, to Michigan and Wisconsin. Establishment south of New York City (latitude 40.5N) is unlikely, except possibly along the higher/cooler elevations of the Appalachian Mountains.
25006121|Information associated with the nesting behaviors of 10 species of Crabro is reviewed. An additional prey record for C. latipes is given. Observations on the nesting behavior of C. advenus, particularly nest structure and contents, are detailed. Females of C. advenus nested in sand and provisioned their cells with adult flies of the families Otitidae, Anthomyiidae, Muscidae, Calliphoridae, and Sarcophagidae. Two unfinished nests contained 5 and 16 cells. The cells, in clusters of 3-7, were constructed near the horizontal burrows. From 2 to 6 prey, usually of mixed species, were stored in a cell. A wasp's egg was laid on the innermost, but usually not the largest, fly in the cell, across the ventral side of the neck.
25005879|Population characteristics are described for approximately 400 mound nests of Formica opaciventris censused over a 3 year period in Wyoming. During this period of observation, density remained stable at 0.007 nests/sq. meter with a maximum density of 0.4 nests/sq. meter. Mounds are categorized into size and activity classes and yearly changes are noted. Only a portion of the population releases sexuals, and on a statistical basis these fertile mounds are more likely to be found among the larger, more active segment of the population, and in the NW quadrant of this study area. Mortality rate for the total population was 8%-9%, increasing regularly at lower activity levels. Nest birth rate was 5%-13% during the period of observation. These rates are compared with those of closely related species of Formica.
25009469|The genus Baeriella Simon is transferred from the Cybaeodinae (Clubionoidea) to the Laroniinae (Gnaphosidae) and newly synonymized with Eilica Keyserling; its type species, B. myrmecophila Simon, is placed as a senior synonym of Eilica puno Platnick and Shadab. Three new species are described: E. amambay from Paraguay and E. daviesae and E. bedourie from Australia. The male of E. contacta Platnick is described for the first time.
25009471|Papilio xanthopleura var. diaphora is given species status based on examination of the holotype male and other specimens. Former usage applying diaphora only to a dimorphic aberration of the female is shown to be in error.
25009257|A destructive and time-consuming limb-tap sampling method was demonstrated to be 88% efficient for capturing adult and 2nd larval stage Leptothrips mali. This sampling method was compared to a simple, non-destructive, but inefficient, visual sampling technique through regression analysis. A significant relationship was found which indicated that the visual technique may be a practical sampling method.
25005835|Data are presented concerning the reproduction in Bombini, Apini and Meliponini. 1-Melipona quadrifasciata. All queens of this species mated only once and outside the hive. A queenless colony continues to kill virgin queens for almost 100 hours after being dequeened. Queens return from the mating flight with the male genitalia. A queen, marked on her return from her only mating flight, lived for three years and one month. Males average 1,156,850 spermatozoa. A recently mated queen had, in oviducts and spermatheca, 1,018,333 sperm. Since she returned with the male genitalia we concluded she mated with only one drone. Another queen which had laid only 30 eggs had 950,000 in the spermatheca indicating that about 97% of the sperm from the drone had reached the spermatheca: an efficiency of the ejaculation much greater than in A. mellifera. A spermatheca examined immediately after the queen returned from her mating flight showed spermatozoa moving at a speed of 11.4 to 16.0 mm per minute. 2-Trigona (Tetragonisca) jaty. Males gather in resting groups close to the entrance of the hive during swarming. These 3,000 males dispersed a few days after the queen was mated. More than one virgin flies from the mother colony to the new one during swarming. After a virgin is successfully mated remaining virgin queens are imprisoned in isolated waxy cells and die there. Spermatheca were found to contain 108,260 sperm. 3-Trigona (Plebeia) droryana. Males of this species, attracted by the smell of the orchid, Trigonidium obtusum, tried to mate with this flower. An anaesthetized queen placed on the flower (whose scent is believed to resemble that of the virgin queen) attracted males which tried to copulate with her in the normal position of solitary bees, male above female. 4-Trigona (Scaptotrigona) postica. During swarming as many as three virgin queens flew to the new home. A day later only one queen was found. A virgin queen born in a normal hive, but not mated, is tolerated for about 15 days, then she is persecuted by the bees and killed. Up to 8 virgin queens were found in a queen-right hive. Males leave the hive after a few days and then congregate in groups within 20-250 cm of the hive entrance. Greatest flight activity is between 1:00 and 3:00 P.M. Males feed directly from flowers within a flight range of about 600 meters, which is comparable to the flight range of workers. Males gathered in groups before a hive, may belong to several different colonies. 5-Apis mellifera. Sperm counts of male ejaculations varied from 1,600,000 to 9,610,000 with an average of about 6,000,000. No correlation was found between body weight of drones and sperm count. Drones from one hive lacked spermatozoa. A queen which had been laying for 40 days had 5,600,000 sperm in her spermatheca. Two queens dissected on their return from the mating flight showed 43,440,000 and 69,590,000 sperm in their oviducts and spermatheca suggesting matings with 7-12 drones on a single flight. Sperm in the spermatheca were actively motile for approximately 60 minutes before becoming non-motile. Their motility was slower than sperm of M. quadrifasciata quadrifasciata. There is a noticeable tendency, increasing as you move up the scale of social behavior, towards an increase in the genetically active population among social bees.
25008943|Two new acanthosomatid genera, each with one new species, are described: Mazanoma, new genus, M. variada, new species and type species, type locality Guardia Vieja, Los Andes, Aconcagua, Chile; and Tolono, new genus, T. decoratus, new species and type species, type locality Loja Province, Ecuador. A key to the acanthosomatid genera of the Western Hemisphere is given. Sinopla bicallosus Stl is transferred to Acrophyma.
25009771|Blissus breviusculus Barber is a poorly known blissine lygaeid that is rare in collections because of its cryptic habits; nymphs and adults live deep within crowns of little bluestem, Schizachrium scoparium (Michx.) Nash (Graminiae). Known previously from Connecticut, Maine, and Massachusetts, B. breviusculus is recorded form a serpentine barren in southeastern Pennsylvania. A suction-sampling machine (D-Vac) was used to extract specimens from crowns of its host plant. A New York record, based on a specimen collected prior to Barber's original description and housed in the U.S. National Museum of Natural History collection, is given; two additional Massachusetts localities, based on USNM specimens, are also cited. Parshley's (1917) record of "Blissus hirtus Montandon" from Maine is referred to B. breviusculus.
25009198|The aphid Pemphigus populitransversus produces galls of two distinct morphs on cottonwood petioles. There are pronounced between-morph differences in both the number and maturity distribution of aphids within the galls. The progress of gall maturation was followed over the summer to determine whether these life history differences are explainable solely by the fact that galls of the "globular" morph are initiated some seven weeks later than those of the "elongate" morph or whether qualitative differences exist in the pattern of gall maturation. It was found that the pattern of maturation for the two morphs was similar, with globulars being always seven weeks behind. However, the number of nymphs and mature alates was about three times greater in globular galls.
25010186|Heisshygia rolstoni n. sp., H. amplissima n. sp., and H. cephalota n. sp., are described from New Guinea. A key is provided to distinguish the known species. The presence of ocelli in Heisshygia is shown to correct the original description.
25010009|The relation between weekly patterns of percent occurrence of dominant ant species in litter and soil samples from a Bahian (Brazil) cocoa plantation and climatic factors was examined. No significant lagged correlations were found for the litter dominants, however the soil dominant Acropyga cf. paramaribensis showed significant lagged correlations with temperature, rainfall and leaf flush, probably in response to increases in the populations of their mutualistic root mealybugs. Population fluctuations of A. cf. paramaribensis were found to be highly associated with those of the other soil dominant Tranopelta sp., which we believe to be a predator of the dominant and its mutualistic mealybugs.
25009901|Calathotarsus pihuychen, a new species from San Antonio Province, Regin de Valparaso (V), Chile, is described and illustrated. Its burrows are described and compared with the burrows of other Chilean Migoidea.
25008883|Ten thousand acres of a balsam fir forest severely infested by Choristoneura fumiferana Clemens was treated with a Bacillus thuringiensis + chitinase formulation by means of Avenger aircraft. In the 70% of the territory that was properly sprayed mortality averaged 88% and foliage protection 70% as determined by visual observations. The results of this experiment were sufficiently good to recommend the use of B. thuringiensis + chitinase formulation for the control of spruce budworm outbreaks.
25008990|Apochthonius moestus (Banks) is redescribed from the holotype female and from numerous specimens taken in and near the type locality, Ithaca, New York. The species seems to be restricted to western New York and adjacent parts of northern Pennsylvania.
25010379|The genus Calociasma appears to be polyphyletic and contains members that belong to all three currently recognized subtribes of the Nymphidiini. Only the type species, ictericum, and laius are retained in Calociasma, which belongs to the subtribe Nymphidiina. The taxa pulcherrima, comparata and felicis are removed to Juditha (n. combs.) in the Lemoniadina, and lilina (n. comb.) and its newly described sister species from Panama, robbinsi n. sp., are placed in the new genus Calicosama n. gen. in the Theopeina. Calicosama is characterized, and its biology and systematic position discussed.
25009975|The families Ochteridae and Hebridae are recorded for the first time from the granitic Seychelles, based on collections from mountain streams on the island of Mahe. Two new species, Ochterus seychellensis and Hebrus seychellensis, are described, with dorsal habitus and male genitalic figures.
25008776|Pupae of C. pipiens, collected from a swamp, were separated into two groups. One group of adults engorged on a guinea pig, the other on a canary. Hosts remained with mosquitoes for 12 hour periods (overnight) for 30 consecutive days. Engorged females were counted daily and transferred to ovipositing containers. Results indicate that C. pipiens are highly ornithophilic, but will engorge on a mammal when the latter is the only host available. Furthermore, a peak feeding period is confirmed when the avian is the host.
25010485|Twenty individuals diagnosed with delusory parasitosis participated in a single site clinical study under the auspices of the National Pediculosis Association (NPA) and the Oklahoma State Department of Health. The objective of this study was to determine if there were any common factors in skin scrapings collected from this population. These individuals, whose symptoms were originally attributed to lice or scabies, were part of a larger group reporting symptoms of stinging/biting and/or crawling to the NPA. Multiple skin scrapings from each person were microscopically examined. Any and all fields of view that appeared incongruous to normal human skin were digitally photographed. When the photographic images were initially evaluated, no common factor was identified. However, more extensive scrutiny using imaging software revealed evidence of Collembola in 18 of the 20 participants.
25009556|Recent collections of Ioscytus Reuter in the United States have revealed the first known member of the genus from the eastern United States, described here as Ioscytus chapmani, new species, and a new distributional record for the United States and first recorded submacropterous form for Ioscytus tepidarius (Hodgden), heretofore known only from Mexico. The various habitats of Ioscytus species are described, and a key to species and distributional map are included.
25006253|The alboguttatus group of the genus Peripsocus is defined on the basis of genitalic features of both sexes and forewing-marking pattern. Ten species are included, seven of which are described as new and are named as follows: P. alachuae, P. australis, P. maculosus, P. minimus, P. monticola, P. potosi, P. teutonicus. The forewing-marking pattern common, with minor modifications, to most species of the group is departed from by P. monticola n.sp., but this species is obviously very close to another included member, P. australis n.sp., as shown by genitalic features of both sexes. The taxonomic treatment is based on examination of 543 adult specimens. The location of the major types of each new species is mentioned in its description. A neotype of P. madescens Walsh is designated. A brief discussion of probable phylogenetic relationships within the species group is included. The alboguttatus group is represented in eastern United States by five species, one of which enters southeastern Canada. P. alboguttatus Dalman occurs throughout Europe as well as in North America. In Mexico there are two species in the group, one of which ranges south into northern South America and occurs on Trinidad, Puerto Rico, and Jamaica in the West Indies. Another species is known from Jamaica. Two species are known from southern Brazil, and one occurs in West Africa.
25009385|Whirligig beetles prey on a variety of small soft-bodied invertebrates that enter their surface film habitat from above or below. They also act as scavengers on dead floating invertebrates. Deficits in prey capture ability were produced by experimental deprivation of visual, tactile, or surface vibration cues. Visual deprivation and deprivation of surface vibration cues produced statistically equivalent deficits in whirligig predatory behavior. When tactile and surface vibration cues were both unavailable to the beetles, the deficits in their predatory behavior were more pronounced. These sensory systems are similar to those of Hemipteran predators that live in the surface film.
25009410|A key is provided for those North American, Central American and West Indian genera of Pentatomini that do not have a basal tubercle or spine on the abdominal venter. Pentatoma antiguensis Westwood, Thyanta bimini Ruckes, T. elegans Malloch and T. elegantula Jensen-Haarup are transferred to Cyptocephala Berg from Thyanta Stl. Tepa Rolston and McDonald, new genus, is proposed for 6 species transferred from Thyanta: Pentatoma rugulosa Say, type species, Thyanta brevis Van Duzee, T. jugosa Van Duzee, T. panda Van Duzee, T. punctiventris Van Duzee and T. yerma Rolston. Caribo Rolston, new genus, is proposed for C. subgibbus Rolston, new species from the Bahamas, and C. fasciatus Rolston, new species from Jamaica and St. John, Virgin Islands. Neurohalys Bliven, 1960, is placed in the synonymy of Prionosoma Uhler, 1863, and N. bucculatus Bliven, 1960, in the synonymy of P. podopioides Uhler, 1863. Thyanta subgenus Parathyanta Jensen-Haarup, 1928, is a junior synonym of Cyptocephala Berg, 1883. Phacidium euchlorum Breddin, 1912, whose type locality was erroneously reported as Costa Rica, is a junior synonym of Thyanta aeruginosa Berg, 1878, a species known only from Argentina and Uruguay. A lectotype is designated for Phacidium euchlorum Breddin.
25009566|Information on the nesting biology is reported for Caupolicana ocellata Michener (Colletidae: Diphaglossinae) and Martinapis luteicornis (Cockerell) (Anthophoridae: Eucerini). These species collect pollen from Psorothamnus scoparius (Gray) Rydberg (Leguminosae). Nests of both species were found near one another close to the Willcox playa in southeastern Arizona. Details of nest architecture, provisioning and a description of the egg of Martinapis are presented. This information is compared and contrasted with related bees. Also provided is casual information on the early matinal flight periods of the two species and of Caupolicana yarrowi (Cresson).
25010277|The species of Physocoryna are reviewed and a key to the three species is presented. A lectotype is designated for P. parvula Weise.
25009992|Two new Mexican species of Diplotaxis from Veracruz state are described. Modifications to Vaurie's keys to the genus are included to allow their identification.
25009378|Novomessor cockerelli uses coordinated behavior to subdue large orthopteran prey. When a partially disabled grasshopper is encountered, the first worker finding it mounts the dorsum of the grasshopper and clamps its mandibles over the wings, thus preventing escape by flight. Workers which arrive subsequently systematically remove or subjugate additional appendages. Behavioral coordination allows N. cockerelli to efficiently exploit large orthopteran prey which would otherwise escape if workers attempted to capture these individually.
25010528|Experiments were conducted to determine whether previous encounters with host spiders would affect hunting behavior in females of the spider wasp, Pepsis mildei. Each wasp was subjected to 3 encounters with a different spider (Aphonopelma steindachneri) in an experimental chamber. The mean time required for wasps to orient their bodies and approach the host decreased significantly by the second encounter (546.1 sec  15.2 SD) as compared to that required by naive wasps on their first encounter (972.4 sec  19.3). In a similar fashion, mean time required to paralyze the host decreased from 198.5 sec  13.3 SD on the first encounter to 156.7 sec  10.2 by the second encounter. The mean number of movements of the antennae by these wasps for various time intervals during the hunting sequence (interval between the initial orientation of wasp toward the spider, and first contact; and between last bout of antennation of host and insertion of stinger) also decreased significantly between the first and second encounters, suggesting that the time required to assess the suitability of a host decreased as a function of experience as well. These results indicate that the hunting behavior of pepsine wasps is characterized by a certain degree of plasticity that may contribute to the survivorship of these wasps. This plasticity may be due learning processes or timing-events associated with sensitization.
25009968|Evidence for monophyly of the Tribe Licinini is found in synapotypic character states of mouthparts (mandibles, primarily reduction of occlusal ridges and grooves) and the head capsule of larvae, with a distinct ventral apotome. Illustrations of mouthparts of adults of representative licinines show four basic types, which distinguish four subtribes: Dicaelina, Dicrochilina (new subtribe), Lestignathina (new subtribe) and Licinina (including the South American genus Eutogeneius). Structure of the mandibles and of the fore coxal cavities indicate relationships as follows: Dicaelina + ((Dicrochilina + Lestignathina) + Licinina). A review of the genus Diplocheila Brull reveals for the subgenus Diplocheila new synonymy: Pterostichus (Platysma) karikali Jedlika, 1969 = Diplocheila distinguenda LaFert, 1851. A review of the geographical history of subgenus Isorembus Jeannel indicates that the striatopunctata group was divided in two by opening of the Atlantic Basin, isolating one monophyletic segment in the Nearctic Region, and one in the Palaearctic Region, the latter withdrawing subsequently from Western Europe, and surviving in Western China. Review of recently collected material of the subgenus Liodicaelus (gen. Dicaelus Bonelli) reveals a new species-D. franclemonti (type locality-MEXICO, state of Nuevo Leon, Cerro Potosi, a mountain northwest of Galeana). Reexamination of the type material of D. laevipennis dicaeloides Ball suggests that this taxon is consubspecific with D. l. laevipennis LeConte. The names are synonymized accordingly. Reconstruction of the geographical history of Liodicaelus suggests that this lineage is of Late Miocene origin (ca. 12 million years before present), and that differentiation has been the result of vicariance and dispersal, with the oldest barrier between the Sierra Madre Oriental and the Sierra Madre Occidental. Study of the mouthparts of Badister reflexus LeConte reveals that, in the West Indies, the mandibles are dimorphic, with either the right or left mandible deeply notched dorsally. This feature of asymmetry was used to diagnose subgenera: left mandible notched, Baudia Ragusa; right mandible notched, Badister (sensu stricto) Clairville. Because it seems clear, now, that the genetic basis for mandibular difference is simple, the groups based on this feature alone should be reassessed.
25008942|Comparisons of morphological characters between successive generations of males and females of Tachysphex terminatus (Smith) in upstate New York were made. Significant differences were found for the samples of females but not for those of males. However, the males showed greater variability within a generation than did the females.
25006141|Mature larvae of Cerura scitiscripta multiscripta Riley reacted strongly and defensively to relatively low pitched sounds of the human voice, but showed no reactions to higher pitched sounds such as those of a Galton whistle.
25010123|Catogenus slipinskii Thomas, n. sp., is described from the Dominican Republic. It is illustrated and compared with other species of the genus. Catogenus cayman Slipinski is also recorded from the Dominican Republic. These are the first species of Catogenus to be recorded from Hispaniola.
25005831|Every colony of the stingless bee, T. compressa, found by the author had surrounding it a colony of the ant, C. stolli. When the bee colony is broken into to obtain the honey, these carnivorous ants swarm out to attack the invader. However, the ants do not feed on any of the spilt honey nor do they attack the bees. The original arrangement is restored after a period of reorganization.
25010168|A new genus, Ewartithrips, and four new species, E. californicus, E. dispar, E. flavidus and E. salviae, are described from California. Tenothrips ehrhornii and Taeniothrips longirostrum are reassigned to Ewartithrips (NEW COMBINATIONS). A key is proved for identifying eight genera to which former nearctic Taeniothrips species were reassigned.
25009279|Males of Mischocyttarus flavitarsis and M. drewseni possess a large mass of ducted exocrine gland cells on each of the fifth, sixth, and seventh (terminal) gastral sternites. The epidermal cells in the region of these glands are elongated, suggesting that they also have a secretory function. Males of a third species, M. mexicanus, have relatively few ducted gland cells on the fifth and sixth sternites and none on the seventh sternite. In M. flavitarsis (but not in M. drewseni or M. mexicanus), the gland cell ducts of sternites five and six open into a dense brush of long hairs.
25009612|Six new species of Phyllophaga from Cuba are described and SEM micrographs of the male genitalia are given.
25010434|The dryophthorid genus Rhinostomus Rafinesque (=Yuccaborus LeConte, new synonym) is a monophyletic taxon, defined by a combination of the following characters: mandibles exodont, antennal scape passing hind margin of eye, postocular lobes absent, abdominal punctures present, tibiae usually dentate, and third tarsal segment bilobed. It belongs to the pantropical tribe Rhinostomini Kuschel and is comprised of eight species. A cladistic analysis was carried out using 28 characters from external morphology, body vestiture, and male genitalia. The analysis yielded a single most parsimonious cladogram, with 59 steps, consistency index of 0.61, and retention index of 0.75, which was stable to successive weighting. According to this cladogram, the species follow the sequence: R. frontalis (LeConte, 1874) [=R. frontalis sharpi (Casey, 1892), new synonym] new combination, R. thompsoni Vaurie, 1970, R. quadrisignatus (Boheman, 1845), R. meldolae (Pascoe, 1887), R. oblitus (Jacquelin du Val, 1857) plus R. scrutator (Olivier, 1807), and R. barbirostris (Fabricius, 1775) plus R. niger (Drury, 1773).
25010447|Our studies of the Ephemeroptera family Ephemerellidae have revealed new synonyms and a new combination for species that have been placed in the genus Crinitella Allen and Edmunds. The type species, Crinitella coheri (Allen and Edmunds), is variable in color, and the shape of the left mandible is the same as that of C. permkami Wang and Sites, indicating that C. coheri (Allen and Edmunds) 1963 = C. permkami Wang and Sites, 1999, new synonymy. Drunella nasiri (Ali), new combination, was included in Crinitella previously. All other species previously included in Crinitella are synonyms of species in different genera, as follows: Cincticostella levanidovae (Tshernova) 1952 = Crinitella swatensis (Ali) 1971, new synonymy, and Torleya nepalica (Allen and Edmunds) 1963 = Crinitella wahensis (Ali) 1971, new synonymy.
25009418|The genus Parathroscinus is characterized. A new species, P. orientalis, is described from the Philippine Islands and P. oculatus (Motschulsky) is transferred to the genus from Byrrhinus.
25009991|Wing reduction and wing dimorphism in both sexes of an insect species are widespread phenomena. Sexual dimorphism in wing development is less common, and is previously unrecorded in the large beetle family Staphylinidae. Omalium flavidum Hamilton, a little-known forest staphylinid widespread in northeastern North America, has unusual wing dimorphism: flightless females and males, with minute vestigial wings and modifications often associated with wing loss; and fully-winged males, with distinctly elongate antennae, elytra, and legs. Occurrence of this and other patterns of sex-linked wing dimorphism in insects is reviewed and discussed. Omalium flavidum is redescribed and illustrated and a lectotype is designated for the species.
25009005|First instar nymphs of Cryptocercus punctulatus are eyeless. The reduced eyes of adults may result from the morphogenetic process of retardation. The blind condition of the youngest nymphs is an adaptation to life in rotting logs and perhaps also represents a preadaptation to life in the termite niche present in a common ancestor of Cryptocercus and the termites. The over-all resemblance between first instar nymphs of C. punctulaus and termites suggests the neotenic origin of the latter from a blattarian ancestor.
25009473|Culture filtrates extracted from two species of entomogenous fungi, Metarhizium anisopliae and Nomuraea rileyi, and a commercial toxin, beauvericin, demonstrated antimycotic activity to two strains of the causal agent of the Dutch elm disease, Ceratocystis ulmi. Extracts of Beauveria bassiana, as tested, displayed no antagonism to C. ulmi. Beauvericin was antagonistic only to the aggressive strain of C. ulmi, while the entomogenous fungal species were antagonistic to both the aggressive and nonaggressive strains of C. ulmi. M. anisopliae produced the highest level of antagonism to C. ulmi, and the aggressive strain of C. ulmi showed greater sensitivity to antagonism than the nonaggressive strain. Extracts from both strains of C. ulmi produced no antagonism against the three species of entomogenous fungi.
25010414|The Nerthra elongata species-group is composed of seven species, all of which are endemic to Australia. Two new species are described: Nerthra falcatus Cassis and Silveira n.sp. and Nerthra monteithi Cassis and Silveira n.sp. All are described and illustrated. A phylogenetic analysis of the species is given with all relationships fully resolved.
25009751|A study of 140 soil and leaf litter samples from Chickasaw State Park, Hardeman County, Tennessee resulted in the collection of four previously described species of Protura and two new species. The previously described species were: Eosentomon montanum Copeland, E. pallidum Ewing, E. wheeleri Silvestri and Styletoentomon rostratum. The two new species are described and named Eosentomon chickasawensis and E. hunnicutti.
25009278|A description of the male genitalia of Holcostethus hirtus is given and an emended key to the species of the genus is provided.
25010119|The three larval instars of the Neotropical Abaris bigenera Bates, 1882, are described. Based on this first larval description for the genus, Abaris larvae share two synapomorphies-extremely short coronal suture, and ventrally extended membranous band on the maxillary stipes-with the Mediterranean pterostichine genus Orthomus Chaudoir, 1838, suggesting that they are closely related.
25009146|Studies of interactions between blow flies and Entomophthora bullata showed that: (1) the time between exposure to conidia and death of the fly ranged from 5 to 12 days with about 50% dying by day 6; (2) the fungus produced only conidia in 79% of the cadavers, resting spores in 18%, and a mixture of the two in 3% of them; (3) in flies 1/2 to 3 days old at exposure only conidia were formed in >80% of the cadavers, while in flies 4 to 5 days old at exposure only resting spores were formed in about 50% of the cadavers; (4) the death rates of flies were not influenced by their ages at exposure; and (5) the time required for the disease to kill flies was not related to the types of spores formed on or in their cadavers. Host species included Phormia regina, Phaenicia sericata, and Protophormia terraenovae.
25009546|A cladistic analysis of the relationships of the families of the Chrysidoidea is presented, and contrasted with the efforts of previous authors. The phylogenetic system here proposed is: Plumariidae is the sister-group of the other six families, which together form a monophyletic group. Scolebythidae is the sister-group of ((Sclerogibbidae + (Embolemidae + Dryinidae)) + (Bethylidae + Chrysididae)). Embolemidae and Dryinidae are sister-groups, and the closest relative of this component is the Sclerogibbidae. Bethylidae and Chrysididae are sister-groups, and together are the sister-group of Sclerogibbidae + (Embolemidae + Dryinidae). The monophyly of each of the families is established.
25009831|Nepa hoffmanni Esaki is different somatically from its congeners; therefore, we here examine its generic assignment by comparing the male genitalia of N. hoffmanni, N. cinerea Linnaeus, N. sardiniensis Hungerford, and N. apiculata Uhler. Three diagnostic genitalic character states were found for the four taxa confirming hoffmanni's membership in Nepa. In addition, internal genitalic structures clearly delimit two species groups within Nepa: an apiculata group composed of N. apiculata and N. hoffmanni, and a cinerea group composed of N. cinerea and N. sardiniensis. Finally, we hypothesize that internal genitalic characters can be used to delimit waterscorpion genera.
25009472|The Nearctic species of Hyssopus Girault (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) are revised for the first time. Eight species are included and lectotypes are designated for novus Girault and benefactor (Crawford). A key to the species is presented. Two new taxa (clypealis, and aaba) are described and illustrated and several new host records are listed. All species of Hyssopus are primary parasites of lepidopterous larvae that mine or bore in twigs, cones, and stems.
25009504|Plagiohammus decorus, Cacostola janzeni, C. nelsoni, Lochmaeocles nigritarsus, L. crenatus, Eutrichillus brevipilus, Pseudostylopsis squamosus, and Dectes nigripilus are described as new from Mexico. Dorsal view figures are provided for P. decorus, L. nigritarsus, and L. cretatus.
25009842|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by J. C. M. Carvalho alone or in coauthorship from January 1985 to January 1989 is presented. Included are 72 genera, and 480 species and subspecies. For each name the original reference is cited, and for holotypes the present depository is given.
25009638|Typical and melanic individuals of Panthea pallescens McDunnough were presented to birds in feeding trials conducted in Leverett, Massachusetts from 1982 to 1985. Both morphs were highly acceptable to the birds, and there were no significant differences between the typicals and melanics with respect to the percentage of specimens taken, the order in which they were taken, the bird species involved, or the behaviors of the birds towards the moths. The data rule out any major difference in the acceptability of the two morphs, but the possibility that melanics might be slightly less acceptable than typicals requires further test.
25009555|Cyptocephala alvarengai and C. pallida, new species, are described. Diagnoses for other species are provided. Thyanta elegantula Jensen-Haarup, 1928, is placed in the synonymy of Cyptocephala cogitabunda Berg, 1883.
25008924|Dentachipteria, a new genus, and two species of oribatid mites are described. Species are recognized by the large downward pointing lamellae the broad rostrum, and presence of denticles on the distal margins of the pteromorphs. In D. ringwoodensis there are many pteromorphic denticles, in D. highlandensis there is a single large denticle. In D. ringwoodensis leg 1 is held beneath the lamellae, in D. highlandensis leg 1 is free.
25010019|Two new taxa are proposed for veliids presently placed in the genus Paravelia; Platyvelia new genus, type-species Velia brachialis Stl, and Steinovelia new genus, type-species Velia stagnalis Burmeister. The synonymy of Platyvelia brachialis (Stl) 1860 and Platyvelia australis (Torre-Bueno) 1916 is discussed and confirmed. A checklist of included species is given for each new genus.
25006060|The biologies of four species of Dufourea [D. mulleri (Cockerell), D. malacothricis Timberlake, D. pulchricornis (Cockerell), and D. trochantera Bohart] are described and compared. The biology of the nomadine bee parasite, Neopasites, family Anthophoridae, is also described. Two species of the parasite are associated with their hosts [Neopasites (Micropasites) cressoni Crawford with D. mulleri, and an undescribed species of the subgenus Neopasites with D. trochantera]. The suspected association of an additional species, Neopasites (Neopasites) fulviventris (Cresson), on D. dentipes Bohart and an undescribed Dufourea species is included. The subfamilies of Halictidae are compared on the basis of biological features in a summary table.
25006212|Two new species of Podonomus from Ecuador are described-Podonomus caranqui, adult and pupa, and Podonomus quito, adult, pupa, and larva. The association of the pupa of these species with blackfly puparia is discussed. The cast pupal skin of the species of Parochlus from the same collection is described. The distribution and types of sensilla of the adult wings, legs and antennae and the pupal tergites are given. The structure of the pupal respiratory organs, especially the plastron, is described and comparison is made with the plastron of representative Tanypodinae species.
25006058|The activities of alcohol, succinic, malic, glucose, glutamic, alpha-glycerophosphate, lactic, and isocitric dehydrogenases, the malic enzyme, and cytochrome oxidase were determined during the metamorphosis of the face fly, Musca autumnalis. Total alpha-glycerophosphate, alcohol, malic, and succinic dehydrogenases as well as the malic enzyme exhibited U-shaped activity. Greatest activity was shown by the malic dehydrogenase. Isocitric dehydrogenase activity was high initially and remained high until the 2-day pupa, and thereafter showed a progressive decline. Glucose dehydrogenase activity was low and remained fairly steady during the entire pupal stage. Alcohol dehydrogenase decreased steadily during the first days of metamorphosis, reached a low value on the third day, and then increased to reach its highest value in the adult stage. Succinic dehydrogenase exhibited a similar pattern, but the level of activity was not as high as most of the other dehydrogenases. Glutamic dehydrogenase showed low activity in the larval stage. It decreased during the first several days of the pupal life and completely disappeared by the fourth day. The activity of lactic dehydrogenase was very low throughout metamorphosis. Malic enzyme exhibited high activity in the larva, prepupa, and again in the adult stage. Cytochrome oxidase activity was also U-shaped during metamorphosis.
25010359|The type series of eight species of Japanese Cercopoidea described by P. R. Uhler in the National Museum of Natural History, Washington D.C., were examined and lectotypes and paralectotypes are newly designated. Syntypes of four of these Uhler species found in the Natural History Museum, London, are also documented. Aphrophora impressa Metcalf & Horton is placed as a junior synonym of Aphrophora flavipes Uhler.
25005975|A list of 99 species of thrips known to occur in New Jersey is presented. Forty-five of these were collected by the writers and the remainder found in the literature. In addition, 36 species probably occurring in the state are listed. Of the 45 species collected, 19 constitute new records for the state. Lists of agricultural and nonagricultural host plants are also given, with the species taken on each. Many new host records are established.
25009683|Eggs and first through fifth instar nymphs of Neomegamelanus elongatus (Ball) are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions, spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, metatarsomeres, and number of metatarsomeres and body pits.
25006037|A female Monopsyllus vison, collected in Essex County, New York, had parts of three spermathecae, the three bulgae being fused at their bases. In addition, sternites VII and VIII were quite unlike the normal form.
25010460|Early steps of nest foundation and development were studied in the Neotropical swarm-founding paper wasp, Polybia paulista. During early colony foundation P. paulista wasps gather into tight clusters adjacent to the newly established nest-site. While the period ranging from swarm settlement to nest construction took about 12 days in summer swarms, this period tended to be longer in winter swarms. In all colonies we observed, eggs were observed in at least one comb, which was not yet completely covered by the envelope. Among seven studied cases, two swarms built multiple initial combs, of which combs were fused into a single one within a few days. On account of rarity in Polybia, it's difficult to conclude if this unusual habit is anomalous, or not. However, since comb fusion develops so efficiently and rapidly, it seems likely to be included in the building repertory of the species under concern.
25010348|Nymphs of the leafhopper tribe Xestocephalini, not previously observed in nature, were assumed to be ground-dwelling myrmecophiles. Numerous nymphs of all instars of X. desertorum (Berg) were collected from the ground of a roadside meadow in Illinois, U.S.A., with a vacuum collector. Neither nymphs, nor adults appeared to be associated with ant nests. When kept in the laboratory, the nymphs fed on grass roots, and the adults both on roots and green parts of grasses; females oviposited in dead grass roots. The species is bivoltine in Illinois, with the egg stage overwintering. Like many other leafhoppers, after each molt, both nymphs and adults of X. desertorum cover the fresh integument with brochosomes: secretory particles produced in the Malpighian tubules. These poorly known behaviors are described and illustrated. Unlike in leafhoppers studied previously, the brochosomes of X. desertorum nymphs and adults differ in structure.
25006031|The radii of fore wings and the weights of whole air-dried specimens of adult instars of wild and reared specimens of Pieris rapae, Colias philodice, and C. eurytheme have been compared. Correlations (r) of high orders of significance between these two variables have been determined and shown graphically. The radii and weights of the females of the two species of Colias, both wild and reared, exceeded those of the males by less than 10%.
25010328|Five colonies of Chartergellus communis, a Neotropical swarm-founding social wasp, were analyzed in order to determine morphological differences between queens and workers. Although castes could be differentiated by color patterns, morphological differences were practically absent in three out of the five colonies. In the two other colonies, we found queens smaller than workers in all the five measured characters in one colony while in the other queens were larger than workers in the same five characters. The importance of such caste variation according to colony is discussed. Colonies contained a large variety of individuals with different kinds of ovarian development, including intermediates between queens and workers. The occurrence of such intermediate females and their role in different wasp taxa is discussed.
25009532|Merinocapsus froeschneri is described as new. Ankylotylus pallipes Knight is transferred to Merinocapsus. The male genitalia are illustrated and compared and the distributions summarized for the three species currently placed in Merinocapsus.
25009736|Mormidea polita n. sp. and M. guatemalensis n. sp. are described from Mexico and Guatemala, respectively. A key is provided for the identification of the 14 species of Mormidea Amyot and Serville known to occur in Mexico, Belize and Guatemala.
25010372|A new Mexican species of Ceraspis Serville from Oaxaca state is described and illustrated. A key to the known Mexican species of this genus is included.
25009978|A new species of pentatomid, Priapismus pini, is described from Honduras. Both nymphs and adults were collected on Pinus maximinoi H. E. Moore.
25008767|New locality records are presented for eight species of Balclutha from the Bahama Islands: B. caldwelli, curvata, flavescens, floridana, guajanae, hebe, incisa, and neglecta. B. arctica is recorded from Newfoundland and B. delongi from Panama; both are new distributional records. Supplementary information on size, nomenclature, and method of collecting is included.
25008994|Nine species of hypopial nymphs belonging to the families Acaridae, Chaetodactylidae, and Saproglyphidae are described as new: Kuzinia affinis, K. americana, K. dispar (Acaridae); Vidia utahensis, Schulzea zahkvatkini (Saproglyphidae); Sennertia americana, S. ignota, S. indica and S. robusta (Chaetodactylidae). A new subgenus, Euvidia, is established for 3 species in the genus Vidia; and Vidia thomasi is proposed as a new name for Vidia cooremani Baker in the Saproglyphidae. Hymenopterous hosts and figures of each species are given.
25009201|The Pentatomini of the Western Hemisphere is divided into 3 sections. Keys are provided to separate these sections and the genera of one section, viz. those genera that have a median tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter and a metasternal production apposing this tubercle. Four new monotypic genera are diagnosed, each based on a new species: Elanela hevera Rolston, n. sp., Glaucioides englemani Thomas, n. sp., Nocheta adda Rolston n. sp. and Vidada dollingi Rolston n. sp. The genus Phineus Stl is removed from this group and placed in Discocephalinae.
25008952|Three exotic Ostrinia nubilalis parasites; Eriborus terebrans, Macrocentrus grandii, and Sympiesis viridula were detected in Massachusetts along with two native species; Aplomya caesar and Lixophaga sp. Of these, M. grandii was by far the most important, accounting for over 92 per cent of the borers parasitized.
25006043|A new genus, Gonepityche and new species pacaraimae of spirostrepsid millipeds from the Pacaraima mountains of British Guiana is described.
25010256|Thirty-one species of Glaphyriinae (Crambidae: Pyraloidea) from Costa Rica are reviewed, including nine new species: Aureopteryx olufsoni, Eupoca haakei, Glaphyria tetraspina, Glaphyria spinacrista, Glaphyria stellaspina, Glaphyria spinasingularis, Lipocosma rosalia, Lipocosma pitilla, and Lipocosma fonsecai. Lipocosma teliferalis Dyar is a junior synonym of Lipocosma punctissimalis Dyar, Lipocosma plagalis Schaus is a junior synonym of Lipocosma ausonialis (Druce), and Parambia gleanealis Dyar is a junior synonym of Parambia gnomosynalis Dyar. A key to the identification of Costa Rican species is provided. The presence of a pseudognathos in the male genitalia and modified scales on the area between
25010455|Three new genera of Hyaliodini are described in the subfamily Deraeocorinae. The new genus Dicyphanisca is described to accommodate the new species D. marginella from Ecuador; the new genus Froeschnerisca, for Hyaliodocoris (described in Hyaliodomiris Carvalho) andinus (Carvalho), n. comb.; and the new genus Paracarniella, for Paracarnus cubanus Bruner (type species), n. comb., Paracarnus mexicanus Distant, n. comb., Hyaliodes sabaensis Carvalho, n. comb., and the new species P. dominicanensis from the Dominican Republic and P. puertoricensis from Puerto Rico. Hyaliodes azteca Carvalho is considered a new junior synonym of Paracarnus mexicanus Distant. Provided for each taxon are a dorsal and lateral adult photograph, selected scanning electron photomicrographs, illustrations of male and female genitalia, and descriptions and diagnoses to help distinguish these new taxa from other Hyaliodini.
25010343|Trachinocoris crassoides, new species from Brazil, Paradema renocula, new species from Venezuela, and Paradema slateri, new species from Ecuador, are described and figured. Paradema bathydemoides Slater is redescribed and figured. Figures of morphological details and a discussion of phylogenetic relationships are included.
25009756|Paucicalcaria, a new hydroptilid genus, and P. ozarkensis, the type species, are described from the Magazine Mountain area of Arkansas. The genus is distinguished by its unique tarsal spur count (0.1.2), the absence of ocelli, and a greatly reduced forewing venation. The new genus appears to be most closely related to the hydroptiline genus Hydroptila based on the similarities of the genitalia and thoracic nota and the mutual absence of ocelli.
25010514|Two new genera and five new species of Colpurini are described from New Guinea and illustrated. The new taxa are as follows: Heydonhygia n. gen. containing H. lata n. sp. from Papua New Guinea, H. mucronata n. sp. from Indonesian New Guinea, H. prolata from Indonesian New Guinea, and H. venusta n. sp. from Papua New Guinea; and Riedelhygia n. gen., containing R. wasiora n. sp. from Indonesian New Guinea.
25006236|Twelve species of fleas, representing 4 families, were collected from small mammals at Grout Pond, Windham County, Vermont during the summer of 1969. Species are listed with hosts, and number of males and females collected. No new records for Vermont are reported.
25009962|The identity of Leucania interrogans Walker, 1856, described from an unknown type locality, is confirmed, and a lectotype is designated for it. It is a distinctive and rarely collected species of amphipyrine noctuid of the southeastern U.S. that belongs to neither Leucania nor Phragmatiphila, where placed by previous authors. A comprehensive search failed to reveal any genus to which interrogans might be referred, and Franclemontia, new genus, is proposed for it. The possible sister-group relationship of this new genus to atypical North American elements of Chortodes is suggested. All members of this large group of amphipyrine genera are believed to be host-specific stem borers in marsh grasses.
25010149|A systematic revision of the aleocharine genus Amblopusa Casey is presented. Amblopusa Casey is redescribed, and three species are recognized, two of which are new (A. alaskana Ahn and Ashe and A. hokkaidona Ahn and Ashe). Late instar larvae of A. alaskana Ahn and Ashe are described. Boreorhadinus Sawada is synonymized under Amblopusa Casey and Boreorhadinus pacificus Sawada is synonymized under A. brevipes Casey. Type and para-types of A. alaskana and A. hokkaidona are designated. Lectotype is designated for A. brevipes. New genus Paramblopusa is described to contain A. borealis. Lectotype and paralectotypes are designated for P. borealis. A key is provided for separation of the genera Amblopusa and Paramblopusa and the known species of Amblopusa, and illustrations of diagnostic features are presented.
25010243|Loneura ocotensis n.sp., is described and illustrated on basis of one male collected at the Biosphere Reserve "El Ocote", in western Chiapas. It is the ninth species known in the genus, and the third one to be recorded in Mxico. /// Loneura ocotensis n.sp., es descrita e ilustrada, en base a un ejemplar macho recolectado en la Reserva de la Bisfera "El Ocote", en el extremo occidental de Chiapas. Es la novena especie que se conoce en el gnero y la tercera que se registra en Mxico.
25010225|The species of the water strider genus Limnometra occuring on New Guinea and proximate islands are reviewed, and a very large new species, L. grallator, is described from the southern flanks of the central highlands. On the basis of male endosomal sclerotization, this new species appears to be most closely related to L. kallisto (Kirkaldy), a much smaller species also endemic to greater New Guinea. A key to all New Guinea Limnometra species is provided, accompanied by illustrations of the male endosomal sclerites and range maps.
25009442|Keys to subgenera of the genus Euschistus Dallas and to the South American species and one subspecies of the nominate subgenus are provided for males. Three new species of the nominate subgenus are described: E. carbonerus, E. incus, and E. rohus. Euschistus bifibulus var. guayaquilinus Kuhlgatz, 1903, is placed in the synonymy of E. taurulus Berg, 1878. E. lizerianus Pennington, 1922, is transferred to the genus Agroecus Dallas.
25006072|A. bistriatella (Phycitinae), a moth formerly recorded in the eastern United States, has been found to occupy diverse situations in California, feeding in the larval stage on stromata of Hypoxylon occidentale (Xylariaceae). The moth was not recovered in extensive sampling of Polyporaceae, while records indicate that other species and perhaps other genera of Xylariaceae are used.
25010358|This paper records 75 species of plant bugs new to Canada, including the first report of Pinalitus cervinus (Herrich-Schaeffer) in North America. The following taxonomic changes are proposed: Melanotrichus vestitus (Uhler), lectotype designated and new combination; Macrotyloides symetricus Knight, new junior synonym of Macrotylus vestitus Uhler; and Paraproba nigrinervis Van Duzee, 1917, new junior synonym of Paraproba cincta Van Duzee, 1917. /// L'auteur rapporte pour la premire fois la prsence de 75 espces de punaises au Canada dont une espce introduite, Pinalitus cervinus (Herrich-Schaeffer), mentionne pour la premire fois d'Amrique du Nord. On propose galement les modifications taxonomiques suivantes: Melanotrichus vestitus (Uhler) est une nouvelle combinaison et un lectotype lui est dsign; Macrotyloides symetricus Knight est un nouveau synonyme plus rcent de Macrotylus vestitus Uhler; et Paraproba nigrinervis Van Duzee, 1917, est un nouveau synonyme plus rcent de Paraproba cincta Van Duzee, 1917.
25009248|Annual patterns of adult emergences and habitat associations for several species of tropical cicadas (Homoptera: Cicadidae) were studied within the premontane-to-montane tropical moist forest zone northwesterly of the Meseta Centrale region of Costa Rica. The region largely consists of expansive coffee plantations, secondary vegetation, and strips of forest along streams, and the censusing of cicadas at four widely separated localities (Grecia, Naranjo, San Ramon, and Esparta) covered an elevational range of about 200-1,100 meters. Coffee plantations in this region have an overstory (shade cover) of Inga spp. trees (Leguminosae) and sometimes (Grecia) a mixture of these trees with another legume tree, Zygia longifolia. Z. longifolia is also the dominant tree in forest remnants along streams in this region. Given the pronounced patterns of annual seasonal precipitation at all four localities and the mosaic of secondary coffee plantations and forest remnants at three of them, and forest remnants and secondary vegetation at the fourth (Esparta), it was expected that the census of nymphal skins and adult cicadas would indicate distinctive seasonal adult emergence cycles and habitat associations. The data confirmed this. Fidicina amoena emerges during the dry season near stream-edge Zygia trees in coffee plantations (Grecia) and near other legume trees in forest remnants (Esparta). Fidicina semilata and F. "coffea" emerge near Inga trees in coffee plantations (Naranjo and San Ramon) during the dry season as does F. pronoe and F. spinocosta in secondary vegetation (Esparta). Fidicina mannifera emerges during the wet season in primary forest remnants at about 200 meters elevation (Esparta). Zammara smaragdula emerges in the west season near Zygia trees in coffee plantations (Grecia) and forest remnants along streams (Naranjo and San Ramon) and Conibosa sp. emerges during the wet season in coffee plantations (Grecia, Naranjo, and San Ramon). Quesada gigas emerges during the dry season near Zygia trees along the borders of coffee plantations and in stream-edge forest remnants. The data are discussed from the standpoint of adaptations in tropical cicadas to seasonality and habitats, the latter particularly in terms of the exploitation of legume trees as feeding sites (root crowns) of nymphs.
25009514|A new species of Cariancha Oman is described from Brazil. Evidence is given to support the placement of Cariancha in the deltocephaline tribe Acinopterini.
25010288|Cercotmetus minutus n. sp. is described from Laos. A revised key to the species of Cercotmetus is provided.
25005908|Proportions of melanic and melanistic individuals are recorded in 9 species of Noctuidae and Geometridae. Local edaphic, perhaps plant-successional, factors are believed responsible, rather than industrial darkening. The samples recorded were unbiased by collector selection.
25000066|Blattisocius patagiorum is distinguishable from previously described species by the slender, edentate form of the movable cheliceral digit in nymphs and females. Males possess an accessory organ lateral to each peritreme. Behavior suggests facultative parasitism upon noctuid moths.
25009864|The clytine cerambycid Xylotrechus schaefferi Schott, a rare species in North American collections, is found to breed in the hard, dry, closed cones of pitch pine (Pinus rigida) and jack pine (P. banksiana) in northcentral and eastern North America. This represents only the second known North American cerambycid to breed exclusively in coniferous cones. Larvae bore through the central axis, scales and seeds of the host cone. Presumably, one generation is produced annually, with the adult flight period occurring from June-August. The eumenine vespid wasp Ancistrocerus adiabatus was found to use the empty larval galleries in pitch pine cones as nesting sites. The female of X. schaefferi is redescribed, while the male and larva are described, illustrated, and characterized for the first time. External and internal cone damage is also illustrated by photographs.
25008996|A taxonomic survey is presented of the family Scutacaridae of New York. 23 species and 2 subspecies are described and illustrated from the collections made at Long Island and eastern New York. Of these, 14 species of Scutacarus Gros, and 7 species and 1 subspecies of Imparipes Berlese are new to science, and 3 European species are new records. Imparipes apicola (Banks) is a new combination. The mites treated are mainly the free-living predaceous, or fungivorous species. 102 figures are presented.
25009819|Three nests of the honey ant, Myrmecocystus mexicanus, were excavated near Portal, Arizona and 548 of the 692 repletes in one colony were analyzed by color: 249 dark amber, 230 amber, 68 milky and 1 clear. Crop fluid of milky repletes contained the most protein. Replete abdomens were 6-12 mm long and weights ranged from 0.09-0.98 g. Dark amber and amber repletes had larger average abdominal lengths and weights than milky and clear ones. Replete chambers ranged in depth from 0.3-1.6 m. The number of repletes per chamber varied from 8-240. A wingless queen was in each nest but one colony also contained 112 winged males and 110 winged females. Probable predation by badgers on two nests was noted. An ant-loving cricket (Myrmecophila sp.) and collembolans in one nest are new myrmecophiles for this species.
25010407|A new species, Cerceris escalante, is described from Kane and Garfield counties, Utah.
25010409|The immature stages of the flea beetle Alagoasa januaria Bechyn (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae) are described and illustrated. Terminal addition of setae in later instars is present. The life history of Alagoasa januaria is discussed. Alagoasa januaria feed on Stachytarpheta cayennesis (Rich.) Vahl (Verbenaceae). Differences between these and other known Oedionychina immatures are discussed. /// Se describen e ilustran las fases inmaduras (huevo, larva y pupa) del escarabajo Alagoasa januaria Bechyn (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Galerucinae). En el segundo estadio larval aparecen cerdas. Se discute la historia natural del Alagoasa januaria. El Alagoasa januaria se alimenta de Stachytarpheta cayennesis (Rich.) Vahl (Verbenaceae). Se discuten las diferencias entre el Alagoasa januaria y otros Oedionychina inmaduros conocidos.
25009548|Seven new species of Chymomyza are described: C. diatropa, C. exophthalma, C. guyanensis, C. jamaicensis, C. microdiopsis, C. mycopelates, and C. procnemolita. Chymomyza maculipennis Hendel is a junior synonym of C. bicoloripes (Malloch). Genitalia of male and female C. bicoloripes and male C. albitarsis (Hendel) are described and those of C. aldrichii Sturtevant and C. procnemoides Wheeler are figured. A key is provided for the identification of all members of the Chymomyza aldrichii species-group. Males of 5 species have conspicuously broadened heads. Synapomorphy distributions suggest that this trait evolved independently twice, in quite different manners. Spines on the male prothoracic femora evolved less dramatically and have been lost in C. bicoloripes and C. mesopecta Wheeler. Rampant homoplasy in adult morphology, however, obscures the phylogenetic relationships somewhat and limits definitive statements on the origins of extreme sexual dimorphism in these flies.
25006130|Carrion-baited ground cans were used to collect carrion beetles in Hutcheson Memorial Forest during the summers of 1961 through 1965. Fingernail polish colors were used to mark the elytra of the carrion beetles utilized in the orientation studies; the release-points of the recaptured individuals were thus identifiable. The rate of return to carrion by Silpha noveboracensis from distances of 5 to 75 meters was apparently due to random wandering and not because of orientation to carrion odors. The periphery of odor perception is about 1 meter from carrion when the movement of air is negligible. Carrion beetles were shown clearly to be attracted to carrion. However, the distance of this attraction is much less than what has generally been believed. In this study S. noveboracensis was fourteen times more apt to return to carrion than Nicrophorus sp. from 5 meters, whereas in a reported New England study these two species were about equally attracted to carrion from the same distance. A much greater overall return of Silphidae in the New England study was reported than is herein observed.
25010418|Polybia selvana, a new species of paper wasp from Costa Rica, is described.
25006192|A new species, Pseudotyrannochthonius gracilis, is described from the Pacific Northwest. Pseudotyrannochthonius newelli is synonymized with P. incognitus and the geographical range of the species is extended. Ecological data for both species are included.
25009302|Several species of fungal entomopathogens were tested for infectivity on larvae of the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar (L.). Spore suspensions in varying dosages were administered to the larvae via surface treatment of sterilized oak leaves. High levels of mortality were obtained for most of the test species of fungi. Conidiobolus thromboides, Fusarium sp., Hirsutella thompsonii, one strain of Paecilomyces farinosus and Verticillium sp. were non-infective to gypsy moth larvae under the conditions of the experiment.
25009407|Carvalhoma Slater and Gross is transferred from the Phylinae to the Cylapinae. The nymphal and adult male habitus, male genitalia, and claws of Carvalhoma malcolmae Slater and Gross are figured. Characters used to determine subfamily placement are discussed, and it is suggested tha the Cylapinae, Isometopinae, and Psallops Usinger form a monophyletic group.
25009391|Results of a study of primary types representing 258 species-group names in the genus Cerceris are presented: 43 new synonyms are proposed; 14 names are removed from synonymy and given species status; 10 names previously recognized as subspecies are elevated to species status; one name is removed from synonymy and given subspecies status; three names are reduced from species to subspecies status; and eight names are transferred from the synonymy of one species to that of another. Cerceris nitidoides Ferguson is proposed as a New Name for the preoccupied Cerceris nitida Banks.
25009715|A new species of Plocopsylla Jordan, 1931 (Siphonaptera: Stephanocircidae) from Argentina is described. The holotype female and two paratype females of this new taxon were assigned originally to Plocopsylla chiris Jordan, 1931b. Because of dimorphism between these females and the male lectotype of P. chiris and host specificity data involving the genus Plocopsylla, these three females are described as new. The identifications of two other females previously assigned to P. chiris are discussed.
25009570|Four new species of Cephalobyrrhinus are described from Central and South America. They are C. brevis, C. robustus, C. sedatus, and C. lineatus. The genitalia are figured and a key that will separate the six known species of the genus is included.
25000063|Brief comments upon the men who collected insects before Bruce: W. S. Wood, Jr., W. J. Howard, Jas. Ridings, A. A. Allen, Lt. MacCauley, and T. L. Mead preface a biographical sketch of David Bruce, well-known as a collector of Colorado insects from 1883 to 1897. The information about Bruce was garnered from letters written by him to Herman Strecker and newspaper articles published at the time of his death in Brockport, New York. He is best known for his cooperation with W. H. Edwards in studies of the life histories of high altitude butterflies.
25010248|The identity of Discoelius strigosus costarricensis Bertoni = Zethus strigosus Saussure revised status, is solved and Zethus smidtianus n. sp. is described based on the misidentification of costarricensis by Bohart and Stange, 1965 and subsequent authors.
25009565|Cosmiocryptus of the euprepes group are red, black, and white ischnines with the ovipositor compressed, vertical ridges on the ovipositor tip, and the female front tibia inflated. Cosmiocryptus euprepes (Porter), new combination, inhabits gallery forests near Buenos Aires, Argentina. Cosmiocryptus eugrammus, new species, frequents the northwest Argentine Subandean Desert. It differs from euprepes in having the mesoscutum uniformly black, the mesosoma without red markings, the first flagellomere more slender, and the propodeal cristae weakly subcrescentic or subcuneate.
25009092|Shapiro, Arthur M., Department of Zoology, University of California, Davis, California 95616.-The egg, larva, and pupa of Reliquia santamarta from the alpine zone of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta, Colombia are described. Resemblances to and differences from the early stages of the Nearctic Pieris callidice group are noted. Overall R. santamarta shows considerable differentiation from its alleged Nearctic relatives, but the hypothesis that it represents a relict of the stock which initially invaded South America from the north and subsequently underwent great adaptive radiation remains tenable.
25010312|Study of Icodema nigrolineatum (Knight) has shown that it and four other related Nearctic species are not congeneric with Palearctic I. infuscatum (Fieber), the type of the genus. As a result, the new genus Americodema is established to accommodate A. nigrolineatum (Knight), new combination, and A. knighti (Kerzhner and Schuh), new combination, and the new genus Occidentodema is erected for the three new species O. clypealis, O. mcfarlandi, and O. polhemusi from the western United States and Mexico. Generic relationships are discussed, host plants and distributions are reviewed, and diagnostic information and a key to species are provided to facilitate recognition.
25009457|Small emergences of the 17-year periodical cicada, Magicicada septendecim (L.), occurred in central Connecticut during 1983. An adult wing and two nymphal exuviae were collected at one site, and the intermittent singing of one to four males was heard at four other localities. The density estimated at one site was only one adult per hectare. Females apparently did not oviposit during 1983. At every locality visited during 1983, there was ovipositional damage caused by females of the sympatric Brood II, which emerged in abundance during 1979. Evidence obtained in 1983 and 1932 (51 years earlier) suggests collectively that Brood VI is not a self-reproducing brood in Connecticut. It is proposed that emergences of Brood VI may be attributed to a few adults of Brood II, which underwent a 4-year deceleration in nymphal development. A critical examination of early distributional records for Brood VI indicates that the evidence is ambiguous. Misidentifications, developmental flexibility of 17-year periodical cicadas, and records of 13-year cicadas may account for most of the records of Brood VI in the eastern United States. The 4-year deceleration proposed here may be one factor that has contributed to the ambiguity of records of Brood VI and possibly to the formation of cicada broods.
25010130|A cladistic analysis of the species of the genera Ulmeritus and Ulmeritoides is performed. Five new species of Ulmeritoides are described: U. fidalgoi n. sp. from male and female imagos and U. misionensis n. sp. from male and female imagos and nymphs from Argentina, U. spinulipenis n. sp. from male imagos from Uruguay, and U. guanacaste n. sp. and U. tifferae n. sp. from male imagos and nymphs collected in Costa Rica. U. flavopedes is redescribed; U. uruguayensis (=U. adustus n. syn.), U. luteotinctus and U. patagiatus are discussed. The generic diagnosis of Ulmeritoides is modified to include all known species. Further evidence from the cladistic analysis supports the synonymy of Pseudulmeritus with Ulmeritoides, the monophyly of Ulmeritus and Ulmeritoides, and their status as sister groups.
25010474|Morphological caste differences and ovary conditions were analyzed in four colonies of Brachygastra augusti collected in different stages of the colony cycle. Differences between castes are distinct suggesting pre-imaginal determination. Many intermediates (non-inseminated ovary-developed females) were found. Because these intermediate females were morphologically similar to workers, it is suggested that they are young ovary-developed workers. Because there is a more evident overlap between queens and workers in the colony in pre-emergence of workers stage, and in three colonies in latter stages, especially in worker-production colonies, it is suggested that smaller queens are probably less viable than larger queens as observed in previously studied epiponines.
25010137|Nine new replacement names are proposed for species in the genera Tricentrus, Oxyrhachis and Gargara. T. elongatus Kato, T. minullus Jacobi, and Centrotypus perakensis Distant are reinstated as valid names. T. mckameyei Ahmad is emended as T. mckameyi, T. strmpeli Ahmad and Yasmeen as T. struempeli, and Gargara dnitzae Matsumura as G. doenitzi. Kotogargara alini yunnanensis Yuan and Chou is revised as Gargara (Kotogargara) parvula yunnanensis (Yuan and Chou), new combination. Fifteen new or reinstated species combinations in Tricentrus and Gargara are established to follow previous generic changes.
25009780|We record the first case of phytophagy among the Braconidae. The larvae of an unidentified species of Allorhogas have been observed feeding on Pithecellobium tortum (Leguminosae) seeds in restinga of Barra de Maric, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Ecological and biological aspects of the species are described.
25009177|Three new species of the aquatic beetle genus Notionotus Spangler (Hydrophilidae) are described, one each from Mexico, Guatemala and Panama. Shared characteristics of these species which differ from those of the two previously described species from Venezuela are discussed and illustrated with scanning electron micrographs. Aedeagi of the new species, N. mexicanus, N. nucleus and N. tricarinatus are illustrated. Habitat preferences of N. mexicanus and N. nucleus are discussed, illustrated and contrasted with those of Venezuelan species.
25010058|Several authors suggest that the Palearctic Laccophilus minutus (Linneaus 1758) and the Nearctic L. biguttatus Kirby 1837 are synonymous. Our investigation confirmed the opinion of other authors that they refer to separate species. However, L. biguttatus is Holarctic and L. strohmi Thomson 1874 (Halsingland, Sweden) and L. apicicornis Reitter 1899 (northern Mongolia) are junior subjective synonyms (NEW SYNONYMIES). Available specimen data suggest that L. biguttatus has two centers of abundance: western North America and Mongolia + adjacent Russia.
25005852|A brief report on bee communication research between 1953 and 1962 is presented. Additional data included in this paper show: 1. more than twice as many bees are necessary to dehydrate syrup (50% sugar) collected by 40 bees; 2. two species called Trigona (Scaptotrigona) postica could not cross in nature and one had a different mandibular gland odor; 3. different methods (3) were used to demonstrate that the "scent-path" used by marking Trigonas has polarity, being more intense nearer the food source; 4. scent marking of bees is retained for an average of 9 minutes in T. (T.) spinipes and 14 minutes in T. (S.) postica and T. (S.) bipunctata subsequent to deposition in the scent-path; 5. a worker of T. (S.) xanthotricha followed a scent path for the first time when 51 days old, marked her own scent-path when 55 days old, 10 and 15 days respectively after her first forage, and 6. species phylogenetically distant cannot follow extra-specific scent-paths whereas closely related species can.
25009640|Two new species of terrestrial Hydrometra, H. phytophila and H. cavernicola, are described from the rain forests of Mt. d'Ambre in northern Madagascar. The first species occurs in understory vegetation, often far from streams, and the second on damp rock walls; these are the first truly terrestrial Hydrometridae reported. These new taxa belong to a monophyletic subgroup within Hydrometra whose other members occur in Madagascar, Ceylon, and southeast Asia, a vicariant distribution pattern which is interpreted to have arisen via the rifting of Madagascar from India in the Cretaceous. One Asian member of this complex, H. aberrans Hungerford and Matsuda, is found to exhibit a remarkable polymorphism in regard to the presence or absence of a large tubercle on the thoracic dorsum. Aptery within the genus Hydrometra is discussed in comparison to other members of the Gerromorpha. A check list of Hydrometra species occurring in Madagascar is provided.
25010537|The morphology of a macropterous form of Anommatocoris China is described for the first time, based on Anommatocoris bolivianus, new species. Scanning micrographs and line art are provided for most aspects of external morphology; comparative illustrations are provided for members of the tingid subfamilies Cantacaderinae and Tinginae. Characters establishing the relationships of the Vianaidinae with other groups of the Miroidea sensu Schuh and Stys, 1991 are analyzed phylogenetically and discussed.
25005819|A number of foraging ants in colonies of known sizes were marked and samples of the foraging population were taken at intervals thereafter. The theoretical population of the colony was calculated from the number of marked and unmarked workers obtained in these samples. Under the conditions of these experiments it was shown that about 80 per cent of the ants did not participate in foraging and hence samples of the foraging population cannot be used to obtain estimates of the whole population. Factors affecting foraging by ants are discussed in relation to this mark-release-recapture method of estimating populations.
25008888|This is the first description of the life cycle of the genus Pseudonica and the first photographs of the species P. flavilla canthara Doubleday ever published. For a period of two years eggs and larvae of this species were collected in the neighborhood of San Salvador to study developmental time and behavior during the early stages. The foodplant is recorded for Central America, and an account of larval mortality causes is given. The possible unpalatability to predators is suggested as deduced from the color and behavior of the adults and from the properties of the components of the foodplant.
25010076|Additions to the West Indian fauna of Sticholotidini are Lenasa, n. gen.; Lenasa jayuyai, n. sp.; Neotina schwarzi, n. sp.; Neaptera doyeni, n. sp.; Neaptera cubensis, n. sp.; and Neaptera dissita, n. sp. The first records of Neaptera Gordon from Cuba and Costa Rica are reported, and a new key to all Western Hemisphere genera of Sticholotidini was constructed. A phylogeny of the West Indian Sticholotidini generic fauna is proposed.
25009990|A fossil emesine reduviid (Heteroptera) is described from the Oligo-Miocene amber from the Simojovel formation of Chiapas, Mexico. The single specimen is described as a new species, Empicoris electricus. The characteristics of the fossil genus Alumeda are found to link the extant genera Empicoris and Ctydinna.
25010035|A new genus and species, Brailovskyocoris curculionoides, is described from the mountains of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is placed in the lygaeid tribe Ozophorini of the subfamily Rhyparochrominae. Comments are made on the extreme coleoptery shown and habitats and examples of such conditions discussed. Figures are included of the entire insect and details of the abdomen and genital capsule.
25009878|The South American species of the pentatomid genus Thyanta Stl are revised. The species of Thyanta are grouped into three subgenera based primarily on differences and similarities in male and female genitalia. The nominate subgenus contains nine species of which only three are known to occur in South America. The subgenus Phacidium Breddin is exclusively South American and contains eight species. Sixteen of the 20 species of Argosoma, new subgenus occur in South America. Diagnoses are provided for the genus, subgenera, and the 12 previously described species. Fifteen new species are described: T. (A.) boliviensis, T. (A.) curvata, T. (A.) emarginata, T. (A.) excavata, T. (A.) hamulata, T. (A.) infuscata, T. (A.) obtusa, T. (A.) sinuata, T. (A.) straminea, T. (A.) vadosa, T. (A.) xerotica, T. (P.) convexa, T. (P.) fimbriata, T. (P.) robusta, T. (T.) rubicunda. The following new synonymy is recognized (junior synonym in parentheses): T. (P.) acutangula Jensen-Haarup, 1928 (=T. mendozana Jensen-Haarup, 1928; =T. crinita Ruckes, 1957); T. (A.) brasiliensis Jensen-Haarup, 1928 (=T. humeralis Ruckes, 1956); T. (A.) patruelis (Stl, 1859) (=T. humilis Bergroth, 1891; =T. nitidula Ruckes, 1956); and T. (A.) testacea (Dallas, 1851) (=T. signoreti Ruckes, 1956). Lectotypes are designated for Cimex perditor Fabricius, Euschistus adjunctor Walker, E. fasciatus Walker, Pentatoma pilosum Reed, P. testacea, T. acutangula, T. aeruginosa Berg, and T. brasiliensis. A key is provided for the South American species of Thyanta.
25010526|We examined the type material of Dabulamanzia improvida, D. duci, and Nesydemius polhemusorum, and series of new material from throughout Madagascar that correspond to the concept of each of these three species. Characters used to diagnose the three species vary among series of specimens, and these particular characters cannot be correlated with any specific populations. As a result, we recognize the following new species synonyms: Dabulamanzia improvida Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1996 [=Nesydemius polhemusorum Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1998, new synonym; =Dabulamanzia duci Gattolliat and Elouard, 1999, new synonym]. We consider Nesydemius to be a junior synonym of Dabulamanzia Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1996 [=Nesydemius Lugo-Ortiz and McCafferty, 1998, new synonym].
25008921|A preliminary listing is presented of the anthomyiid and muscid flies occurring in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park and in the vicinity of Mt. Mitchell. The data are based on collections made in the vicinities of Clingmans Dome and Mt. Mitchell in 1957 by members of the Entomology Research Institute at Ottawa, by the author when visiting Mt. Le Conte in 1958 and 1959 and Mt. Mitchell in 1960 and 1961 and also on an examination of additional material from these regions. Fifty-seven species of Anthomyiidae and one hundred and five species of Muscidae were recognized, of which fourteen and twenty-eight respectively were regarded as occurring chiefly within the eastern and midwestern areas of the United States and transition zones of the Canadian provinces; five anthomyiid and eight muscid species as boreal in habitat; two species of Anthomyiidae, namely, Chirosia delicata (Huckett), Pegomya atlanis Huckett, and one species of Muscidae, Phaonia aberrans Malloch, as restricted in their occurrence to the middle Atlantic states.
25008790|Two successive generations of Nicoletia meinerti Silvestri raised in individual isolation demonstrated that this species could reproduce parthenogenetically. The eggs are described and illustrated and several biological observations are recorded.
25009312|Canthon viridis Beauv. is shown to perch on leaf surfaces near a food source (dung) before attempting consumption. It is hypothesized that predator pressure by staphylinids has contributed to the development of this behavior. Correlated with perching behavior in C. viridis is low population density, relative absence of diurnal beetle competitors, observed predation by Staphylinus maculosus Grav., the capability of feeding on old feces abandoned by staphylinid predators, and a long survival period without food.
25010231|Mycelial particles of the entomopathogenic fungus, Metarhizium anisopliae (Metsch.) Sorokin, were grown in 0%, 0.025%, 0.25%, 1%, and 5% tryptone and incorporated into soil to test for effects on the behavior of Japanese beetle larvae, Popillia japonica Newman. In radiograph chambers, Japanese beetle larvae avoided soil containing mycelial particles beginning by 48 or 96 hr, and continuing until 192 hr (the end of the study). Differences in Japanese beetle responses to mycelia grown in various levels of tryptone were observed after 48 hr. Japanese beetle larval response was first observed at 96 hr in treatments of mycelial particles grown in 0.25% and 5% tryptone compared to 48 hr for particles grown in 0%, 0.025%, and 1% tryptone. Results show that fungal nutrition can influence the avoidance of M. anisopliae by Japanese beetles.
25010291|The genus Nielsonia was established by Young (1977) and included four new species: praestigia, pretensa, scissa and rostris. In this paper we describe three new species from Costa Rica: serrata, unica, and pucketti, the latter also present in Honduras and Panam. A revised key to all known species, based on male genitalia, is also presented. The genus ranges from Honduras (new northern record) to Ecuador.
25009365|A single nest of Svastra sabinensis sabinensis (Cockerell) is described, illustrated, photographed, and compared with the nests of Svastra obliqua (Say), the only other member of the genus whose nest has been described. Svastra sabinensis sabinensis is ground nesting, with a branched, meandering burrow descending to approximately 80 cm, at which level numerous cells occur. Cells are vertical, elongate, and lined with a non-waxlike waterproof lining. Unlike in any other anthophorid bee, parts of the nest are plugged with sorted pebbles, presumably by the females associated with this nest, and a single specimen of the cuckoo bee Triepeolus penicilliferus (Brues) was collected while trying to enter the nest. This is the first association of T. penicilliferus with any host.
25008955|Evidence is presented to indicate that clasping of the occupied cocoon of the parasitic wasp, Perilitus coccinellae (Schrank) by adult ladybird beetles, Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer) is voluntary. There appears to be an attraction of the occupied cocoon for the adult beetle.
25010273|Three new species of Veliinae from southeastern Asia are described and their key characters illustrated: Velia (Haldwania) tomokunii from Nepal, Tetraripis chinthe from Myanmar (Burma), and Tetraripis drescheri from Java. A revised key to Tetraripis species is provided, plus additional distributional records and clarifications for other Asian species in the genera Tetraripis, Angilia, and Angilovelia.
25006021|The taxonomic placement of Xenillus is reviewed as a basis for the establishment and characterization of the new family, Xenillidae. The family is differentiated from Liacaridae primarily by the rugose or pitted integument, relatively broad, rugose lamellae with or without cusps and mucro, types and numbers of notogastral and ventral setae. The distinctive traits of the type genus and species, X. clypeator, and X. latus, X. tegeocranus, X. splendens, X. sculptrus are summarized and illustrated. Four new species are described and figured, X. gelasinus from Utah, X. anasillus from Lebanon, X. phryxothrixus from North Carolina, and X. ionthadosus from Georgia, Louisiana, Utah, and North Carolina. Stenoxenillus atraktus, n. gen., n. sp., from North Carolina is described and illustrated. Three new species of the new genus Stonyxenillus are described, S. spilotus from North Carolina, S. anakolosus from North Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama, and S. akidosus from Virginia. Another new genus and species, Leuroxenillus trichionus from Oregon, is also described. A key to the genera and species is included.
25008871|The Belvedere Expedition of 1962 to the Gulf of California brought back 85 specimens of moths of the subfamily Ennominae (Geometridae). These represent 17 species; two of these have been placed only to genera. One new species, Glaucina ugartei, n. sp., is described in this paper. Locality data are given for the species taken on the expedition, as well as for the general distribution of each of the species. Apparently three species are endemic to region in which they were collected.
25009114|Eger II, Joseph E., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, La. 70803.-A key is provided to separate Loxa and four other American genera of similar appearance: Chlorocoris, Chloropepla, Fecelia and Mayrina. The genus Loxa is redescribed and the species are described, or redescribed, and keyed. Of the 10 included species three are new species: Loxa melanita, from Peru, Brazil and Guyana; L. parapallida, from Peru; and L. peruviensis from Peru. New synonomy recognized is Loxa planifrons Barber & Bruner, 1932, as a junior synonym of L. pallida Van Duzee, 1907; L. flavicollis obtusa Horvath, 1925, and L. prasina Horvath, 1925, as junior synonyms of L. virescens Amyot & Serville, 1843; L. assimilis Horvath, 1925, L. columbiae Horvath, 1925, L. exsul Horvath, 1925, L. orthacantha Horvath, 1925, L. scutellaris Horvath, 1925, and L. vicina Horvath, 1925, as junior synonyms of L. viridis (Palisot de Beauvois, 1805). A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for L. florida Van Duzee, 1909, and L. flavicollis obtusa Horvath, 1925; and a lectotype is designated for L. picticornis Horvath, 1925. Loxa haematica is considered to be a nomen dubium.
25009841|The 14 species of Coccinellidae occurring on Bermuda are treated, with discussions of distribution, hosts, and immature stages. Keys for the identification of adults and larvae are included. The adult and larva of Decadiomus hughesi n. sp., and the larvae of Scymnus (Scymnus) floralis (F.), Exochomus jamaicensis Sicard, Clitostethus arcuatus (Rossi), and Naemia seriata (Melsheimer) are described.
25000078|Fourteen species and subspecies of nasal mites belonging to the subfamily Speleognathinae and taken from birds are reported, including eight new host records. Two new subspecies are described: Neoboydaia philomachi thalasseus from Thalasseus maximus (royal tern) and Sterno hirundo (common tern) from Perry, Florida, and E. Sandwich Mass., respectively; and Boydaia cyanerpes hylocichla from Hylocichla ustulata (russet-backed thrush) taken at Big Falls, Newfoundland.
25009934|Drymusa serrana, a new species from Buenos Aires Province (Argentina), is described and figured. It represents the first species of Drymusa described for South America.
25010018|Keys, descriptions, and illustrations are provided to aid in the identification of the females, males, pupae and larvae, where each is known, of the eight species assigned to the subgenus Psilopelmia, of the genus Simulium, in the contiguous United States. Two species, S. (P.) labellei, and S. (P.) robynae, are described as new. Remarks concerning the taxonomy and biology of each species are provided, and the known distributions by state and county are given.
25008895|Overwintering cocoons of Apanteles melanoscelus Ratzeburg (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), a larval parasite of the gypsy moth Porthetria dispar L. (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae), were collected from the field, and laboratory-reared cocoons were exposed in the field to determine under what situations they would be most readily attacked by hyperparasites. It was found that hidden cocoons were attacked more readily than exposed ones and that percent parasitism increased as the season progressed.
25009516|The egg, 3rd, 4th, and 5th nymphal instars, and male and female genitalia of Pentagramma longistylata Penner are described and illustrated and an illustration of the adult habitus is provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body and wingpad sizes, spination of metatibiae and tarsomeres, number of metatarsomeres and body pits. P. longistylata was collected on Scirpus americanus Pers. (Cyperaceae) in Oklahoma and Texas.
25010446|A new species, Cholula bracteicola, associated with Ficus cotinifolia is described from Veracruz, Mexico. All immature stages are described and illustrated and its biology is presented. This arboreal species of Cholula lives around the basal bracts of the fruit and feeds on the seeds by using its long labium to penetrate the wall of the fruit.
25010264|Parrellathrips ullmanae gen. et sp. nov. is described from California in the Fauriellidae, a family previously known only from southern Europe and South Africa. Heratythrips sauli gen. et sp. nov. is described from California in the Adiheterothripidae, a family known only from western USA and the Mediterranean and Indian areas. Cladistic analysis of character states in these and related taxa indicates that the present family classification in the lower clades of the Thysanoptera is not strongly supported.
25005929|The local distribution of a population of Formica opaciventris mounds in Wyoming is described. At the study area opaciventris is restricted to a silver sage meadow and to the ecotones of that meadow with adjacent forests. Measurements of the spatial distribution of the mounds describe a tendency toward regular spacing, rather than a random or aggregated pattern. F. opaciventris competes for constructed mound sites with F. fusca at those areas in which the distribution of the two species overlaps. Competition is evidenced by active species replacement, 93 instances of replacement are cited.
25009040|The arctiid, Cycnia tenera Hbner exhibits no sexual dimorphism in six out of seven acoustic parameters measured in the sounds emitted by five male and five female specimens. The parameters reveal an extremely high level of variability for both male and female emissions. These observations suggest that calling or courtship signalling are not likely roles for the sounds of C. tenera but do not rule out the possibility of other intra-specific communicative functions.
25009794|Whirligig beetles (Coleoptera: Family Gyrinidae) aggregate on the surface of ponds, lakes, and streams. This study examines how these aggregations protect the beetles from predation. The more beetles in an aggregation, the more quickly the group as a whole responds to the approach of stimuli. Experiments indicate that individual beetles either sight a stimulus themselves, or respond to waves generated by fleeing conspecifics. The distance between two beetles is important in determining how quickly a blinded beetle reacts to wave cues. Two hypotheses can explain the warning mechanism used by aggregations. (1) A high contact rate between aggregation members leads to increased physiological arousal which allows more rapid individual response, or (2) Environmental scanning is enhanced with the addition of more eyes to the group. Evidence from laboratory experiments supports the latter explanation.
25008792|Six new species of crane flies from Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and Assam are described, these being Limnophila (Eloeophila) diacis, L. (E.) subdilata, Atarba (Atarbodes) crassispina, Rhabdomastix (Sacandaga) normalis, Ormosia (Parormosia) saturnina, and Erioptera (Erioptera) connata.
25009960|In celebration of the eightieth birthday of Dr. John G. Franclemont, six new species of Catastega (Lepidoptera: Olethreutinae: Eucosmini) are described as follows: C. spectra, from Texas, C. nebula, from Arizona, C. strigatella, from New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico, C. triangulana, from Arizona and Mexico, C. adobe, from Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas, and C. plicata, from Arizona and Mexico.
25009149|Two species described by Berg from Argentina in 1883 and 1884 and placed by him in the otherwise Palearctic genus Tropistethus have been restudied. Both species, T. dubius and T. australis, are considered to be distinct species in the genus Cryphula. A lectotype is selected for Cryphula dubia (Berg); redescriptions from type specimens are given for both species; a discussion is given of their relationships to other species of Cryphula. Syngenicus Berg 1883, listed as a provisional new generic name for T. dubius, is placed as a junior synonym of Cryphula. The lectotype of Cryphula dubia is figured.
25009866|The genus Mayatrichia is represented in Costa Rica by three species, M. ayama Mosely, M. rualda Mosely, and M. illobia, new species. The new species, also known from Ecuador, is described and illustrated. Distribution records, maps, and a key are provided for known Costa Rican species of Mayatrichia.
25010316|Three new species of Neolethaeus and one of Lethaeus are described from Madagascar. One of these (Neolethaeus madagascariensis, new species) is related to a West African species. These species represent some of the most striking species of a large complex that radiates on the island. Dorsal views are given for Neolethaeus polhemi, new species and Lethaeus gigas, new species. Illustrations of the clasper, sperm reservoir and genital capsule are included for three of the four species. Generic and geographic relationships are discussed.
25009829|A. panamensis (Dist.), A. eberhardi, n. sp. and A. setosus, n. sp. are found in Costa Rica in the webs of pholcid spiders.
25008778|Various combinations of morphological abnormalities have been found in females of 23 species of Megasyrphus, Melangyna, Melanostoma, Metasyrphus, Platycheirus, Pyrophaena, Scaeva, and Sphaerophoria (Syrphidae:Syrphinae). Cases of melanism in females associated with ring-like terminal abdominal segments, absence of ovaries, absence or reduction of spermathecae, irregularly arranged abdominal surface hairs, development of male secondary sexual characters, and reduced size are reviewed. The usefulness of these characters as objective means of recognizing invalid species based on aberrant specimens is discussed. Sphaerophoria cleoae Metcalf, described from abnormal females, is placed as a nomen dubium.
25010185|Rolstonus rolstoni, a new genus and species from Argentina, is described and illustrated.
25008845|Six new species of crane flies are described, two from the western Himalayas, Paradelphomyia (Oxyrhiza) pugilis, and Limnophila (Brachylimnophila) garhwalensis, from Kumaon; four from the eastern Himalayas, Kameng, Assam, Dolichopeza (Sinoropeza) fasciventris, Orimarga (Orimarga) suspensa, Hexatoma (Eriocera) paragnava, and H. (E.) perhirsuta.
25009011|Ten species of Cheyletidae and 3 species of Cheyletiellidae are presently known from New York. New records of Acaropsis sollers Rodendorf, Cheletomorpha lepidopterorum (Shaw), Cheyletus hendersoni Baker, C. fortis Oudemans, Eucheyletia bishoppi Baker, Hemicheyletia wellsi (Baker), Neochelacheles messersmithi Smiley & Williams, and Prosocheyla oaklandia (Baker) are listed here. Two species are described as new: Eucheyletia nidicola, and Hemicheyletia newyorkensis. Diagnostic features, as well as distributional and biological information are given for most species.
25005806|The male genitalic valves and terminal segments are described for P. lucidus Mayr, P. rufescens breviceps Emery, P. rufescens bicolor Wasmann, and P. rufescens umbratus Wheeler. These structures show differences which are distinctive for each of the species and subspecies studied. The configuration of the subgenital plate together with the middle valve can be used as a means of identification for these species and subspecies of Polyergus.
25009226|A key is provided to separate the genera of Pentatomini of the Western Hemisphere that have a median tubercle or spine at the base of the abdominal venter which is unapposed apically by the posterior margin of the metasternum. New genera in this group are Aleixus McDonald, Grazia Rolston, Kermana Rolston and Roferta Rolston. One new species is described: Aleixus virgatus McDonald. New combinations are Grazia tincta (Distant, 1890), Kermana bucera (Stl, 1860), K. imbuta (Walker, 1867), K. fucosa (Berg, 1892) and Roferta marginalis (Herrich-Schffer, 1836). A diagnosis is given for Zorcadium Bergroth, and Z. truncatum (Fallou, 1888) is redescribed.
25009103|We found that a small portion (0.2-0.3%) of first instar Aleurocanthus woglumi Ashby are mobile for 2-4 h and will crawl up to 25-30 mm. When leaves overlap these highly mobile individuals can crawl from one plant to another.
25009213|Almost 20,000 individual Coleoptera were collected, pinned and labeled from 6 pitfall traps baited with decomposing smelt fish to attract necrophilous beetles, and 6 traps baited with decaying cantaloupe melon for carpophilous species. Six of these traps (3 pairs with each type of bait) were located on a dry slope, and 6 others in an adjacent wet valley. This field sampling was done over an 8-month period (April thru November) at Fordham University's Calder Ecology Center, Armonk, Westchester County, New York. Approximately equal numbers of beetles were taken from each bait (fish and melon), and from each habitat (slope and valley). The trapped Coleoptera were concentrated in 10 major Families (99.4%), plus 5 minor Families (0.4%) and 18 adventitious Families (0.2%). These 10 major Families also comprised 76.5% of the total 217 species trapped. The 3 most numerous Families were the Staphylinidae (37.1%), Silphidae (21.5%) and Nitidulidae (17.9%). These were followed by the Hydrophilidae (7.1%), Leptodiridae (4.9%), Histeridae (3.4%), Carabidae (2.3%), Ptiliidae (2.0%), Scarabaeidae (1.9%), Scolytidae (1.3%). Certain species were consistently attracted to fish (necrophilous) and others to melon (carpophilous). However, in both cases, many of the beetles are actually predatory, and some are general scavengers. Closely related species are usually separated temporally, most often by fortnightly periods. The geography, geology and botany of the research area are discussed as representing a southern New York woodland situated less than 50 k north of midtown Manhattan.
25010339|The genus Thylacoderes Solier (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in central and northern Argentina, is revised. A cladistic analysis of four species is presented including: Thylacoderes sphaericus n. sp., T. seminulum (Burmeister), T. eumolpioides Solier, and T. costatus n. sp. A lectotype is designated for Platyholmus seminulum Burmeister. The cladistic analysis shows that Thylacoderes comprises a natural group of species, characterized by several synapomorphies from the external morphology and male genitalia. A redescription of the genus, redescriptions or descriptions of the four species, a key, illustrations of external morphology, internal skeletal anatomy and genitalic features, a cladogram, and a distribution map are included.
25005867|A six year survey of a portion of the Brooklyn, waterfront traversed by the Belt Parkway, describes the topography, vegetation, and the lepidoptera netted or observed. Six families, 18 genera, and 27 species of butterflies; and 11 families, 40 genera, and 48 species of moths are reported together with field information. It is concluded that in spite of the cultivation of former waste land, and the encroachment of buildings, leaving little ground for wild vegetation, the lepidoptera persist as long as the respective food plants for their larvae have a chance of survival however precarious.
25009377|Collections of Orthoptera and Dictyoptera associated with rotting organic litter in cacao plantations at three localities in Costa Rica are described. These collections, in which the Blattodea were the most represented, were taken from experimental, replicated treatments of rotting discs of banana tree trunks placed on the ground, piles of natural leaf litter on the ground, and arboreal leaf litter contained in large plastic cups suspended from the lower branches of cacao trees. For two localities, there was one collection each for the lengthy rainy season and the short, erratic dry season; only one rainy season collection was taken at the third locality. The most abundant cockroach was Latiblatta sp., occupying arboreal litter samples at all three localities followed by Eurycotis sp. which occupied both arboreal and ground litter microhabitats at one locality only. Most of the other taxa were represented by one individual at one locality only, suggesting very patchy distributions, assuming an adequate sample size. At one locality (La Lola), the tettigoniid Idiarthron hamuliferum Beier was found in arboreal litter, as was a leaf-rolling cricket, Camptonotus sp. prob. affinis. Most orthopterans were found in litter associated with sunny areas of cacao during the dry season, a probable response to seeking refuge in the few available moist patches, whereas numbers and densities were always lower in the well-shaded areas in both rainy and dry periods. The arboreal leaf litter microhabitat in tropical forests deserves particular attention for understanding the vertical stratification of cockroach faunas.
25005974|This paper, which gives the first descriptions and figures of the male genitalia and terminal segments for this ectatommid ponerine, shows that these structures conform to the usual formicid plan. The genitalia are composed of the outer, middle, and inner pairs of valves and the terminal segments are terga IX and X and sterna VIII and IX. The literature describing the male terminalia in ponerines is listed and comparisons are made with the few other ectatommid ponerines reported. Differences observed in the middle valves and in sterna IX add support to the view expressed in recent publications that these structures have diagnostic value for taxonomic purposes.
25009511|A diagnosis of Stictochilus Bergroth, descriptions of S. barbatus, new species, and S. bituberculatus, new species, a key to species, and drawings of their genitalia are provided.
25005949|Laccobius acutipenis, L. columbianus, L. nevadensis, L. pacificus, and L. truncatipenis, are described as new. Notes are given on the identity of L. agilis (Rand.) and L. ellipticus LeC.
25006169|Females of the ascid mite Blattisocius tarsalis (Berlese), known chiefly as a predator on the larvae of insects in stored grain, have been found on the widely distributed herminiine noctuid Epizeuxis aemula (Hbner). Incidence in small samples has been as high as 32 percent. The mites usually occupy the dorsal thoraco-abdominal region. They appear to be phoretic upon the adult moths, possibly taking food parasitically on occasion. With a single exception, this mite was not found on other species of Epizeuxis in a large museum collection.
25009734|The new genus Cariniocoris is described to accommodate Plagiognathus geminatus Knight, P. ilicis Knight, and the new species C. nyssae from Florida and Maryland. Photographs of adults, illustrations of male genitalia, and micrographs of certain other structures are given and distributions and host plants are outlined. A neotype is designated for P. ilicis. Evidence supporting the group's monophyly and its relationship to several other phyline genera are discussed. Keys are provided to facilitate recognition of the genus and species.
25008796|Of the genus Thoracites B.B., T. abdominalis (Fabricius) from the Oriental Region and T. cingulatus Bezzi from the Ethiopian Region have been described. The dissection of the male genitalia has now revealed some of the specimens attributed by Zumpt (1958) to T. cingulatus, represent two new species, which are described as T. neglectus n. sp. and T. nigeriensis n. sp. The status of T. cingulatus is discussed and a key to all species of Thoracites is given.
25008826|The family group and generic nomenclature of the arachnid order Schizomida are reviewed. A new subfamily is created, one genus synonymized, and the generic status of African species corrected. All family group and generic taxa are diagnosed, and a key to the extant subfamilies and genera is provided.
25008780|Observations were made at Ithaca, New York of insect feeding on the seedcorn maggot, Hylemya platura, and H. florilega (Diptera: Anthomyiidae) killed by a phycomycosis caused by Entomophthora muscae. Five species of normally plant-feeding Miridae and six species of predators of alfalfa insects were found to utilize cadavers as a source of food. The mirids Plagiognathus politus and Lygus lineolaris fed most commonly on the dead flies. It is suggested that the predaceous species generally do not recognize cadavers as a potential food source and that this food source might form a significant portion of the diet of P. politus and L. lineolaris during times of host plant deterioration.
25009919|Notosphindus, a new genus of Sphindidae (Coleoptera: Cucujoidea) from Australia, is described based on a single new species, N. slateri. A diagnosis for Notosphindus is provided using those characters believed to be of phylogenetic importance at the generic level. Dorsal and ventral habitus illustrations and morphological illustrations are provided. Several character transformations in the family Sphindidae are discussed.
25009947|The male of Oxyporus balli Campbell is described for the first time, based on specimens collected in Morelos, Mxico. Conspecific females collected in the same locality differed in color. The host mushrooms for O. balli are recorded for the first time: Amanita caesarea and A. rubescens. New records and host mushroom for O. mexicanus Fauvel and O. lawrencei Campbell are included.
25009331|The theory and biogeography of brood formation in periodical cicadas is reviewed in light of the extraordinary number of different "broods" represented on Long Island and its immediate vicinity. Detailed emergence records, with dates and exact localities, are given in an appendix. We present data which suggest that the evolution of Brood I on Long Island may have been independent of the evolution of Brood I in Virginia. Possible evolutionary scenarios are discussed in light of allozymic and morphometric findings.
25009354|The genus Paralincus is diagnosed, the type species redescribed and the species keyed. One new species, Paralincus silvae Rolston, is described and the nominal genus Vauriana Ruckes relegated to the status of a junior synonym of Paralincus Distant.
25010227|Nectarinella xavantinensis, a new epiponine species from the Neotropics, is described and the nest illustrated. This is the second known species in the genus and the first described from South America. A comparison with the other species from this genus is made. Comments regarding the biogeographical distribution of the genus are added.
25009111|Bennett, Alfred W. and Daniel J. Sullivan, S.J., Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham University, Bronx, New York 10458.-Using the pea aphid as the host and Aphidius smithi as the primary parasitoid, the ovipositional behavior of the aphid hyperparasitoid, Dendrocerus carpenteri, is described. Laboratory experiments indicate that the possibility of tertiary parasitism by a 2nd Dendrocerus is greatly reduced to an average of 6.0% during the last 9 days of the development of the 1st Dendrocerus within the mummy. It is suggested that Dendrocerus has evolved a defensive behavior which deters tertiary parasitism at least by its own species. The 4th instar larva and the prepupa have a conical process at the posterior end which enables it to twitch violently and move about in the mummy when probed by the ovipositor of a 2nd Dendrocerus, thus inhibiting oviposition.
25009592|Parvamima mexicana is described as new from Jalisco, Mexico.
25006162|Experiments were conducted on an anthophilous noctuid, Schinia florida (Guene), which rests by day in blossoms of the evening primrose, Oenothera biennis L. These experiments involved presenting S. florida with choices of various plants to rest upon in a simple experimental apparatus. The results indicated that S. florida is able to recognize the primrose plant by olfactory cues, and that the attractive emanation is effectively restricted to the blossoms of this plant. No evidence for an attraction of S. florida to yellow substrates was found, but indirect evidence suggested that reflectance characteristics may play a role in attracting these moths to primrose blossoms. It is postulated that the attractive emanation from primrose blossoms may trigger the eclosion of adult S. florida in nature.
25010296|An eyeless new species of Arrhopalites from Brazilian caves is described, illustrated, and compared with other species.
25008944|A short series of papers covering the crane flies of Iran, based on materials collected by Dr. Fernand Schmid in 1955 and 1956, is begun with Part I discussing certain species of the tribe Pediciini. The new species are Pedicia (Tricyphona) persica, P. (T.) iranensis, P. (T.) elburzensis, and P. (T.) acuspica, from the Elburz Mountains in northern Iran, and P. (T.) luteicolor from Jugoslavia, included here for completeness.
25010338|The genera Falsopraocis Kulzer and Antofagapraocis n. gen. (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in the high Andes of central and northern Argentina and Chile, are revised. A cladistic analysis of five species is presented. Cladistic analysis reveals that Falsopraocis is not monophyletic: one species formerly assigned to Falsopraocis together with a new species constitute the new genus, Antofagapraocis. Falsopraocis consists of three species: F. ricardae (Solier), F. weiseri Kulzer, and F. australis n. sp.; Antofagapraocis includes two species: A. subnudus (Kulzer) n. comb. (type species) and A. brevipilis n. sp. A cladogram, redescriptions or descriptions of the genera and their five species, keys, illustrations of body and genitalic features, and a distribution map are included.
25006039|This is the first study of the complete male terminalia for members of the subfamily Myrmeciinae. Described and figured are the genitalic valves, terga IX and X, sterna VIII and IX for M. tarsata F. Smith and M. vindex F. Smith. The terminalia of these species conform to the usual formicid plan, but there are significant differences in each of the valves and in the terminal segments of these two species. The outer valves have a dorsal, median projection, which is not present in males of other subfamilies previously described. This projection is different for the two species. A sclerotized sliver, which is present on the anteroventral region of the median surface of the inner valves, varies in shape for each species. It has not been reported previously.
25010073|The systematics of the genus Byrsopteryx are reviewed. Two previously described species, B. mirifica Flint from Venezuela, the type species of the genus, and B. septempunctata (Flint) from Dominica are redescribed and illustrated. In addition, 11 new species are described and illustrated: B. chaconi, B. cuchilla, B. esparta, B. gomezi, B. solisi, B. tapanti, and B. tica from Costa Rica; B. loja and B. rayada from Ecuador; and B. abrelata and B. espinhosa from Brazil. Keys to species for males and females are presented. The genus is transferred from the Leucotrichiini to the Stactobiini. A species level phylogenetic analysis reveals that the Costa Rican species form a monophyletic group.
25010341|A new Neotropical member of the Drosophila obscura species group from El Salvador and Honduras, Drosophila maya, is described. This species belongs to the New World pseudoobscura subgroup and, based on a variety of internal and external morphological characters, is most closely related to D. lowei. This species is distinguished from other members of the pseudoobscura subgroup by the shape of the hypandrium and by having fewer teeth on the sex combs. Ecologically, D. maya inhabits cloud forests at elevations around 2,000 m in El Salvador and Honduras. A key to eight members of the obscura species group which have been recorded in and near the Neotropical region is presented.
25009094|Goldstein, Neil I., and McIntosh, Arthur H., Waksman Institute of Microbiology, Rutgers University, The State University of New Jersey, P.O. Box 759, Piscataway, N.J. 08854. Present address of senior author: The Wistar Institute, 36th Street at Spruce, Philadelphia, Pa. 19104.-Insect cells in culture synthesize glycopeptides and shed these molecules into the medium. The profiles of
25009868|The literature on the life history and immature stages of Dohrniphora cornuta, a synanthropic, filth-inhabiting, humpbacked fly, is reviewed and summarized, and observations on laboratory rearings are presented. Adult females and larvae consume many kinds of dead and decaying animal and plant tissues, but apparently both are facultative predators of insects when other foods are not available. Adult males are apparently nectar feeders, and they are much shorter lived than females. Pest status, reproductive behavior, and life history parameters are compared with other phorid species, and the evolution of non-genitalic sexual structures is discussed.
25009882|All instar larvae of Opisthius richardsoni Kirby, 1837 and the first and second instar larvae of Paropisthius indicus (Chaudoir, 1863) are described and the character states of the tribe Opisthiini are highlighted. The two species differ mainly by the shape of the nasale, length of the antennae, shape of the seta ${\rm TE}_{10}$ on tergites VII and VIII, and the presence or absence of secondary setae on the tarsi. The adults of O. richardsoni are strictly riparian, occurring mainly on sandy or clayish-sandy banks of rivers. Those of P. indicus occur at high elevations (3,000-3,900 m) on well-drained substrate in open habitats, away from water. The larvae of both species can jump vigorously when disturbed. The analysis of the character states of the known larvae of Nebriitae does not support the accepted classification of the group based on the character states of the adults.
25010241|A new Mexican species of Homoiosternus Ohaus is described and illustrated. Character states of the new species appear to be intermediate between species of Homoiosternus Ohaus and Plesiosternus Morn. We discuss taxonomically useful characters for these genera and provide a key to the genera and species of Mesosternus Morn, Plesiosternus and Homoiosternus.
25006179|The arthropod fauna of bovine manure in the vicinity of Ithaca, N. Y. is described. In addition, a list of the most useful references for the biology and natural history of dung arthropods is presented.
25010124|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by Jos C. M. Carvalho, alone or in coauthorship, from January 1989 to January 1993, is presented. Included are 59 genus-group names and 343 species-group names. For each name the original reference is cited and the present depository for holotypes is given. Two species of the genus Dolichomiris (planifrons, uniformis) omitted from the first list (1987) are incorporated here in their alphabetical position.
25010090|Certain aphid species produce sterile soldiers, morphologically and behaviorally specialized individuals that defend fertile colony members, some or all of which are clonemates. If the soldier morph is maintained by inclusive fitness advantages, its altruism should preferentially benefit relatives, suggesting a potential role for kin discrimination. We performed a field experiment on spatial segregation and two laboratory experiments on agonistic behavior among non-soldiers and by soldiers of the cerataphidine aphid, Ceratovacuna japonica. For the test of spatial segregation, we introduce a new method of nearest-neighbor analysis, by constructing a minimum spanning tree from the map of individual locations and comparing the numbers of within-group and between-group connections. The results provide no evidence of kin recognition abilities in this species. Members of different clones showed no tendency to segregate spatially, nor to direct displacement attempts against non-kin when competing for feeding sites. Soldiers were indiscriminately aggressive toward early instar reproductives from their own and other colonies. We discuss the implications of these findings for several evolutionary hypotheses on the maintenance of the soldier morph in aphids.
25005998|The digestive and reproductive systems of the South American blister beetle, Picnoseus nitidipennis, Fairmaire and Germain has been described, and on the basis of some of the internal anatomical features, this genus has been tentatively placed in the tribe Lyttini.
25010493|We establish new subjective synonyms for five Drunella species from the Nearctic, east Palearctic, and Oriental regions: Drunella cryptomeria (Imanishi, 1937) [=Ephemerella nM Imanishi, 1940, new synonym; = D. lepnevae (Tshernova, 1949), new synonym; = D. longipes (Tshernova, 1952), new synonym; = D. fusongensis Su and Gui, 1995, new synonym], D. ishiyamana Matsumura, 1931 [= E. latipes Tshernova, 1952, new synonym], D. lata (Morgan, 1911) [= D. cornuta (Morgan, 1911), new synonym, = E. depressa Ide, 1930, new synonym, = D. cornutella (McDunnough, 1931), new synonym, = D. longicornis (Traver, 1932), new synonym], D. submontana (Brodsky, 1930) [= E. svenhedini Ulmer, 1936, new synonym], and D. walkeri (Eaton, 1884) [= D. wayah (Traver, 1932), new synonym]. Morphology, phenotypic plasticity, and biology are discussed for these species and for D. allegheniensis and D. tuberculata, and new diagnoses are provided. The specific epithet of D. doddsii is corrected to its original orthography.
25010096|The larva of an unidentified species of Ceratopus Schoenherr is described, and important structural features are illustrated. Larvae of Ceratopus have been collected repeatedly, and reared, from the fruits of species of Ficus (Moraceae) in Middle America. This represents the first larval description for a member of the subfamily Ceratopodinae. Known plant associations for this subfamily are summarized.
25010281|The genus Ribautiella (Symphyla: Scolopendrellidae), previously known from Africa and Madagascar, is reported for the first time from the Western Hemisphere. A new species R. tuxeni is described from Taperinha, Brazil. A key to the six known species is given.
25009537|The distributions of the Rhyparochrominae are analyzed from the point of view of general patterns of occurrence, faunal composition of the major zoogeographic areas, and interpretation of the meaning of observed patterns.
25009324|The glycogen contents in the fat bodies, thoracic muscles, foregut, midgut, hindgut, ovaries and testes of Mylabris pustulata and Periplaneta americana have been studied. In M. pustulata, the major depot of glycogen contents (3.42 mg/g) has been noted in the fat bodies, while it is not so in P. americana. The midgut of both insects under investigation shows a higher level of glycogen than the rest of the tissues except fat bodies. In M. pustulata, the glycogen contents of ovaries are at a higher level than that of testes. In P. americana, the glycogen reserves are comparatively higher in ovaries and thoracic muscles than M. pustulata. The glycogen contents. It is known that insects contain digestive amylase in the midgut ferences (P > 0.05) while the rest of the tissues contain significantly different contents (P < 0.05).
25009258|Meconema thalassinum (DeGeer) is recorded from Rhode Island and New York. These records represent new United States localities for this European katydid which was first detected in North America in 1957 on Long Island, New York.
25010249|Little is known about the biology of the hazelnut weevil Curculio obtusus (Blanchard), though closely-related species are widespread and well studied. The objective of this study was to document details of development of larvae in nuts, including mortality factors, assessment of the infrequent phenomenon of multiple infestation of nuts, and confirmation of 4 larval instars. Samples of beaked hazelnuts taken every 4 days over the course of the summer, 1995, revealed the development of larvae through 4 instars, beginning with eggs in early June and progressing through 4th-stage grubs exiting nuts in late August. At the peak of infestation, in early August, 71% of the sampled nuts were infested with weevil larvae. Decay and non-formation of nut kernels accounted for an estimated 10% mortality among the larvae. Multiple infestation accounted for an additional 8% mortality due to interference competition. Nut predation also caused mortality of an estimated 10% of larvae.
25010326|The life cycle of Pantochlora vivida Stl is reported for first time. Descriptions and illustrations of adult and immature stages are made. Characteristics of the adult genitalia and some ontogenetic characters support placement of Pantochlora in the pentatomid subfamily Edessinae. P. vivida feeds almost exclusively on new shoots and leaves of several species of two closely related genera of Leguminosae, Lonchocarpus and Piscidia. Its geographical distribution is restricted to southern Mexico and Central America.
25010314|The phyline mirids Phoenicocoris claricornis (Knight) and Pinophylus carneolus (Knight) are seldom collected because of their early-season, univoltine life cycles. Surveys were conducted in the eastern United States to delimit their distributions and to determine host-plant relationships. The seasonal history of both plant bugs was studied in southcentral Pennsylvania on Virginia pine (Pinus virginiana) during 1976-1977. Known previously from New Jersey and West Virginia, Phoenicocoris claricornis is newly recorded from Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia. New state records for Pinophylus carneolus, previously recorded from Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wisconsin, are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, and Tennessee. Both mirids develop on the staminate strobili of pines, mainly Virginia pine in the mid- and southern Appalachians and pitch pine (Pinus rigida) in the Northeast. Sand pine (Pinus clausa) is a host of Pinophylus carneolus in northwestern Florida. In southcentral Pennsylvania, overwintered eggs of Pinophylus carneolus hatch in early April, and adults appear by early May and are present only until mid- to late-May. The seasonality of Phoenicocoris claricornis is similar, its populations developing about a week later than those of Pinophylus carneolus.
25006132|Five new species and seven new records of hesperiids are described from Mexico. The new species, described and illustrated, are Atrytonopsis zweifeli, Camptopleura oaxaca, Decinea rindgei, Thoon wellingi, and Urbanus hubbellus. The localities of the new records are given and the previously known localities are included.
25010138|Laboratory experiments manipulating the diet of colonies of the facultatively polygynous ant, Leptothorax curvispinosus (Mayr), demonstrated that carbohydrates and protein have synergistic effects on egg numbers and brood production in colonies of this ant. Colonies receiving insect prey and sucrose grew significantly faster than colonies reared on unlimited supplies of either of these food types alone. This study also measured the effect of queen number on colony growth rates. Because the occurrence of multiple queens might affect colony growth only under certain nutritional conditions, polygynous colonies were reared in each of the three diet treatments. Queen number did not affect colony worker production in any of the three diet treatments; thus, individual queens in polygynous colonies produced far fewer workers per queen than did queens in monogynous colonies. There were no interaction effects between queen number and diet on colony growth. Several colonies which lacked morphologically distinct queens produced workers over the course of the experiment. Using artificially established colonies of unmated workers, we found no evidence for parthenogenetic (thelytokous) reproduction in these colonies.
25009386|The new species Irbisia knighti is described and its distribution given.
25009402|Listings of 188 systematic entomologists in the People's Republic of China are given by institution, speciality and name.
25008915|The first record of a microsporidan infection in the family Formicidae is presented. The organism, a Thelohania sp., was isolated from Solenopsis invicta Buren colonies in Brazil in 1973. Microsporidan spores were also observed in three other species of the S. saevissima complex. Metarrhizium anasopliae is also reported from S. invicta and the leaf-cutting ant Atta sexdens rubropilosa.
25010263|The immature stages of the cranefly, Limonia (Geranomyia) vitiella Alexander, are found mostly on the leaves of Pandanus in moist habitats in the rain forest on the island of Viti Levu, Fiji. The larva lives within a tube of jelly on the upper leaf surface, emerging to feed on decaying and dead epiphylls, and associated microbes. When mature, it usually moves to the lower leaf surface where a larger mass of jelly is produced, within which it pupates. The jelly protects the immature stages against desiccation, and natural enemies. The species occurred patchily in both space and time.
25009133|A substantial portion of the butterfly species in tropical forests of Central and South America feed primarily as adults, on rotting fruits and to a lesser degree, on moldy (fermenting) sap issuing from wounds in trees. In general, exploitation of fruit frequently occurs on the ground, where volatile odoriferous substances, released in decay, attract butterflies in the three nymphalid subfamilies Satyrinae, Brassolinae, and Morphinae; similarly, sap and hanging injured or rotting fruit are exploited arboreally by several genera of the Nymphalinae. However, a few nymphalines also feed on fallen fruit and experimentally placed fruit baits on the ground. This paper explores in a preliminary way the possible adaptive relations between (1) feeding on the ground versus feeding arboreally, (2) dispersal agents (vertebrates) as opportunistic predators of feeding butterflies, (3) functional role of eyespot markings (eyespots) on the undersides of wings, and (4) impairment of escape behavior of butterflies from intoxication acquired by feeding on rotting fruits. The general thesis is advanced that butterflies become intoxicated in nature from feeding on rotting fruits, and that eyespots increase the margin for successful escape when normal behavior has been impaired. Since fallen fruits ferment quickly, the intoxication of butterflies is greatest on the forest floor and eyespots are most prevalent in the brassolines, satyrines, and morphos, the three groups that thrive here. Very often, feeding takes place in patches of forest floor directly exposed to sunlight, and at times of the day when such exposure is maximized. Under conditions of direct sunlight, eyespot markings are very noticeable. A high selective value is placed on eyespots as an additional line of evasive escape behavior since animals attracted to fallen fruit (for dispersal purposes and feeding on insects) can be predators on butterflies. Eyespots are known to lure pecking and biting away from the body of a butterfly or moth. Alternatively, it is also known that eyespots frighten away animals. Either way, they function to reduce the likelihood of attack on an insect by a vertebrate predator. It is easy to conceptualize how the three groups of butterflies developed similar eyespots as they are closely linked phylogenetically. For the arboreal-feeding nymphalines, eyespots are expected to be less functional as indicated by their conspicuous absence in most species. Such markings are also generally absent from most flower-visiting butterflies. The decomposition of fallen fruits and the yeasting of sap flows are processes that play a major role in maintaining the butterfly community of tropical forests. As microbes render fruit less savory for vertebrates that act as dispersal agents, they open a feeding niche for butterflies.
25009651|The larva of Aplectoides condita Guene (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is described and illustrated. Larix laricina (Du Roi) Koch was found to be an acceptable host. The species is univoltine and normally overwinters as a larva in a cocoon. An unusual adult form of condita is illustrated. The larva of condita is compared to that of Anaplectoides pressus (Grote). Larix laricina, Sambucus canadensis L., Salix gracilis Anderss., Vicia cracca L., Betula papyrifera Marsh and Alnus rugosa Du Roi, represent new host records for pressus.
25010361|Aggregation behavior of Cordulecerus alopecinus Burmeisteir, a neotropical species of neuropteran from southeastern Brazil is described for the first time. Three roosts were studied during 14 days at the Reserva Florestal de Linhares, Esprito Santo state, Brazil. Males and females of each roost were marked on the first day of observation to evaluate possible flux of individuals among aggregations as well as roost fidelity. Roosts were censused daily at nightfall and at early morning, when notes on the behavior of aggregating individuals were also taken. Four tree species belonging to four families were used as roosting sites. The number of individuals in roosts varied daily, and roost size, as measured by the mean number of individuals, differed strikingly. A relatively low flux of individuals was detected among aggregations and most neuropterans usually returned to their original roost, showing some degree of roost fidelity. The sex ratio of aggregations was strongly biased to females and the observed number of dispersing individuals did not differ by sex. This new data suggests that aggregation behavior is a common feature within the genus Cordulecerus and that aggregations can be more than a random and casual assemblage of individuals, deserving futher quantitative investigations.
25006156|Seventeen free amino acids and three derivatives, asparagine, glutamine, and taurine, were identified in the developing eggs of the meal worm and have been quantitatively determined. Changes in concentration for these compounds showed an increase in total concentration by the fifth day of development, and a decrease in volume to the last day, the eighth, which, nevertheless, was higher than the concentration at the start of development.
25010459|Crossocerus (Ablepharipus) rugosilateralis n. sp. from Tibet and Yunnan, China, and Crossocerus (Ablepharipus) sulcatus n. sp. from Sichuen and Hubei, China, are described and illustrated. A reference key to the species of the subgenus from China is provided.
25009311|E. geboharti, E. melleoides and E. sculleni, n. spp. are described from western North America. E. barri Scullen is removed from synonymy, and E. cavagnaroi Scullen is elevated from subspecies to species status. Aphilanthops marginipennis Cameron is removed from synonymy with E. rubripes Cresson and placed in synonymy with E. canaliculata (Say). The male of E. brunnea Scullen and the female of E. melanovittata Scullen are characterized. E. menkei Scullen is the female and a junior synonym of E. melanosa Scullen.
25010274|The Palearctic rhyparochromid Rhyparochromus saturnius (Rossi) [Lygaeoidea] is reported for the first time in North America based on collections from 17 counties in California. Literature pertaining to this adventive species is reviewed, notes on its habits are given, and descriptions and photographs of the adult and fifth-instar nymph are provided to help distinguish it from other North American Rhyparochromidae. It is speculated that R. saturnius was introduced in international commerce originating from the Mediterranean Region, most likely Italy or nearby countries.
25009131|The nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of Autographa californica has been localized by electron microscopy in the cytoplasm of poikilothermic vertebrate cells (VSW). C-type particles carried by this cell line were also visualized together with baculovirus particles in a vacuole-like organelle. Inoculation of VSW cells with A. californica NPV had a retarding effect on cell growth.
25009061|Jeanne, Robert L., Department of Entomology, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706.-Queens of Vespula arenaria and V. maculata coat the petiolar suspension of their nests with a rubbery secretion which permits the young comb to move freely within the envelope. The movement allows the queen to squeeze between the comb and the envelope to reach the top of the comb, even though the space enclosed by the envelope is barely larger than the comb it surrounds. Thus the flexible petiole permits the envelope to surround the comb more closely than would be possible were the comb rigidly attached to the substrate. The advantages of minimizing the envelope diameter at this early stage of colony development are unknown, but probably relate to maximization of the numbers and rate of development of the initial brood. When the first workers emerge in the colony, they make the petiole rigid by buttressing it with carton.
25010538|Eight new species of Hygia from Malaysia (Borneo) are described, and included in the tribe Colpurini. The new species are as follows: H. alta from Sarawak, H. borneensis from Sarawak, H. mjobergi from Sarawak and Sabah, H. murudina from Sarawak and Sabah, H. reyesi from Sarawak and Sabah, H. tomokunii from Sarawak and Sabah, H. vantoli from Sabah, and H. webbi from Sarawak. Dorsal view illustrations and drawings of the male genital capsule, and female genital segments are provided.
25009317|Effects of two insect growth regulators (IGRs) (hydroprene and R-20458) on the follicular epithelium and the oocytes of the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) were studied. Comparative histological studies of the treated and untreated ovarioles revealed that there were no apparent differences in the development and structure of the oocytes in the germarium and in the anterior part of the vitellarium. The IGRs, however, affected the penultimate oocytes and perhaps the basal oocytes, because the latter ovulated prematurely. Treated penultimate oocytes were atrophied, because they lacked yolk and karyospheres; in addition, follicular epithelium was not retracted from the surface of the oolemma. Untreated penultimate oocytes on the other hand, were larger due to the accumulation of yolk and they had karyospheres; the follicular epithelium was retracted from the egg membrane, leaving a space that had materials, which possibly are blood proteins. A fine brush-like border (microvilli) was observed on the side of the oolemma facing the follicular epithelium.
25010355|A new genus, Nexothrips, with two new species, N. delclaroi and N. perseae, is described from South America. The systematic position of this genus, and its relationships to the paleotropical Rhamphothrips genus-group, are discussed. A key is provided to the two new species, one of which was taken on Persea flowers in Colombia, the other from Hortia flowers in Brazil.
25009795|Oxypoda opaca (Gravenhorst), a widespread Palearctic species, is reported for the first time from North America. The species is redescribed and diagnostic characters are provided to distinguish it from other Oxypoda species occurring in eastern North America. Distinguishing features are illustrated with line drawings and scanning electron photomicrographs.
25009260|Slope soaring behaviour is described for the dragonfly Pantala flavescens (Fabricius). Some of the physical and airflow properties of a soaring site are also described. The ability to slope soar may have a significant impact on the energy budget of foraging P. flavescens.
25008849|Specimens of Tachysphex terminatus (Smith) were collected from localities in Alberta and Alaska during June, 1971; these localities are considerably north of the previously known range of the species.
25009870|A new Ecuadorean species of Gnamptogenys Roger of the Alfaria group is described based upon a worker holotype and a dealated queen paratype. Gnamptogenys vriesi, n. sp. belongs to a subgroup of the Alfaria group, which includes also G. simulans, G. bufonis, and G. falcifera. The other subgroup includes G. minuta, G. pneodonax, G. striolata, and possibly, G. caelata. We present a characterization of the Alfaria group and its subgroups, and a discussion on the status of the group.
25010133|Two new species of Rhagovelia are described from the Philippines: R. ridicula from Mindanao, Leyte, and Luzon, and R. phoretica from Negros. R. ridicula belongs to the orientalis group as defined by Polhemus and Polhemus (1988), being the apparent sister species to R. aberrans Andersen, while R. phoretica belongs to a distinctive intrageneric clade defined herein as the caesius group, whose only other members occur on New Guinea. The male paramere of R. werneri Hungerford and Matsuda is figured, and its structure is shown to be correlative to that of a monphyletic group of species occurring on New Caledonia and in the highlands of New Guinea, thus supporting the placement of this species in the novacaledonica group of Polhemus and Polhemus (1988). The evidence of a sister area relationship between the Philippines and New Guinea as indicated by the disjunct distributions of taxa in the caesius and novacaledonica species groups is discussed, and possible tectonic mechanisms that could have led to such a disjunction are evaluated.
25009364|Winged queens (24) were captured issuing from a honey ant nest north of Colorado Springs prior to the nuptial flight and placed in Janet-type nests. Six nests housed one queen and six housed three queens each. These nests were fed three different diets to determine their effect on queen longevity and egg production. Maximum longevities occurred in nests given the most complete diet. All nests produced eggs 7-12 days after swarming, but only one larva developed, and it lived only 72 days. Data on egg numbers, locations, durations and clump size are presented. Observations were made on dealation, abdominal distension, mite infestation, and queen behavior and death. Dealation attempts took place over a long period and were successful in only two queens. Queens developed swollen abdomens in every nest except one. However, neither dealation nor a swollen abdomen is essential for egg production. There was no hostility in three-queen nests and they cooperated caring for eggs. Behavior, longevity, and reproductive potential of virgin queens are compared to fertilized queens in captivity.
25005989|This paper is a list of 150 species of spiders collected during a 2-week study of the fauna of Powdermill Nature Reserve in Pennsylvania.
25009563|Experimental tests of ergonomic theory show that many aspects of ant, bee and wasp societies do not demonstrate maximal ergonomic efficiency. The responses of worker ants to various stresses on their colonies have as often proven not to accord with ergonomic predictions as to support ergonomic ideas. Worker honey bee and stingless bee behavior, and the production of reproductives in vespine wasps, honey bees and ants, provide still less consistent support for ergonomic efficiency arguments. An alternative explanation of hymenopteran social evolution in terms of resiliency can be proposed to explain many of these situations demonstrating constraints upon maximal ergonomic efficiency.
25009112|Rolston, L. H., Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803.-The 33 species of Mormidea are described and keyed. One of these species, M. geographica, is provisionally retained in the genus, although certainly it mars the phyletic homogeneity of the genus. Seven new species are described: M. dana, M. faisana, M. isla, M. lunara, M. pama, M. rugosa and M. vaya. The following new synonymy is recognized: M. angustata Stl (=M. pulchella Walker, =M. lemoulti Bergroth); M. cornicollis Stl (=M. jheringi Berg); M. fusca Stl (=M. angulosa Stl); M. geographica (F) (=M. brevis Walker, =Oenopiella testacea Ruckes); M. hamulata Stl (=M. pullata Berg); M. paupercula Berg (=M. profana Breddin); M. v-luteum (Lichtenstein) (=M. spegazzini Berg, =M. tristis Bergroth); and M. ypsilon (L) (=Pentatoma scutellata Westwood). M. discoidea (Dallas) is removed from the synonymy of M. notulata and recognized as a good species. A lectotype is designated for each of the following: M. aglaeopus Dallas, M. angulosa Stl, M. compta Walker, M. cornicollis Stl, M. fusca Stl, M. hamulata Stl, Euschistus integellus Distant, M. jheringi Berg, M. metallica Stl, M. pictiventris Stl, M. sordidula Stl, M. spegazzini Berg and M. spiculigera Stl. Moromorpha n. gen. is erected for Mormidea tetra Walker, type species. The genus is described, as is Mormidea, and a key provided to separate these genera from each other and from Oebalus.
25009485|The presumed type of Scarites subterraneus Fabricius 1775 (described from "America") deposited in the Zoological Museum at Copenhagen, Denmark is not conspecific with what is generally regarded as Scarites subterraneus F. The Copenhagen specimen compares favorably with both specimens and descriptions of Scarites abbreviatus Dejean, a species endemic to the Madeira Islands. There is sufficient doubt regarding the type status of the Copenhagen specimen that a neotype is proposed for Scarites subterraneus F. in order to assure taxonomic stability. The origin of the neotype is Pt. Pelee, Ontario, Canada. The species concept adopted equals Scarites subterraneus s. str. of Bnninger (1938). The species concept of Scarites subterraneus in Lindroth's The ground-beetles of Canada and Alaska (1961-1969) includes two species, one of which is Scarites subterraneus s. str. of Bnninger. A diagnosis is provided for the concept of Scarites subterraneus adopted here.
25009589|Orthotylus aesculicola is described as new from Missouri. This mirid was found breeding on Ohio buckeye, Aesculus glabra Willd. (Hippocastanaceae). The adult male and genitalia of the male and female are illustrated.
25009247|This study explores biogeographic patterns among insect communities which live in the water-filled floral bracts of Heliconia plants. Twenty-five collections from 13 Neotropical locations are studied using a principal components analysis where the collections are ordinated on the basis of the frequency of occurrence of the 23 most common insect morpho species. Heliconia species from the French Antilles show a depauperate insect community, apparently due to island isolation. Floral structure is important in determining the insect community: Heliconia species with small floral bracts have low species richness and only one Heliconia species with a pendant inflorescence has an aquatic or semi-aquatic insect community. Different Heliconia species collected from the same location do not necessarily have comparable insect species communities.
25006108|Five species compose the genus Chalepus in the region under consideration. These are bacchus (Newman), bellula (Chapuis), bicolor (Olivier), hebalus Sanderson, walshii (Crotch), and a new subspecies walshii sayi is proposed. Anoplitis Kirby, 1837, is a junior synonym of Chalepus Thunberg, 1805; this new synonymy is necessary because their types are congeneric. Descriptions of the species are given, together with the complete list of references, and keys to the species and the subspecies are presented. Distributional data and maps are included for each, as are illustrations of the male genitalia. The total length of males is less than that of females, and in bacchus and bicolor there is a striking sexual dimorphism of total length.
25008927|The last thorough study of the distribution of Brood X of the periodical cicadas in New Jersey (Magicicada spp.) was made in 1902. Data collected on the distribution of the 1970 emergence indicates a disappearance since 1902 from the following localities: Mercer County except Princeton; eastern Somerset County; Prospertown-Colliers Mills, Ocean County; Jacobstown-Ellisdale, Burlington County; Cherry Hill Township, Camden County; Salem and Woodstown, Salem County; and Shiloh in Cumberland County. Hitherto unreported populations were found on Lower Powhatcong Mountain, Warren County; near Middletown, Monmouth County; and Quinton and Alloway in Salem County. Forty populations were found in Hunterdon County, west and south of the South Branch of the Raritan River. The chief factors in the disappearance of the insect since 1902 appear to have been the destruction of woodlands, forest fires, and urbanization. The possibility that forest losses caused by the gypsy moth may play a part in the loss of periodical cicada populations is suggested.
25009695|Two Rhagoletis fruit parasites of dogwood, previously thought to be conspecific, are shown to be reproductively distinct. Laboratory studies show consistent differences in the flies' oviposition response to the respective host fruits and in production of viable ${\rm F}_{1}$ hybrid first instar larvae. The specific status of the fly populations is discussed.
25010429|The plant bug genus Orthotylus has undergone extensive insular radiation in the Hawaiian Islands. Based on male paramere structure and dorsal setiferation, at least four major clades appear to be present, each of which has sequentially tracked particular host plant families along the island chain in geological and evolutionary time. In this work, 21 new species of Hawaiian Orthotylus are described, arranged by host plant affiliation. The new species and their host plant associations are as follows: O. pisoniae from Oahu, on Pisonia umbellifera and Pisonia sandwicensis; O. pisonioides, from Hawaii, on Pisonia brunoniana; O. hedyoti from Oahu, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotiopsis from Oahu, on Hedyotis acuminata; O. hedyoticola from Hawaii, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. psychotriae from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. psychotrioides from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. psychotricola from Oahu, on Psychotria mariniana; O. coprosmae from Maui, on Coprosma foliosa and Coprosma pubens; O. coprosmoides from Oahu, on Coprosma ochracea; O. ilicis from Maui, on Ilex anomala; O. neoilicis from Hawaii, on Ilex anomala; O. urerae from Oahu, on Urera kaalae; O. pipturi from Hawaii, on Pipturus albidus; O. pipturoides from Maui, on Pipturus albidus; O. pseudotantali from Maui, on Pipturus albidus; O. clermontiae from Hawaii, on Clermontia clermontioides; O. xylosmae from Hawaii, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. diospyri from Hawaii, on Diospyros sandwicensis; and O. hibisci from Oahu, on Hibiscus arnottianus. Redescriptions are also given for 5 previously described species: O. kanakanus (Kirkaldy) from Hawaii, on Coprosma rhynchocarpa; O. perkinsi Kirkaldy from Hawaii, on Ilex anomala; O. tantali (Perkins) from Oahu on Pipturus albidus; O. iolani Kirkaldy from Hawaii, on Clermontia clermontioides; and O. daphne (Kirkaldy) from Oahu on Xylosma hawaiiense. Shaded dorsal habitus drawings are provided for O. hedyotiopsis and O. psychotrioides. Figures of the male genitalic structures and distribution maps are provided for all species treated, accompanied by a table of species and host plant relationships.
25009387|The 5 nymphal instars of Oecleus borealis Van Duzee are described and illustrated. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include the size, and form of teeth and spines on the profemora and tibiae, size of body and wingpads, and the numbers of pits, and metatarsomeres.
25009129|Establishment of the European katydid Meconema thalassinum (De Geer) is confirmed on Long Island, New York. Thirteen specimens taken at Garden City in July 1977, add a third geographic location on Long Island for the species, previously found in much smaller numbers at King's Park (1968) and Little Neck (1957 and 1959). No other North American records are known. Distinguishing morphological characteristics of the species are described and illustrated, and habits (including sound production and food preferences) are discussed.
25009135|Fourteen species of native parasites of the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), an introduced European pest, were recovered in the northeastern USA. Two additional species were recovered by cooperators in Canada. This complex of native parasites is poorly synchronized with the first 2 generations of the host, which may therefore reach economic injury levels; however, it gives satisfactory control of the next 3 generations. Season-long parasitism averaged 36%, but only 2% of the host puparia were parasitized. European host puparia collected in 1976-77 and shipped to the USDA quarantine facility at Newark produced 7 parasite species with a combined parasitism of 25.5%. All 7 species have been introduced in the USA.
25009242|The histology of the antenna of T. molitor and the changes which take place in its maturation from imaginal eclosion to one week of age are compared. The cuticle, epidermis, nerves and tracheae are described. A mesocuticle is present in the cuticle, and a blood vessel is described for the first time in the antenna of a beetle. In the one week old insect the endocuticle becomes thicker, the underlying epithelial cells lower in height, the layer of nerve fibers beneath the epithelium more compact, and the walls of the tracheal trunks and blood vessel thinner.
25005935|New distributional data are given for four species of Rhabdatomis from Mexico and Central America. The males of R. pueblae Draudt are redescribed and the previously unknown females of draudti Field are recorded. The genitalia of both are described and illustrated.
25009896|The Palearctic anthocorid Brachysteles parvicornis (Costa) is reported from Maine and Massachusetts, together with host plant data and an illustration of the nymph.
25009540|Paleofroeschnerius magnus Schaefer, new species, is described from the uppermost Paleocene/Eocene of western Tennessee and assigned to the Cydninae. It is most similar to the modern genus Ectinopus, but its cladistic affinities cannot be determined. Its habitat was probably not unlike that of modern cydnines.
25009008|A new palpimanid, Otiothops recurvus, is described from Brazil; both the male and female genitalia are uniquely modified, and the species does not belong to any of the previously established species groups of the genus.
25006239|Laboratory and field studies were made on the biology of Dinapate wrighti Horn, from the Colorado Desert of southern California. Grubs were studied and collected in both well-known and remote palm oases of the California fan palm, Washingtonia filifera, in the area of Palm Springs, California, and in Borrego Desert State Park, California. Five hundred fifty-seven specimens were reared and studied under artificial conditions.
25009314|Mites of the family Unionicolidae were collected from 110 freshwater bivalves in New York. Five species of adult mite were found. Of the dominant bivalves found in Conesus Lake, only Lampsilis siliquoidea (Barnes) contained adult mites. Unionicola fossulata (Koenike) infected 84.8% of this mussel and 75.3% of the nymphal and adult mites were found between the gills. There were 2.08  0.12 mites per infected L. siliquoidea. At Spencer creek, Unionicola arcuata (Wolcott) and Najadicola ingens (Koenike) were found in Alasmidonta undulata (Say). Unionicola formosa-ypsilophora complex (Vidrine 1980) and Unionicola tumida (Wolcott) occurred in Anodonta cataracta (Say). In the case of N. ingens this is a new host record and the first published report of its occurrence in New York State. No nymphal or adult mites were found in 42 Elliptio complanata (Solander) from the two contrasting sites.
25009295|A comparative feeding site preference and competition study was performed in the laboratory on two species of aphids, the bean aphid, Aphis fabae Scopoli, and the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). The two species were raised separately and together on broad bean, Vicia faba. When raised separately, A. fabae was found about equally on leaves and stems, and preferred leaf undersides to leaf uppersides by a 2:1 ratio. A. pisum, however, strongly preferred leaves to stems, and leaf undersides to leaf uppersides, both by more than 90%. But, when raised together, A. fabae developed a noticeable change in preferences, preferring leaves by 83% and leaf undersides by 90%. No major change was seen in preferences of A. pisum.
25006016|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Neolimnophila citribasis n. sp., from Assam; N. daedalea n. sp., Sikkim; Lipsothrix decurvata n. sp., Sikkim; Styringomyia subobscura n. sp., Assam; S. tarsatra n. sp., Nepal; and Toxorhina (Ceratocheilus) tuberifera n. sp., Sikkim.
25009633|Flying mole crickets, Neocurtilla hexadactyla (Orthoptera: Gryllotalpidae) were attracted to light traps in Promisso, So Paulo, Brazil. Flights were strong throughout the year, peaking in June. Females significantly outnumbered males during the entire year. Females were generally reproductively mature, suggesting that populations do not develop synchronously. Data from Venezuela also fit this pattern, while data from Uruguay and other locations in So Paulo state, are characterized by annual periodicity of flight activity and a reduced number of crickets trapped, which is characteristic of univoltine, synchronously developing populations.
25009775|Five new species of Trichoptera, Rhyacophila carolae (Rhyacophilidae), Protoptila cahabensis (Glossosomatidae), Hydroptila micropotamis and Ochrotrichia weoka (Hydroptilidae), and Ceraclea alabamae (Leptoceridae) are described and illustrated.
25009789|Antennae of Reduviidae comprising adults of 99 species in 19 subfamilies and nymphs of 25 species in 7 subfamilies, and one species of Pachynomidae were examined using compound light and scanning electron microscopy. Figures are presented indicating the numbers and distribution of trichobothria, the range being from 1-20 or more.
25009585|Several undescribed Megaselia spp. and M. pluralis (Wood) in this large genus of mushroom flies were attracted to 1-phenylethanol in field tests. The highest concentration captured the most flies when the concentration ranged from 1-50%. Also, 2-phenylethanol was a weak attractant and captured ca. 10-fold fewer flies than did 1-phenylethanol. A 1:1 ratio of these compounds captured significantly fewer flies than did 1-phenylethanol alone. We predict these compounds will prove to be attractants for other mushroom flies.
25010280|Descriptions of females of the ten known eastern North American species of Chimarra are given and an identification key provided. Diagnostic characters are evident in the thickness of veins at the first fork of the radial sector in each forewing and in the shapes of the spermathecal sclerite and ventral plates beyond abdominal sternum VIII. A summary of published distributional records is provided for all Chimarra species of eastern North America.
25009456|The species of the tribe Falagriini (Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae) of America north of Mexico are revised. Twenty-two species, representing nine genera, are recognized. Included in this total are three new species (type localities in parentheses): Myrmecocephalus sculpturatus (Cochise County, Arizona, USA), M. gatineauensis (Gatineau N. C. C. Park, Quebec, CANADA) and Falagrioma socorroensis (Socorro County, New Mexico, USA). One European species is reported for the first time from North America: Falagria sulcata (Paykull). The following species names are placed in synonymy: Chitalia granulosa Casey and Chitalia illustris Casey [=Aleodorus scutellaris (LeConte)]; Lorinota bilimbata Casey [=Myrmecocephalus concinnus (Erichson)]; and Lorinota parva Casey [=Myrmecocephalus gracilis (Casey)]. The genus group name Omoschema Notman is placed in synonymy with Lissagria Casey thus creating a new combination for the name laticeps Notman. Usage of the genus group name Myrmecocephalus MacLeay is briefly discussed. The following species names, previously considered to be junior synonyms, herein are recognized as valid: Lorinota gracilis Casey and Lorinota pinalica Casey (both now placed in Myrmecocephalus); and Falagria scutellaris LeConte (now placed in Aleodorus). The generic group names Falagrioma Casey and Leptagria Casey are also removed from synonymy (both with Anaulacaspis Ganglbauer). A neotype is designated for Aleochara bilobata Say and lectotypes are designated (when necessary) for the species described from America north of Mexico by Bernhauer, Casey, Erichson and LeConte. Myrmecopora Saulcy is excluded from the Falagriini. Adults of all twenty-two species are described or redescribed. The male genitalia, female spermatheca, and other structures are illustrated with scanning electron photomicrographs and standard macro- and microphotographs. The distribution of each species in America north of Mexico is recorded and mapped, based on specimens examined. Diagnostic keys are provided for all genera and species occurring in America north of Mexico. Proposed phylogenetic relationships among the North American genera are presented and discussed. A checklist of genera and species of North American Falagriini is added.
25009672|Names of 66 flower flies described by earlier authors from unknown localities are revised. Seven unused senior synonyms are resurrected [Spilomyia alcimus (Walker, 1849) (=hamifera Loew, 1864), Criorhina bubulcus (Walker, 1849) (=luna Lovett, 1919), Temnostoma daochus (Walker, 1849) (=pictulum Williston, 1887), Eristalinus dives (Walker, 1849) (=vitrescens Hull, 1937), Volucella linearis Walker, 1849 (=nitobei Matsumura, 1916), Copestylum longirostre (Macquart, 1846) (=concinna Philippi, 1865), & Chalcosyrphus violascens (Megerle, 1803) (=chalybea Wiedemann, 1830)]; 22 other new synonyms are identified [Eristalinus aeneus (Scolpoli, 1763) = aenescens Macquart, 1842, Prohelophilus cingulata (Fabricius, 1775) = agerinus Walker, 1849, Neocnemodon vitripennis (Meigen, 1822) = albohirta Wiedemann, 1830, Eriozona syrphoides (Falln, 1817) = amplus Walker, 1849, Eristalinus arvorum (Fabricius, 1787) = anicetus Walker, 1849, Milesia crabroniformis (Fabricius, 1775) = coenina Walker, 1849, Xylota florum (Linnaeus, 1758) = corbulo Walker, 1849, Chalcosyrphus metallicus (Wiedemann, 1830) = dascon Walker, 1849, Merodon aureus (Fabricius, 1805) = flavicornis Macquart, 1842, Copestylum brunneum (Thunberg, 1789) = fusca Macquart, 1834, Pipizella viduata (Linnaeus, 1758) = fuscipennis Walker, 1849, Eristalis dimidiata Wiedemann, 1830 = haesitans Walker, 1849, Palpada furcata (Wiedemann, 1830) = involvens Walker, 1849, Eristalinus quinquelineatus (Fabricius, 1781) = jucundus (Walker, 1849), Brachypalpus laphriformis (Falln, 1816) = laphriaeformis Walker, 1849, Helophilus groenlandicus (O. Fabricius, 1780) = oxycanus Walker, 1852, Meromacrus acutus (Fabricius, 1805) = pictus Macquart, 1846, Phytomia zonata (Fabricius, 1787) = rufitarsis Macquart, 1842, Eristalinus taeniops (Wiedemann, 1830) = secretus Walker, 1849, Chrysotoxum intermedium (Meigen, 1822) = stipatum Walker, 1852, Palpada mexicana (Macquart, 1847) = tomentosus Macquart, 1850, & Orthoprosopa grisea (Walker, 1835) = torpidus Walker, 1857]; 3 new combinations are established [Palpada caliginosus (Walker, 1849), Eupeodes corolloides (Macquart, 1850), & Mesembrius strenuus (Walker, 1857)]; one old synonym is reestablished [Quichuana angustiventris (Macquart, 1855) = aurata Walker, 1857]; and 15 old synonyms confirmed. Eumerus aquilinus Walker is redescribed and its genitalia figured. Location of types and labels of Bigot, Macquart. Megerle, Walker and Wiedemann are described.
25006049|Nepytia janetae, new species, is described from material collected in New Mexico and eastern Arizona. The genitalia of both sexes are illustrated.
25010091|Haversiella Schweiger is comprised of a single species, H. albolimbata (Champion), which is recognized by body vestiture lacking setae, maxillary mala lacking teeth, subcircular pronotum, postocular lobes absent, scutellum very reduced, elongate elytra, tibiae lacking spurs, and reduced plate of female sternum 8. This genus belongs in the tribe Rhytirrhinini and is the sister genus to Neopachytychius Hustache. Both genera are part of a larger monophyletic group, that includes Palaechtus Waterhouse and related genera from Tristan da Cunha-Gough, and the American genera Listronotus Jekel and Lixellus LeConte. Haversiella albolimbata is distributed on the Falkland Islands and the Magellanic moorland of southern Argentina and Chile.
25009363|The genus Disderia is redefined and a new species from Oaxaca, Mexico, added. Parts of the male genitalia of the three known species and the genital plates of the females of D. decorata and D. inornata are figured. A key to the species is given.
25010228|The taxonomic history of species of Pseudolampsis is discussed and a new combination, Pseudolampsis darwini is formed. Distigmoptera darwini which had previously been synonymized with P. guttata is shown to be a unique species based on characters of larval and genitalic morphology. The immature stages of Pseudolampsis guttata and the third instar larva and pupa of Psedolampsis darwini are described and figured. These larvae are compared with other known larvae of Alticini. /// Se descute la historia taxonmica del gnero Pseudolampsis y se forma la nueva combinacin de Pseudolampsis darwini. Se demuestra que Distigmoptera darwini, previamente snomizada con P. guttata es especie nica, basndose en las caractersticas de la larva y la morfologa de la genitalia. Se describen y trazan las etapas inmaduras de Pseudolampsis guttata y el ltimo estadio y la pupa de Pseudolampsis darwini. Estas larvas se comparan con otras larvas conocidas de Alticini.
25009148|In the overwintering site studied, Coleomegilla maculata began aggregating in late September to mid-October. The aggregation procedure appeared to be governed by photoperiod rather than temperature. The major aggregation site studied included three major physical components: large prominent willow trees (Salix nigra); a small pond; and a south-facing slope. Migration to this site appeared to occur via a low level flight of positive anemotactic and hygrotactic nature, with the possibility of a hypsotactic component. No chemotaxis was demonstrated, although the possibility was not ruled out. Once at the aggregation site, beetles remained for some time on the leaves of wild raspberry (Rubus occidentalis) and sensitive fern (Onoclea sensibilis), especially the dead dry leaves of the latter. It is likely that this resting period on dry leaves assists in the loss of excess water. Mortality of the beetles in the aggregation was 3% to 9% in the winter of 1973-74. Temperatures within the aggregation were generally higher than ambient temperatures, and the aggregation had a modifying effect on sudden temperature changes which might otherwise exceed the insect's ability to supercool.
25010442|Three new genera and three new species of fossil 'osmylid-like' Neuroptera or 'cf. Osmylidae' are described: Saucrosmylus sambneurus n. gen. and n. sp., Laccosmylus calophlebius n. gen. and n. sp. and Rudiosmylus ningchengensis n. gen. and n. sp., all of them from the Jiulongshan Formation, Middle Jurassic, situated at Ningcheng county, Inner Mongolia, China. The only family to which our fossil lacewings may provisionally be assigned is the Osmylidae. The new fossil genera and species do not reasonably fit in any of the previously known subfamilies within Osmylidae and a new subfamily, Saucrosmylinae, is proposed. Its remarkable features are the large body size, the R1 area with many crossveins producing 2 or more rows of cells, the curved Rs bent anteriorly distally, nygmata present and the CuA bounding a large triangular area.
25009948|Six species of Telephanus Erichson are recorded from the Malagasy Region, including one new species, Telephanus gomyi, from Runion Island. Telephanus spinosus Schaufuss is considered a junior synonym and junior homonym of Telephanus spinosus Grouvelle. A key to the species and illustrations of the adults are provided and the affinities of this group of species are briefly discussed.
25010527|Adult Copris minutus individuals were maintained in the laboratory on a feeding regime of either cow dung or dead insects, and their survival compared with beetles maintained without food. There was no significant difference in the longevity of beetles maintained on either feeding regime, but both groups survived significantly longer than those without food. Females in all groups survived longer than males, and reproduction occurred only in groups consuming cow dung.
25006199|Females of the bluegrass webworm Crambus teterrellus (Zincken) were exposed in the evening to 70 to 90 minutes temperature changes in illuminated incubators following at least 2 hr. of acclimatization. Significantly more moths oviposited during a 25 C to 15 C depression than during a 35 C to 25 C depression. Significantly more moths oviposited a significantly greater number of eggs during a 30 C to 20 C depression than during a 20 C to 30 C rise. Presence of males did not significantly affect numbers of females ovipositing or their average oviposition during a 30 C to 20 C depression. When wings, antennae, and tarsi were removed from females anesthetized with carbon dioxide, only those lacking tarsi oviposited in significantly greater numbers and laid significantly more eggs than did controls. Anesthetized controls laid significantly more eggs during a 30 C to 20 C depression than did nonanesthetized moths. The adaptive value of an oviposition response to temperature depression is discussed.
25009658|Nine species of Ozophorini from the Western United States and Baja California are treated, with a key and distributional records presented. Two species, Ozophora occidentalis and O. salsaverdeae are described as new. The status of species in the Ozophora picturata species group is discussed in detail.
25009212|Acutalis tartarea (Say) is a membracid species found throughout the northeastern 2/3 of North America. We present information on its biology and field life history in Florida and draw comparisons with the biology of Micrutalis malleifera (Fowler). A discussion of the polymorphic forms of A. tartarea is presented along with the reasoning for suppression of the names Acutalis semicrema (Say) and Acutalis inornata (Ball), both of which are color polymorphs. The immature stages of A. tartarea are described and illustrated.
25010226|A new species of leaf-miner, Oulema pumila (Chrysomelidae:Criocerinae), from central Panam is described and illustrated. Host plant and life history data are given. One of the smallest species, it is only the second record of the leaf-mining habit and the first host record from the Piperaceae recorded for the subfamily. Leaf-mining appears to be derived in this instance and we offer some observations on its evolution.
25010494|Ephemerella quadrata, Kluge and Zhou, new species (Ephemeroptera: Ephemerellidae: Ephemerellinae) is described based on larval material from Thailand and Yunnan Province, China. The new species may be differentiated from other Ephemerellinae by its well-developed genae, smooth frons, anterior projections on the pronotum, paired anterolateral mesonotal projections, and dorsal abdominal tubercles.
25009053|General anatomical features of the gypsy moth Lymantria dispar (Linnaeus) (Lepidoptera: Lymantriidae) reveals a well developed caterpillar. The head capsule shows the frons as being the antennal segment, the epistomal sulcus invaginated internally to form a connection with the tentorium, and the absence of an ecdysial cleavage line. The head capsule does not reveal anterior tentorial pits externally. The maxillolabial-hypopharyngeal complex is attached to the head capsule proper by a membrane and is structurally designed to move independently of other mouth parts. Anatomy of the thoracic and abdominal regions shows a total of twelve segments circumvented with setae arranged in tufts. Segments four, five, ten, and eleven, which are without legs, have twelve hair tufts per segment. Segments with legs (one, two, three, six, seven, eight, and nine) have hair tufts that are reduced on the venter. Segments one, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, and eleven have paired spiracles. All segments have tubercles which form the base of the hair tuft, and the tubercles are classified in accord with their location on the insect's body: dorsal, dorsol-lateral, ventro-lateral, and ventral. Setae are located on every component structure of the insect's body and are barbed.
25005967|The following new Deudorix (Diopetes) are described: nirmo, sadeska and laticlavia (all n. spp., Efulen, Cameroun); and camerona katanga n. ssp. (Elisabethville, Katanga). D. (D.) fumata Stempffer is reported for the first time from Cameroun and Gabon, and the hitherto unknown female described. Deudorix (Virachola) kayonza Stempffer is reported for the first time from Cameroun, on the basis of a tentatively identified female.
25005899|This paper consists of (1) descriptions of a new genus (Aztecanthidium) with two new species of Mexican Anthidiini, (2) the first North American record of a genus hitherto known only from South America (Nananthidium), with the description of a new species, and the first description of males of the genus, and (3) the first description of the male of the remarkable Mexican genus Ulanthidium. Except as otherwise indicated the specimens on which this paper is based are in the Snow Entomological Museum of The University of Kansas.
25009281|Pits constructed by antlion larvae are most frequently found in areas which are darker and cooler than areas exposed to the sun. Soil illumination and soil temperature, therefore, are two factors which may play a role in determining the probability of pit construction. The influence of these factors upon the probability of pit construction by M. immaculatus larvae was examined. Soil illumination and soil temperature were independently varied in the laboratory. Soil temperature was found to have a significant effect upon pit construction, whereas soil illumination was found to have no such significant effect. This supports the view that the construction of pits in shaded areas is a response to temperature rather than to light.
25009965|Systematics, biology, and morphology of the rare South American agaristine moth, Aucula franclemonti Todd and Poole (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), are presented in the context of other agaristine genera. A. kimsa Todd and Poole is placed in synonymy with A. franclemonti, and A. ivia Todd and Pool is synonymized with A. tusora Todd and Poole; A. franclemontoides, new species, is described from east Andean Ecuador. A brief phylogenetic analysis of the five species in the A. franclemonti species-group is offered, with a key to the species-group based on male genitalia. Female genitalia of A. franclemonti are described, and an external mating plug (sphragis) noted, perhaps functionally related to a permanently everted and sclerotized endophallus in males. Larvae were found feeding on Vitis tiliifolia Humb. & Bonpl. (Vitaceae), and all immature stages reared from the egg are briefly described. A complete chaetotaxy of the last instar larva is illustrated in detail. Modifications of the pupal cremaster and the presence of subventral seta SV2 on the seventh abdominal segment are apomorphic features shared only with other agaristine species.
25010099|Leotichius shiva new species is described from the Kehen Temple at Bangli, Bali and compared with the two previously described species of Leotichius. The Bali habitat, shared with numerous ant lion larvae, consisted of very dry unconsolidated earth sheltered by the multiple roofs of the Hindu shrines. Nymphs of several instars are discussed and compared to other Leptopodomorpha.
25009871|Honey bee queen mandibular complex (HQMC), a five component pheromone blend, moderates the stinging behavior of worker honey bees when the workers are exposed to an atmosphere that also contains a queen. If either HQMC or an atmosphere in contact with a queen were absent, laboratory bioassays demonstrated that worker honey bees rapidly became more prone to sting.
25010508|Thirty-four new species in the plant bug genus Orthotylus are described from the Hawaiian IsIands. The new species and their host plant associations are as follows: O. metrosideri, from Hawaii, on Metrosideros polymorpha; O. nestegiae, from Hawaii, on Nestegis sandwicensis; O. sophorae, from Hawaii, on Sophora chrysophylla; O. sophoroides, from Maui, on Sophora chrysophylla; O. perrottetiae, from Kauai, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. perrottetiopsis, from Maui, on Perrottetia sandwicensis; O. antidesmae, from Hawaii, on Antidesma platyphyllum; O. melicopi, from Hawaii, on Melicope hawaiiensis; O. coprosmopsis, from Hawaii, on Coprosma menziesii; O. coprosmicola, from Molokai, on Coprosma foliosa; O. coprosmaphila, from Maui, on Coprosma montana; O. pilo, from Molokai, on Coprosma foliosa; O. hedyotiella, from Oahu, on Hedyotis acuminata; O. hedyotivorus, from Oahu, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotioides, from Maui, on Hedyotis terminalis; O. hedyotiphila, from Maui, on Hedyotis hillebrandii; O. kara, from Oahu, on Psychotria kaduana; O. kopiko, from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. neopsychotriae, from Hawaii, on Psychotria hawaiiensis; O. neopsychotrioides, from Maui, on Psychotria mariniana; O. diospyropsis, from Oahu, on Diospyros hillebrandii; O. diospyricola, from Molokai, on Diospyros sandwicensis; O. diospyroides, from Maui, on Diospyros sandwicensis; O. xylosmoides, from Maui, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. xylosmicola, from Kauai, on Xylosma hawaiiense; O. clermonticola, from Maui, on Clermontia grandiflora; O. clermontioides, from Maui, on Clermontia grandiflora; O. clermontioides, from Maui, on Clermontia arborescens and Clermontia kakeana; O. clermontiella, from Oahu, on Clermontia kakeana; O. pisoniopsis, from Maui, on Pisonia brunoniana; O. urericola, from Hawaii, on Urera glabra; O. ureraphila, from Maui, on Urera glabra; O. kassandroides, from Oahu, on assorted host plants; O. kassandropsis, from Maui, on assorted host plants; and O. ulaula, from Oahu, on assorted host plants. Redescriptions are given for O. azalais Kirkaldy from Kauai, hypothesized to feed on Metrosideros polymorpha; and O. kassandra (Kirkaldy), from Hawaii, which occurs on assorted host plants. Distribution maps and figures of the male genitalic structures are provided for all the above species, and shaded dorsal habitus figures are provided for O. urericola and O. diospyroides. New distribution records are also provided for O. pisonioides Polhemus (with Pisonia sandwicensis documented as an additional host plant), O. pipturi Polhemus, O. coprosmae Polhemus, O. coprosmoides Polhemus, O. psychotriae Polhemus, O. psychotrioides Polhemus, and O. hedyoticola Polhemus. A revised key to Hawaiian Orthotylus species is included, treating all species described from the archipelago to date.
25010324|Four new species of the cattarine genus Cattarus Stl are described (C. erwini from Peru, and C. nigritus, C. pseudoculatus, and C. pallidus from Ecuador); Phaeax balteatus Distant and P. formicarius (Distant) are redescribed and formally transferred to Cattarus; C. stysi Slater is redescribed; the new myrmecomorphic cattarine genus Cephalocattarus and new species waorani are described from Ecuador; and new distribution records are given for the pamphantines Parapamphantus erikae Brailovsky from Ecuador and Venezuela, and Tropicoparapamphantus amazonicus Brailovsky from Ecuador and Peru. Dorsal photographs of all species (except Cattarus insignis Stl) and dorsal illustrations of the adults of Cattarus formicarius, Cattarus stysi, and Cephalocattarus waorani and its model ant species (Cephalotes pavonii), and a key to the eight species of Cattarus are given to facilitate identification.
25010480|A new species of Tithorea, Tithorea pacifica n. sp., is described and diagnosed from pluvial premontane rain-forest in northwestern Ecuador. Two additional new subspecies, T. pacifica euphonia n. ssp. and T. pacifica concordia n. ssp., are also described, from western Colombia and extreme eastern Panama, respectively. Adult specimens and genitalia of both sexes are illustrated for the three known species of Tithorea and the characters that distinguish the species are tabulated.
25010003|Based on a worldwide survey of representatives of epipaschiine genera, a monophyletic subset is identified and designated the Pococera complex. Its monophyly is defended by a prominent saccus in the male genitalia and a long, narrow ductus bursae in the female genitalia. The complex contains approximately 300 species that are restricted in distribution to the Western Hemisphere. This phylogenetic study of the complex establishes its monophyly, re-examines the genera included, establishes their monophyly, and estimates their relationships. The cladistic analysis is based on 22 taxa and 65 characters of the adult head, genitalia, and wings. Lacalma Janse and Macalla Walker are used as outgroups. The PHYSYS program generated three equally parsimonious trees with a length of 144 and consistency index 0.52. The stability of the estimated trees were tested with successive weighting and sequential removal of taxa. The tests showed the position of the root to be somewhat uncertain. Nevertheless, the topology of the estimated trees is shown to be stable in most manipulations despite the fact that most of the groupings are supported by very few characters. A taxonomic synopsis presents the results of the examination and the definition of the genera as monophyletic. Twenty-two genera of the Pococera complex are diagnosed and six new genera are described. Representatives of each genus are illustrated by line drawings and photographs. Larval host use patterns are briefly reviewed. A nomenclatural summary is provided, including taxa to be removed from the Epipaschiinae.
25010051|A key for the identification of the 74 species of Agonum Bonelli in the New World is presented along with taxonomic treatments of the 15 species occurring in Mexico. Neotypes are designated for Agonum orbicollis Say (=A. punctiforme Say) and Agonum suturale Say. Diagnosis of Agonum based on external characters, and characters of the male and female genitalia and reproductive tract, necessitates removal of South American species previously considered congeneric to a new genus, Incagonum (type species Anchomenus discoculcatus Dejean). Synapomorphies establishing monophyly of Incagonum include reduced subapical elytral sinuation, and female spermatheca with digitate basal lobe. The absence of subapical setae on metatarsomere 4, and presence of a short but distinct spermathecal duct support the monophyly of Incagonum plus other taxa in the previously proposed Rhadine-Tanystoma lineage. Removal of Incagonum species from Agonum results in restriction of Agonum to lands previously comprising Laurasia, or to regions broadly accreted to its southern margin. Cladistic biogeographic analysis of the Mexican Agonum fauna and other carabid taxa exhibiting Halffer's Nearctic pattern do not contradict a primary division of the Mexican biota into a northern portion, including the Sierra Madre Occidental and Oriental and associated lowland regions, and a southern portion including the Transvolcanic Sierra and Sierra Madre del Sur. The analysis recognizes an area of endemism comprising the southern Sierra Madre Occidental. This area exhibits ambiguous area relationships with areas to the north and south. The included Nearctic pattern taxa also provide only ambiguous information concerning the area relationships for areas north of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec versus the Chiapan highlands.
25010483|Six new species of Leptoglossus Gurin from Brazil, Costa Rica, Mxico, Peru, and Venezuela are described. Diagnostic taxonomic characters of antennal segments, legs, male genital capsules, and dorsal views of some species are illustrated. Most of the species are placed in their corresponding species-group, as well as the previous incertae-sedis species.
25009232|Nine field plots (each 0.4-0.6 ha) were selected along the south central part of Long Island, New York, to study the effect of insecticide spray frequency on a questing Dermacentor variabilis population. Assignment of treatment was made according to dominant vegetation, location and tick preferential habitat. Three plots received no treatment, 3 plots were sprayed with water (3 once, 2 twice, and one 3 times) and 3 plots were similarly sprayed with an emulsifiable formulation of naled. Plots were randomly monitored for tick density at weekly intervals. A total of 2,872 ticks was collected from all plots by dragging. Multiple and simple regression and exploratory data analyses were employed to determine normal or estimated tick populations at each plot throughout the adult tick season, rate of seasonal weekly decline of tick population, and the effect of insecticide spray frequency on the questing American dog tick population. Results indicated a 20% weekly exponential decay in numbers of questing adult ticks over the 1978 season. No effect was seen due to the water treatment. One spray of naled produced an 82% reduction of the questing tick population; 2 sprays, a 95% reduction; and 3 sprays, a 96% population reduction.
25006097|The influence of weather conditions on the activity and behavior of greenhead flies, Tabanus nigrovittatus and T. lineola, was determined. Trap catches correlated with weather records showed that fly activity was related to maximum temperature, average temperature, and cloud cover, but not to the wind speeds and minimum temperatures observed. Fly behavior towards the traps used was influenced by wind speed and direction. Data indicated that greenheads dispersed randomly with respect to both compass directions (trap locations) and prevailing wind directions. More greenheads were found on the marsh near the upland than farther out, and significantly more fly at a height of 1.5 to 3 ft. above the marsh surface than at 3 to 5 ft.
25005798|The author discusses the status of the family Phymatidae, recently degraded by Carayon, Usinger and Wygodzinsky to the subfamily rank and included into the family Reduviidae. He comes to the conclusion that this is unfortunate since it was based on a couple of species belonging to only one genus of the subfamily Phymatinae compared with two aberrant subfamilies of the family Reduviidae, Holoptilinae and Elasmodeminae. The author proposes to conserve the well established family Phymatidae as a family and to include Themonocorinae as a new subfamily into it. The species Macrocephalus incisus Stl 1862 is revalidated and separated from Macrocephalus notatus Westwood, 1843, into which synonmy it was put by Handlirsch in 1897 and a key for the separation of these two species and their respective subspecies is given. Three new species of the genus Macrocephalus (subgenus Lophoscutus Kormilev, 1951) are described: M. margaritis from Mexico, M. drakei from Cuba and M. subproductus from Puerto Rico.
25009388|Botocudo cavernicola is described as a new species from bat guano in a cave in New Guinea. Comments on the cave habitat are included. This is thought to be the first record of a lygaeid inhabiting caves in the Eastern Hemisphere. The biology of Cligenes subcavicola Scudder, Darlington and Hill is discussed. It is reported to feed on the seeds of Piper sp. found in bat guano in caves and abandoned buildings on Trinidad. The species is reported from a cave in Peru for the first time where it feeds at least in part on the seeds of species of Ficus.
25010036|A new species of the ceratophyllid genus Thrassis Jordan, 1933, from Baja California is described. Its phylogenetic affinities in the subfamily Oropsyllinae are briefly discussed and its host preference for antelope ground squirrels of the genus Ammospermophilus is noted.
25010489|The ant genus Pseudolasius in the Afrotropical region is reviewed. Two species are considered valid, P. bufonus and P. weissi, and diagnostic morphological characters are provided for each. Scanning electron micrographs are provided for each species, and the male genitalia of P. bufonus are illustrated for the first time. Four species are synomized with P. weissi: P. bayonii new synonym, P. bucculentus new synonym, P. gowdeyi new synonym, and P. weissi sordidus new synonym.
25005940|Berosus oregonensis and B. hatchi are described as new. The identity of B. striatus (Say), B. stylifer Horn, and B. fraternus LeC. is discussed, and a new character given for identification of females of B. striatus (Say). A key is given for the species of Berosus known from California, Oregon, Idaho, Washington, and British Columbia.
25008913|The total behavioral catalog size of Leptothorax curvispinosus workers in a nest environment has been estimated by means of the Fagen-Goldman method of fitting frequency data to negative binomial and lognormal Poisson distributions. The worker repertory is characterized by a smaller number of rare behaviors in comparison with vertebrate repertories. This trait makes the preparation of an adequate ethogram much less time-consuming. The behavior of a partially bilateral worker-male gynandromorph is described and the estimation method used to show that its repertory is probably intermediate in size between those of full workers and males. The limitation of worker behaviors to the worker (as opposed to male) appendages suggests a bilateral as opposed to diffuse control of movement by the gynandromorph's brain. The advantages and difficulties of the estimation technique are then discussed.
25009245|The Mourning Cloak butterfly, Nymphalis antiopa L., is capable of soaring flight. The adults appear to recognise rising air currents and exhibit complex behaviour patterns to stay inside these systems. The soaring behaviour of N. antiopa is similar to that of monarch butterflies, Danaus plexippus L.
25009422|Soil-dropping behavior by the arid lands ants, Novomessor albisetosus (Mayr), is considered as an example of tool use. Soil-dropping ceases to be a general response to any nest-threatening liquid beyond a certain distance from the nest. As petri dishes of distilled water and honey water are moved farther from the nest, ants stop dropping soil in water but continue doing so in honey water. Since soil dropped in honey water is brought back to the nest, soil-dropping serves the purpose of food retrieval. Questions concerning competitive adaptations must be considered cautiously.
25010260|The South American genus Paralycambes Kormilev (Coreidae: Meropachydinae: Spathophorini) is redescribed, and one new species P. pronotalis from Venezuela and Brazil is described. New records for P. misionensis are given. Dorsal habitus illustrations and drawings of antennae, head, pronotum, scutellum, mesothorax, metathorax, metathoracic peritreme and male and female genitalia are provided.
25004405|The corn billbug egg parasite, Anaphoidea calendr, is a monembryonic, gregarious, hymenopterous insect of the family Mymarid, parasitizing eggs of several species of Calendra, especially C. minima, C. parvula and C. callosa, all of which hosts are very destructive to corn, small grains and grasses. A usual number of parasites developing in one host-egg is seven-one male and six females. The species is able to perpetuate itself in the eggs of numerous additional species of beetles of this genus, and occasionally it matures three times the usual number, especially when parasitizing the eggs of the larger species. Its known distribution is such as to indicate that it is established throughout the eastern half of the United States. It has been found to destroy seventy-five per cent. of the billbug eggs in Agrostis alba, in which host plant of Calendra it has been most intensively studied. In the latitude of St. Louis, Mo., there are at least four generations annually, sometimes probably seven generations. The larv remain inactive from July, August, or September, pupating in the following spring.
25010342|Acamanthina, new genus, is described and illustrated from Chile and Argentina, and includes two species: A. acmanthes (Meyrick, 1931) (type species), new combination, and A. albipuncta, new species. Acmanthina can be distinguished from all other genera in Euliini by two external and one genitalia feature of the males: the absence of elongate scaling in the basal portion of the hindwing along veins 1A + 2A and CuP (present in the female), the possession of a fascicle of 17-20 extremely long sex scales (=hairpencil) concealed in a deep fold along the basal three-fifths of hindwing vein CuP, and the deep mesal excavation of the juxta. The new genus appears to be most closely related to Haemateulia Razowski.
25006134|The male genitalia of eight species of Criorhina Meigen (C. caudata Curran, C. kincaidi Coquillett, C. luna Lovett, C. lupina (Williston), C. nigripes (Williston), C. nigriventris Walton, C. tricolor Coquillett and C. verbosa (Walker)) are described. A key based on terminalia is provided for the species studied.
25009961|Pupal morphology is surveyed among 46 species of Notodontidae representing all currently-recognized subfamilies, and 24 phylogenetically informative characters are identified. Comparison of a previous notodontid subfamily phylogeny based on larval and adult morphology with one constructed from pupal data shows close concordance. Although it was not possible to identify a synapomorphy for the Notodontidae from pupae, this life stage provides a long list of potential synapomorphies useful at the subfamily level.
25006252|Zestusa dora (W. H. Edwards) (Hesperiidae) is closely associated with oak-juniper scrub in the southern Arizona mountains, where it was studied in April and May in Cochise Co., Arizona. Eggs and young larvae were found in April, 1969, on Quercus Emoryi Torrey and reared through on this and other species of Quercus. The beginning of the life cycle coincides with the beginning of the spring growth of the Quercus and also with wider availability of water. The adults drink water whenever possible but seldom visit flowers. Descriptions are given of the chief characteristics of the eggs, larvae and pupae. Structures on the dorsocaudal edge of the prothorax and around the prothoracic spiracle of the pupa are probably of generic importance.
25010335|A cladistic analysis based on 21 characters from the external morphology and male genitalia was undertaken in order to determine the status of the flea subgenera Ctenophthalmus (Alloctenus) and C. (Nearctoctenophthalmus). As a result of the analysis, Ctenophthalmus (Alloctenus) (=Nearctoctenophthalmus, new synonym) comprises nine species (in phylogenetic sequence): C. pseudagyrtes, C. sanborni, C. micropus, new status (from subspecies of C. pseudagyrtes), C. haagi, C. tecpin new species, C. caballeroi, C. cryptotis, C. expansus, and C. myodosus, new status (from subspecies of C. expansus). Biogeographic data indicate that two species (C. pseudagyrtes and C. micropus) are widespread in both the Nearctic and Neotropical regions, another (C. tecpin) is exclusively Nearctic, whereas the remaining six species are exclusively Neotropical. Within the latter, the monophyletic clade including those species previously assigned to C. (Alloctenus) is endemic to the Transvolcanic Mexican Belt. Host data indicate that the most primitive species are basically parasites of sigmodontine mice (Rodentia: Muridae)-secondarily associated with Talpidae and Soricidae (Insectivora)-whereas the most derived species are exclusive parasites of the shrew genus Cryptotis (Insectivora: Soricidae).
25009303|Near Ithaca, New York, Perillus circumcinctus reproduces in stands of Bidens cernua and Solidago spp. (Compositae) in early summer. Nymphs of this predator consume larvae and adults of the beetle Calligrapha californica coreopsivora (Chrysomelidae) in stands of B. cernua, and primarily larvae of Trirhabda spp. (Chrysomelidae) in stands of Solidago. Newly molted adults of P. circumcinctus in stands of Solidago are larger than newly molted adults of P. circumcinctus in stands of B. cernua. It is suggested that differences in the physical structure of the two habitats result in nymphs of P. circumcinctus experiencing more difficulty in harvesting prey in stands of B. cernua. Increased difficulty in harvesting prey results in smaller adult sizes.
25005963|Two new species are described, Eremobates bantai and Eremorhax puebloensis. In addition the female allotype of Hemerotrecha fruitana (Muma) is described. Hemerotrecha fruitana and Eremobates durangonus are found in Colorado for the first time.
25008925|Asaphomyia floridensis from Highlands County, Florida, is described as new. Asaphomyia includes only one other described species, A. texensis Stone, known from three counties in Texas. Chrysops dixianus, a species related to Chrysops pudicus Osten Sacken, is also described as new; specimens were seen from Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana.
25009792|The basic biology of Lopidea nigridea Uhler is described, including details of its growth, morphology, behavior, and ecology. Distribution and abundance of this univoltine, brightly colored plant bug were studied from May through August 1985, 1986, 1987 and 1988, at 15 sites within the cirque and valley of Pike Creek, on the eastern scarp of Steens Mountain, southeastern Oregon. At Pike Creek, L. nigridea occurs only on the legume Lupinus caudatus Kellogg and feeds on the stems, undersides of leaves, flower parts and developing seeds of its lupine host plant. This paper describes the relation between L. nigridea and its host plant, and identifies the principal species of visually oriented arthropod predators that occur on or visit this lupine. These predators may function as operators selecting for the evolution of aposematism in L. nigridea, and the biology of this plant bug species is placed within the context of how protective resemblance functions in a natural community.
25009733|The genus Cavocoris is revised based on recent collections from Papua New Guinea, and its generic characters are compared to other endemic Papuan genera. Four new species are described: C. rotundatus, C. ibatiri, C. minor, and C. ismayi. A key to species, a species distribution map, and illustrations of key characters are provided.
25009981|The Palaearctic species Bembidion femoratum Sturm and Amara communis (Panzer) are reported for the first time from North America. The first species is known from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia since 1967 and the second from New Brunswick since 1988. Both species were probably introduced through nursery stock. A short description and comments are provided for each species.
25010071|The two Palaearctic species, Agonum kurnakovi Kryzhanovskij and Agonum punctibasis Reitter, are newly combined as members of the genus Anchomenus Bonelli. Descriptions, distributional data, and means to identify the species are presented. The species are included in a cladistic analysis with the other members of the Anchomenus clade; Tetraleucus picticornis Newman, 10 other species of Anchomenus, the 7 species of Sericoda Kirby, and the 11 species of Elliptoleus Bates. This analysis preserves relationships presented in Liebherr (1991) within and among the other three genera, but defines a new set of cladistic relationships within Old World Anchomenus. These relationships are used to define an area cladogram for the circum-Mediterranean region that is concordant with those of a variety of groups summarized by Oosterbroek and Arntzen (1992). Diversification of Palaearctic Anchomenus is explained in the context of geological evolution of the Mediterranean Sea during the Miocene.
25008938|Details of the nest of Thygater analis are described and diagramed. Information on cell provisions, larval feeding activity, defecation and cocoons is also given.
25009411|Previous studies of the mating system of the soldier beetle, Chauliognathus pennsylvanicus, have not considered spatial or temporal variation in sex ratio or the relative frequency of mating and single adults. These two attributes of the mating system were sampled at mid-day and again in the early evening thrice weekly throughout one adult flight season at two localities in Tennessee. Sex ratios were equivalent within days but became increasingly male biased as the season progressed. The proportion of all adults found copulating is about 5 times greater in the early evening than at mid-day. Some between-site differences were found.
25009963|A key to the Mexican and Central American species of the genus Cucullia is presented. The key is annotated with the geographical distribution of each species and supplemented with illustrations of the adults of each species.
25009536|The following new taxa are described: Aphyseteres nasutus. (Malaysia, Borneo); Calisius borneensis (Malaysia, Borneo); Dimorphacantha borneensis, (Malaysia, Borneo); Froeschnerissa, new genus for Froeschnerissa heveli (Malaysia, Borneo); Glochocoris borneensis (Malaysia, Borneo); Heissia new genus for Heissia rotundata (Nigeria), and Notapictinus dollingi (Costa Rica). The species Calisius stappersi Schouteden and its "var.?" are transferred to the genus Heissia as its second species. A key is given to separate the six known genera of Calisiinae.
25005981|This article is the result of a continuation of research on the tenuialids by the authors. The descriptions of Tenuiala crenulata, n. sp., and Tenuialoides medialis, n. gen., n. sp., are accompanied by figures and a revised key to the known genera and species of the family. Comparative details of the tibia-tarsus are figured for T. nuda, T. kurti, Hafenrefferia gilvipes (Koch), and Hafenferrefia nitidula (Banks). New collection localities are also noted.
25010097|Toonglasa indomita and Patritius osuna are described as new species from Mexico and Venezuela respectively. The former is noted to have spectacular elongate spines protruding from the posterior end of the male 8th abdominal segment. A discussion is included of the sexual dimorphism in species of Toonglasa and the reasons for this are hypothesized. New bamboo host plants are included for previously described species of Toonglasa.
25009696|Five new species of Polycentropus (Trichoptera: Polycentropodidae) from Costa Rica are described and illustrated: P. fasthi, P. fortispinus, P. nebulosus, P. volcanus, and P. zurqui. In addition, P. digitus Yamamoto, P. fortunus Flint, and P. mayanus Flint are recorded from Costa Rica for the first time. Also, P. acanthogaster Flint, P. altmani Yamamoto, P. costaricensis Flint, P. dentoides Yamamoto, P. lingulatus Flint, and P. spicatus Yamamoto occur or are likely to occur in the country.
25010317|The genus Peritrechus Fieber in North America is represented by five species, one of which Peritrechus pilosulus from California, Oregon and British Columbia is described as new. The species P. saskatchewanensis Barber is synonymized with P. convivus (Stl), the latter being naturally Holarctic. A key to the species of Peritrechus in North America is included. The Palaearctic P. oshanini Kiritshenko is reinstated as a valid species.
25010373|The genera Praocidia Fairmaire and Pilobaloderes Kulzer (Pimeliinae: Praocini), distributed in the Andes of northern Peru, are revised. Both genera are transferred from the Nycteliini to Praocini on the basis of new tribal level characters. Character states of Praocidia and Pilobaloderes shared with the other genera of Praocini and not shared with genera of Nycteliini are discussed. Redescriptions of the genera, their three species, keys, habitus photographs and illustrations of body and male genitalia are included.
25009382|This paper is the first comprehensive description of the histology of the male reproductive systems of the adults and pupae of the doryline ants, Dorylus (Anomma) wilverthi, and D. (A.) nigricans. The reproductive systems consist of the testes and vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, and the aedeagal bladder. The numbers of testicular follicles, the microanatomy of the organs, the types and amounts of secretions in the lumina of the organs, as well as the presence or absence of spermatozoa, are compared in the adults and pupae of these two species. Although smilarities exist, significant differences are found in the microanatomy of the organs, in the types and amounts of secretions produced, and between organs of the adults and pupae. The histology is also compared with that in the Old World Aenictus gracilis, the New World Neivamyrmex harrisi, and other studies of Old and New World dorylines. Important differences exist between the male reproductive systems of the two African Dorylus species herein studied and the New World N. harrisi. The Dorylus species have a larger number of testicular follicles, the organs of the system are more complex and produce both acidophilic and basophilic secretions, the entrance of the ejaculatory duct into the aedeagal bladder, and the formation of a new dorsal duct at the posterior end of the bladder are different from those in other dorylines.
25009342|Navarrus ater, a new Ethiopian species, is described in a formerly monotypic genus known only from the Oriental Region and New Guinea. Characters are presented to distinguish N. ater from N. phaeophilus, the type species of the genus. A dorsal view drawing of the holotype of N. ater is provided.
25010336|The South American tribe Nycteliini (Pimeliinae) comprises nine genera distributed from central Peru to southern Argentina and Chile: Gyriosomus Gurin-Mneville, Pilobalia Burmeister, Entomoderes Solier, Nyctelia Latreille, Epipedonota Solier, Psectrascelis Solier, Scelidospecta Kulzer, Auladera Solier, and Mitragenius Solier. A cladistic analysis of the genera of Nycteliini is conducted, including 93 characters and 11 terminal taxa because two of the genera are treated as two terminal units: Epipedonota and Mitragenius. The one most parsimonious cladogram obtained shows that Nycteliini is a monophyletic group characterized by two synapomorphies from internal morphology and female genitalia. The generic relationships are resolved and the genus Mitragenius appears as non-monophyletic. The results suggest that the species of Nycteliini should be arranged best in 11 genera. The study confirms the importance of the use of new characters, such as genital structures and internal morphology in the classification of Tenebrionidae. The paper includes a discussion of the phylogeny of the tribe and information on evolution of thoracic endosternites was used along the tree to analyze evolutionary patterns.
25005882|This widely distributed and common ant of crepuscular habit, Aphaenogaster (Attomyrma) megommatus, n. sp., is described from workers collected one mile north of Camp Foster, Pyramid Lake, Washoe County, Nevada. It has also been collected in Nye and Pershing counties of the same state and also in Malheur county, Oregon; Yuma county, Arizona and Inyo county, California. The species is characterized by its extraordinarily large eyes, "callow like" color and obsolescent epinotal spines. The ant bears a superficial resemblance to Aph. (A.) boulderensis M. R. Sm. and could well be mistaken for that western species.
25009916|Gas chromatographic-mass spectral analyses were performed on Tenax-trapped male specific volatiles (putative pheromones) from sympatrically collected Ligyrocoris diffusus (Uhler), Ligyrocoris sylvestris (L.) and a group of males intermediate in morphotype, assumed to be hybrids between the two species. Three distinct chemical profiles containing a total of nine insect-derived components were obtained. Two components/peaks were seen in all three chromatograms. Of the remaining seven components, three exhibited by L. diffusus were not shown by L. sylvestris; similarly four were L. sylvestris specific. The volatiles from the presumed hybrid males gave a biochemically hybrid profile, sharing two of the four L. sylvestris specific components and all three of the L. diffusus specific peaks. Quantitative as well as qualitative differences and commonalities were found among these two Ligyrocoris species and the hybrid. These data, in conjunction with preliminary analyses of male volatiles from Perigenes constrictus (Say) and Slaterobius insignis (Uhler), representatives of two genera both closely related to Ligyrocoris, suggest that these male specific scent compounds may be a useful biochemical character system for systematic analysis in the Rhyparochrominae.
25009690|Two heteropteran species native to western North America, the pentatomid Prionosoma podopioides Uhler and the rhopalid Aufeius impressicollis Stl, are recorded for the first time from southeastern United States. Populations of P. podopioides are reported from northern South Carolina on bracted plantain, Plantago aristata Michx., documenting the suspected host relationship for this species; A. impressicollis is reported from the same area on Palmer amaranth, Amaranthus palmeri S. Wats. Hosts of both heteropterans are native western plants naturalized in the Southeast.
25009507|The first authentic report is given for the halticine plant bug, Orthocephalus saltator (Hahn) (Heteroptera: Miridae), in North America from Canada: New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, and the United States: New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Male parameres are illustrated and diagnoses are provided to help separate O. saltator from the holarctic Orthocephalus coriaceus (Fabricius). Previous records of O. saltator from Alaska are considered misidentifications of Irbisia sericans Stal.
25006140|Seven new species of the lepturine genus Strangalia Audinet-Serville are described from Mexico and Guatemala and the genus is characterized. New species are: Strangalia auripilis; bicolorella; cavaventra; dolicops; gracilis; palaspina; pulchra.
25008986|A diagnosis is given for the genus Trichopepla; an identification key and descriptions are provided for seven species.
25006015|The nervous system of the thoracic segments of the larva of Prodenia litura is described. The dorsal and transverse nerves remain connected to each other at three points through three connectives. But in the prothoracic segment, there is no transverse nerve, so that the dorsal nerve establishes a connection with subconnective nerve by a plexus. Ordinarily no connection is found between the dorsal and ventral nerve but in the prothoracic segment, such a connection is established at one point.
25009899|Tatochila theodice occurs in central Chile and (as three nominal subspecies) in Argentina from northwestern Patagonia to the Beagle Channel. It is unusual in its lineage in feeding on Leguminosae, including native species of Vicia and Lathyrus and probably introduced Trifolium. The early stages are so different from other known Tatochila that generic recognition may be warranted. The unusual distribution of the species can be understood in terms of glacial-interglacial vegetation dynamics in southern South America. The evolutionary basis for repeated switching from Cruciferous to Leguminous hosts in the Andean Pierini is not understood.
25009574|Pierphulia rosea annamariea is a very small pierine from the Peruvian highlands, whose entire life history is highly aberrant. The egg, larva, and pupa and various aspects of the behavior and ecology of immatures and adults are described. The larva, a Crucifer feeder, is skipper-like in appearance and habits and lives in an individual silken nest within rosettes of the host. The pupa is rounded and is formed in a loose cocoon. Adults lay very few, very large eggs but may live more than three weeks. Growth is exceptionally slow, requiring as much as half again longer from egg to adult as pierines twice the size, reared under the same conditions.
25010322|Two new species of Campsicnemus are proposed from the Marquesas (C. limnobates and C. uncleremus), which are related to the previously described Campsicnemus scurra Parent from Nuku Hiva in the Marquesas. All are water skaters on pools and streamlets. All three species are described and illustrated and a key to the known Campsicnemus of the Marquesas is provided.
25006090|Melanism appears to be becoming predominant in the population of this moth in northeastern Connecticut, and to be acting as a genetic dominant. Counts are given of wild-caught individuals and of a batch of individuals reared from a very strongly melanistic, wild-caught female.
25010215|The imago of Proceroplatus belluus n. sp. from Panama, a Keroplatidae with myrmecophagous larvae, is described. Other than its biology, the species is remarkable by its pectinate antennae, up to now unknown in Proceroplatus. Its taxonomic position is discussed; the species belongs to an inferred monophyletic group comprising two other species from Paraguay and Bolivia.
25009259|Eucerceris ferruginosa Scullen is removed from synonymy with E. nevadensis (Dalla Torre). E. baja Scullen is the male and a junior synonym of E. ferruginosa. E. nevadensis mojavensis Scullen (New Status) is the correct name for the taxon north of Mexico previously referred by authors to E. nevadensis ferruginosa nec Scullen. The following synonymy is presented: E. lacunosa Scullen (=E. lacunosa sabinasae Scullen, New synonym); E. morula Scullen (=E. morula albarenae Scullen, New synonym); E. superba Cresson (=E. bicolor Cresson, =Cerceris dichroa Dalla Torre, New synonyms); E. canaliculata (Say) (=E. zimapanensis Scullen, New synonym). The male of E. lapazensis Scullen is characterized, and the distribution of several species is discussed.
25009584|Eight species of entomogenous fungi were tested for infectivity to the larvae of Scolytus multistriatus. Larvae were inoculated with varying dosages by immersing them in spore suspensions and then incubated at 21C. High levels of mortality were obtained for most of the test species; Cordyceps militaris was not infective under these conditions. Increased spore concentrations of the test fungi did not significantly affect percentage mortality with 7 of the 11 strains of the fungal species tested. Varying temperatures produced complex effects on the host-parasite relationship.
25009328|Two-day-old adult and first-instar larval codling moths were assayed for ability to detect and avoid resource sites (=apples) already occupied by conspecifics (i.e., host discrimination). Under laboratory conditions, adults oviposited as readily in the presence of conspecific eggs and larvae as in their absence. Similarly, newly hatched first-instar larvae, when released in laboratory arenas, located and attempted to mount and bore into apples regardless of the presence or absence of older conspecific larvae. We contrast codling moth behavior and ecology with that of two other insect parasites of apple that are known to host-discriminate, the apple maggot fly and the European apple sawfly.
25005966|A chromatographic analysis was made of the hemolymph, muscle, and fat body of the cockroach Leucophaea maderae, for purines, pyrimidines, and their derivatives. Positive identification was based on the distribution pattern of spots and spectral absorption curves of eluates. No purines or pyrimidines, except uric acid, were positively identified in the hemolymph. Adenosine, AMP, ADP, ATP, and NAD were identified in muscle and fat body extracts and their concentrations in muscle estimated. The average concentrations, expressed as g/g of wet muscle, are AMP, 45.89; ADP, 72.51; ATP, 57.71; and NAD, 19.54. Uric acid was also identified in fat body extracts. Pyridoxal phosphate may be present in the fat body and muscle.
25009368|The antennal sensilla and setae of both sexes of Solva pallipes are described using SEM. Sexual dimorphism is evident on the first flagellomere and its functional significance is postulated.
25008889|The paper contains the descriptions of five new species of Gigantodax from high elevations in the northern Andes.
25009890|The subgenera and satellite genera of Solenopsis are reviewed. Synonymy under Solenopsis of all subgenera and of the genera Bisolenopsis, Synsolenopsis, Paranamyrma, and Labauchena is confirmed. Certain placement of the genus Lilidris, known from a single alate female, will require study of additional material, but Lilidris appears to be distinct from Solenopsis. The fire ants and their close relatives, S. substituta and S. tridens, are collectively designated as the S. geminata species group, which together with the parasitic S. daguerrei group (Labauchena) form a monophyletic lineage. S. virulens, a species phenetically similar to minors of S. saevissima, is also included in this revision, though it probably does not belong in the S. geminata group. Four native species, 2 introduced species, and 2 hybrid forms occur in North America. Seventeen species are known from South America. A key to major workers and illustrations of all species are included. Notes on the identification of queens are provided where these are sufficiently distinctive. The native North American species are S. aurea Wheeler, S. amblychila Wheeler new status, S. geminata (Fabricius), and S. xyloni (MacCook), and the introduced species are S. invicta Buren and S. richteri Forel from South America. S. xyloni  geminata and S. invicta  richteri are the hybrid forms. S. invicta  richteri is abundant and highly fertile in parts of Alabama, Mississippi and northwestern Georgia in North America, but this hybrid has not been observed in South America, even though the parent species have overlapping distributions in at least Santa F Province, Argentina. In South America, only S. bruesi Creighton new status, S. gayi (Spinola), S. geminata and S. weyrauchi new species occur in or to the west of the Andes. The latter is unusual in that it occurs at elevations up to 3,500 m or higher in the Peruvian Andes. To the east of the Andes are found S. electra Forel new status, S. geminata, S. interrupta Santschi, S. invicta, S. macdonaghi Santschi new status, S. megergates new species, S. pusillignis new species, S. pythia Santschi, S. quinquecuspis Forel, S. richteri, S. saevissima F. Smith, S. substituta Santschi new status, and S. tridens Forel. With the exception of S. geminata, S. saevissima, and S. invicta (at least part of whose geographic range is in the rain forest region) most of the South American species are endemic to the monsoon tropics or warm temperate regions of the southern part of the continent. S. virulens (F. Smith) new status, probably not a member of the S. geminata group but superficially resembling them, inhabits the forests of Amazonia.
25010431|The Blastopsocus semistriatus species complex is diagnosed and the four known species in the United States and Canada are described, three of them named as new to science. A key to the U.S. and Canadian species is included.
25006191|The high magnification of the scanning microscope reveals that the first two antennal segments each have a sensillum placodeum, while the fourth and the fifth, the last two, each have a sensillum coelonicum. These latter sensilla are partially covered by protective plates, and from the floor of each a peg organ arises. On the apex of the peg there is a ring of eleven rudimentary hairs, and the wall of the atrium is reticulate. The third segment of the male has a distal, preaxial angled extension which bears a tooth.
25006210|The males and females of Solenopotes capillatus Enderlein were studied with the scanning electron microscope. It was found that the abdomenal integument was similar to the sclerotic, squamous texture described in Linognathus vituli and L. taurotragus, rather than the membranous appearance previously reported. The sternal region was found to have the same texture as the abdomen. Campaniform organs were found on the lower surface of each trochanter as had been reported for other Anoplura. A campaniform organ was also seen on the second antennal segment. The antennal sensorium on each of the last two segments were found to be sensilla coeloconica, the pegs of which terminate in an average of 11 projections from its apex. A small torus-shaped structure with a central projection was seen on the fifth or terminal segment; this has not been previously described.
25009927|Adults and first through fifth instars of Pelocoris poeyi were collected from two localities in Amazonian Ecuador. Immatures occurred syntopically with adults and were found among vegetation in standing water. The existence of five nymphal instars was confirmed with Discriminant Function Analysis based on a suite of external mensural characters. Eggs have two partially fused, coiled micropyles at the anterior pole. First instars are impunctate, whereas the remaining instars are punctate in discrete patterns. Second through fifth instars are separable based on relative length of the mesonotal wingpad compared with the exposed part of the metanotal lateral margin. Scanning electron micrographs of eggs are presented and all immature stages described and illustrated.
25009613|Hippodamia variegata (Goeze), an Old World member of the tribe Coccinellini, is recorded as established in North America in the vicinity of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Identification characteristics are given and its relationship to native North American species is discussed.
25006183|The effects of three humidities and three temperatures were tested on the longevity of both sexes of two strains of Musca domestica L. House flies survive longest at the combination of the lowest temperature (15C) and the highest humidity tested (97%). Their longevity is least at the highest temperature (35C) and lowest humidity (7%) combination, and the intermediate temperature-humidity combinations are intermediate in effect on longevity with the effect of temperature in all cases greater than the effect of humidity. There is no difference in longevity between the insecticide resistant and susceptible strains tested. The factor of desiccation appears to be the primary mechanism involved in determining longevity with temperature determining the rate.
25010536|Certain Holoptilini (Reduviidae: Holoptilinae) have long been believed to attract and paralyze ants through secretions released from a sternal structure on the abdomen termed a "trichome." In this study, the trichome for adults of Ptilocnemus lemur is examined in detail, the first time in any Holoptilini. The trichome comprises a median elevation on abdominal sternite 2, a transverse groove, a median projection on sternite 3, and four groups of setae and hair-like projections. The hair-like projections (hairs of group 3 and 4) are shown to be associated with a layer of glandular units, which may be the source of ant-attracting or paralyzing secretions. Apart from these glandular units, a second type of glands is present on the sternum. These so far undocumented glandular units are arranged in distinct areas on the pregenitalic sternites, and are conspicuous by their large pores. Nymphs of P. lemur do not possess a trichome, but the glandular areas on the pregenitalic segments are already present.
25010470|The type species of Acolhua is discussed. The specimens considered to represent the type species Acolhua championi Distant by Slater & Brailovsky (1986) are shown to represent a previously undescribed species described as A. barrerai new species. The actual type species of Acolhua championi (Distant) is redescribed from Mexico.
25009608|The basic biology of the myrmecomorph Orectoderus obliquus Uhler (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) is described, including details of its growth, morphology, phenology, distribution and behavior. We document the temporal relation of O. obliquus to its host plant, Penstemon procerus brachycanthus (Pennell) Cronq., as well as to species of ants and visual predators that may serve as models and operators in a Batesian mimicry system including O. obliquus. The morphological and behavioral correspondence between various stages of the myrmecomorph and the six most common species of potential ant models is described.
25009003|From 25 to 30 sense organs are present on each antennal flagellum of a female bird louse, Craspedorrhynchus americanus Emerson. About half of them are clustered at the apex of the third (distal) flagellar subsegment. Tactile hairs, thick-walled chemoreceptors, thin-walled chemoreceptors and coeloconic chemoreceptors can be identified.
25009437|The five nymphal instars of Ormenaria rufifascia (Walker) are described and illustrated. A key to instars and comparisons of the morphology of 5 genera of U.S. flatid nymphs are provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include spination of metatibiae and metatarsomeres, numbers of metatarsomeres and abdominal waxpads, and differences in body and wingpad sizes. One generation per year was observed in south Florida. Average developmental times (x  SD) for the first-fifth instars are 23  2.2, 20  2.0, 19  2.3, 24  1.9, and 8  1.1 days, respectively. Mean adult longevity is 12  1.6 days. Of 13 palm species and one non-palm plant studied, only Sabal palmetto (Walt.) Lodd. and Latania lontaroides (Gaertn.) H. E. Moore served as breeding hosts for O. rufifascia.
25009750|Ricinuleids from primary and secondary dryland forest soils in the region of Manaus represented two species: (1) Cryptocellus becki with 94 specimens, mostly juveniles, maximum abundance 38 ind./${\rm m}^{2}$, and predominantly obtained during the dry season and (2) Cryptocellus adisi with 17 specimens, mostly juveniles, up to 10 ind./${\rm m}^{2}$, and more frequent during the dry season. These sympatric species appear to be separated in their mutual habitat by spatial differences, with C. becki inhabiting mostly the organic soil layer and the smaller C. adisi the mineral subsoil. C. becki showed no distinct reproductive period and its first stage of development occurred throughout the year.
25010157|Arthropod succession was observed on whole rat carcasses euthanized by
25009352|The American species of Acrosternum Fieber, 1860, are placed in the subgenus Chinavia Orian, 1965, the latter taxon being elevated from synonymy. Chinavia is redefined, a key provided for the 51 nominal species of the Western Hemisphere and a description or diagnosis provided for each species. One nominal species is removed from Acrosternum. The species cataloged by Kirkaldy as Nezara (Acrosternum) hebes Bergroth, 1891, is a junior synonym of Piezodorus guildinii (Westwood, 1837). Additional new synonymy recognized is: Nezara nigritarsis Stl, 1872, as a junior synonym of Acrosternum (Chinavia) grave (Walker, 1867). Species described in the genus Nezara and here given new combinations as species of Acrosternum subgenus Chinavia are: fuscopunctatum (Breddin, 1901), longicorialis (Breddin, 1901), nigridorsatum (Breddin, 1901), nigropictum (Breddin, 1906) panamensis (Distant, 1890) and rogenhoferi (Stl, 1872). The following 23 species are new: aseadum, australe, bellum, brasicola, callosum, collis, ecuadorensis, esmeraldum, euri, froeschneri, insulani, istum, macdonaldi, monticola, occasi, occultum, pecosum, pengue, plaumanni, simplicis, teretis, ubicum and wygodzinskyi.
25009108|Fowler, Harold G., Department of Entomology & Economic Zoology, Rutgers-The State University, New Brunswick, New Jersey 80903 U.S.A.-Leaf-cutters construct and maintain well defined foraging trails, which can be easily quantified. To examine the relationship between ant activity and trail measurements, colonies of eight species of Atta and Acromyrmex were examined. A significant correlation was found between leaf inputs per day and colony trail measurements (trail development). Also, the number of ants returning unladen was also correlated with the degree of trail development. Unladen ants have been postulated to comprise the trail maintenance force. However, no correlation was found between trail development and the proportion of ants returning unladen. This suggests that no predictions can be formulated concerning the proportion of foragers that must be diverted to trail maintenance.
25010093|Parthenogenesis as previously known in five genera of Chrysomelidae (Leaf Beetles) is reviewed. Evidence is presented for a new case of parthenogenesis in Chrysomelidae, Longitarsus melanurus (Melsheimer), recorded feeding on an introduced plant, Echium vulgare Linnaeus (Boraginaceae), in Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia.
25010547|Nine new species of Philotarsus Kolbe are described from southwestern United States, Mxico, and Guatemala. Garcialdretia n. gen. is erected for 'Philotarsus' jamaicensis Turner (Jamaica), 'Philotarsus' dardanus (Banks) (Hispaniola), 'Haplophallus' jarevianus Garca Aldrete (western Mxico) and three new species, two from eastern Mxico and one from Puerto Rico. North American records of Philotarsus picicornis (Fabricius) in Mockford (1993) are mis-identifications of P. parviceps Roesler. Keys to the subfamilies of Philotarsidae, the genera of Philotarsinae, the North and Middle American species of Philotarsus and the known species of Garcialdretia are included. Phylogenetic and biogeographic aspects of the new taxonomic information are briefly discussed. The fossil species Philotarsus antiquus Kolbe is transferred to Philotarsopsis Tillyard.
25010390|The results of a computerized cladistic analysis of the Nearctic checkered beetle genus Aulicus Spinola (Coleoptera: Cleridae: Clerinae) are presented. Seventeen adult morphological characters (7 multistate, 10 binary) were used to investigate the cladistic relationships of the fifteen valid species of Aulicus. Two Nearctic species of the genus Trichodes Herbst were used as outgroup taxa. Cladistic analysis with the parsimony computer program NONA yielded three equally parsimonious trees, each with thirteen nodes supported by unambiguous character optimizations, and having length 64, consistency index 50, and retention index 52. The strict consensus of these three trees has eleven resolved nodes.
25010454|The following seven new species of Miridae from British Columbia and Alaska are described and documented with scanning electron micrographs, illustrations of the male genitalia, and dorsal habitus photographs: Dichaetocoris gillespiei n. sp., Macrotylus shelabenae n. sp., Melanotrichus robineaui n. sp., Parthenicus lalannei n. sp., P. thibodeaui n. sp., Orthotylus flemingi n. sp., and Tupiocoris killamae n. sp., The new synonymy Adelphocoris rapidus (Say) 1832 [Capus] = Adelphocoris superbus (Uhler) 1875 [Calocoris], Adelphocoris superbus var. borealis Van Duzee 1917, Adelphocoris dinsmorei Bliven, 1959, and Adelphocoris idahoensis Bliven, 1959 is proposed.
25005965|Six new species of the Eriopterine genus Ormosia Rondani are described, including Ormosia (Ormosia) kashmiri n. sp., from Kashmir; O. (O.) nyctopoda n. sp., from Pakistan; O. (O.) moghalensis n. sp., O. (O.) harsha n. sp., and O. (O.) rhaphidis n. sp., from Kumaon; O. (O.) setaxilla n. sp., from Sikkim.
25009240|In February of 1979, two individual larvae of Hydropsyche sp. (Trichoptera: Hydropsychidae) were collected from submerged aquatic plants in Conesus Lake, N.Y. at 1.8 m in depth where they may have survived for as long as ten months. No previous report on these organisms suggests that they occur in such a situation. It is possible that their absence from lake weed beds is due to factors other than simply unfavorable environment.
25005890|During the metamorphosis of the house fly, both glycogen and fat are used as direct energy sources. At 25C., the percentage of glycogen decreases from 0.99 in the prepupa to 0.34 in the 2-day pupa. It increases to 0.54 during the next 24 hrs. at the expense of fat and then diminishes to 0.28 in the newly emerged adult. The percentage of fat increases from 8.72 in the 6-day larva to 12.39 in the 1-day pupa. A loss of 2.8% occurs at the time glycogen increases and another loss of 2.6% occurs during the change from the 4-day pupa to the adult. These decreases are greater than required for the production of glycogen and for the loss of fat in the puparium and pupal skin on emergence.
25009151|Oosorption in Brachymeria intermedia (Nees) is photoperiodically induced by a short photophase. Low temperatures enhance the effects of photoperiod. Oocyte resorption proceeded more quickly at lower temperatures. Preconditioning of immature stages within its host or of young adults has an effect on rate of oocyte resorption.
25009482|The stink bug genus Serdia is divisible into two subgenera: Brasiliicola Kirkaldy and Serdia Stl. Keys for the separation of each and their included species are provided. To the 7 previously known species of Serdia we add 6 new species, all placed in the nominate subgenus: lobata from Brazil, ruckesi from Peru, quadridens from Peru, delphis from Ecuador, beckeri from Panama and Costa Rica, and bihamulata from Venezuela.
25005936|Observations were made on a nuptial flight of the ant Prenolepis imparis (Say) on March 5 at Blacksburg, Virginia. Average temperature during the flight period was an estimated 70 F. Observations were made on the mating activities of 55 females. Detailed observations were made on the wing-shedding process in one female. Observations on this flight were compared with those made earlier in Missouri by Talbot.
25009034|9-14% of all female Bathyplectes anurus, curculionis and stenostigma dissected had non-functional ovaries, rendering them sterile. The presence of these individuals in a population has a detrimental impact on the parasitoid's ability to control their host, the alfalfa weevil.
25010523|Six new species of Amnestus Dallas from the Mexican states of Campeche, Chiapas, Hidalgo, and Veracruz are described. Illustrations of adults and diagnostic characters of the head, prosternal carina, pronotum, legs, parameres, and methatoracic scent gland are provided. Distribution and notes about their biology are included.
25006034|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Trentepohlia (Mongoma) amphinipha n. sp., from Sikkim; T. (M.) patens n. sp., Assam; T. (Trentepohlia) infernalis n. sp., Sikkim; Gymnastes (Gymnastes) anticaniger n. sp., Sikkim; G. (G.) cyaneus nilgiricus n. subsp., South India; G. (G.) latifuscus n. sp., Assam; and G. (G.) tridens n. sp., Thailand.
25009655|The species of the genus Entedon are revised for America north of Mexico. Eighteen species are recognized and a key is presented. Two species previously known from Europe (methion Walker and stephanopachi Heqvist) are present in North America as well as an additional species (ergias Walker) imported for biological control of smaller European elm bark beetle. Eight species are described as new (ashmeadi, ernobii, genei, procerus, pecki, darleneae, teedoe, and anthonomi). Lectotypes are designated for Entedon bigeloviae Ashmead, E. occidentalis Girault, E. tachypterelli Gahan, Pleurotropis leucopus Ashmead, and Eriglyptus robustus Crawford. Species of Entedon are primary parasites of a variety of beetles and one is known to attack Hymenoptera (Tenthredinidae). The known host species are indexed by family with their respective parasites.
25009984|In most hyperparasitoids, the female wasp attacks the primary parasitoid host either while the parasitized aphid is still alive or after the mummy is formed. Aphidencyrtus aphidivorus (Mayr) had been known to have a "dual" ovipositional behavior. Whether the adult female wasp attacked the primary parasitoid host through a live parasitized aphid or a mummified aphid, her egg was always deposited inside the host larva and not on the surface. The egg hatched inside the host larva, whereupon the hyperparsitoid larva first fed endophagously, and then ectophagously until the primary host larva was consumed. In "choice" experiments, 82% of the female A. aphidivorus wasps preferred to attack the primary parasitoid larva through the mummy, while only 18% chose the live parasitized aphids for oviposition.
25008859|Collection records for a number of Sphecidae and Pompilidae from western Canada and Alaska are presented. These records represent northward and westward extensions of the known ranges of these species.
25010457|The life cycle of Repipta flavicans and R. taurus was studied under laboratory conditions. The laboratory biology was studied at two temperatures for R. flavicans and one for R. taurus. A rearing method for both species was established. Descriptions and illustrations of all immature stages are presented for the first time. Notes on field biology are also included.
25006184|Rhynchophorus palmarum attacks coconut trees, papaya trees and is a vector of red ring disease of palms. Xanthopygus cognatus, whose eggs are laid in coconut and papaya stems, is an egg and larval predator of R. palmarum. Both larvae and adults of X. cognatus will feed on the eggs of the coconut weevil, and the adults of the staphylinid will eat the larval weevils. Although X. cognatus shows a feeding preference for the coconut weevil, it is not completely host specific and will eat other prey when the weevil is unavailable. The staphylinid is amenable to mass rearing in insectaries. To aid in its identification, a brief description of X. cognatus is provided.
25010042|Adult male and female genitalia and first through fifth instar nymphs of the delphacid planthopper Harmalia anacharsis Fennah, collected from Amazon swordplant (Echinodorus paniculatus Micheli, Alismataceae) in southern Florida, are described and illustrated, and a key to instars is provided. Features useful in separating nymphal instars include differences in body size and proportions; spination of metatibiae, metatibial spurs, and metatarsomeres; and number of metatarsomeres.
25010199|The types of Edwards' species of Chilean and southern Argentinean Scatopsidae are redescribed and illustrated: Ectaetia cornuta Edwards, Scatopse setifera Edwards, Scatopse tubifera Edwards, Scatopse constricta Edwards, and Anapausis fuscinervis (Edwards). Notes on each type are added, and the generic position of each species is discussed. Ectaetia cornuta and Anapausis fuscinervis maintain their present generic placements. New combinations are proposed for Pararhexosa tubifera (Edwards), n.comb. and Neorhegmoclemina constricta (Edwards), n.comb. The holotype of Scatopse tubifera, described as a male, is actually a female. A new genus-Holoclema, n.gen.-is erected to include Scatopse setifera (Edwards). Holoclema is considered to be the sister group of the remaining Rhegmoclematini. The Neotropical species Rhexosa panamensis (Cook) and Rhexosa auricularis (Duda) are transferred to the formerly monotypic genus Abrhexosa Freeman, originally described for a single Oriental species. Additional distribution data for some species is supplied. S. maritima and S. costaricana are considered incertae sedis in Scatopsinae until their types can be examined.
25009241|The mature larva of Agrotis volubilis Harvey (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) is described and illustrated. Achillea millefolium L. was found to be an acceptable host. Late instar larvae became more general, accepting Vaccinium vacillans Torr. and Oenothera biennis L. Larvae were fullgrown by the 20th of July (52 days), but would not pupate. They remained healthy through October, when they were placed in out-of-door cages; the larvae failed to overwinter.
25010223|Four new species of Stenomacra Stal from Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Brazil are described and illustrated. Stenomacra cliens (Stal), Stenomacra gracilis Schmidt, and Stenomacra marginella var. mexicana Schmidt are synonymized under Stenomacra marginella (Herrich-Schaeffer); Theraneis ferruginea Mayr is transferred to the genus Stenomacra and synonymized under Stenomacra scapha (Perty); Theraneis dissimilis Distant is transferred to the genus Stenomacra, resulting on the new combination Stenomacra dissimilis (Distant). New distributional data are included for each species. A key to the known species of Stenomacra is also given.
25005941|Six new species from Kumaon, Nepal, and Sikkim, all belonging to the Eriopterine genus Ormosia Rondani, are described. These are Ormosia (Oreophila) stenostyla, and five species belonging to a new subgenus Parormosia, O. (P.) leucoplagia, O. (P.) leucostictula, O. (P.) mahabharatae, O. (P.) peramata, and O. (P.) perdiffusa.
25009366|The goldenrods Solidago bicolor and S. nemoralis are scarce in the old-field habitat of a goldenrod leaf beetle, Trirhabda virgata LeConte, in central New York. Two additional species, S. caesia and S. flexicaulis, are wholly restricted to woodlands. In the laboratory only S. bicolor supported complete development and reproduction by T. virgata, but this plant was an inferior host compared to five common meadow goldenrods that had been tested previously. Nine Solidago spp. can be ranked in four categories of suitability for T. virgata. Host quality is not well correlated with taxonomic affinities of the plants.
25005928|A malformed left ovary is described, in which the number of ovarioles has become reduced, the left lateral oviduct is absent, and the corresponding seminal receptacle is attached to the right lateral oviduct near the right seminal receptacle.
25006122|Coatonachthodes ovambolandicus, a new genus and species of termitophilous Staphylinidae (Subfamily Aleocharinae, Tribe Corotocini, Subtribe Corotocina), is described from Ovamboland, South-West Africa associated with Fulleritermes contractus (Sjoestedt). This is the first record of a termitophile from the nests of Fulleritermes. Its host relationships, its zoogeographic significance, and its remarkable resemblance to termite workers is discussed.
25010471|Five new genera and five new species from New Guinea and New Britain are described, illustrated, and included in the tribe Colpurini. Base on the morphology of the female abdominal sternite VII the Colpurini is divided into two large groups, the first with plica and fissura include 22 genera and the second without plica and fissura include 20 genera, plus the five here described.
25009533|The genus Stylopomiris and the included species froeschneri, indochinensis, and malayensis are described as new. The male genitalic structures of all species are illustrated, and a dorsal habitus provided for the female of malayensis. Scanning electron micrographs of the metaepisternal scent efferent system and the pretarsal structure document the placement of the genus in the tribe Eccritotarsini.
25006181|One species, Hydrozetes laccosis, is described from plankton net collections from City Park Lake, Fort Collins, Colo. and is compared with European and New World forms. It has 16 pairs of notogastral setae in contrast to 17 pairs in H. dimorphus Hammer, 1962, 15 pairs in H. parisiensis Grandjean, 1948, and 11 pairs in H. mollicoma Hammer, 1958, H. lemnae (Coggi) 1898 and H. petrunkevitchi Newell 1945. The extant new species is shorter in length than most other species, except lemnae. The fossil species, H. oryktosis, is described from three cotype specimens extracted from peaty sediments of a mastodon site (Mammut americanus) in Lapeer Co., the Thumb region of Michigan; estimated age 10,750  400 years B.P. by C-14 dating. The fossil differs from extant species in the eight pairs of genital setae and two pairs of widely spaced aggenital hairs.
25009932|The life cycles of Chlorops certimus and Epichlorops exilis are described and illustrated. The adults are found in freshwater marshes where their host plants, species of the sedge genus Carex, occur. Eggs are deposited on the sheathing leaves of the host, and the larvae are stem borers. Both species are univoltine, overwintering as nearly mature larvae near the base of the sedge culm. Puparia are formed within the culm, and adults emerge in northeastern Ohio in early to mid-June.
25010356|Two species of Lachesilla, in the group andra, collected in Central Mexico (Queretaro and Morelos-Oaxaca-Puebla, respectively), are here described and illustrated. The types are deposited in the National Insect Collection, Instituto de Biologia, UNAM, Mexico City.
25009176|Liriomyza trifoliearum Spencer, a native serpentine leafminer of alfalfa in the USA and Canada exists at low population densities. In 1978 the density averaged 0.2 mines per stem with a maximum of 1.3 mines per stem. It is controlled biologically (63% parasitism over a 4-year period) by 17 native parasite species plus 2 from Europe that recently were established against Agromyza frontella (Rondani). A list is provided of recovered parasite species and numbers of hosts parasitized by each species.
25009576|Tepa vanduzeei is described as new from the western United States and Mexico; Thyanta punctiventris Van Duzee is placed in the synonymy of Tepa rugulosa (Say); and Thyanta coloradensis Bliven is placed in the synonymy of Tepa jugosa (Van Duzee). Lectotype and paralectotype designations are made for Thyanta brevis Van Duzee and Thyanta punctiventris. Tepa jugosa is reported from the United States for the first time. A key is provided for the identification of the 6 species of Tepa.
25010172|A redescription of the augochlorine bee genus Rhectomia is presented and the male described for the first time. The genus Corynurella is found to be a junior synonym of Rhectomia and its sole species, Corynurella mourei Eickwort, is transferred to Rhectomia. Two new species are recognized: Rhectomia harrisoni and R. liebherri. A key is provided for the identification of the currently recognized species. Relationships within the genus are briefly discussed.
25009884|Placonotus embuensis, n. sp., is described from Kenya. Illustrations of the habitus, male terminalia, and microsculpture are provided. Diagnostic structures of male terminalia of five additional African species of Placonotus [P. bolivari (Grouvelle), P. decoratus (Grouvelle), P. donacioides (Wollaston), P. mestus Lefkovitch, and P. mossus Lefkovitch] are also illustrated.
25010171|Two new species of Eosentomon, E. megatibiense and E. maryae, are described from Village Creek Park and Hot Springs National Park, Arkansas. Both species display the 6/4 setal arrangement on sternites IX/X. A key is provided to separate the North American (north of Mexico) species of Eosentomon that exhibit this setal pattern.
25009694|A new species from Sri Lanka, closely related to Drosophila (H.) caputudis (Grimaldi, 1986), is described and named Drosophila chandleri. Males have two very distinctive morphological features: a broad head, which is a result of expanded frontal-orbital plates and face, and a patch of very large, scaliform, interfacetal setulae in the middle of each eye.
25009299|Corrections and comments are made concerning the paper by A. Young on Heliconius cydno and H. sapho and their host plants.
25010131|Coenus explanatus, new species, is described from Alabama and Georgia. Diagnoses are provided for the genus as well as both previously described species, C. delius (Say) and C. inermis Harris and Johnson. A key to aid in the identification of species of Coenus is given.
25006159|Studies on the nesting behavior of seven females of Crossocerus maculiclypeus in an aggregation of several hundred individuals are detailed. The wasps apparently selected pre-existing burrows in sand for use as nest sites. A female carried her prey directly into the open nest. Burrows leading to fully provisioned cells were partly filled with loose sand. The nests varied considerably in form and dimensions. The maximum number of cells per completed nest appeared to be nine; other finished nests contained from four to six cells. The small cells were constructed in clusters which were often separated by several centimeters. Fully provisioned cells contained from 9 to 20 paralyzed or dead flies. The empidid Platypalpus holosericus was the dominant kind of prey; other species of Empididae, Dolichopodidae, and Agromyzidae were less commonly stored. Single species each of Psilidae, Tephritidae, and Chamaemyiidae were also used as provisions. More flies were stored ventral side up, head inward than in any other position. The wasp's egg was attached by the cephalic end to the ventral side of the neck of one of these flies in each cell.
25009465|Data from field observations on the location and activity of Rhagoletis cornivora Bush flies on Cornus amomum Mill. revealed the following. Females made more visits to each of fruit, leaves, and branches than did males. Females fed while on the upper surface of leaves and much more often than did males. While females spent almost as much time on leaves as they did on fruit searching for suitable oviposition sites, males spent most of their time on fruit clusters, either searching or waiting for potential mates. Most encounters between flies occurred on fruit. Males mounted other males as often as they did females, indicating the inability of males to distinguish between the sexes. Unripe fruit were preferred over ripe ones for oviposition.
25005805|The occurrence of a U-shaped respiratory curve during the metamorphosis of holometabolous insects is well established. The roles of dehydrogenase enzymes and cytochrome oxidase in respiratory metabolism have been studied in some insects and these investigations indicate variations in the activities of dehydrogenase enzymes in different insects. In this study the activities of the dehydrogenase enzymes were determined during the metamorphosis of a lepidopteran, Ephestia khniella Zell., using the Thunberg technique. Cytochrome oxidase was determined spectrophotometrically. Six dehydrogenase enzymes exhibited U-shaped activity curves: alpha-glycerophosphate I and II (GPD I and II), malic, isocitric and succinic dehydrogenases and the malic enzyme. The least active of this group was succinic dehydrogenase, adding support to previous work indicating that this enzyme may be a rate-limiting factor in determining the U-shaped respiratory curve. The most active of this group was malic dehydrogenase. Five dehydrogenase enzymes did not exhibit U-shaped activities: lactic I and II, glucose, glutamic and alcohol. The activities of lactic I and II dehydrogenases were low or negligible. The possible significance of this low activity with regards to (a) lactate accumulation and (b) relationship to GPD activity in insects are discussed. The activity of cytochrome oxidase was also found to be U-shaped during metamorphosis.
25008858|The mouthparts of the African ant Oecophylla longinoda Latreille are generalized structurally and closely resemble the mouthparts of other species in the subfamily Formicinae. They are essentially identical to those of O. smaragdina (Fabricius). Mandibular dentition and midline overlap contribute to the efficiency of predatory attack.
25009930|Ophraella slobodkini, new species, is described from the southeastern United States. It shares the host association of Ambrosia artemisiifolia with O. communa LeSage, but is a sibling species of O. notulata Fabricius. The three species can be statistically distinguished using morphological characters, and reliably distinguished by electrophoretic mobility of several enzymes.
25009330|Data on the nesting biology of Megachile pugnata was obtained from 359 trap-nests at two sites in northern Utah. Bees made an average of 3.8 cells per nest and provisioned cells exclusively with pollen from the Compositae. Approximately 12% of all offspring were killed by either the clerid predator Trichodes ornatus or the chalcid parasite Melittobia sp. An additional 30-38% of offspring failed to complete development to the adult stage. Most of this immature mortality occurred during the overwintering and incubation stages. The sex ratio of the populations varied between 1.4 to 1.8 ( / ). Nests with with 3 or fewer cells had a lower percentage of male offspring than all other nests combined. It may be possible to increase the percentage of female bees by decreasing the depth of the nesting hole.
25008874|Various aspects of the life cycle and natural history of the heliconiine butterfly Dione juno huascama (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) were studied in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, at various times over approximately three years. These studies emphasized: description of life cycle and developmental time, larval food plant specificities, and the behavior of adults and immatures. Mortality factors operating on immature stages were also studied in a preliminary manner. The findings are discussed with respect to previously published reports on other subspecies of D. juno as well as for other species of the genus in other regions. Furthermore, an attempt is made to discuss various aspects of population biology and heliconiine phylogeny in light of the new data on D. juno huascama. Emphasis is also placed on the association of D. juno with a cultivated plant species around San Salvador and the notable absence of many other heliconiines from this larval food plant.
25010261|Epipolops rettenmeyeri is described as a new species from Ecuador and Peru. A key to the known species of Epipolops H.S. is included. E. meridionalis Piran is reduced to a junior synonym of E. frondosus H.S. New country records are given for three species. The systematic position of the genus is summarized.
25005910|Ants taken from a mound were dipped in 100 ml. of water containing 0.1-0.2 millicuries of
25010197|The genus Rhyephenes Schoenherr, endemic to the Central Chilean and Subantarctic biogeographic provinces of southern South America, is easily recognized by its black body with shape resembling a spider. This genus includes seven species: Rhyephenes clathratus R. Philippi, R. gayi (Gurin), R. goureaui (Gay & Solier), R. humeralis (Gurin), R. lateralis (Gurin), R. maillei (Gay & Solier), and R. squamiger F. Philippi (reinstated herein from synonymy with R. gayi). A key, redescriptions, habitus photographs, and illustrations of the species are provided, and their geographical distribution is mapped. A cladistic analysis using 21 characters from external morphology and male and female genitalia produced four cladograms (CI = 0.55, RI = 0.51, length 43 steps), which after successive weighting were reduced to one cladogram (CI = 0.82, RI = 0.85, length 111 steps). In the cladogram, the following phylogenetic sequence results: (R. squamiger, (R. lateralis, ((R. clathratus, R. goureaui), (R. gayi, (R. humeralis, R. maillei))))). Biogeographic patterns exhibited by these species indicate a sequence from central Chile to southern Chile and Argentina.
25006047|A group of sibling larvae of Heterocampa pulverea (Grote & Robinson) from Connecticut showed a very distinct dimorphism of color and pattern with no appreciable integradation. Of 66 larvae reared to maturity 30 were green, 36 were brown. The dimorphism was apparently not linked with rate of development, sex or any discernible adult characteristic. The larvae of both morphs were highly, but differently, cryptic. Possible adaptive advantages of the morphs are discussed. Dorsal thoracic tubercles in the last larval instar, characteristic of this nominal species, are visible as vestiges in the pupa.
25010408|Trichesthes Erichson, 1847 is currently a synonym of Phyllophaga (s. lato), but its taxonomic status merits review. Based on a phylogenetic analysis of external morphological and genitalic characters, Trichesthes is revalidated as a monophyletic genus that includes two of the nine species originally placed in Trichesthes, as well as 38 other species currently classified in the Phyllophaga subgenera Phytalus, Listrochelus and Phyllophaga (s. str.).
25009375|Philanthus basilaris Cresson is removed from synonymy with Philanthus zebratus Cresson. A key to the six species of the Philanthus zebratus group is presented and their relationships, distribution and intraspecific variation discussed.
25009047|Prorops Waterston, formerly regarded as a monotypic genus, is now known to contain three species, of which the following two are new: petila (Louisiana and Brazil) and obsoleta (Trinidad). P. nasuta Waterston, the type-species, is now recorded for the first time from Jamaica, Cuba, and California.
25009223|Studies on the effects of various relative humidities on the infectivity of Entomophthora muscae conidia showed that Musca domestica exposed to conidial showers falling through atmospheres with relative humidities ranging from zero to 100% acquired fatal infections. Studies on the germination of conidia held at various humidities showed that the fungus produces long germ tubes only from secondary conidia at 100% R.H. These results suggest that E. muscae can be transmitted within fly populations during periods of dry-cool weather, and that the relative humidity within the boundary layer surrounding the fly's body is at or near the saturation point. Temperature maintained during the studies was 21  3C.
25009039|Perdita eickworti n. sp. is described from Arizona and P. cornishiana n. sp. from Utah. The types will be deposited in the collection of Cornell University, Ithaca. A note on the occurrence of Perdita foveata in Florida is also included.
25006242|Entomophthora muscae (Cohn) was successfully transmitted from Hylemya antiqua to Phaenicia cuprina and from P. cuprina to Phormia regina in the laboratory. Further attempts at transmission were unsuccessful. Possible reasons for this failure are discussed. The post-mortem appearance of diseased flies (Pollenia rudis) varies considerably even under similar environmental conditions. It is suggested that some factors other than humidity, temperature and light regulate the post-mortem changes in the fly and the concomitant development of the fungus.
25009142|The genus Cicindela L. (sensu W. Horn) of Argentina is briefly reviewed. Thirty-four taxa are discussed and known ranges are given. A key to the species is presented. Four new species and one new subspecies are described and figured. Three of the new species (C. halophila, C. siccalacicola and C. hirsutifrons) share the same type locality: 24 mi. S. Recreo, Cordoba Province. The fourth new species (C. stamatovi) is described from Tucuman. C. drakei latifascia n. ssp. is described from Termas de Rio Hondo, Santiago del Estero Province.
25009032|The degree of parasitism of Eurosta solidaginis (Fitch) by Eurytoma gigantea Walsh and E. obtusiventris Gahan and of predation upon these species by birds was verified. Gall height positively influenced bird predation and parasitism by Eurytoma obtusiventris, whereas gall diameter was significantly related to bird predation and parasitism by Eurytoma gigantea. Multiple galls were favored by birds. The late summer emergence of E. gigantea was substantiated.
25009867|The life histories of Hypsochila microdice from the Fuegian steppe and H. galactodice from western Patagonia are investigated in order to clarify species limits in a genus showing little genitalic differentiation. The only previously-reared species is the crucifer-feeding H. w. wagenknechti, from north-central Argentina. The larva and pupa of H. microdice are quite different from that species and its host plants in nature are two indigenous species of vetches (Vicia, Leguminosae); it can be reared on Trifolium. The larva and pupa of H. galactodice are more like H. w. wagenknechti, although the pupa shows a strong superficial resemblance to sympatric populations of the Tatochila mercedis complex. The host plant in nature is Tropaeolum incisum (Tropaeolaceae) and it can be reared on crucifers. These differences demonstrate that neither galactodice nor wagenknechti can be conspecific with microdice, and that evolutionary radiation in life history has far outpaced genitalic differentiation in Hypsochila.
25010139|Phasia larvae were found only in the adult stage of the mirid species examined. Only one species of Phasia was detected, P. robertsonii Townsend); this species has been known by several other names, but most publications refer to it as Alophorella aeneoventris (Williston). P. robertsonii was reared from six species of mirids (ranked by parasitism level): Leptopterna dolabrata (L.) (1.8%), Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) (0.6%), Megaloceroea recticornis (Geoffroy) (0.4%), Stenotus binotatus (F.) (0.2%), Trigonotylus coelestialium (Kirkaldy) (0.2%), and Adelphocoris lineolatus (Goeze) (0.1%). Five of these host records have not been reported before, and represent a wide variety of hosts-grass and legume feeders, univoltine to polyvoltine species, and immigrant as well as native mirids. The significance of this broad host range is discussed, including its relation to the low parasitism rates observed in this study and others. P. robertsonii had two generations per year in northwestern New Jersey, the first mainly in June and mostly on grass-feeding mirids, and the second exclusively on Lygus in October. No pupal diapause was detected, but parasite larvae may overwinter inside Lygus adults. The very low parasitism rates indicate that tachinids provide little or no population suppression of the six mirid species studied.
25009834|Liodessus youngi, n. sp., is described from specimens from New Mexico (type locality = Radium Springs, Dona Ana Co.), Colorado and South Dakota. Short diagnostic descriptions of each of the six species of Liodessus Guignot [L. affinis (Say), L. cantralli (Young), L. flavicollis (LeConte), L. fuscatus (Crotch), and L. hobbsi (Young)] found in the Nearctic region and a key for their identification are provided.
25009572|Tatochila distincta distincta is a very rare pierid found above 3,000 m in the puna of far northern Argentina. Its egg, larva, pupa and aspects of its behavior and ecology are described. All are similar to other Tatochila heretofore described and support the previously postulated close affinity of the xanthodice and sterodice species-groups.
25006096|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, all from Assam, these being Gonomyia (Protogonomyia) acucurvata n.sp., Erioptera (Teleneura) laetipes n.sp.; Ormosia (Ormosia) furcivena n.sp.; O. (O.) idioneurodes n.sp., O. (O.) idiostyla n.sp., and O. (O.) neopulchra n.sp.
25010499|We discuss periodical cicada (Magicicada) Brood VII, which is becoming extinct from much of its historically-reported range in upstate New York. During searches in June of 2001, we found Magicicada adults in only 10 of 37 sites (and two of eight counties) where periodical cicadas had been reported previously, and dense populations were restricted to a small region south of Syracuse and centered on the Onondaga Nation. We suggest possible explanations, including land clearing and climate change, for the decline of this brood and the extinction of other Magicicada broods.
25008862|Ladeaschistus, new genus, is erected to contain four South American species with preapical femoral tubercles. Three species, L. armipes, L. bilobus, and L. trilobus are transferred from Euschistus and redescribed. The fourth member of the genus is L. boliviensis, NEW SPECIES. The genus is compared to E. tristigmus, the type species of Euschistus, and to E. anticus, a representative of a South American species group.
25005820|A collection of 1042 anoplurans collected on 13 mammalian host species in Rhode Island is reported. Eleven species have been identified: Enderleinellus longiceps, E. marmotae, E. nitzshi, Hoplopleura, acanthopus, H. erratica, H. hesperomydis, H. sciuricola, Neohaematopinus sciuri, N. sciuropteri, Polyplax alaskensis, P. spinulosa. Enderleinellus nitzshi is reported for the first time from the northeastern United States.
25008804|The daily pattern of movement and feeding was studied for ten successive days in the larvae of the tropical butterfly, Morpho peleides limpida Butler, at a locality in central Costa Rica where this insect is unusually abundant. The major findings of these studies are: (1) larvae during all five instars are dawn-dusk feeders, with the average feeding time ranging between 20-35 minutes at each peak of activity, (2) movement is associated solely with commencement and termination of feeding since larvae have stable resting positions removed from feeding sites, and (3) the bimodal feeding activity is apparently under control of changes in light intensity. The adaptive significance of this larval feeding behavior is discussed in terms of the broad host plant specificity and apparent automimicry in this butterfly, and is interpreted as a mechanism for reducing predatory attack by visual vertebrate predators. Finally, it is hypothesized that only those species of Morpho which have experienced selective pressures molding them into successful second-growth forms evolve such feeding behavior, presumably as an additive measure for reducing predation from generalized visual vertebrate predators while exploiting a broad range of larval host plants. More highly specialized species of Morpho assoicated with primary-growth lowland tropical wet forests are predicted to lack such a behavioral pattern since (1) their larvae feed on fewer plant species, (2) the few local larval host plants are high in toxic secondary compounds, and (3) visual vertebrate predators in more stable tropical communities are themselves more specialized feeders and thus fewer species would consistently exploit Morpho larvae as a food source.
25009582|A new tribe, Eremochilini (Epilachninae), is erected to contain the genus Eremochilus Weise which was previously misclassified in the subfamily Coccidulinae. Two species are recognized in Eremochilus; E. peregrinus Weise, and E. weisei, new species.
25008795|Several preliminary experiments were conducted to examine factors influencing the daily feeding rhythm and the yearly developmental sequence of the larval stage of the firefly Photuris pennsylvanica. Loose, loamy, well-drained soil allowed normal circadian behavior while sand, sawdust, and clay-like mud prevented larval migration. The yearly developmental sequence could be duplicated in the laboratory by simulating environmental conditions, and acceleration of this sequence was achieved by manipulating the length of exposure to simulated winter temperature.
25005869|A small Black Spruce bog in northeastern Connecticut is described, and some Lepidoptera from it listed.
25010305|Polhemovelia n.gen. and three new species, P. septuaginta n.sp. (type species), P. johnpolhemi n.sp., and P. setosa n.sp., are described from Northern Borneo (Malaysia, Sabah). This new genus of Microveliini is compared with other similar genera which are distributed in the tropics of the Old World. Two of the three species were found to be hygropetric. Adaptations to (semi-)terrestrial habits in Microveliinae are discussed.
25010148|Since von Ihering (1903, 1904), Agelaia vicina is famous for its huge nests, but no detailed account has been published. Several nests examined by us were mainly built in shelters but some were half to completely exposed. Main nest characteristics: envelope absent; combs large and horizontal with cells directed downwards; new combs mainly started synchronously and concentrically around several discoidal primordia (Fig. 2A, B, C, D, G); mature nests huge, eventually with more than 7.5 million cells; correspondingly colonies very populous, in Nest 3 described below 482,668 adults actually collected and the whole population estimated at over a million. The nest size (in cell number) and colony size (in adult number) of A. vicina is evidently unrivalled among all wasps and bees.
25009713|Pallodes austrinus is described as new and illustrated. Pallodes pallidus is also illustrated and differences of both species are discussed. Pallodes adult and larval mandibles are adapted for mycophagy with cutting spines on the incisor edges, a well developed prostheca and an asperate mola. Pallodes pallidus has a wider mushroom host range than P. austrinus but with large overlap.
25009376|The European spurge hawkmoth, Hyles euphorbiae (L.) was introduced for control of leafy spurge (E. esula L.) and cypress spurge (E. cyparissias L.). It was initially established in the United States at Chestertown, New York, on tetraploid cypress spurge and the hybrid E.  pseudo-esula Schur. The population increased from 180 to about 1 million insects within 5 years, with total defoliation of spurge in some areas.
25009754|Nine new state records are given for the seldom-collected plant bug Texocoris nigrellus (Knight). Bloodroot, Sanguinaria canadensis L. (Ranunculaceae), is the only previously recorded host, but it is questioned whether this native North American herb is an important host or whether the rearing from this plant was merely accidental. Nymphs are reported from 4 exotic ornamental shrubs: Abelia grandiflora (Andr) Rehd. (Caprifoliaceae), Ilex crenata Thunb. (Aquifoliaceae), and Pyracantha coccinea M. J. Roem. and Spiraea thunbergii Siebold ex Blume (Rosaceae). Texocoris nigrellus, belonging to a monotypic genus, does not show a close relationship to other North American orthotylines. Although certain of its attributes fit those of an immigrant, it is concluded that without further data T. nigrellus should be considered a North American endemic.
25006160|The integument shows a fundamental similarity in representatives of three suborders of mites considered in this work, despite variation in thickness and variety of organ types present. After aldehyde fixation and mixed-resin embedding, use of the electron microscope revealed distinct divisions of the mite cuticle. A widely laminated endocuticle overlies the hypodermis, a heavily sclerotized exocuticle is present, and non-laminated epicuticle appears to be deposited outermost. Pore canals and ducts with fixed hypodermal secretions are obvious in several sections. Setae with sockets and sense organs are found at intervals in the cuticle.
25009130|A new species of Megaris is described. Descriptions are given of the male genitalia of Megaris stalii. M. constricta, Canopus caesus, C. orbicularis and C. impressus. The spermatheca and external female genitalia are described for Megaris laevicollis, M. atratula, Canopus burmeisteri, C. impressus, C. fabricii, C. caesus and C. orbicularis. From a consideration of all available morphological evidence the family status of Megarididae and Canopidae is confirmed. Neither family is closely related to the Plataspidae.
25000079|A new oribatid mite, Elliptochthonius profundus n. gen., n. sp., is described from mineral soil in a coniferous ecosystem in northern California, and a new family, the Elliptochthoniidae, is proposed. Relationships with the Parhypochthonoidea and Enarthronota are discussed.
25005900|Listed are 147 species of aphids arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 173 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. At present 207 aphids on 241 food plants are known to occur in New Jersey.
25009038|This paper examines the cephalopharyngeal apparatus of Lucilia sericata (Meigen) larva as it develops from egg to the third instar. Major emphasis is placed on the first transit stage between the first and second instar stages, and the second transit stage between the second and third instar stages. These two transit stages are subdivided into early, middle, and late transit substages. The late transit substage develops into the final cephalopharyngeal apparatus of its representative instar stage. The first transit stage occupies a very short period of time in relation to the entire second instar stage. The second transit stage is thought to have three substages, but only one substage is found. The substage found is the middle transit substage. A number of maggots are seen in the middle transit substage, but the early and late transit substages are not conspicuous.
25009488|Five new species of Ommatius Wiedemann are reported from Cuba and the Bahamas. Ommatius cubanus, O. piliferous, O. hispidus and O. bipartitus are from Cuba, and O. membranosus is from Rum Cay Island in the Bahamas. This report increases the number of species to eight in this region of the Caribbean. The new species are described and their genitalia and the hindleg of the male of O. hispidus are illustrated. A key to the species from Cuba and the Bahamas is included. Ommatius marginellus (Fabricius) is removed from the list of species from Cuba.
25006225|The presence of proteases has been demonstrated in the salivary glands of 5th instar larvae and the adults of mirid pests of cocoa in West Africa. Their significance is discussed.
25009362|A gynandromorph of Solenopsis aurea Wheeler is described from an ant collected in western Texas. The specimen is predominantly that of a queen, but the head is noticeably male on the right half, female on the left half. The reproductive system, both internally and externally, is entirely female.
25005842|Brief descriptions are given of 14 cases in which the epigynum or the palpus is deformed. It is suggested that for the most part these stem from accidents during the molting process, or to imperfect regeneration of a part lost between molts.
25006103|Zodarion fulvonigrum (Simon) is described and figured, and a diagnosis for Zodarion is given. This is the first record of the genus for this continent. The distribution of Zodarion and the occurrence of the family Zodariidae in North America is briefly reviewed.
25008910|The behavior, both in the field and in observation nests, of three species of Cardiocondyla are described: C. emeryi and C. nuda were studied in Texas and C. ectopia in California. Observations include data on length of immature stages, foraging habits, foods utilized, reactions with other ant species and mating behavior. The data are summarized and compared against observations made by E. O. Wilson on C. venustula and C. emeryi.
25010327|Arrhopalites diversus (Mills, 1934) lectotype is assigned from the original cotypes.
25009886|I describe the new species Anochetus brevidentatus from Dominican Republic amber, possibly deposited 30-40 million years before present. This species is a member of the emarginatus species group and the haytianus superspecies. It is closely related to the extant A. kempfi. I present characters for distinguishing this ant from the others in the haytianus superspecies.
25009261|A diagnosis for the Neotropical genus Pephysena and a key for identification of five species are presented. Two new species, P. longirhynchus and P. microlevis, both from Brazil and Surinam are described. Dorsal views of both holotypes are provided.
25010246|Type specimens of 114 species and subspecific ant taxa in Argentinian insect collections are listed, including 14 holotypes and 5 lectotypes. Most of the types are Neotropical, with the exception of a series of Karavajev types from South East Asia.
25010458|The concept of the Australian genus Phanuromyia Dodd is expanded to include 9 species: P. bidentata n. sp., P. flavescens (Dodd) new combination, P. hysteropteri (Bin) new combination, P. necopinata Dodd, P. obscuripes (Plov) new combination, P. oocida (Plov) new combination, P. pulcherrima (Dodd) new combination, P. rufobasalis Dodd, and P. sacchii (Ogloblin) new combination. Representatives have been found worldwide, but the greatest diversity is in the Old World. The known hosts are eggs of Issidae and Fulgoridae (Hemiptera: Fulgoromorpha). The genus is contrasted with the crassiclava species group of Telenomus, another group also known to attack species of fulgoromorphs.
25008765|The ommatidia of Aedes aegypti are densely covered with corneal nipples which are rather regularly arrayed over the surface. Although there was no special distribution pattern the inter-ommatidial spaces of the male A. aegypti had nipple-like projections. It is possible that the nipples may be scratched off the cornea with no damage to the underlying structures.
25009769|Thirty-eight introduced species of thrips representing 28 genera in three families are known from Bermuda. The species were apparently introduced from eastern North America or the Caribbean region, except for three species. Hosts, collection data and world distribution are presented for each species and the economic importance of several species is mentioned.
25009983|Terra altilineata, new species, is described from a small spring-fed oasis isolated in high montane arid terrain (3,500-3,650 m), Jujuy Province, Argentina. Several other undescribed butterflies are endemic to this site.
25009861|A new pentatomid genus and species, Menudo femoralis, is described from Puerto Rico. The new genus superficially resembles the African genus Aspavia, but its true alliance appears to be with the Latin American genera near Padaeus or Agroecus.
25009621|Adults of the North American species of the holarctic genus, Ilybius Erichson, are reviewed, and keys for their recognition, descriptions, and maps of distributions are presented. Fourteen species are recognized. The following new synonymies are proposed: Ilybius laramaeus LeConte is a junior synonym of I. biguttulus Germar; I. denikei Wallis is a junior synonym of I. confusus Aub; and I. suffusus Crotch is a junior synonym of I. subaeneus Erichson. The genus is primarily northern, with the majority of species in the northern Appalachian and boreal regions. Four species are holarctic. The distribution of character states among species is discussed and a cladogram is presented for North American species. Two subgenera are recognized: Agabidius Seidlitz with two species in Asia; and Ilybius s. str. to which all North American species are assigned. Although not included in the cladogram, the distribution of character states among Palaearctic species is discussed and the positions of these species in the cladogram are noted.
25010360|The literature on ant-like stone beetle-ant associations is reviewed and tabulated, bringing together nearly all published accounts of associations between these two groups. One hundred-seventeen species of Scydmaenidae (Coleoptera) in 20 genera are associated with 45 species of ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) in 28 genera. In addition, 16 species of Scydmaenidae are known associates of termites (Isoptera).
25009564|Intraspecific cleptoparasitism is described in a subtropical population of the social sweat bee Halictus ligatus. Cuckoo-like individuals are, on average, larger than workers but smaller than queens. Behavioral modifications resulting in the cleptoparasitic behavior are quite minor: forced entry and sneaky oviposition are activities possessed by non-parasitic members of this population. Only the trap-lining and host nest choice behaviors are new. Intraspecific cleptoparasitism has not been recorded from any of the temperate populations of this species that have been studied. It is argued that the continuously brooded, multivoltine phenology of this population has been a necessary prerequisite for the origin of this pattern of cleptoparasitism.
25009693|The swarming behavior of Rhamphomyia sociabilis was studied at three neighboring sites in Larimer Co., Colorado. One swarm reformed at the same site for five years, another for four years; in each case the swarm formed in mid July and persisted for about a month. Males entered the swarm carrying prey and transferred the prey to females as the latter joined the swarm. Mating pairs moved about within the swarm and were not seen to settle. Prey consisted of small insects of six orders, about 70% of the prey consisting of Diptera.
25009262|The tachinid Aplomyiopsis xylota is a common parasitoid of larvae of Trirhabda virgata and T. borealis (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) in central New York. Flies were observed to aggregate on herbaceous vegetation along the borders between old fields and more shaded habitats (shrubby fields or woodlots). Aggregations comprised from less than one hundred to a few thousand individuals, almost all of which were male. Males continuously perched and moved about in sun flecks on the vegetation, and frequently grappled with each other. In the old field adjacent to the primary aggregation site, the tachinid sex ratio was strongly skewed toward females. Aggregations of A. xylota are probably involved in mating.
25009714|A new species of Pulicella collected on Otomys angoniensis in the Ngorongoro Crater of Tanzania is described. Its affinities with the only other species in the genus are discussed.
25008995|Relationships of major families of Nearctic butterflies (Papilionidae, Pieridae, Lycaenidae, and Nymphalidae) to the taxa and growth-forms of their larval food-plants are investigated and compared to those of the Palearctic butterflies. The Palearctic butterfly fauna consists of more than three times as many species as the Nearctic fauna and yet the relative percentages of species in each of the families are strikingly similar. In terms of the butterflies in the four major families as a group, the greatest percentage of species in the Nearctic are monophagous with approximately equal percentages of oligophagous and polyphagous species; the greatest percentage in the Palearctic are oligophagous followed by a fairly high percentage of polyphagous species and a lower percentage of monophagous species. High percentages of herb- and of shrub-feeders and lower percentages of tree-feeders are found in both regions. A higher percentage of species are specialized (monophagous and oligophagous) than are generalized (polyphagous) on each plant growth-form (herbs, shrubs, and trees) in both regions, a seemingly unexpected finding based upon current theories of plant-herbivore interactions. Although the distinctions between phagism categories are arbitrary, physiological differences exist in chemical perception and load of detoxication enzymes, but not in food utilization efficiencies, between herbivorous insects which are food-plant specialists and those which are food-plant generalists. Ecological advantages can be postulated for herbivorous insects with generalized and for those with specialized feeding habits (such as the ability to better survive in regions with unpredictable and/or physically harsh environments for the former and the potential to store toxic chemicals for protection for the latter) but it is clear that insects exhibiting all categories of phagism continue to exist in nature because of diverse selective pressures.
25009959|Two new species of Mompha, franclemonti and powelli, from California are described to provide names that support long-term biodiversity studies of natural areas in California. M. powelli was reared from Zauschneria californica (Onagraceae).
25005881|Sarcophaga downsiana, new species, Venezuela; Sarcophaga filamenta, new species, Dutch Guiana (Surinam); Endemimyia vaurieae, new species, Mexico are new neotropical species described and figured from the male sex. Sarcophaga (Idoneamima) footei, new species, is described from male, female and puparium, reared from snails, New York. The posterior spiracular concavity is extremely shallow in footei puparia.
25009716|Feeding and movement of saddled prominent, Heterocampa guttivitta Walker (Lepidoptera: Notodontidae) caterpillars were investigated in a northern hardwood forest in upstate New York. The insect is a midseason defoliator. Growth and feeding occur during the warmest and most stable period of year with respect to weather. Weather did not detectably affect feeding or movement behavior. However, total foliage consumption and consumption rate were related to temperature (as determined in the laboratory). The rate of movement between feeding sites increased with older instars. Both feeding and movement exhibited a diel cycle: feeding was greatest during the night, and movement was greatest during the day. Observations are discussed in terms of three currently popular hypotheses explaining caterpillar behavior: that their movement and feeding patterns are a response to weather conditions, variable and unpredictable food quality, or vertebrate predation.
25009893|Five species of Halobates are recorded from the atolls of the Aldabra group: H. germanus, H. micans, H. alluaudi, H. poseidon, and H. flaviventris. These species are keyed, the variability of the populations inhabiting Aldabra and Cosmoledo atolls discussed, and notes provided on their ecological preferences. Halobates eschscholtzi Herring 1961 is placed as a junior synonym of Halobates flaviventris Eschscholtz 1822 (new synonymy).
25008912|This study supplements our "Ant Larvae: Review and Synthesis" (1974). The larvae of Simopone n. sp. and Turneria sp. (near dahli) are described and figured and each genus is characterized. Simopone is definitely cerapachyine but quite distinct from the larvae of other known genera of the subfamily. Turneria is typically dolichoderine but readily distinguished from other genera of the subfamily by the tail and the shape and location of the dorsal bosses.
25009945|The species of the pentatomid genus Thyanta Stl occurring north of South America are revised. All northern hemisphere species belong to the subgenera Thyanta and Argosoma Rider. Diagnoses are given for the genus, subgenera, and the 14 included species and subspecies. The subspecies accerra McAtee is transferred from T. pallidovirens (Stl) to T. custator (Fabricius). The following new synonymy is recognized (junior synonym in parentheses): T. custator accerra McAtee, 1919 (=T. pallidovirens spinosa Ruckes, 1957a), T. pallidovirens (Stl, 1859) (=T. pallidovirens setosa Ruckes, 1957a), and T. maculata (Fabricius, 1775) (=T. casta Stl, 1862b). Lectotype designations are made for Cimex maculatus Fabricius, Pentatoma obsoleta Dallas, P. pallidovirens, T. casta, and T. pseudocasta Blatchley. Thyanta planifrons Ruckes is reported from the United States for the first time. A key is provided for the subgenera, species, and subspecies that occur north of South America.
25009607|The basic biology of Coquillettia insignis Uhler (Heteroptera: Miridae: Phylinae) is described, including details of its growth, morphology, phenology, behavior and ecology. The distribution and abundance of this species over 20 sites in an eastern Oregon valley was studied, as well as its temporal and spatial relation to its host plant Lupinus caudatus Kell. Twelve species of ants were collected on L. caudatus of which six species were common; temporal, behavioral and morphological correspondence of these six species to various stadia of C. insignis are described. We identify several species of vertebrate and visual arthropod predators that could potentially serve as operators in the Batesian mimicry system to which C. insignis probably belongs.
25010428|One of the general defining characters of the Heteroptera is the presence of exocrine scent glands. Previously unknown from the prothorax, exocrine glands are generally associated with the metapleura and abdomen. Using both light and scanning electron microscopy, we found evidence for a previously unrecorded exocrine gland, which we refer to as the pronotal gland. In all examined members of the Collartidini and Ploiariolini (Heteroptera: Reduviidae: Emesinae) and the Saicinae (Heteroptera: Reduviidae), we have found the presence of this gland. Such evidence was not found in other examined tribes of the Emesinae. The implications of this novel complex character on the taxonomy of the Emesinae and Saicinae are discussed.
25010419|We detail behavior for the queen of the socially parasitic ant Myrmica luteola Kupyanskaya, and describe the worker, queen, and male. In the laboratory, a M. luteola queen actively invaded a nest of Manica yessensis and consistently rubbed against M. yessensis workers. Further, morphological characteristics that often occur in socially parasitic ants, i.e., short tibial spurs and ventral lobes on the petiole and post-petiole, occur in the queen and workers of M. luteola. The queen is also characterized by a small size (smaller than the worker) and greatly reduced propodeal spines. The observed behavior and morphology strongly suggest that Myrmica luteola is a temporary social parasite.
25009553|The genus Polychisme Kirkaldy is reviewed. The type species Imbrius ferruginosus Stl is redescribed and recorded from Colombia and Venezuela. It is shown to be not congeneric with the only other species, Pachymerus poecilus Spinola, and is removed from the Ischnorhynchinae and placed in the Artheneinae as a new tribe, the Polychismini. Polychisme poecilus is placed in the genus Syzygitis Bergroth, accompanied by a discussion of its correct specific name. Illustrations of Polychisme ferruginosus include a dorsal view, details of the abdomen, genital capsule, and spermatheca.
25009872|A new species of the spider genus Legendrena, L. steineri, is described from Madagascar; males have an incrassate first tibia and an elongate embolus.
25005909|The anatomy and the mode of action of the scent-apparatus of Leptocorisa costalis H. S. is described and discussed. Recent studies on the chemistry of the glandular secretion have thrown some light on the feeding habits, sexual activity and probably on the phyogenetic relationship of various families in Heteroptera.
25010306|A fossil water strider, Microvelia polhemi n. sp., is described from the Oligo-Miocene Dominican amber based upon a single macropterous male. This is the first fossil record of the genus Microvelia (Microveliinae, Veliidae), one of the most common and widespread genera of semiaquatic bugs (Gerromorpha). Several characters, in particular the striking, white basal markings of the fore wings, affiliate the fossil species with the extant Microvelia laesslei Drake and Hussey from Jamaica. The latter belongs to a guild of Neotropical veliids living in phytotelmic habitats, especially pockets of rain-water accumulated between the leaf axils of plants belonging to the family Bromeliaceae. The fossil species may have used the same type of habitat in the Dominican amber forest.
25009657|Laneocera, a new Chiasmoneurine genus with a single included species, L. magnifica from southern India, is described. Four new species of Macrocera, M. districta, M. alacra, M. elegantula and M. lacustrina from the northern Indian subcontinent are described. Further records are furnished for M. brunnea, M. inconspicua, M. nepalensis and M. simbhanjangana. Wing photographs and drawings of mouthparts and terminalia are presented.
25006023|Two species of Linyphiidae are described and figured: Taranucnus durdenae, n. sp., and Troglohyphantes kokoko, n. sp. Both are from eastern North America and are first records of their respective genera for this continent.
25009977|Seasonal history of the mirids Lygocoris aesculi (Knight), Microphylellus modestus Reuter, and Orthotylus aesculicola Blinn was followed on Aesculus glabra Willd. in central Missouri during 1985-86. The activity period of these univoltine plant bugs was confined to late March to early June, concurrent with the onset of flowering and leaf flush, with almost complete overlap between the species. The adult male of L. aesculi and the fifth-instar nymphs of all 3 species are described and illustrated.
25009753|A revised diagnosis is provided for Daleapidea Knight. A key, diagnoses, distributional data, and illustrations of the male habitus and genitalia are provided for the three species currently placed in the genus. Hadronema decorata (Uhler) is transferred to Daleapidea and a lectotype is designated.
25009088|Young, Allen M., Invertebrate Division, Milwaukee Public Museum, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53233.-Habitat and larval food plant associations of heliconiine butterflies (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae), Dryas iulia (Fabricius), Eueides lybia (Fabricius), E. aliphera (Godart), and E. isabella (Cramer) were examined briefly in three regions of northern Costa Rica. The following patterns were found: (1) although E. lybia and E. aliphera are sympatric and utilize the same larval food plant, Passiflora vitifolia H.B.K. (Passifloraceae) in tropical wet forest, they are not microsympatric since the former occurs along shaded forest edges and forest light gaps, while the latter occurs in open secondary habitats; (2) Dryas iulia is sympatric with both species (1) and it is microsympatric with E. aliphera but uses a different larval food plant, P. auriculata H.B.K.; (3) both D. iulia and E. isabella are microsympatric in the Meseta Central and use both the same larval food plant (P. adenopoda D.C.) and nectar source (Serjania cf. atrolineata Saw. & Wright-Sapindaceae) during the dry season; (4) in a patch of semi-deciduous forest in the lowland tropical dry forest zone, D. iulia shares a larval food plant, P. capsularis L., with E. isabella, but also uses P. platyloba Killip and P. suberosa Juss. The widespread occurrence of D. iulia may be due to a high tolerance for heat and low humidity, and the use of Plectostemma subgenus of Passiflora as food plants. Other factors, such as oviposition behavior and larval habits, are also discussed.
25009535|Froeschnerocader denticollis, new genus and new species, is described from Borneo, Eastern Malaysia.
25010364|To analyze morphological caste differentiation in social wasps, variable reduction methods, such as the comparisons of Mahalanobis distances and the scatter diagrams of canonical scores and the analysis of mean queen/worker ratio of each morphometric characters, could only show whether there are some differences between the castes or not. These methods, on the other hand, do not document major aspects of the nature of morphological caste differentiation; that is, whether morphological differentiations are allometric or non-size based is not shown.
25009900|The mature larva of Pseudoscolia martinezi Surez, 1981, is described, and details are offered on adult nesting behavior. The main morphological characters of the larva are mandibles tridentate, well-developed galeae, spinnerets bigger than labial palpi, and the appearance of the epipharynx, which is similar to that of the known larvae of the Cercerini. The females of this species nest in small aggregations of 5-10 individuals, leveling the mound during the excavation of nests. They show variability in the practice of temporary closures, with some females leaving the nest open while others close the burrow during provisioning. Adult females capture Halictidae as prey.
25009127|A survey for predators of apple leaf-feeding mite species was made during mid-summer of 1975, 1976, and 1977. Apple leaves were collected from 36 commercial orchards throughout the 10 major fruit-growing counties of Eastern New York. The phytoseiid mite predators Amblyseius fallacis (Garman), Typhlodromus pomi (Parrott), and Typhlodromus sp. were found in 26, 2, and 1 of the orchards, respectively. The stigmaeid Zetzellia mali (Ewing) was found in eight of the orchards, while the coccinellid beetle Stethorus punctum LeConte was found in one. Results of this survey suggest that Eastern New York apple growers could utilize certain of these mite predators in integrated mite control programs similar to those developed in other areas.
25009051|Larvae, pupae, and egg masses of the gypsy moth, Lymantria dispar (L.), were collected from localities on Long Island, New York, and observed in the laboratory for the emergence of their insect parasitoids. Seven primary and five secondary parasitoids were recorded. A braconid, Apanteles melanoscelus (Ratz.), and a tachinid, Blepharipa pratensis (Meig.), were the most abundant of the primary parasitoids.
25006168|A review of information associated with the nesting behaviors of Crabro advenus and C. latipes is presented. Our observations on the nesting ethologies of these two species are detailed. Behavioral components examined included habitat selection, burrow construction, prey transport and other provisioning activities, form and dimensions of nests, and analysis of cell contents (kinds of provisions, number of prey per cell, weights of flies, total biomass of prey per cell, position of prey flies, oviposition data). An interpretation of interspecific differences in an attempt to find behavioral characters at the subgenus level is made. Seasonal and local variation in the nesting behavior of C. advenus is discussed.
25009015|The behavioral study of the hyperparasitoid Asaphes lucens was greatly facilitated by the development of a technique which partially exposed its host Aphidius smithi within the mummy. This exposure allowed direct observation of ovipositional exploration, host venomization, feeding tube formation, and actual egg deposition. After antennal investigation of the mummy surface, the A. lucens female spent an average of 4.3 min drilling through the mummy to reach the host. The hyperparasitoid then used her ovipositor to explore the host, spending an average of 7.5 min in this activity. Prior to the first oviposition, A. lucens always constructed a feeding tube from host body to mummy surface, and then fed for an average of 5 min. Once feeding was completed the tube was always broken by a reinsertion of the ovipositor.
25008860|Five new species of crane flies from Iran, Sikkim, and India are described, these being Limonia (Sivalimnobia) pererratica, Limnophila (Dicranophragma) recurvata, Gonomyia (Idiocera) nigroterminalis, Erioptera (Psiloconopa) iranica, and Ormosia (Ormosia) neidioneura. Three further previously described Himalayan species of Ormosia are illustrated.
25009172|Abnormal morphological variation in the emboli of male palpi of M. insignis from Minnesota and Montana is illustrated. Some of these emboli resemble normal emboli of M. montanus, a closely related species. This resemblance may lead to incorrect species determinations.
25010550|Through a series of laboratory feeding trials, it was demonstrated that the putative dung beetle, Ateuchus histeroides Weber (Coleoptera: Scarabaeidae), is a consumer of both vertebrate dung and insect carrion, and that it can produce progeny reared on either of those foods. There was no significant difference between the survival periods of adults maintained on either cow dung or dead insects, but both groups survived significantly longer than a group deprived of food. This is the first documentation of both dung and carrion feeding and subsequent progeny production for a member of this genus.
25005843|Two male specimens of stingless bees collected in Thailand in January, 1958 together with six workers of T. fimbriata var. aliceae Cockerell, are described as the heretofore unknown male of T. fimbriata.
25009136|If both larval and adult stages are taken into account, then ants and bees are the only major groups of aculeate Hymenoptera in which complex hairs are abundant. The possible phylogenetic significance of this is discussed.
25009425|Aufeius impressicollis Stl (Hemiptera: Rhopalidae), a mainly southwestern U.S. and Mexican species recorded only as far east as Columbus, Ohio, is reported from Baltimore, Maryland, on smooth pigweed, Amaranthus hybridus L. (Amaranthaceae). A. impressicollis was reared on smooth pigweed in the laboratory; its habits are described, and developmental times of the immature stages are given. Ecological data from museum specimens and a review of the literature support the hypothesis that amaranths (and possibly members of the related family Chenopodiaceae) serve as host plants of this little studied rhopalid.
25009064|Hendrickson, R. M., Jr. and S. E. Barth, Beneficial Insects Research Laboratory, Agric. Res. Serv., USDA, Newark, Delaware, 19713.-Three techniques for rearing the alfalfa blotch leafminer, Agromyza frontella (Rondani), were developed. A simple method of rearing the leafminer in a cage on potted alfalfa produced small numbers of flies with a minimum of maintenance time. A second method allowed recovery of puparia (mature larvae drop from the leaflet to pupate in soil) which was useful in obtaining puparia from field-collected alfalfa stems, for some biological studies, and for rearing larval-pupal parasites. A mass rearing method, in which infested plants were laid on their sides so larvae dropped into moist vermiculite, was suited for production of large numbers of flies and efficient use of potted alfalfa. Survival of pupae, the stage during which leafminers may suffer high mortality, was 50-60% for all methods.
25009222|The Cydnidae and Thyreocoridae have a small stridulitrum on the under side of the hindwing's postcubitus. The plectrum is a striated lima on the first tergite. Possession of the stridulitrum and plectrum is probably plesiomorphic in a complex of primitive Pentatomoidea. The Thaumastellidae (a member of the complex) also have a stridulitrum, near the postcubitus of the hindwing, and a similar plectrum. Some Scutelleridae and Tessaratomidae have a similar stridulitrum. Other morphological features ally these two families with-but are insufficient to warrant including them in-this complex of primitive pentatomoids.
25010216|Two new species of the orthocentrine genus Megastylus, Megastylus fallax and Megastylus panamensis, are described. Megastylus panamensis constitutes the first record of this genus from the Neotropical Region. The systematics of New World Megastylus are briefly discussed. Orthocentrinae are shown to be koinobiont endoparasitoids.
25009246|The twelve-spotted ladybird beetle, Coleomegilla maculata (DeGeer) was studied at sites in western and central New York from 1973 to 1980. Aggregations of overwintering beetles begin to be active in April, and dispersal occurs gradually from then until late May. During this time, beetles feed on pollen of a variety of flowers in and near the aggregation site. After dispersal and a period of feeding, mating occurred near the end of May. Summer generations moved into cornfields when the corn was large enough to provide pollen and/or aphids. Sweet corn in this area may reach this size by early July, field corn by early August. The daily activity cycle of the beetles appeared to be based on geotaxis, with upward movement occurring in the early daylight hours and downward movement occurring in late morning. A positive hygrotaxis may also be involved in the downward movement, as the higher locations begin to become drier as the day advances. During dispersal, beetles showed a strong preference for yellow in color preference tests in the laboratory, and were commonly found on yellow flowers in the field. Once dispersed, this preference disappears and no clear pattern of color preference is shown. This phenomenon may have some bearing on the fact that dispersing beetles tend to fly in the direction of the sun.
25008987|All stages and instars of Colobura dirce L., as studied in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America, are described and illustrated photographically. The larval foodplant was Cecropia mexicana Hmsl. Larval and adult behavior are also described. Comparisons are made of various stages of C. dirce and those of some more or less similar Nymphalidae, especially of the genera Smyrna, Historis and Coea, which belong in the Coloburinae, and not in the Limenitinae. The name "adenosma" is proposed for the ventral, eversible, odoriferous prothoracic gland present in C. dirce larvae, and comparable, if not homologous, to the similar structure found in many families of Lepidoptera.
25009552|Within the myrmicine ant genus Zacryptocerus 13 of 21 species in Central America are hypothesized to be models for a Batesian mimicry complex that includes at least 40 species of arthropods. The ants are striking in appearance because they are strongly flattened and silvery in color, and use chemical defenses against potential predators, although they are eaten by ant specialists and as reproductives. The ants nest and forage arboreally and most of the identified mimics used dead branches in some way. The larger number of mimetic species than models appears possible because of the abundance of the ants and the relative rarity of the mimics; the rarity is further enhanced by the host specificity of most of the mimics, supporting a model proposed by Brower. Mimics appear to become absolutely and relatively more numerous toward the equator. The selective agents ("operators") are thought to be generalist insectivorous birds; ant specialists are argued not to affect evolution of the system.
25008977|The calling songs of decticines remain largely undescribed. Songs of Neduba macneilli and N. sierranus were recorded and analysed. These species have mirror-image tegmina and individual specimens exhibit reversed wing overlap. Wing symmetry and the elaborate pronotum characteristic of this genus are discussed as adaptations which increase the efficiency of sound radiation.
25005944|Caupolicana elegans from near Portal, Arizona is the third known species of the United States. The males of Ptiloglossa arizonensis and P. jonesi are also distinguished and described.
25009995|First report of pan-Neotropical Orcya from the Guyana Shield is Orcya snyderi, a distinctive new species described from recently disturbed riparian rain forest margin, upper Maroni River, French Guiana. Sister genus Noreena has a regional endemic of similar distribution.
25009700|A new ricinuleid, Cryptocellus adisi, is described from Amazonas, Brazil; it resembles C. albosquamatus of Guyana and C. narino of Colombia in having the body and legs coated with navicular setae, but differs in genitalic characters.
25006083|Two names, amicetus Scudder and phaedrus Hall have been used for the subspecies of Lycaena epixanthe Bois. from Newfoundland and the Maritime Provinces of Canada. Scudder's amicetus was published as an mss. name of Boisduval in a synonymy in 1876. No description or figure was associated with the name until Holland used it in 1931. Therefore, until that data amicetus was a nomen nudum until amicetus Holland 1931 was published. Hall's name (1924) should be used.
25010174|A new fossil bee species, Neocorynura electra, is described and figured. The species is known from one female in the Upper Oligocene or Lower Miocene amber deposits of the Dominican Republic. No species of Neocorynura are known to occur in the Greater Antilles today. This is only the fourth halictid species known from amber inclusions. A brief discussion of augochlorine biogeography in the Caribbean is presented.
25009115|Mites of the family Ascidae taken from the nasal passages of birds, mostly hummingbirds (Trochilidae) in Veracruz, Mexico, are represented by the genera Proctolaelaps and Rhinoseius. P. kirmsei, P. belemensis and R. heliconiae are new to Mexico. Three new species are described: P. mexicanus from Euphonia hirundinacea, P. spiralis from Phaethornis superciliosus, and R. mathewsoni from Amazilia candida.
25005832|Nogueirapis represents a natural group of the genus Trigona and is regarded as a valid subgenus. Three species, butteli, mirandula, and silacea, this latter a fossil from the Middle Miocene amber of Chiapas, Mexico, are included in this subgenus. The affinities of subgenera are discussed, the evolution of the subgenus is considered, and the species are redescribed. The two living species are so similar, structurally, to the fossil one that they may be considered indirect descendents.
25006129|Six species of Palearctic Aphelia are redescribed. The following new species are proposed: Aphelia galilaeica, A. ineffecta, Choristoneura ferrugininotata, Clepsis vittata, C. effigies. Two new combinations in Choristoneura are given.
25009534|The new species Melanorhopala froeschneri (Heteroptera: Tingidae) is described from Delaware, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, and Tennessee, and compared with the three previously described species of the genus. The fifth instar is described and illustrated; notes are given on the bug's host plant, Campsis radicans (L.) Seem. (Bignoniaceae), and on its habits; and a key is provided to separate the known species of Melanorhopala.
25009912|The New World genera Keltonia Knight, containing 12 species, and Pseudatomoscelis Poppius, containing three species and including the cotton fleahopper (P. seriatus (Reuter)), are revised, and the new species Keltonia bifurca, K. mexicana, and K. schaffneri from Mexico, K. pallida and K. robusta from the United States, K. steineri from Grand Bahama Island, Lineatopsallus slateri from Texas, and Pseudatomoscelis insularis from Puerto Rico and St. Thomas are described. The new genus Lineatopsallus is established to accommodate Psallus biguttulatus Uhler and the new species L. slateri. Pseudatomoscelis tuckeri Poppius is resurrected from synonymy and transferred to Keltonia; Psallus flora Van Duzee is transferred to Pseudatomoscelis; Psallus conspurcatus Blatchley and Keltonia fuscipunctata Knight are considered junior synonyms of K. sulphurea, and Psallus atomophorus Reuter, a junior synonym of P. seriatus; and revised keys to species of Keltonia and Pseudatomoscelis are given. A cladistic analysis, using Lineatopsallus as the outgroup, indicates that Keltonia and Pseudatomoscelis are sister genera.
25009406|A new corixid, Sigara krafti, is described from specimens collected in western Oregon and Washington. This species seems to prefer shallow, slow-moving water in streams and small rivers, and is most abundant over silty or muddy substrates. Illustrations of the male abdominal terga, right pala and right paramere of the male, left hemelytron of the female, and the mesepimeron are provided for Sigara krafti and three related species (S. mckinstryi Hungerford, S. vandykei Hungerford, S. washingtonensis Hungerford) found in Oregon and Washington.
25009656|The world species of Krombeinius are reviewed and two new species are described, K. taiwanensis from Taiwan and K. srilanka from Sri Lanka. A cladistic analysis strongly supports the monophyly of Krombeinius and Euperilampus and provides a phylogenetic hypothesis for the relationships of the species of Krombeinius.
25006226|Five new species of eriopterine crane flies from Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, and Assam in India and from Thailand are described, these being Lipsothrix orthrotenes, Styringomyia apiculata, S. melanaspis, S. nigrobarbata, and S. tenuispina.
25009691|The seasonal history of the mirid Pseudoxenetus regalis (Uhler) was followed on white oak, Quercus alba L., in central Missouri during 1984-1986. This univoltine species is a specialist feeding only on oaks. Overwintering eggs hatched in early April; adults first appeared in early May and are present until the end of May. Notes are given on the North American distribution, polymorphism, and host plants. The fifth-instar nymph is described and illustrated.
25006017|The mature larva is described, figured and compared with that of the largely sympatric A. vialis (W. H. Edwards). Some larval characters of the genus Amblyscirtes Scudder are discussed.
25009624|The life history of Thionia elliptica (Germar) in Pennsylvania is outlined and the immatures described and illustrated. This univoltine issid has five nymphal instars, feeds on scrub oak (Quercus ilicifolia Wang.), has been collected from blackjack oak (Quercus marilandica Muenchh.), and apparently overwinters as eggs. Specimens are recorded from Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania. Specimens from Texas described by Doering as T. elliptica differ in the morphology of the aedeagus and, thus, are described as the new species T. obrienae Wilson. On the basis of adult and nymphal morphology, it is suggested that acanaloniid planthoppers, generally accorded family status by North American workers, be treated as a subfamily (Acanaloniinae) of the Issidae following Fennah (1954).
25009489|Seven new species plus one previously known species of Geron Meigen are reported from the northern and central Caribbean Islands. Geron insularis Bigot is synonymized with G. senilis (F.). Geron senilis is redescribed from new material and a lectotype is designated for the species. New species are described, illustrations of significant characters and a key to the species are included.
25009224|In higher organisms the specific activity of the RNA obtained after feeding radioactive precursors to the animals is very low. Therefore, we have systematically studied the incorporation of
25006001|Counts are given of melanic, melanistic, and normal individuals in the total catch of this moth in Connecticut in 1962-1965. Counts of these types are also given in families reared from wild-caught melanic, melanistic, and normal females. Larval melanism occurs, not linked to adult melanism. Adult melanism is dominant and apparently multifactorial. Environmental effects on the polymorphism are discussed.
25010198|A checklist of the species in the subfamily Stenogastrinae is presented, including synonyms, nomenclatural changes, and distributional summaries. Forty-five species in seven genera are treated as valid, with an additional three subspecies. Excluding emendations, mis-spellings and nomina nuda, a further 16 names are treated as available synonyms, but eight of these names are listed only as questionable synonyms. A new combination is Parischnogaster aurifrons (Smith). Thirty new locality records are given.
25010292|The unusual genus and species Dimonomera indica Cameron, currently placed as the sole member of the tribe Dimonomerini, is redescribed, and illustrations of habitus, mouth-parts, meso-metasternal areas, tarsi and male genitalia are provided. Dimonomera shares numerous characters, some of which are unique among aleocharines, with known members of the tribe Myllaenini. It differs from other myllaenines, especially the type genus Myllaena, primarily in the unusual autapomorphic tarsal structure. Tarsal structure is an insufficient criterion for establishing a tribe exclusively to include Dimonomera. The results of this study support the proposal that Dimonomera should be included in the Myllaenini.
25009256|Observations were made on the decomposition of a dead dog during the dry season of 1977 in the Central Valley of Costa Rica, Central America. The terrain is classified as premontane humid forest and the observations were made in a secondary forest. The general pattern of decomposition was basically the same as has been described by authors in other latitudes, but different in the ecological complexity and the insect fauna involved. The classification used for human cadavers by forensic pathologists in Costa Rica and other countries in the American tropics was utilized in this study. It includes the following stages: discoloration, emphysematic (bloated), liquefaction and skeletal remains. The succession of different species appeared to depend on their specific feeding preferences, interspecific competition, and the microclimate provided by the substratum. Marked changes in the activity of populations during crepuscular periods coincided with an increase in relative humidity and a decline in temperature in the macroenvironment of the surrounding forest. Included among the principal insect consumers of the remains were the calliphorid dipterans Phaenicia eximia Wiedemann and Hemilucilia segmentaria Fabricius, the piophilid dipteran Prochyliza azteca McAlpine and the coleopteran Dermestes carnivorus Fabricius. The most important predators were the histerids Euspilotus aenicollis Marshall, Hister punctiger Paykal and Geomysaprinus (Priscosaprinus) belioculus Marshall. Some of these species have also been associated with a similar type of substratum in the tropical rain forest and tropical dry forest in Costa Rica.
25009798|Three species of the spider genus Physocyclus (P. californicus, P. enaulus, P. sp.) were karyotyped using an air-drying, Giemsa staining method. All chromosomes were metacentric, with males being 2n = 15 (N = 7 + XO) and females being 2n = 16. The karyotyping method resulted in slide preparations which were countable five years post-fixing.
25009835|The males of nine new species of Neotrichia (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) from Central and South America are described and illustrated: N. colmillosa (Venezuela), N. browni (Venezuela), N. cuernuda (Venezuela), N. arista (Venezuela), N. dientera (Venezuela), N. botonia (Venezuela), N. negroensis (Venezuela), N. flowersi (Panama), and N. colombiensis (Colombia).
25010551|Geranomyia recondita larvae live in a jelly mass on the leaf surfaces of understory plants. The feeding behavior of these larvae was observed by laboratory feeding trials utilizing three species of epiphyllous liverworts (Lejeuneaceae) in La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, and complemented with field observations of movement over the leaf surface and size variation of the jelly mass in which the larvae live. Although only 30% of the G. recondita larvae fed on the liverworts that were offered to them, the results indicate that they are capable of feeding on live liverworts. The larvae primarily accepted Lejeunea and never accepted Leptolejeunea, suggesting that they avoid liverworts containing aromatic compounds. Larvae were also observed feeding on other epiphylls that were present on the surface of the leaf. The area of the jelly masses was negatively correlated with ambient temperature, suggesting that G. recondita larvae are more active at night, since the masses were larger at that time, possibly allowing them to forage over greater distances on the surface of the leaf.
25010340|Xenochalepus (Neochalepus) hespenheidei new species from Costa Rica and Panama is described and illustrated.
25009892|Bromeliad inhabiting Veliidae are restricted to the New World tropics, and no exploitation of similar phytotelmata habitats is known among veliids in any other tropical region. The eight species of bromeliadicolus Veliidae occurring in the Neotropical region are discussed, and a key to the species provided. A new species, Paravelia paolettii is described from Venezuela.
25010237|As part of a series of papers aimed at studying caste in epiponine wasps, this paper deals with Parachartergus smithii. The whole female population of a mature nest (131 workers, 14 intermediates and 5 queens) was measured and dissected. Canonical discriminant analyses indicated slight morphological caste differentiation. Mahalanobis distances for queen-worker, queen-intermediate and intermediate-worker were 10.33, 10.86 and 0.90, respectively. However, ovaries were much more developed in queens than in workers and intermediates indicating clear physiological differences. In addition, castes were distinguished by color patterns in the frons, clypeus, mandibles, gena and wings. An brief comparison of caste differences in the Epiponini reveals both allometric and non-allometric patterns.
25009513|The tribe Cassidini is defined for the Western Hemisphere and the tribe Charidotini is united with it. A key is given for the fifteen genera known to occur in America north of Mexico. Two groups are recognized: the Cassida Group with six genera and the Charidotis Group with nine genera. Metrionella Spaeth, 1932, is recognized in North America for the first time, and a new genus Opacinota is proposed for Coptocycla bisignata Boheman, 1855. Metriona Weise, 1896, and Nuzonia Spaeth, 1913, are excluded from the North American fauna. Metriona turba Sanderson and King, 1951, is placed in synonymy under Metrionella bilimeki (Spaeth, 1932), Metriona bicolor (Fabricius) and M. profligata (Boheman) are transferred to Charidotella, and lectotypes are designated for M. bilimeki Spaeth and Nuzonia ibaguensis Spaeth, 1912.
25008941|Twenty-nine species of solitary wasps occupied a newly bulldozed area of sandy soil at Bedford, Mass., during the summers of 1972 and 1973. Of these, 5 species built up large populations in only two years, having moved into the area from adjacent study plots. Another 17 species occupied the newly bulldozed area in smaller numbers, while the remaining 7 species, present in adjacent plots, failed to occupy the new substrate or did so with no increase in numbers.
25010345|Xyrophoreus cristatus new species, is described from South India; new distributional data for X. tonsor Breddin is included; dorsal view illustrations and drawings of head, pronotum, antennal segments and hind leg are provided.
25009343|Experiments were designed to determine the role of the spumaline covering eastern tent caterpillar egg masses as an adaptation for overwintering. The ability of the spumaline to absorb water from the environment is a direct function of temperature and water concentration in air. Egg mass temperatures may be significantly higher than ambient temperatures. The spumaline covering egg masses of this species may act to ameliorate low overwintering temperatures and to prevent desiccation by absorbing as much moisture from surrounding air as possible.
25010077|A stridulatory mechanism is recognized for the first time for the genus Nerthra Say, located in the male genital capsule of all species studied. Nerthra toddi NEW SPECIES replaces Nerthra mexicana, Todd 1955 (nec Melin, 1929). It is compared with Nerthra mexicana (Melin) (=Nerthra usingeri Todd, NEW SYNONYMY), with which it has been confused, Nerthra martini Todd, and Nerthra stygica Say. N. martini, N. mexicana and N. toddi all occur in Mexico, but are not known to be sympatric.
25000074|Observations on the adults and early stages of Hamadryas guatemalena Bates have been carried out in the vicinity of San Salvador, El Salvador, for a period of 4 years. In this article the results are presented for the first time, with a detailed account of the life cycle, illustrated with photographs, of the larval behavior and the plant used as food. The characteristics of the species are compared with the characteristics of other closely related species. The contention that there should be several genera within the group is discussed. As in other Nymphalidae, in this species the gaudy coloration and daring behavior of the larvae, and the use of a foodplant belonging to the Euphorbiacae (Dalechampia scandens L.) reputedly poisonous, suggest impalatability of the adults.
25010384|Heterotyphlus sequoia, n. sp., the third known species in Heterotyphlus Coiffait, 1962, is described from Northern California.
25009531|The present paper contains descriptions and habitus illustrations of the following new Miridae: Araucanomiris, new genus (type species Adelphocoris chilensis Carvalho and Maldonado); Froeschneriella, new genus, F. elsiae, new species (Ecuador); Phytocoris minensis, new species (Brazil); Proba froeschneri, new species (Mexico); Paraguayna, new genus, (type species Neofurius paraguayensis Carvalho and Drake); Ilnacora arnaudi, new species (Mexico). Eroticoris albiceps Lethierry is transferred to Neofurius Distant, new combination. A lectoctype is designated for Aspidobothrus latipennis Reuter.
25009102|Mitripus, new subgenus, is erected for seven South American species of Euschistus Dallas. The contained species previously recognized are: E. acutus, E. anticus, E. convergens, E. latus, E. legionarius and E. tauricornis. Euschistus grandus, new species, is added to this group. A key to species, and a description or diagnosis of each, are provided. New synonymy recognized is E. variicornis Bergroth, 1914, as a junior synonym of E. acutus Dallas, 1951. A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for E. alaticollis Stl, 1860, a junior synonym of E. latus Dallas, 1852.
25009569|Seeversiella bispinosa, a new genus and species of athetine aleocharine staphylinid, is described and illustrations of structural features are provided. Members of Seeversiella are particularly distinctive among known North American aleocharines because of the presence of a large spine on each apico-lateral margin of abdominal tergum III and a medial carina on tergum VII of most males. The species was first noted as representing a "new genus" in a key to genera of North American Aleocharinae provided in 1978 by Dr. Charles Seevers, but he did not give it a formal name or provide a description. Modification of pertinent couplets of Seevers' key is provided which allows for identification of specimens of Seeversiella.
25005913|The following new species, all belonging to the Eriopterine genus Baeoura Alexander, are described; Baeoura dihybosa, B. coloneura and B. schmidiana from Kumaon; B. acustyla, B. furcella, B. sternofurca from Sikkim.
25009818|Information is presented on the life cycle and larval feeding habits of Coenia curvicauda Meigen, a widely distributed and common species of the ephydrid subfamily Ephydrinae. The larvae are trophically generalized and are able to utilize a wide variety of algae as well as decomposing plant detritus. However, certain algal foods seemingly are more suitable, as they permit larval growth to be completed more quickly. In northeastern Ohio, the life cycle can be completed in 16-25 days, and there are 9-12 generations a year. The egg, mature larvae, and puparium are described and illustrated. The larval morphology is compared to that of Paracoenia fumosalis Cresson.
25010515|A list of 202 species of Miridae, or plant bugs, of Kentucky is presented, based on study of more than 4,000 specimens from the University of Kentucky and University of Louisville collections and fieldwork conducted by the authors, supplemented by a review of the literature. One- hundred seventy-six species are newly recorded from the state; 26 species previously were known in Kentucky based on the most recent North American Heteroptera catalog and a few other literature sources. The Miridae in this list are arranged alphabetically by subfamily, tribe, genus, and species. Distribution, dates, host plants, depository, and number of specimens examined are provided for each species. When a Kentucky host was not recorded, literature documenting known hosts is given, along with selected papers providing biological information.
25006002|An apparent association of an oribatoid mite, Hygroribates marinus (Banks), with rock barnacles (Balanus, spp.) is reported. The mites regularly hide in crevices of the barnacle shell plates. The occurrence of large encrustations of barnacles may favor the spread of these sluggishly moving, ovoviviparous mites.
25009944|A key and diagnoses for 28 genera of Ochlerini are provided. New genera proposed are: Barola, Catulona, Clypona, Coranda, Cromata, Forstona, Pseudadoxoplatys, Stalius and Uvaldus. New species are Barola farfala, Catulona pensa, Catulona apaga, Clypona aerata, Coranda castana, Cromata ornata, Forstona speciosa, Pseudadoxoplatys mendacis, Schaefferella fusca, Stalius trisinuatus and Uvaldus concolor. New synonymy recognized is Melanodermus Stl, 1867, as a junior synonym of Ochlerus Spinola, 1837, resulting in revival of the combination Ochlerus circummaculatus Stl, 1867, and new combinations of Coranda picipes (Stl, 1872) and Stalius tartareus (Stl, 1862). Typhoeocoris Breddin, 1903, is placed in the synonymy of Caracia Stl, 1872, and T. fulvifemur Breddin, 1903, in the synonymy of C. sexdens Stl, 1872. The holotype of Parochlerus latus Breddin, 1904, is redescribed. The male genitalia of this species are described since only the female was known previously. A redescription of Tetrochlerus fissiceps Breddin, 1904, is given, and a voucher specimen is designated inasmuch as type material of this species is unknown. A lectotype and paralectotype are designated for Ochlerus tartareus Stl, 1862.
25009439|The name Mormidea kirkaldyi is proposed for a species described previously but misdetermined. Mormidea bridarolli Pirn, 1963, is placed in the synonymy of M. montandoni Kirkaldy, 1902.
25009196|The peak emergence periods and habitats of cicadas were examined discontinuously over several years in lowland tropical rain forest of northeastern Costa Rica. Two distinctive ecological features of this region which might affect cicadas are (1) the existence of primary and secondary forest habitats, and (2) the occurrence of a short dry season. Although the data on adults concern six genera and eleven species, emphasis is placed on quantitative sampling of nymphal casts from ground plots for Zammara smaragdina, Fidicina sericans, Fidicina mannifera, Fidicina pronoe, Fidicina spinocosta, and Quesada gigas. If selection pressures favor emergence adaptations such as allochrony or habitat non-overlap among some species, it was expected that the census data would show these patterns. Generally the data support this hypothesis. For example, of the two most abundant cicadas, Z. smaragdina and F. sericans, the former emerges primarily during the long wet season while the latter emerges during the dry season. Both species occur in primary forest but Z. smaragdina also occurs in advanced secondary forest. Another, F. mannifera, is generally not very abundant, has low emergence almost continuously throughout the year, and sings at times of the day when others are less active. Others such as F. spinocosta and F. pronoe and Q. gigas emerge in young secondary forests but in different seasons. Owing to the high selective value placed upon the cicada song in breeding, temporal and spatial partitioning of the environment may be an adaptive measure that reduces interspecific competitive conflicts that could arise by adults of abundant species being active at the same times of the year or in the same habitats.
25005807|Males of A. calcarius (Actaletidae), Jamaica, have distinctive leg appendages. The other known sp. of this littoral family is European.
25010079|Pemphigus obesinymphae, n. sp., which is closely allied to P. populitransversus Riley, was discovered in Arizona and Utah and is described here. The new species forms galls on leaf petioles of Populus fremontii Watson, and produces 1st instar nymphs that possess heavy sclerotization and stout legs. The 2nd and 3rd instar nymphs are swollen and look superficially like wingless adults. The fundatrix, the 1st instar, 2nd instar and adult (alate) fundatrigeniae, the 1st instar exule deposited by the alate, the sexupara, and the gall are described. The differences found between the new species and the most similar previously described species, P. populitransversus and P. knowltoni Stroyan, are given.
25010365|Male aristae of laboratory reared Ceratitis capitata were longer, both in absolute terms and in proportion to body size, than those of females. Both male and female aristae had microtrichia which lacked membranes at the base, but female aristae had more microtrichia that were more evenly distributed than those of males. Female aristae also had more curves in the distal end. Experimental removal of female aristae resulted in less frequent mounting, and less copulation once mounting had occurred than in control females. Stimuli sensed by the female's arista may thus affect her readiness to copulate. /// Los machos de Ceratitis capitata criados en laboratorio tuvieron aristas ms largas en promedio y en proporcin al tamao del cuerpo que las de las hembras. Las aristas de machos y hembras tenan pelos de base fija sin membrana (microtrichiae); las aristas de las hembras eran cubiertas con ms pelos distribuidos de forma ms homognea que en los machos. Las aristas de las hembras adems tenan ms curvas en el extremo distal. Las hembras con aristas cortadas experimentalmente fueron menos montadas, y menos copuladas una vez que eran montadas, que las hembras control. Se concluye que posiblemente los estmulos detectados por sus aristas afectan la disposicin de la hembra a copular.
25006119|Andrioplecta, Gephyroneura, and Rhadinoscolops are described as new genera; Laspeyresia subpulverula (Java) and Grapholitha (Euspila) harmologa (Assam, India) are published as new species. The genus Cimeliomorpha Diakonoff is redescribed, several new combinations are proposed, and the male genitalia of Antichlidas holocnista Meyrick is figured.
25009525|Oncylocotis froeschneri, new species, based on an extremely brachypterous male from Zaire is described and illustrated.
25009883|Fifteen species names proposed by T. L. Casey, previously considered valid names of North American Agonum, are newly synonymized. The synonymical status of 11 additional species names heretofore considered valid species names of Agonum are also reviewed. Twenty-seven new lectotypes are designated. Olisares Motschulsky, 1864, is newly syonymized with Agonum Bonelli, 1810. Agonum imitans Notman, a putative member of the North American fauna, is diagnosed and redescribed.
25010267|The larval food plant of Hypena manalis (Walker) proves to be bog hemp, Boehmeria cylindrica (L.). Partly grown larvae rejected stinging nettle, Urtica dioica (L.). The mature larva of H. manalis is described and illustrated. It is compared to larvae of H. bijugalis, H. baltimoralis, H. madefactalis, and H. humuli.
25008779|A long-term capture-mark-recapture program was conducted on Parides (Papilioninae) butterflies (Parides arcas mycale, Parides arcas mylotes, Parides childrenae childrenae, and Parides erithalion sadyattes) visiting the flowers of two widely-separated Hamelia patens (Rubiaceae) trees in Costa Rican lowland tropical rain forest. Adult populations, composed predominantly of males, were present at these two feeding sites for more than 12 successive months. These small populations were characterized by long-lived males not subject to heavy predation, and "residential" in terms of their local movements in the jungle. Such low-turnover populations persisted at feeding sites over long periods. This persistence, in addition to similar diurnal activity periods among species accounted for an effective Mllerian mimetic association. Females were highly vagile, presumably due to searching behavior for oviposition sites, and thus irregularly appeared at low frequency at the regular feeding sites of males. The localized distributions of males at their feeding sites could function primarily for initiation of courtship behavior in the jungle, favoring effective female dispersal after successful mating. Females may act as models in mimetic associations with other species (Papilio anchisiades ideaus, Papilio sp., and Heliconius doris) seen in the jungle, but like females of Parides, adults of these species were also irregular, infrequent visitors at these feeding sites and exhibited high vagility.
25010008|Notophrudus mendozi, new genus and species, resembles the Holarctic genus Phrudus (as defined by Townes, 1971) but has a tiny though strong tooth dorso-apically on the front tibia, lacks pectination on the tarsal claws and has the 1st gastric segment uniquely slender, parallel-sided, and with its spiracle closer to the tergal base than in any other phrudine. Notophrudus inhabits Nothofagus forests in Chile's Lake District (Cautn to Osorno Provinces).
25009530|The remarkably myrmecomorphic characters of the hallodapine mirid Leaina belua Linnavuori from West Africa are described and illustrated and some comparisons made with other antlike mirids exhibiting supposed imitations of orthopteroid mandibles. Some literature on the possible role of ant mimicry in Miridae and Alydidae is reviewed. A plea is made for detailed observations on the biology of those hallodapines that display the highest degree of myrmecomorphy. Attention is further paid to the exceptionally low number of chromosomes (n = 2 and 4) in some hallodapines investigated by the author.
25009933|Three important morphological attributes of 100 worker honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) from each of four colonies were examined morphometrically. Intertegular span (a measure of overall size), corbicular area (a measure of pollen carrying potential), and wing measurement C (highly correlated to functional proboscis length) were the morphological features selected. Worker bees with larger intertegular spans (or corbiculae, or wing measurements C) did not possess other morphological features that were highly correlated in size. This lack of correspondence was true in analyses focusing upon both linear and allometric size relationships. The lack of strong size correlations between morphological features is discussed in terms of both artificial and natural selection acting upon honey bee colonies.
25009692|Martinius temporalis is described from Ecuador. The male genitalia are figured and characters to separate it from other known species are given.
25010098|Larva and pupa of the genus Paduniella are described for the first time based on specimens of Paduniella nearctica Flint from the Ozark Mountains of Missouri and Arkansas, U.S.A. Larvae of Paduniella differ from Tinodes and Lype in having well developed teeth along the concave margin of the anal claw; they can be distinguished from larvae of Psychomyia by the submental sclerites being wider than long and small rather than longer than wide and large. The pupa of Paduniella is unique among Nearctic psychomyiids in having 6-segmented maxillary palpi, 4-segmented labial palpi, and 3 pairs of labral setae. Observations on the biology of the species suggest a scraper functional role for the larva and a bivoltine life cycle.
25009946|Arocera Spinola contains two subgenera, the nominate subgenus and Euopta Stl. Diagnoses are provided for Arocera, Euopta, and all previously described species. Two new species are described: A. (Euopta) variegata from Argentina and A. (Euopta) sexpunctata from Ecuador. Arocera apta (Walker) and A. melanopyga (Stl) are resurrected from the synonymy of A. spectabilis (Drury), A. placens (Walker) is resurrected from the synonymy of A. nigrorubra (Dallas), A. aequinoxialis (Westwood) is resurrected from the synonymy of A. acroleuca (Perty), and A. repleta is resurrected from the synonymy of A. elongata and placed as a subspecies of that species. Arocera affinis Distant, 1880, A. protea Distant, 1880, A. altivola Distant, 1893, A. chiriquensis Distant, 1893, and A. contralineata Pirn, 1955 are all removed from the synonymy of A. nigrorubra (Dallas, 1851) and are placed as new synonyms of A. placens (Walker, 1867). Arocera patibulata Distant, 1880 and A. jalapensis Distant, 1893 are both removed from the synonymy of A. spectabilis (Drury, 1782) and are also placed as new synonyms of A. placens. Arocera crucigera Haglund, 1868 and A. schumanni Distant, 1890 are both removed from the synonymy of A. spectabilis; A. crucigera is placed as a new synonym of A. apta (Walker, 1867), and A. schumanni is placed as a new synonym of A. melanopyga (Stl, 1858). Lectotypes are designated for A. affinis, A. schumanni, Pentatoma aequinoxialis, Strachia apta, and S. nigrorubra. A key is provided to aid in the identification of species of Arocera.
25009509|Four new species of Tenthredinidae, i.e., Athlophorus vespiformis and A. bandatus belonging to the Selandriinae (according to Malaise's classification) and Macrophya gopeshwari and M. concolor belonging to Tenthredininae are reported from India.
25009110|Neves, Richard J., Massachusetts Cooperative Fishery Research Unit, Department of Forestry and Wildlife Management, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts 01003. Present address of author: Virginia Cooperative Fishery Research Unit, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, Virginia 24061.-The species composition and flight periods of Plecoptera along a woodland stream in Massachusetts was studied by 3 yr of nymphal and adult sampling. Twenty-two genera and 45 species emerged between mid-February and early September. Most species were collected in May and June at stream temperatures between 8-15 C. A comparison with other stonefly surveys indicated a diversity gradient for Plecoptera in North America.
25009685|A new genus of Microveliinae, Aphrovelia, is described on the basis of a new species, A. phoretica, from several localities in western Madagascar. The unusual habits of this species, which occurs on rafts of foam along the banks of sandy rivers, are discussed. Illustrations of key characters and a discussion of the relationship of this new genus to allied genera of Microveliinae are provided.
25005938|This paper locates Peale's copy of Lepidoptera Americana (1833) in the Library of the Amer. Mus. of Nat. Hist. and not in the British Mus. (Nat. Hist.) as claimed by Brower. The locations of eight other copies are given and Peale's copy collated in detail. Bibliographic references deal with publications and activities of Peale.
25008909|A new species of introduced ant, C. ectopia, is described and figured, based on material from Orange and Los Angeles counties. All three castes are included and the species is compared to the other four species known to occur in the United States. Cardiocondyla is an Old World genus of approximately 30 species, about half a dozen of which are regularly transported by commerce into new areas. Four species have been introduced into the eastern United States (Smith, 1944); all seem to be firmly established in Florida. No species has previously been reported from California. This seems surprising since the three most commonly transported species are common in the Pacific region. The first California specimens to come to my attention were collected by R. J. Hamton at his home in Long Beach, Los Angeles Co., in 1967. During the following year, specimens were collected by K. C. Stephens in Downey and Artesia, L. A. Co. Specimens from Tustin, Orange Co., were collected in 1970 by A Mintzer, and the author found the species in his yard at Seal Beach, Orange Co., in 1972. I have been unable to associate this species with any previously described name. In order to discuss this species in the following paper, I am describing the ant as new. Hopefully the correct name, if the species is previously described, can be determined at a later date.
25006059|New synonyms of one genus and twenty-four species, as well as twenty-one new combinations and a few other notes pertaining to American spiders, most of them in the family Linyphiidae, particularly the sub-family Erigoninae, are recorded.
25009217|I examined two small individuals of a larval host plant species (Granadilla sp.) of Heliconius cydno and H. sapho (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiinae: Heliconiini) in northeastern Costa Rica to determine approximately the degree to which each one was utilized repeatedly. From the rather detailed conceptual framework and ecological studies of Heliconius butterflies I expected to find low clutch size and exploitation of fresh meristem for H. cydno and H. sapho as members of the "Granadilla-feeding" species group. The observations on one of the two plants agreed well with these expectations. On the other host plant individual, however, females of these species placed unusually high numbers of eggs on available fresh meristem. In subsequent observations when no apical meristem was present, no immature stages were found. The subtle interplay of many environmental factors, including shifting scarcities of fresh meristem on host plants, determines the intensity of oviposition on a particular plant.
25009301|The Miridae and Coleoptera on tulip tree (Liriodendron tulipfera L.) flowers were examined in June, 1979 at Ithaca, New York. The mirids are mainly Lygocoris caryae and L. omnivagus, and are probably attracted to tulip tree to feed on the flowers. The mirid-flower association changes with the age of the flower; young flowers support a larger mirid fauna than older flowers. The Coleoptera are mainly Cantharidae and Cephaloidae. Notes on the feeding behavior of these insects are recorded. These are the first feeding records for Cephaloon lepturides, Cantharis scitulus, C. rectus, and Podabrus brunnicollis, and the first records for Lygocoris caryae, L. omnivagus, L. tiliae, L. hirticulus, and L. belfragii on tulip tree.
25010432|A new species, Olixon atlanticus, is described from a secondary dry forest in Zambrano, Bolvar, Colombia. This species represents the second record of the genus from the Neotropical Region, and is close to O. banksii but can be distinguished by the length of the first flagellomere, the form of the premedian transverse carina of the first metasomal tergum, and by the presence of a weak median longitudinal impression on the second metasomal tergum that ends in a notch. Olixon atlanticus and O. testaceum are the first records of the genus for Colombia. An updated key to the species of Olixon is given. Also we record the genus and species Liosphex varius as new for Colombia.
25008818|Both sexes of the epigeal ricinuleid Cryptocellus paradoxus, new species, from Cuba are described. This is the first record of an island ricinuleid.
25009101|Thirty-five species and three subspecies of Scutacaridae are listed from New York. An identification key to the species is given. In addition, three new species and 1 new subspecies are described and figured; these are: Imparipes cupes, Scutacarus (S.) meansi, S. (S.) unicus indefinitus, and S. (Variatipes) subaffinis. The specimens were collected from bird nests, dog food, and from a cupedid beetle. Scutacarus (S.) subellipticus Delfinado & Baker, 1976 (Dec.) is a synonym of S. (S.) curtus Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello, 1976 (June). The following are transferred from Imparipes Berlese to Archidispus Karafiat: insulanus (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello), longitarsus (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello), similis (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello) and tarsalis (Delfinado, Baker & Abbatiello).
25008817|Modified McPhail traps baited with essences were utilized to capture male euglossine bees in British Honduras. The performance of these traps was superior to that of Steiner traps during trials in British Honduras and demonstrated that many of the euglossine species occurring in the area could be collected with little expenditure of time and effort. The presence of female euglossines in McPhail traps baited with SIB7, a partially hydrolyzed protein used in Mexican fruitfly trapping programs, is also reported.
25009392|The ability of the social parasite Psithyrus ashtoni to identify and discriminate between nest odours of different bumblebee species was investigated. Female P. ashtoni were presented with various combinations of host nest, non-host nest and nest material alone. Parasites showed preference for the odour of the host nests rather than nest material or nests of non-host bumblebees. The importance of host nest odour identification to searching parasites is discussed.
25009858|From New Zealand there are known, to date, six apterous genera of Carventinae, each with only one described species. Two new species, Acaraptera waipouensis, n. sp. and Leuraptera yakasi, n. sp., both from North Island, are described, and their general habitus and male genitalic structures are figured. Additional data are provided for Acaraptera myersi Usinger and Matsuda.
25009958|A new species, Acrolophus arboreus, of the endemic American family Acrolophidae is described from the upper Amazon of Peru. Similar larval material from Manaus, Brazil, suggests the species to be widespread through the Amazon Basin. The larvae are arboreal and construct elongate tubes of silk and wood fragments on the bark of several unrelated tree species. The larvae are believed to be scavengers on lichens and similar plant material.
25009315|Predators, parasites, and associates of the gregariously nesting solitary bee, Anthophora abrupta Say (Hymenoptera: Anthophoridae), were studied in Baltimore County, Maryland during 1976-1979. Adult bees were preyed on by barn swallows (Hirundo rustica L.) and parasitized by conopid flies (Physocephala marginata Say). Immature stages were parasitized by Chrysis sp., Ganperdea apivora (Aldrich), Hornia minutipennis Riley, and Monodontomerus mandibularis Gahan. Juvenile mortality was high (about 57%), and may have been contributed to by 10 species of fungi (Eumycota) infesting 50% of the bee cells. Fifteen non-parasitic insect species also nested at the study site and possibly competed with A. abrupta for nesting space.
25009885|The larva of the myrmicine genus Blepharidatta is described for the first time and illustrated. The genus is transferred from the tribe Ochetomyrmecini to a new tribe Blepharidattini.
25009164|The egg, larva, pupa and host relations of Tatochila autodice, blanchardii, sterodice macrodice, sterodice sterodice, vanvolxemii and mercedis are described. These species occur in temperature to subantarctic Argentina and Chile. The sterodice species-group is very homogeneous and seems to be closely related to T. xanthodice from Colombia. The autodice group shows many divergences in the larva and pupa and is convergent in various characters with a number of Holarctic taxa. T. mercedis is somewhat intermediate to the autodice group in certain characters.
25005850|A study was made of the activities of adenosine deaminase, guanase, xanthine oxidase and uricase in homogenates of the foregut, midgut, hindgut, Malpighian tubules and leg muscle of the American cockroach, Periplaneta americana. Adenosine deaminase was found in all tissues except leg muscle. Its activity was higher in homogenates of the gut than in those of the Malpighian tubule. Guanase, uricase and xanthine oxidase were present in all tissues. Their activities were highest in the gut and Malpighian tubules, suggesting that these organs play an important role in purine metabolism.
25006153|Ctenophthalmus p. pseudagyrtes Baker occurs on a wide variety of mammals, and occasionally on birds. It occurs in greatest numbers on Cricetidae, Talpidae, and Soricidae. A population peak occurs in March-April in the northeast, but the species is taken throughout the year. Unlike most flea species, this one shows nearly equal collections of males and females except during the winter months. No habitat preference is clearly demonstrated, except that underground nests and burrows appear to be essential.
25008902|Caonabo, new genus, and C. casicus, new species, are described from Brazil. In this genus the spiracles are located near the lateral margins of the abdomen, while the paired trichobothria associated with each spiracle remain in a submarginal position. The spatial relationship of the spiracles and trichobothria appears unique among genera of Pentatominae.
25010410|Carabid beetle communities were compared for adjacent marsh and bog biotopes at the McLean Bogs Preserve, Tompkins Co., New York by means of pitfall-trap sampling. Though the sampled marsh and bog habitats were only 200 m distant, with the umbrotrophic bog isolated from the marsh/fen complex by a Wisconsin-aged glacial esker of only 7 m elevation, the resident wetland carabid species assemblages differed significantly between the sites during the spring and summer seasons. Of 62 species observed in the wetlands, 36 were found exclusively in the marsh biotope, 17 were exclusive to the bog site, and only 9 were found at both sites. This level of wetland habitat fidelity was maintained in spite of potential colonization of the two sites each spring by adult beetles dispersing from overwintering sites in surrounding forest edge habitats. Pitfall sampling found 59 native carabid species, of which 52 were found during a survey conducted from 1916-1925, suggesting that the McLean Bogs Preserve supports locally resident populations for the vast majority of carabid species found during this study. The McLean Bogs Preserve supports geographically southern, peripheral populations of the bog-specialist Platynus mannerheimii Dejean, as well as four marsh/fen-inhabiting species-Trechus crassiscapus Lindroth, Bembidion muscicola Hayward, B. praticola Lindroth, and Bradycellus semipubescens Lindroth-emphasizing the role this preserve plays in maintaining the distributional ranges of both bog- and marsh-resident taxa. The distinct faunas observed in these two proximate biotopes clearly illustrate that comprehensive conservation of the carabid beetle fauna of northeastern North America should involve preservation of a variety of wetland types.
25009894|The new mirine genus Gracilimiris and the new species G. litoralis, from the eastern United States, and G. strigosus and G. wheeleri from Arizona and Texas are diagnosed and described. All three species are associated with grasses (Poaceae). Male genitalia of all species are figured and a dorsal habitus is provided for the male of the type species, G. litoralis. Scanning electron micrographs are presented for the dorsal setae, scent gland ostiole, and pretarsus of G. strigosus.
25010152|Caterpillars of the moth Aphomia sociella (L.) were collected from active colonies of Dolichovespula arenaria (F.) and D. maculata (L.), the first documented new world hosts for this nest inquiline. Caterpillars held indoors were successfully reared to adults. Emergences coincided with typical flight period ranges in nature, overlapping the early phases of vespine colony development.
25009202|This is the first study of the anatomy of the male reproductive systems of the adults and pupae of the doryline ants, Dorylus (Anomma) wilverthi and D. (A.) nigricans Illiger. The external genitalia and the terminal gastric sterna are included. The reproductive systems consist of the testes and vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, the aedeagal bladder, and the external genitalia. The external genitalia of these ants are composed of a basal ring and three pairs of valves, the outer, the middle, and the inner, typical of the formicid pattern. The male systems in these two species are similar in their shapes and the arrangement of the organs. Although the testes in the nigricans adult are absent, in the pupa there are 50-55 follicles in each testis. Wilverthi has 35-40 testicular follicles in both the adult and pupa. The valves of the external genitalia and terminal gastric sterna of these two species show no individual variations, other than size, in their shapes. Male systems have been described for only three other doryline ants, the Old World Dorylus labiatus, the New World Eciton hamatum and Neivamyrmex harrisi. This system is compared in these dorylines. Important differences exist between the male reproductive systems of the two African Dorylus species herein studied and the two New World dorylines previously reported. The Dorylus species have a larger number of testicular follicles, the shapes of their accessory glands are different, the basal ring of the genitalia is fused to the outer valves, a membrane joins the ventral margins of the inner genitalic valves, and the shapes of the genitalic valves and the subgenital plate are different.
25010396|A new species of Amnestus Dallas, A. ficus, is described. Its life cycle, and immature stages are also included and illustrated. The association of Cydnidae with the fruits of various species of Ficus is reported for first time. The study is based mainly on two-year sampling in a small patch of medium rain forest on the coast of Veracruz, combined with records from Chiapas, Guerrero, and San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
25010443|A new genus of Mesoveliidae, Seychellovelia, with a single included species, S. hygrobia n. sp., is described from the islands of Silhouette and Mahe in the granitic Seychelles. This new taxon is compared to other mesoveliid genera, and its key morphological characters illustrated. Information is also provided on the habitat preferences of S. hygrobia, and an updated distributional map of mesoveliid genera on a world basis is provided, accompanied by a discussion of zoogeographical implications.
25010492|Two new species from the Chilean coastal desert, Gyriosomus granulipennis and Gyriosomus multigranulosus (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini), are described and included in the most recent key for the genus. Distributional and habitat records, habitus photographs, and illustrations of the pronotum and prosternum for these two new species are included.
25009778|The structural features of the ovipositor, its associated sensilla, and its inversion membrane were investigated by scanning electron microscopy. Anteriorly directed, scale-like outgrowths of the integument arranged in triangular-shaped quadrants cover the inversion membrane. Campaniform and trichoid mechanosensilla are found on the inner valves of the ovipositor while a series of shallow pits containing ampullae-like sensory structures occur on both the dorsal and ventral surfaces of the distal portion of the organ. The ventro-lateral margins near the ovipositor tip have distinct depressions on either side which contain two types of chemosensilla. The number of these chemosensilla is not consistent between specimens. In most cases, there are two sensilla on each side but in some specimens there are two sensilla in the right pit and three in the left. The possible functional role of all these sensilla during oviposition is postulated.
25009025|The life histories of eight species of insects which live in the water-filled bracts of Heliconia wagneriana and H. imbricata are studied. Development times of larval forms are directly correlated with the length of time an inflorescence survives on a plant. Few predators were collected from these inflorescences. It is hypothesized that low predation rates may be important in the evolution of insects living in Heliconia inflorescences.
25010037|Four new species of Ochrotrichia, subgenus Ochrotrichia, are described and figured: Ochrotrichia guadalupensis (Texas), O. contrerasi (Tamaulipas), O. cieneguilla (Nuevo Len), and O. yepachica (Chihuahua). The new species are compared to other closely related congeners.
25000077|Tabanidae of 19 species were recorded feeding on hogs of 8 herds in 1973. Species and feeding location on the animals were recorded. Though small numbers of tabanids fed on hogs, herds in wooded areas were more subject to attack by Tabanidae and Stomoxys calcitrans than those in open fields. Stomoxys calcitrans, Haematobia irritans, and 13 Tabanidae were noted on horses, 2 Tabanidae on goats and 6 on dogs.
25008937|Records are made of what little is known about William Couper, a Canadian field naturalist of the latter half of the 19th century. This is based upon the literature and Couper's letters to Herman Strecker. Couper's collecting trips to Labrador and Anticosti Island are recounted. Considerable information is given about the controversy involving Papilio brevicauda Saunders and Papilio anticostiensis Strecker, and that involving Lycaena pembina Edwards and Lycaena couperi Grote.
25006157|Scanning electron microscopy reveals two tuft organs each with an average of six hairs in Pediculus humanus Linn. Similarly located tufts of Phthirus pubis (Linn.) average nine hairs. Two pore organs on the fifth antennal segments of both these lice are also described.
25009684|Observations on host plants and descriptions of nymphs of Thionia bullata (Say) and T. simplex (Germar) are provided. T. bullata was recorded from three species of pines in Alabama and T. simplex from 12 species of herbaceous and woody dicotyledonous plants from North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and District of Columbia. Salient features of nymphs include number and arragement of body pits, spination of the metathoracic legs, and form of the abdominal waxpads.
25009529|A new genus Praecarthasis (tribe Carthasini, type species Nabis panamensis Harris) and seven new species are described: Praecarthasis nigrescens (Brazil, Peru), P. pusillus (Brazil), P. paprzyckii (Peru), P. gibbus (Panama, Ecuador, Peru), P. froeschneri (Brazil, Ecuador, Peru), Neogorpis spinicollis (Panama), Alloeorhynchus alayoi (Cuba). The following species are resurrected from synonymy: Arachnocoris panamensis (Distant), not a synonym of A. albomaculatus Scott; Lasiomerus signatus (Uhler) not a synonym of L. spinicrus (Reuter); Hoplistoscelis sericans (Reuter), not a synonym of H. nigriventris (Stl). H. sericans is considered a senior synonym of H. deceptivus (Harris) and Alloeorhynchus moritzii (Stein) of A. armatus Uhler.
25009323|A phenological emergence study was carried out in Ulster and Orange counties, New York, using the overwintering generation of the spotted tentiform leafminer, Phyllonorycter crataegella Clemens and its parasitoids, Sympiesis marylandensis Girault, Sympiesis conica (Provancher) (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae) and Apanteles ornigis Weed (Hymenoptera: Braconidae). S. marylandensis was found to emerge concurrently with P. crataegella, followed in order by S. conica and A. ornigis. S. conica also hyperparasitized A. ornigis and thus served a dual role in this system.
25010522|Ten species of damaline flies are reported from Southeast Asia, of which eight are new to science: Damalis albatus, D. basalis, D. brevis, D. flaventis, D. fulvus, D. londti, D. macula, and D. politus. Damalis saigonensis Bigot is redescribed, the male is reported for the first time, and its range now includes Cambodia, Laos, Thailand, and Vietnam. Xenomyza thorakeraia Shi, 1995 is synonymized with Aireina paradoxa Frey (new synonymy). Aireina paradoxa is redescribed and illustrated, and D. vitalisi Frey is briefly discussed. Damalis fabricii (new name) is proposed for the Indian species, D. dimidiata Joseph & Parui. Diagnoses, illustrations, and a key of the species are provided. An updated checklist of damaline species from southeast Asia and China is included.
25010394|New provincial distribution records are provided for 40 Ephemeroptera species in Canada based on the examination of specimens held in the Canadian National Collection of Insects. Nine species are newly reported for Alberta, four for British Columbia, five for Manitoba, 12 for New Brunswick, 10 for Nova Scotia, two for Ontario, four for Quebec, and one for Prince Edward Island. Of these, Ameletus amador Mayo, Cinygmula reticulata McDunnough, and Procloeon vicinum (Hagen) are reported from Canada for the first time.
25008815|The microsporidian Octosporea muscaedomesticae Flu can successfully parasitize larval Phormia regina. The protozoan appears to attack only the epithelium of the proximal intestine. The disease generated by the protozoan is often complicated by a secondary bacterial infection which becomes systemic. About 90% of the larvae exposed to the pathogen died as larvae or pupae. The few adults produced from the larval cultures exposed to the pathogen were disease-free.
25009682|The first fossil member of the order Zoraptera (Insecta), Zorotypus palaeus, new species is described from amber originating from the Dominican Republic. The description is based on a single, apterous, chitinized female lacking eyes and ocelli. The amber came from mines located in the Cordillera Septentrional in the Altamira facies of the El Mamey formation. Sedimentary and geological evidence indicate a range of lower Miocene to upper Eocene for the amber from this region.
25010472|Males of the reduviid species Sinea diadema (F.) and S. confusa Caudell have so far been undistinguishable. The present light microscopy study revealed subtle differences in the parameres and more clear-cut differences in the genital capsules of the males of these two species. In addition, the eggs of S. confusa were studied using scanning electron microscopy. A comparison with published light microscopic observations on the eggs of S. diadema showed that the eggs of the two species differ as well. New locality records are given for S. diadema (U.S.A.: IA, TX), S. confusa (U.S.A.: PR; Mexico: Nayarit), S. defecta Stl (Mexico: Veracruz, Oaxaca, Chiapas), S. spinipes Stl (U.S.A.: CT, IA; Mexico: Vera Cruz), S. rileyi Montandon (U.S.A.: CT, WA), and S. complexa (U.S.A.: KS).
25010060|Eremochilus howdeni, a new species of the plant feeding subfamily Epilachninae, is described and figured, and a new key to species of Eremochilus is presented. Additions and modifications are made to the original generic description.
25006201|One new genus and eight new species of hesperiids are described from Mexico. The genus is named Zobera. The species described and illustrated are Urbanus viridis, Zobera albopunctata, Piruna maculata, P. sina, P. ajijiciensis, P. milpa, Amblyscirtes immaculatus, and Aedes brilla.
25005834|T. (T.) spinipes (= ruficrus) is a neotropical stingless bee living in Brasil, Paraguay and part of Argentina (Misiones). It builds an external nest, upon branches of trees. Inside the nest there is a huge and massive structure, basin or shield-like in shape, the scutellum. It is made chiefly of prepupal dejections and adult bee excrements. It also contains dead bees, cerumen, propolis, Acarina, remains of brood cocoons, etc. Besides other lesser roles, it is here suggested that the scutellum serves chiefly as a strong supporting wall for the nest's internal constructions. The author thinks that the presence of a strong wall of some sort-preexistent or bee made-is characteristic of all Meliponinae nests.
25009689|The genus Spinalanx and two included species, S. monstrablis and S. corusca, are described as new from South America. The genus is one of six genera of Pentatomini in the western hemisphere that do not have a median spine or tubercle at the base of the abdominal venter but do have the inferior surfaces, at least, of some or all femore armed. A key is provided for the separation of these genera.
25006073|Brief discussions, counts, and descriptions are given of reared melanic forms of Catocala micronympha Guen. and C. minuta W. H. Edwards.
25009178|Tabanidae are pests of man and animals in many areas of the coastal states but especially near salt marshes. The major species, Tabanus nigrovittatus and Chrysops atlanticus, move from the marshes to nearby beaches, camp grounds, golf courses, and other recreational areas and onto boats in the bays and estuaries. Chrysops congregate in dense vegetation and attack when humans or animals move into such places. Both Tabanus and Chrysops are severe problems to agricultural workers when the flies are numerous. Livestock are readily attacked by Tabanidae with consequent effects on thriftiness, weight gains and milk production and possible transmission of causal agents of disease. Biology and habits of both salt marsh and upland species are poorly known. Probably T. nigrovittatus is a species complex. Controls are inadequate though traps and vegetative barriers have been shown useful against Tabanus and some insecticides have given reduction but not adequate control of both Tabanus and Chrysops.
25005937|Interphase cells containing single, comma-shaped chromatin masses were seen in aceto-orcein squashes of adult males, and in a small percent of the embryos, larvae, and protonymphs of the moth ear mite, Dicrocheles phalaenodectes. Such cells were not found in deutonymphs or in females. When passed through a succession of hosts, fertile females produced males at intervals throughout their period of oviposition; virgin females laid only inviable eggs. Out of a total of 594 mites representing the
25010238|Two new genera of Embiidae, Gibocercus and Biguembia, are described. Gibocercus and Biguembia contain four and two species, respectively, all newly described: G. chaco (Argentina), G. beni (Bolivia), G. urucumi (Brasil), G. nanai (Per), B. copo (Argentina) and B. cocum (Brasil). The new genera form a monophyletic group and they are the sister group of Parhagadochir plus Scelembia; the four genera share, among other characters, a node on the left paraproct and a bifid process on the 10th left hemitergite. The relationships of the new genera, and their species, are discussed.
25009002|Head capsule widths on intact walnut caterpillar larvae were relatively uniform within an instar. Those from intact larvae compared favorably with widths of head capsules shed during molting for the same instar, for the 1st four instars. Head capsule widths differed from 1 instar to another and indicated that 5 instars constituted the larval stage. Finally, head capsule width can apparently be safely used to identify the instar of field collected walnut caterpillar feeding on pecan foliage in Texas.
25006214|Papilio hyllus Cramer, [1776], is the correct name for the butterfly commonly referred to as Lycaena tho Guerin-Meneville, 1931. This fact was brought to the attention of lepidopterists twice in the 19th century by A. G. Butler and each time ignored by catalogers. In view of the uncertainty about application of the "50-year" rule of I.C.Z.N. no direct action is taken at this time.
25009949|Nine new species of Oxyethira (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) are described from Costa Rica: O. apinolada, O. cuernuda, O. culebra, O. espinada, O. hilosa, O. rareza, O. sencilla, O. sierruca, and O. tica. Males of each new species are described and figured. In addition, distribution records are presented for eight previously described species occurring in Costa Rica: O. arizona Ross, O. azteca (Mosely), O. costaricensis Kelley, O. glasa (Ross), O. janella Denning, O. parazteca Kelley, O. parce (Edwards and Arnold), and O. simulatrix Flint. A key is provided to males of the Costa Rican species.
25009049|The mayfly Callibaetis vitreus Navs, 1919 is a homonymic synonym of Callibaetis vitreus Navs, 1915.
25006074|Biological observations on the parasitic bee Dioxys pomonae pomonae Cockerell are presented covering the following points: searching habits of female, oviposition, elimination of immatures of the host, feeding habits, and cocoon. Additional observations, including nest structure, are given for the host bee Osmia nigrobarbata Cockerell.
25006190|Four new genera, Compactopedia, Emersonilla, Hirsitilla, and Limulodilla, are described from Sarawak and Malaya. The 4 genera have 4 species which are all new. These are Compactopedia compactus from Sarawak and Malaya, Emersonilla longipes from Sarawak, Hirsitilla hirsutus from Sarawak, and Limulodilla limulodes from Malaya and Sarawak. Three of the new genera (all except Limulodilla) are related to each other and make up a new subtribe, Compactopedina, of the tribe Aleocharini. The other genus, Limulodilla, belongs to the subtribe Termitozyrina of the tribe Myrmedoniini. All specimens were captured in association with Longipeditermes longipes (Haviland).
25008761|Data are presented on the occurrence of the typical and melanic forms of P. titea (Cramer) in Leverett, Massachusetts from 1968-1970. Leverett is located in a rural area, where lichens abound on trees which are not noticeably darkened by soot. Melanics comprised 20.4% of the sampled P. titea population (491 individuals). Melanic percentages varied little from year to year, and from week to week within each year. However, melanic moths were taken most frequently during the first hour of activity in the evening. In 1969 and 1970, P. titea of both forms were color-marked as they rested at lights. Total recapture percentages of the typical and melanic forms were not significantly different. The implications of these results are discussed with reference to the widely-accepted explanation of industrial melanism in England.
25009389|The primary types of 37 species-group taxa of American Cerceris are discussed, and lectotypes are designated for 32 species-group taxa. Four previously designated neotypes are shown to be invalid, and three holotypes are identified.
25005927|The first and last larval instars of the oxaeine Protoxaea gloriosa Fox are described taxonomically. The last stage larva is very different from those of other Andrenidae, a fact suggesting that the Oxaeinae should be elevated to family rank. Certain similarities between Protoxaea gloriosa and the Nomada-like parasitic authophorids are also noted but are considered to be a result of convergent evolution.
25005870|Locality records are listed and distributions mapped and discussed for A. harpax, bambana and amanga. The first two are contiguous but allopatric, the equator roughly dividing them (harpax to the north). One exception is a possible widely disjunct occurrence of bambana in Upper Guinea. Subspecies of A. harpax are described: efulena (Cameroun) and ugandana (Uganda, eastern Congo). A genitalic key to species is given.
25010170|Three new species of the augochlorine genus Caenaugochlora subgenus Ctenaugochlora are described: Caenaugochlora (Ctenaugochlora) donnae n.sp. and C. (C.) beethoveni n.sp. both from Costa Rica, and C. (C.) algeri n.sp. from Panama. The subgenus was previously only known from the type species, C. (C.) perpectinata (Michener) from Panama. A key is provided for the identification of the currently recognized species.
25010548|Aphrophora willemsi Lallemand, 1946, is considered a junior synonym of the widespread willow spittlebug Aphrophora salicina (Goeze, 1778), based on examination of type material. Diagnosis of the adults, known distribution, host plants and some aspects of life history of Aphrophora salicina are presented.
25009969|The athetine genus Lypoglossa Fenyes is reviewed and redescribed. Two North American species are treated, of which one is described as new: franclemonti from the boreal region of northern North America. The following new specific synonymy is proposed: fenyesi Bernhauer 1907 (=angularis Mklin, 1853). Lectotypes are designated for Lypoglossa fenyesi (Bernhauer) and the Palearctic species L. lateralis (Mannerheim). Adult mouthpart structures are illustrated for the first time for the genus; species distributional data are recorded and mapped; all bionomic data are presented; habitus, male aedeagus, female spermatheca, and other diagnostic characters are illustrated with the aid of line drawings and scanning electron photomicrographs; and a key to species is provided.
25009144|Male crickets of the species Anurogryllus celerinictus attract mates after sunset by giving a loud sustained calling song. A predator, the heron, Florida coerulea uses this sound to locate its prey. F. coerulea was also attracted to a tape recorded song of A. celerinictus.
25008939|The nymphalid butterfly Adelpha leucophthalma tegeata Fruhstorfer is a rare member of the macrolepidopterous fauna in the central high (montane) country of Costa Rica. The life stages and developmental time are described for the first time, along with observations on the behavior of the larva and adult. The egg-to-adult developmental time is 51 days on Pentagonia wendlandia Hook (Rubiaceae). The egg is laid singly on the dorsal surface of older leaves of the food plant and both the larva and pupa (chrysalis) are very cryptic in morphology, color, and behavior. As with most species of this genus, the adults of A. leucophthalma are very skittish. This is one of the few reports on a Central American Adelpha from montane environments.
25009820|The only known Nearctic anapid, Chasmocephalon shantzi Gertsch from California and Oregon, is not congeneric with the Australian type species of Chasmocephalon and is placed in the new genus Gertschanapis.
25009924|Taxonomic relationships are detailed for 12 species in the genus Microschatia, which is distributed from north central Mexico and Baja California to southern Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California, in arid or subarid habitats. Pycnonotida Casey and Acroschatia Wilke are treated as junior synonyms of Microschatia, and a key to species is provided. Newly described are M. solieri Brown and Doyen, M. cedrosensis Brown and Doyen, M. costulata Brown and Doyen and M. planata Doyen and Brown. The first and late instars of M. championi are characterized.
25009013|Twenty-six new type concepts are proposed to alleviate the barrenness of current type methodology. The proposed type concepts are commonly used and practiced but completely unrecognized in the scientific literature. The truth inherent in these new proposals will be patently evident and should be given due consideration in light of current systematic procedures.
25009007|Nine previously unreported primary parasitoids and possibly one hyperparasite were isolated from the elm spanworm, Ennomos subsignarius (Hbner) (Lepidoptera: Geometridae), during an outbreak in Connecticut in the early 1970s. Primary parasitoids included Ablerus clisiocampae (Ashmead) (Hymenoptera: Eulophidae), Apanteles murtfeldtae Ashmead and Meteorus sp. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), Aphanistes sp. and Phaeogenes mellinus (Provancher) (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), Brachymeria intermedia (Nees) (Hymenoptera: Chalcididae), Muscina stabulans (Fallen) (Diptera: Muscidae), Boettcheria cimbicis (Townsend) (Diptera: Sarcophagidae), and Winthemia sp. (Diptera: Tachinidae). Astiphromma pectorale Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae), possibly a hyperparasite, was recovered from one pupa. Incidence of parasitism of these and other parasitoids along with the chronological appearance of the more abundant larval and pupal parasitoids is presented. A review of all reported parasitoids and diseases of the elm spanworm is given.
25005982|The original description of Neurotoma willi was based upon a single male collected at Huntingdon, Pennsylvania in 1934. This paper describes the previously unknown female which was collected at Ithaca, New York in May, 1965.
25009527|The genus Tanycricos La Rivers is reviewed based on recent collections from Papua New Guinea. A new species, T. froeschneri, is described, and a new key to species is provided, accompanied by illustrations of the male and female genital structures and abdominal tergites.
25010005|There are 18 species in the wide-ranging genus Elatophilus Reuter. Five species are known predators of species of the scale genus Matsucoccus Cockerell. Several species of Elatophilus occur outside the range of Matsucoccus, suggesting other prey besides Matsucoccus may be involved, perhaps aphids.
25010279|Eubetia, new genus, is described and illustrated from Central and South America. The new genus includes two species: E. bigaulae, new species, (type species) from Venezuela, and E. boop, new species, from Costa Rica. Adults are superficially most similar to Anopina Obraztsov and Odonthalitus Razowski; male genitalia are most similar to Anopinella Powell. The male of E. bigaulae possesses a preponderance of putative secondary sexual characters, including the typical euliine foreleg hairpencil, a swollen area near the base of the forewing costa, a dense patch of elongate androconial scales on the lower surface of the forewing, modified scales in the anal and costal regions of the hindwing, and a band of specialized scales at the terminal edge of abdominal segment IX. In addition, the male of this species has an unusual row of dense, ascending scales on the lower frons, and forewing veins
25010200|A discussion is presented suggesting the transfer of Coscinocephalus from the Cyclocephalini to the Pentodontini. Coscinocephalus tepehuanus is described as new, based on immature and adult forms, from Durango state, Mexico. A key to the third-stage larvae of nine genera of American Pentodontini is presented. Finally, a brief commentary is given about life history information. /// Se presenta una discusin para justificar la transferencia del gnero Coscinocephalus de la tribu Cyclocephalini a la tribu Pentodontini. Se describe Coscinocephalus tepehuanus n. sp. con base en 6 adultos, as como su larva de tercer estadio y la pupa, recolectados en un bosque de pinos y encinos del estado de Durango, Mxico. Se incluyen: una clave para separar las dos especies conocidas del gnero, una clave para las larvas de tercer estadio de 9 gneros de Pentodontini americanos y un comentario breve sobre los hbitos de estas especies.
25008766|The cotton stainer, Dysdercus koenigii Fabr., is an important pest of cotton. By feeding on half opened cotton bolls and seeds, the oil content and seed viability is reduced and the excreta of the insect spoils the cotton lint. Eggs are oval, smooth, creamy yellow in color with an average incubation period of 6.18 days. The period of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth instars are from 3 to 4, 3 to 4, 3 to 5, 6 to 8 and 12 to 16 days, respectively. The adults live from 9 to 25 days and the life cycle extends from 51 to 61 days. This bug is present throughout the year and also feeds on okra, hollyhock, eggplant and other malvaceous plants. The alternate hosts reported for the first time are falsa, rohan and eggplant.
25010224|Protomachilinus NEW SUBGENUS, M. (P.) mexicanus NEW SPECIES and M. (P.) oaxacensis NEW SPECIES are described. The new subgenus is more plesiomorphic than any of the other three subgenera of Machilinus. Ecological and biogeographical aspects of the genus are discussed.
25009359|To promote interest in the detection of exotic insects, we provide a list of species accidentally introduced to North America and reported since 1970 as new to the Western Hemisphere, United States, or Canada. The area of detection is limited to eastern Canada (Ontario, Quebec, Newfoundland, and the Maritime Provinces) and the U.S. from Maine to Virginia and west to Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Included for each immigrant species are the country or area of probable origin, collection data relating to detection, host and habitat preferences (if known) in the area of endemism, economic importance in North America, and subsequent references to distribution or habits in North America. The list includes 70 species new to the Western Hemisphere; 6, to the United States; and 7, to Canada. The 70 insects new to the Western Hemisphere include 22 Coleoptera, 14 Hemiptera-Heteroptera, 10 Hymenoptera, 7 Lepidoptera, 7 Diptera, 6 Hemiptera-Homoptera, and 1 each for Dictyoptera, Psocoptera, Thysanoptera, and Neuroptera.
25010095|A new genus, Etapocanga, and two new species of Alticinae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae), Etapocanga pysuna and Etapocanga consejera from Amazonian South America are described and illustrated. /// Se describe y illustra un nuevo gnero, Etapocanga, y dos especies nuevas de Alticinae (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) de Amrica amaznica.
25010385|A recently-published phylogenetic tree, constructed using the neighbor-joining algorithm, summarized relationships among 37 species of Coleoptera (Insecta) indicated by a 400 base pair region of the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I gene. This study included sequences from four species of the family Coccinellidae. The relationships of the four coccinellids indicated by the published neighbor-joining tree are congruent with current hypotheses of their relationships based on adult, larval, and pupal morphology. However, re-analysis of the molecular sequences for these taxa using standard parsimony methods reveals a more complex situation in which the use of different outgroups and different tree-searching algorithms yields strikingly different topologies, many of which do not correspond to the pattern of relationships derived from morphological data. These sequences may simply be too variable and too highly convergent to accurately reflect the phylogenetic history of Coccinellidae.
25009492|The new plant bug Phytocoris adenostomae is described from southern California where it breeds on Adenostoma sparsifolium Torr. (Rosaceae). The male genitalic structures are figured, and a photograph of the adult male and scanning electron micrograph of the dorsal vestiture are provided.
25009925|The pentatomid genus Arocera Spinola sensu lato is divided into two genera, one of which, Rhyssocephala, is described as new. Arocera colombiana McDonald, A. inmaculata (Pirn), A. principalis (Stl), A. rufolimbata Stl, A. rufonotata Stl, A. splendens (Blanchard), and A. verdana McDonald are all transferred to Rhyssocephala. Diagnoses are provided for all previously described species. Three new species are described: R. ecuadoriensis from Ecuador, R. mcdonaldi from Panama and northwestern South America, and R. infuscata from Mexico and Central America. Arocera colombiana McDonald, 1984, is placed as a junior synonym of Pentatoma principalis Stl, 1855. A lectotype designation is made for A. rufonotata Stl, 1861. A key to the genera that include species similar in color to Arocera and Rhyssocephala is given, as well as a key to species of Rhyssocephala.
25010546|Argiolestes kula n. sp. is described from eastern New Guinea and nearby offshore islands (Sariba, Basilaki, Fergusson), and a comparison is provided to the closely related species Argiolestes sidonia Martin. Figures of the male abdominal appendages, wing venation and breeding habitat are provided, accompanied by a distribution map. A checklist of Argiolestes species is also included.
25010287|The new genera Acutifromiris, Cephalomiroides, and Scutellograndis are described to accommodate four new species of Miridae from South America and the incertae sedis species, Eurychilopterella acutifrons Carvalho. The structures of the male genitalia are illustrated for all species and dorsal habitus views are given for selected species. Scanning electron micrographs of the head and pronotum, metathoracic scent efferent system, and the pretarsus are also provided. The relationships of Acutifromiris, Cephalomiroides, and Scutellograndris to other New World Deraeocorini genera are discussed.
25009468|A laboratory strain of Brachymeria intermedia (Nees), which has been in culture for several years and a field strain were examined for differences in parasitic activity. The gypsy moth pupae were exposed to the wasp for 30, 60, 90 and 120 min. In the latter three time periods the laboratory strain visited significantly more hosts than the field strain. In the two shortest time periods the field strain parasitized significantly more hosts. However, total mortality was the same for both strains. Possible reasons for the similarity in mortality are discussed.
25009859|Discocoris imperialis, recorded as occurring on the infructescences of the palm Socratea montana R. Bernal & A. Henderson, and of nearly twice the length of previously known species of the genus, is newly described from Colombia. Scanning electron micrographs are presented of the pretarsus, head, and nymphal abdominal scent glands.
25009573|Hypsochila wagenknechti wagenknechti from Chile is pivotal in the phylogenetic interpretation of the Andean Pierini because the adult appears to present a mixture of Tatochila- and Phulia-like characters. Its egg, larva, pupa, and aspects of its behavior and ecology are here described. Morphologically, the early stages are more like Tatochila than Phulia, but show some approach to the aberrant features of Phulia and Pierphulia in that the larva fails to eat its eggshell, is sluggish and rests on a silken mat, and the pupa is more rounded than any Tatochila yet described. The species is a Crucifer feeder, like Phulia and three of the five species-groups of Tatochila, but is unique among known Pierini of the region in laying small clutches of eggs.
25009341|Lygaeus kalmii Stl, the small milkweed bug, often is considered a milkweed specialist. A review of recent literature and observations of nymphs and adults on composites (Asteraceae) and plants of other families in Missouri, Pennsylvania, and West Virginia show that L. kalmii uses various food sources. The feeding strategies of this lygaeid are briefly compared with those of Oncopeltus fasciatus (Dallas), a lygaeine restricted to milkweeds and related plants, and the Palearctic Lygaeus equestris (L.), which prefers asclepiads but feeds on plants of numerous families.
25009895|A new species from Peru, Antiteuchus ruckesi, is described in the incurvia species-group of the nominate subgenus.
25009296|The seasonal flight of the cranberry girdler, Chrysoteuchia topiaria (Zeller) was monitored with pheromone traps for 3 years. Daily trap captures averaged at 5-day intervals were a better indicator of seasonal flight than single-day catches. Peak flight occurred at different calendar dates but was close to the mean summation of heat units (857C degree-days) for 3 years. More than 90 percent of the flight period occurred within 30-35 calendar days. Even though pheromone traps measured both flight activity and population density, a combination of pheromone trap data and cumulative heat units provided a reasonable estimate of the seasonal abundance of adults, excluding data obtained during periods of cool rainy weather.
25008793|The tracheal system of the larvae of eight species of the family Bruchidae were studied with reference to its taxonomic importance. Differences in the arrangement of the tracheal branches in the anterior region of the body and in the number of the air sacs at the subfamily level were observed. The species studied were Callosobruchus maculatus (F.), Callosobruchus analis (F.), Bruchidius saundersi (Jek.), Bruchidius albizziae Arora, Bruchus pisorum L., Zabrotes subfasciatus (Boh.), Caryedon gonagra (F.) and Caryedon languidus Gyll.
25008953|The responses of workers of the army ant Neivamyrmex nigrescens to illumination and to the presence of conspecifics were compared during the nomadic and statary phases. During the statary phase the ants were more photonegative and exhibited a stronger tendency to cluster together than during the nomadic phase. It is hypothesized that these differences in the ants' orientation are caused by corresponding changes in the level of the colony excitation during the two phases of each behavioral cycle.
25010192|The type specimens representing most of the New World species of Scutelleridae proposed by Dallas, Distant, Walker, and Westwood were examined for generic placement. A list of correctly placed species and a list of species currently considered junior synonyms are given. New combinations and synonymy are proposed when appropriate. The following new combinations are proposed: Acantholomidea porosa (Germar) from Camirus; Camirus divergens (Walker) from Chelysoma; Coptochilus neotropicalis (Distant) from Chelyschema; Diolcus cassidoides (Walker) from Ascanius; and Testrina wolfii (Fabricius) from Chelyschema. The following new synonymy is recognized: Chelysomidea Lattin junior synonym of Orsilochides Kirkaldy; Chelyschema vittata (Walker), junior synonym of Chelyschema trinotata (Walker); Chelysoma bajulans (Distant), junior synonym of Dystus puberulus Stl; Chelysoma diversa (Distant), junior synonym of Orsilochides scurrilis (Stl); Testrina laticollis Walker, junior synonym of Testrina wolfii (Fabricius); Homaemus fumeus Distant and Homaemus retostus Distant, junior synonyms of Homaemus proteus Stl; Symphylus amazonicus Kirkaldy, junior synonym of Symphylus devexus Walker. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for Symphylus vittatus Walker and Homaemus fumeus Distant. Lectotypes are designated for Augocoris gigas Westwood and Camirus pullatus Distant.
25009931|Observations of oviposition by apple blotch leafminer moths, Phyllonorycter crataegella (Clemens), on apple foliage in the field and in the laboratory indicated oviposition occurred solely on the undersides of leaves, and primarily on the middle third of the leaf (between petiole and apical tip), midway between the mid-vein and margin. A stereotypical sequence of events lasting ca. 1 min was observed prior to egg deposition. This included walking while tapping the leaf underside with the antennae, probing a small area (ca. 1 ${\rm cm}^{2}$) of the leaf with the ovipositor, and violent side-to-side shaking of the abdomen at egg deposition. Results of choice tests in the laboratory suggest apple blotch leafminer moths do not discriminate against oviposition sites previously occupied by freshly deposited conspecific eggs. Our results indicate commercial apple growers may improve control of this pest by applying adulticides just prior to or during the first warm, calm evening in early spring when foliage and leafminer adults are present.
25006089|Males of this thecline butterfly occupied a perch site during midday hours, flying out at insects which passed nearby. Mating occurred after 3:00 PM., and pairs remained in copulo until after dark, usually 4-6 hours. Both unmated males and pairs after separation remained at the perch site overnight, leaving by 8:00 or 9:00 A.M. The principal perch site under observation was occupied by successive males over periods of several days each, and these occupants mated with different females each day. Sixteen days longevity and five matings were the maxima observed for marked males. Details of mating, territorial, and sunning behavior are described.
25008875|Existence of artifacts and mimics of DDT and certain other organochlorines has been demonstrated by a few investigators over a period of eight years. This paper is a selective review of relevant world literature by these investigators. The presence of such artifacts (extraneous substance occuring in nature) and mimics (simulants) had theretofore been obscured by interferences. It was determined that such interferences are inherent in the early colorimetric and total chlorine analytical methods employed prior to the advent of the gas-liquid chromatograph. Such artifacts and mimics are masked by DDT if DDT is present. They give identical analytical reactions as DDT when the two pioneer analytical methods are used. It was disclosed in 1966 that polychlorinated biphenyls are widespread in the ecosystem. Also, PCBs were found to simulate DDT. This discovery negated the putative data that were the basis for previous alleged sensational charges against DDT. Included herein are illustrations of charts obtained from gas-liquid chromatographic analysis of pre-DDT origin soil and of PCBs. These show the presence of artifacts and mimics. The implications of these findings in view of the hazards attributed to DDT are also discussed.
25010397|For the first time, data on the habitat, feeding habits, and immature stages of Spalacocoris sulcifer are reported. This insect is unusual in living in tunnels of ginger plant stems.
25009162|Eighty species of insects, including 15 crop pests and 8 pollinators, are associated with Potentilla norvegica L. and P. recta L. in the northeastern United States. Among the pests are the strawberry root weevil, Otiorhynchus ovatus (L.), and the strawberry aphid, Chaetosiphon fragaefolii (Cockerell). A biological control program using insects against these weeds would be difficult due to the close genetic relationship between strawberries and cinquefoils, and probable consequent attractiveness of Fragaria to phytophagous insects that attack Potentilla.
25010122|The baetid mayfly genus Fallceon is currently known from Central America, the Greater Antilles, Mexico, and the United States, and includes eleven nominal species: F. alcarrazae, new combination, F. eatoni, F. fortipalpus, new species, F. garcianus, F. longifolius, new combination, F. nikitai, F. planifrons, new combination, F. poeyi, F. quilleri, F. sextus, new combination, and F. testudineus, new combination. Larvae belonging to the genus include species with consistent mouthpart morphology but variable with respect to development of a cephalic frontal keel and subapical tarsal claw setae. Caribaetis, originally considered a Cuban subgenus of Baetis, is shown to be a synonym of Fallceon. Baetis sonora is shown to be a synonym of Fallceon quilleri. Fallceon fortipalpus is described from the egg and larval stages. Larvae of F. longifolius, F. planifrons, and F. quilleri are redescribed, and the egg of F. quilleri is described for the first time. Fallceon longifolius is reported from continental North America (Mexico) for the first time. A key to the known larvae of Fallceon is provided.
25008861|This paper discusses various aspects of life cycle and natural history for the neotropical butterfly, Phyciodes (Eresia) eutropia (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae) as studied in the field at a mountain wet forest locality in central Costa Rica, and in the laboratory. Emphasis is placed on a description of life stages, larval food plant record, habitat selection by adults for egg laying, courtship, and mimetic interaction with other butterflies. The behavior of larvae associated with feeding and defense was also observed under field conditions. It was found that the early stages are very cryptic in coloration and this morphological crypsis is accompanied by various forms of cryptic behavior in the larvae (concealment, curling-up movement, etc.). The egg-adult developmental time in the laboratory is about 46 days when larvae are reared on cuttings of the natural food plant, Pilea pittieri (Urticaceae). Eggs are laid in large clusters on the ventral sides of leaves of this food plant, and although this plant occurs in both dark red and light green forms, females exhibit strong preference for laying eggs on dark plants. Oviposition is generally confined to heavily shaded river bottom forest where the food plant is abundant, but other aspects of reproductive behavior occur in sunlit alleys and corridors of secondary growth. There may also be mimetic association with Ithomia heraldica (Ithomiidae) here. If this is the case, then it is likely that P. eutropia is a Batesian mimic of I. heraldica since observations on the appearance and behavior of immatures in the former butterfly suggest palatability.
25008963|Species of the genus Endeodes are known only from the seashore of Pacific North America. E. fasciatus, E. rothi and E. intermedius, n. spp., are from the upper Gulf of California. A tabular key to the nine known species is given. The pronotum and elytron of each species is illustrated.
25008899|Observations on the life cycle and natural history of Philaethria dido dido (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae: Heliconiinae) as studied in northeastern Costa Rica are summarized. Emphasis is placed on: (1) additional descriptions of life stages, (2) a larval food plant record (Passiflora vitifolia-Passifloraceae), (3) developmental time in the laboratory (37-39 days), and (4) various behavior patterns associated with oviposition and larval development. These data and other information from the literature are discussed from the standpoint that P. dido is a specialized insect of tropical rain forests and that it has a widespread but strongly localized geographical distribution pattern in Central and South America.
25000075|The complete life cycle of Hamadryas amphinome L. is presented in this article with photographic illustrations, with a record of the foodplant exploited by the larvae in El Salvador, Dalechampia scandens L., and an account of the larval and adult behavior. This species apparently is the most evolved of the Hamadryas complex as evidenced by the notable deviations from the behavior of the other species studied: H. februa and H. guatemalena, which are solitary during all phases of the metamorphosis, and H. amphinome, which is gregarious in the larval stage and shows consistent group behavior of the adults. Emphasis is made of the behavioral adaptations the different species of the genus have gone through which gradually change from fully solitary to fully gregarious larval habits.
25006143|These beetles have been previously known in the genus Anoplitis Kirby; in this study the name is changed to Sumitrosis Butte, because Anoplitis is a junior synonym of Chalepus Thunberg. This synonymy is necessary because their types are congeneric. All names previously designated therefore represent new combinations. The 55 species from the Junk Catalogue, (Uhmann, 1957 and 1964) are now transferred to this genus. Six species compose the genus Sumitrosis in the region under consideration. These are ancoroides (Schaeffer), arnetti a new species, inaequalis (Weber), lateritia (Smith), pallescens (Baly) a new record in the United States, and rosea (Weber). Descriptions of the species are given, together with the complete list of references, and key to the species is presented. Distributional data and maps are included for each, as are illustrations of the male genitalia.
25006135|Twenty-nine additional species, subspecies, and named aberrations with their food plants are here added to the Supplemental List of Macrolepidoptera of New Jersey which was published in 1965.
25010513|Re-examination of the "pronotal gland," which is possibly synapomorphic for Saicinae and part of Emesinae (Reduviidae), showed that this structure comprises a pronotal depression and an interior process, but lacks glandular units. Observation of Reduviidae other than Emesinae and Saicinae, and non-reduviid Cimicomorpha demonstrated the presence of a homologous structure in a wide range of taxa. Dissections of prothoracic muscles in Panstrongylus herreri (Triatominae, Reduviidae) established the relationship of three thoracic muscles with the interior process, which represents an apophysis, and not a gland. Based on those observations, the hypothesis of a closer relationship of only part of Emesinae with Saicinae due to the presence of a "pronotal gland" seems unjustified.
25009175|An outbreak of the herbivorous beetle Uroplata sp. (Chrysomelidae) on the tree Bunchosia pilosa H.B.K. (Malpighiaceae) in the central highlands of Costa Rica is described. During the early phase (June) of the rainy season, adult beetles were abundant on leaves of lower branches, where they feed by stripping away tissue from the upper side of leaves. Immature stages of the beetle were not seen, nor was any mating activity observed during the morning hours. Beetles do not feed on the very pilose undersides of the leaves. No other herbivores were seen. As the rainy season advances, the Uroplata infestation spreads into the upper portions of the tree, perhaps as a response to increasing adult density and depletion of food supply in the lower region. Infestations were large during June and July (1974) but diminished by August. The phenomenon of population outbreaks in tropical herbivorous insects is discussed.
25010444|Savius terrabanus, new species (Costa Rica), Scamurius goianus, new species (Brazil) and Scamurius pucalpanensis, new species (Peru) are described and placed in the coreid tribe Discogastrini. Details of antennae, pronotum, male genital capsule and parameres are illustrated. New localities are given for Savius diversicornis.
25010491|Paradiglotta nunni new genus, new species (type locality Avamoana Split, New Zealand) is described, and habitus and line illustrations are provided for its recognition. The unusual features of this taxon are outlined and its tribal affinities are discussed. Paradiglotta is the first member of the tribe Diglottini known from New Zealand. The similarities and differences between Paradiglotta and Diglotta Champion are discussed.
25005892|Describes Bergrothiessa paranensis, Kormilevia gerali, Notoplocoris ovatus, Pictinus rhombocarinatus, and Notapictinus micropterus, five new species from Brazil.
25009711|Seasonal history and habits are presented for Rhopalus (Brachycarenus) tigrinus Schilling, based mainly on observations made in Pennsylvania during 1980-1984. Nymphs and adults of this multivoltine Palearctic rhopalid recently recorded in eastern North America feed on reproductive structures of crucifers. Developmental times of the immature stages and data on premating period, fecundity, and longevity are given. The egg and nymphal stages are described, and scanning electron photomicrographs are provided for the egg and instars I-II and V.
25010556|Species of the genus Mecyclothorax Sharp, 1903 from the island of Molokai, Hawaii are taxonomically revised. The Molokai fauna constitutes 43 recognized species, 24 newly described: M. polhemusi, new species; M. dunbarorum, new species; M. impunctatus, new species; M. debiliceps, new species; M. convexus, new species; M. subsinuatus, new species; M. subater, new species; M. trisetifer, new species; M. annae, new species; M. joni, new species; M. lisae, new species; M. lissopterus, new species; M. arcuatus, new species; M. latus, new species; M. abax, new species, M. ewingi, new species; M. latissimus, new species; M. punctatostriatus, new species; M. flavolateralis, new species; M. obscurus, new species; M. comma, new species; M. stenolophinus, new species; M. granulatus, new species; and M. cymindoides, new species. Mecyclothorax quadratus Britton is newly synonymized with M. argutor (Sharp). Various species are congruently distributed on Kamakou Volcano, allowing recognition of two areas of endemism, one to the west encompassing Kamakou and Olokui peaks, the second to the east spanning the areas from Wailau and Puu Lua to Puu Ohelo and Kainalu Gulch. Representatives of several hypothesized species pairs mutually occupy the two areas of endemism adding rigor to definition of the areas. Whereas the western Kamakou-Olokui area of endemism encompasses the State of Hawaii's Puu Alii and Olokui Natural Area Reserves and the Kamakou Preserve of The Nature Conservancy of Hawaii, the eastern Wailau-Puu Ohelo area of endemism is not comprehensively managed for conservation. Twelve of the 14 species residing in the eastern area of endemism are newly described, indicating the preliminary state of knowledge regarding the fauna of this area. Of those 12 new species, 9 are geographically restricted to the eastern area. This level of endemic richness is proposed as a criterion that justifies establishment of a comprehensive conservation plan for eastern Molokai, thereby ensuring sustainability of its distinct native forest communities. Two of the species, M. lissopterus and M. arcuatus, are cryptic sibling species, diagnosable only by configurations of the male aedeagal median lobe and female bursa copulatrix. The magnitude of the male median lobe in the two species is positively associated with size of the bursa copulatrix in females of the two species. Aedeagal and bursal configurations do not vary infraspecifically. Available evidence points most parsimoniously to origin of derived states in one of these species via developmental changes in genitalic anlagen common to the sexes, differentially expressed in males and females. Such a mechanism assumes homologous transformation of the male aedeagal median lobe and female bursa copulatrix, and removes the need to invoke more complicated hypotheses involving sexual selection.
25010033|The cladistic relationships among Tenebrionidae of the subfamily Pimeliinae (=Tentyriinae of authors) are analyzed based on 84 characters examined over 60 adult tribal or generic level taxa. Features of the mouthparts, coxal articulations, ovipositor and internal female reproductive tract are highly variable and important in determining cladistic topology. Nearly all the characters employed display extensive homoplasy, especially convergence, resulting in relatively low measures of consistency of the cladograms. Deletion of less consistent characters results in loss of cladistic detail, however, without significantly improving overall consistency, indicating that even the least consistent features are cladistically meaningful. The female reproductive tract, which shows exceptional variation that is strongly correlated with cladistic position, is illustrated extensively. Primitively the female tract comprises a bursa copulatrix and accessory gland without a separate spermatheca, as in some Cnemeplatiini and Pimeliini. Most other Pimeliinae may be placed into one of five clades based on configuration of the female tract. In most members of the cnemeplatiine-stenosine clade a capsular or short tubular spermatheca and a short, saccate gland open into the vagina through a common duct. In the pimeliine clade one to several tubular spermathecae and a tubular gland open independently into the vagina or bursa copulatrix. In several taxa of this clade the spermatheca is poorly defined or absent. The asidine clade is characterized by multiple, long, slender spermathecal tubes which open as a fascicle into the base of the accessory gland duct or into the vagina near the duct. A bursa copulatrix is absent. In the eurymetopine clade multiple, slender, tubular spermathecae are attached serially to the base of the accessory gland duct. A bursa copulatrix is often retained. In the tentyriine clade the bursa is modified to form one to several thick, tapering annulate spermathecal chambers. The accessory gland opens into one of the chambers or into the vagina. A number of tribes or genera, including Zolodinini, Falsomycterini, Boromorphini, Lachnogyini, Anepsiini, Vacronini, Nyctoporini and Cryptoglossini do not fit into any of the major clades, because they either display mostly primitive features or discordant combinations of features from different clades. The following taxonomic changes are indicated. Alaudes Horn is transferred to Cnemeplatiini; Araeoschizini and Typhlusechini are synonymized under Stenosini; Falsomycterini, containing Falsomycterus Pic and Pteroctenus Kirsch, merits recognition as a separate tribe of uncertain relationship; Boromorphini (Boromorphus) merits tribal status (probably near Caenocrypticini); Platyopini is synonymized under Pimeliini; Calognathini and Vansoniini should be placed in synonymy under Cryptochilini; Elenophorini should be retained to include Elenophorus Latreille, Megelenophorus Gebien and Psammetichus Latreille; Craniotini is synonymized under Asidini; Epitragini is restricted to its new world components; Old World genera previously placed in Epitragini belong in Tentyriini; Edrotini, Triorophini, Trientomini, Auchmobiini and Trimytini are synonymized under Eurymetopini; Salax Gurin, Trilobocara Solier, Megalophrys Waterhouse, Eremoecus Lacordaire and Derosalax Gebien are separated as the tribe Trilobocarini Lacordaire; Orthonychius Gebien is a junior synonym of Trilobocara. Pseudothinobatis Freude is transferred from Thinobatini to Epitragini. Ascelosodis Redtenbacher is transferred from Tentyriini to Eurymetopini, Achanius Erichson and Ambigatus Fairmaire are transferred from Evaniosomini to Eurymetopini. Three genera are removed from Pimeliinae: Eschatoporis Blaisdell is transferred from Cryptoglossini to Goniaderini; Ammophorus Gurin from Nyctoporini to Scotobiini; and Phtora (Germar) mistakenly included in Pimeliinae by Doyen and Lawrence (1979) to Phaleriini.
25010495|Torleya larvae are distinguished from other Ephemerellidae by characteristics associated with the legs, gills, and abdominal terga, and male adults are distinguished by genitalia. We recognize eight valid Torleya species from the Palearctic and Oriental Regions. Seven of these eight species are known as larvae and adults; only the adults of T. lutosa Kang and Yang are not known. We include new synonyms for T. major (Klaplek, 1905) (= T. nazarita Alba-Tercedor and Derka, 2003, new synonym) and T. nepalica Allen and Edmunds, 1963 (= T. glareosa Kang and Yang, 1995, new synonym; = Serratella tumiforceps Zhou and Su, 1997, new synonym; = T. arenosa Tong and Dudgeon, 2000, new synonym). Larvae of T. grandipennis Zhou, Su, and Gui are described for the first time and have maxillae with or without minute palps, paired large spines on abdominal terga, and enlarged posterolateral projections on abdominal segments 3-9 or 4-9. The first description of the larva of T. japonica (Gose) is given and shows them to be distinguished by mouthparts and abdominal armature. Torleya naga Jacobus and McCafferty new species, is described from larvae, eggs, and a male adult; it is known from Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The male adult is distinguished by genitalia, caudal filaments, and abdominal color. Larvae are distinguished by having rows of spatulate setae on the head and numerous setae on the abdominal sterna. Eggs of T. naga are distinguished by having relatively thin reticulations.
25010169|Mexican and Central American species of the staphylinid genus Gansia are revised, and descriptions, keys and illustrations are provided for their identification. Lectotypes and paralectotypes are designated for the previously described species G. bicolor Sharp, 1883 and G. tibialis Sharp, 1883. The following species are described as new: Gansia andersoni Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Mxico, Chiapas, Volcn Tacan, 4 km N Union Juarez); Gansia bipictanota Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix); Gansia flavata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Mxico, Guerrero, 63.2 km NE Atoyac de Alvarez); Gansia fortemaculata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Honduras, Olancho Prov., La Muralla, 14 km N La Union); Gansia obscura Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Costa Rica: Guanacaste Prov., Cacao Biol. Sta.); Gansia tachynota Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix); Gansia taeniata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Panam Prov., 6.9 km S. Gamboa, Old Plantation Rd.); Gansia tergopunctata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., La Fortuna, "Cont. Div. Trail"); Gansia unizonata Ashe and Lingafelter (type locality: Panam, Chiriqu Prov., 20.4 km N San Felix). Evidence is provided that members of Gansia primarily occur in the rotting and fermenting leaves of treefalls and similar habitats where they feed on fungal hyphae and molds.
25010155|The name Gynaikothrips ficorum is retained for the leaf-galling thrips species on decorative Ficus trees that has been distributed worldwide by the horticultural trade. Observations on this species and the closely similar species Gynaikothrips uzeli suggest that they are largely distinct and host-limited, although co-existing in Southeast Asia even within a single gall.
25009637|The effect of three densities (1, 5, 10 plants/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$) of Ambrosia trifida L., a serious weed of row crops in North America and Eurasia, on seed oviposition by Euaresta festiva (Loew) was measured at three heights above the soil surface. The total number of seeds produced by each plant increased as height above the soil surface increased at densities of 1 and 5 plants/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$. The total number of seeds produced was greatest at 1 plant/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$. The number of seeds containing larvae expressed as either a percentage of total seeds or percentage of viable seeds was greatest at the 5 plant/2 ${\rm m}^{2}$ density. The implications of these results regarding the establishment of biological weed control strategies for A. trifida are discussed.
25008923|Tenuicoris myrmeforme is described as a new genus and new species from Bolivia, Peru, and Brazil. Ant-mimetic characteristics are noted. The relationships of the genus are stated to be with such neotropical species as Heraeus cincticornis Stl. A dorsal view of the holotype is presented.
25000073|Observations carried on in the neighborhood of San Salvador since 1970 on eggs, larvae, pupae and adults of Hamadryas februa Hbner are presented, giving an account of the early stage characteristics and developmental times, with photographic illustrations. The foodplants of this and related species are recorded for El Salvador. The behavior of the species is compared with the behavior of other local and South American Hamadryas spp. emphasizing the progressive change from solitary to gregarious behavior which the whole group exhibits, with the corresponding adaptations that such a change requires. Impalatability of the species to predators is suggested by the larval foodplant characteristics and the typical non-palatable way the larvae behave.
25010369|The Nerthra alaticollis species-group is defined as a monophyletic group on the basis of wing and genitalic characters. Two new species are described: Nerthra appha n. sp. and N. polhemi n.sp. Nerthra membranacea Nieser is recognized as a junior synonym of N. adspersa. Nerthra tuberculata (Montandon) and N. praecipua Todd are removed from the alaticollis species-group. Nine species are assigned to the species-group, and all species are described with illustrations. A phylogeny of species is provided.
25006051|The digestive and reproductive systems of Pseudomeloe miniaceomaculata (Blanchard) has been described. On the basis of such internal anatomical features as V-shaped folds in the stomodaeal intima, absence of a basal spermathecal diverticulum, a tubular female accessory gland, an irregularly convoluted first pair and a recurved or bent second pair of male accessory glands, this genus is placed in the tribe Eupomphini of the subfamily Meloinae. The inclusion of Pseudomeloe in Eupomphini now extends the distribution of this tribe to South America as well.
25010276|The discovery of a new species of Scydmaenidae (Coleoptera) from Hainan Island, People's Republic of China (hereafter as China), prompted this review of the East Asian Scydmaenidae. Scydmaenus hainanensis O'Keefe, n. sp., from Mt. Wu-Zhi-Shan, is the first species of Scydmaenidae described from Hainan Island and the seventh species of Scydmaenus Latreille described from China. Illustrations of the habitus, antenna, and male genitalia for S. hainanensis, a discussion of its relationship to other Scydmaenus, and a key to the Scydmaenus of China are included. A catalog of the species of eastern Asia and a discussion of their relationships to the scydmaenid fauna of other regions are presented.
25005902|Two lots of Aradidae: one from Jamaica, and another from Chile have been studied. Only two species of Aradidae were known from Jamaica, both macropterous. In the lot received from Dr. Thomas H. Farr were represented five species, of which three were new. The new species are: Rhysocoris jamaicensis n.sp., apterous Atactocoris farri n.g., n.sp., also apterous and Mezira brachyptera n.sp., brachypterous. Only three species of Aradidae were known from Chile. In the lot received from Dr. Robert L. Usinger were five specimens of a new genus and new species of the subfamily Prosympiestinae, known only from New Zealand, Australia, and Tasmania. They were named Llaimacorsis penai n.g., n.sp.
25009173|The authors studied Alloxysta megourae (Ashmead), a hyperparasitoid of the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris). Larval, prepupal, and pupal stages of the primary parasitoid (Aphidius smithi) found in non-mummified aphids are attacked by A. megourae. Several aspects of A. megourae development within its host differ from those described in other species of Alloxysta. The sensory structures on the tip of the ovipositor of A. megourae are described.
25009891|Two new species of Nearctic Chloroperlidae are described: Sweltsa voshelli from Virginia and Suwallia wardi from Colorado. A key is provided for the identification of adult males of the eastern Nearctic species of Sweltsa.
25009848|In northern Florida, Brachyserphus barberi was observed as a solitary internal parasitoid of larvae of the fungus beetle Mycetophagus melsheimeri. Mature larvae of the parasitoid emerge through the intersegmental membrane of the abdomen of the host larva and pupate within about 3 days; adult emergence occurs approximately 6-7 days after pupation. A review of the distribution and biology of the parasitoid and host is provided, and beetle host records of world species of Brachyserphus are summarized.
25009596|The new genus Americabrya is proposed for the three New World species formerly placed in Janetschekbrya Yosii. This taxon is differentiated from Janetschekbrya by scale structure and its less abundant head and body macrochaetotaxy. Americabrya arida is reported for the first time from Mexico and is redescribed. Although the various Mexican populations of this species differ considerably in pigmentation and may belong to several species, no consistent morphological differences were detected between them, or with paratypes of A. arida. A few complementary notes to the original description of A. epiphyta are given based on a specimen from Peru. A key to the species of Americabrya is included.
25006106|The new species, Syarinus enhuycki, is described and compared with other known species of the genus. It is apparently widely distributed through the northern Appalachian mountain region.
25010393|A new genus and a new species of ceratophyllid flea is described from Chihuahua, Mexico, taken in the nests of the thick-billed parrot, Rhynchopsitta pachyrhyncha (Swainson, 1827). Diagnostic features of the taxon are illustrated. Observations on the nesting habits, and the endangered status of the host are discussed and the status of our knowledge of the ceratophyllid bird fleas is summarized.
25006127|Chretienia (with five included species) and Phanetoprepa (with three included species) are described as new genera, and Laspeyresia bengalica (Bengal), L. minuta (Bengal), and Phanetoprepa agenjoi (Spain) are proposed as new species.
25010202|Adults of Charoxus spinifer Frank, from Florida, USA are described and illustrated. They bring to six the number of species in this Neotropical genus which is here transferred to the tribe Athetini (Coleoptera: Staphylinidae: Aleocharinae). Adults of C. spinifer were collected at ultraviolet light at night, in flight before dusk, and in syconia (fruits) of Ficus aurea Nuttall and F. laevigata Vahl (F. citrifolia P. Miller sensu DeWolf 1960), two fig species native to Florida, before the fruits ripened and fell from the trees. They are associated in fig syconia with adults of fig-pollinating wasps (Agaonidae) and other hymenopterous inhabitants and have been observed to prey on the wasps.
25009830|Seven new species of Ozophora are described from the West Indies: hispaniola, testacea, caliginosa, darlingtoni and pusilla from Hispaniola, alayoi from Cuba and coleoptrata from several islands in the Bahamas and from the Caicos Islands. A discussion of species living in montane habitats on Hispaniola and of a flightless species from low elevations in the Turks and Caicos and Bahamas is included. Dorsal view figures are given for hispaniola and coleoptrata. Ozophora caroli Slater and Baranowski is reported from the West Indies for the first time, from Grand Cayman and Hispaniola. Ozophora cubensis Barbar is redescribed, corrections made in the labeling of the original type series, and variation and relationships discussed.
25009329|A new distribution record for Amblyomma americanum (L.) within northeastern New York State is established. Previous reports indicate this species was limited to extreme southeastern sections of the state. The finding of three adult ticks in Saratoga County increases the recorded distribution of this species.
25009165|The concept of the neotropical genus Bakeriella is broadened to include several species formerly included in Epyris. Three species are described as new: erythrogaster (Costa Rica), quadriceps (Colombia), and grandis (Costa Rica). Females of polita Evans and inconspicua Evans are described for the first time. Range extensions for several other species are given. The 18 known species collectively range from Florida and Central Mexico to Brazil and Argentina.
25010481|Five new species of Cerambycidae from Puerto Rico, Antilleptostylus guilartensis, Leptostylopsis guanica, Leptostylopsis yukiyu, Leptostylopsis monin, and Urgleptes borikensis are described. A new combination, Antilleptostylus brunneofasciatus (Fisher), and new synonymy, Leptostylopsis oakleyi (Fisher) = Leptostylopsis gundlachi (Fisher) are also proposed. Habitus figures of the new species, keys for separating the Puerto Rican species of Leptostylopsis Dillon and Urgleptes Dillon, a key and figures for separating the species of Antilleptostylus Gilmour, a figure to help in separating Leptostylopsis gundlachi Fisher and two new related species, and a figure of some typical elytral color pattern variations in Urgleptes borikensis are presented. /// Cinco especies nuevas, Antilleptostylus guilartensis, Leptostylopsis guanica, Leptostylopsis yukiyu, Leptostylopsis monin y Urgleptes borikensis se describen de Puerto Rico. Se presenta una nueva combinacin, Antilleptostylus brunneofasciatus (Fisher); y una nueva sinonimia, Leptostylopsis oakleyi (Fisher) = Leptostylopsis gundlachi (Fisher). Se incluyen ilustraciones de las especies nuevas, claves para separar las especies en Puerto Rico de Leptostylopsis Dillon y Urgleptes Dillon, clave y figuras para las especies del gnero Antilleptostylus Gilmour y otras figuras que sirven de ayuda para reconocer to diferenciar las especies.
25009914|The clasper and sperm reservoir of 50 species in 31 genera are described, and most are figured. The sperm reservoir, and to a lesser extent the clasper, exhibit a wide variety of form. A preliminary assessment of the taxonomic value of these structures indicates that they are important at several taxonomic levels. These structures are useful in distinguishing externally similar species. Synapomorphies in these structures indicate that some genera are monophyletic, but that other genera are clearly composite and in need of review. Genera are also combined into related groups based on putative apomorphic characters. Bocundostethus Scudder, Kinundastethus Scudder, and Microlugenocoris Scudder are transferred from the Lethaeini to the Antillocorini because they lack synapomorphies characteristic of the Lethaeini.
25010398|A nest of Vespula squamosa (Drury) is described including colony size, biomass, and ecological impact. This is the largest vespid nest described from North America to date.
25010075|The West Indian taxa of Coccidulini are reviewed, and a key to the genera is given. Two new species of Psorolyma Sicard, Psorolyma doyeni, n. sp., and Psorolyma baorucensis, n. sp., are described, a revised key to species is presented, and pertinent morphological structures are illustrated.
25010193|The composition and characterization of the ignava species group of Phyllophaga (s. str.) are reviewed, and two new species belonging to this group, P. invisa and P. rolstoni, are described from Texas. Genitalia are illustrated for each new species and enface views of the parameres are given for P. ignava (Horn) and P. idonea Sanderson, two previously described members of the group. The range, habitat, and flight periods in Texas are presented for each species belonging to the group. A lectotype is designated for P. ignava.
25006145|H. arenaria is reported for the first time from North America, with records from Florida and the Yucatan Peninsula. Among characters studied, the most important variation is in wing length. Floridian specimens are flightless and apparently well isolated from those of the West Indies and the Yucatan Peninsula. They also differ in habitat, being found in an intertidal situation rather than at or near the high tide line. Specimens from Quintana Roo are smaller, have fewer elytral setae, and have slightly reduced wings. The most probable routes of dispersal to both mainland areas have been from the Greater Antilles.
25009833|The family now contains 37 species in this region, including Aderus populneus (Panzer), apparently introduced from Europe. One new genus, Gymnoganascus (type-species G. stephani) is described. New generic synonymy is Aderus Westwood (=Phomalus Casey), Ariotus Casey (=Scanylus Casey), and Ganascus Casey (=Sandytes Casey). New species described are Elonus hesperus (Oklahoma, Missouri, Arizona), Gymnoganascus stephani (Oklahoma, Texas, Kentucky, Mexico, Cuba), Vanonus balteatus (Oklahoma, Texas, Kansas), V. macrops (Missouri), V. musculus (Oklahoma), V. oklahomensis (Oklahoma), V. uniformis (Florida to Arkansas), V. valgus (Oklahoma to Florida), Zonantes floridanus (Florida), Z. mississippiensis (Mississippi), Z. ouachitanus (Oklahoma), and Z. pallidus (Oklahoma to Florida and eastern Canada). New combinations are Aderus brunnipennis (LeConte), A. saginatus (Casey), A. tantillus (Champion), Ariotus luteolus (Casey), and Ganascus ptinoides (Schwarz). New specific synonymy is Pseudariotus notatus (LeConte) (=Pseudariotus amicus Casey), Elonus basalis (LeConte) (=Elonus princeps Casey), Emelinus melsheimeri (LeConte) (=Emelinus ashmeadi Casey), Ganascus ventricosus (LeConte) (=Ganascus opimus Casey, G. palliatus Casey), Vanonus huronicus Casey (=Tanilotes densus Casey), Vanonus piceus (LeConte) (=Xilophilus tuberculifer Hamilton, Vanonus congener Casey, V. fusciceps Casey), Vanonus sagax Casey (=V. floridanus Casey), Zonantes fasciatus (Melsheimer) (=Z. tricuspis Casey), and Zonantes hubbardi (Casey) (=Z. schwarzi Casey). Type-species are designated for the Casey genera Ariotus, Elonus, Emelinus, Ganascus, Phomalus, Pseudariotus, Tanilotes, Vanonus, and Zonantes. Lectotypes are selected for Axylophilus yuccae Casey; Euglenes signatus Haldeman; Ganascus palliatus Casey; Xilophilus tuberculifer Hamilton; Xylophilus brunnipennis LeConte, X. fasciatus LeConte, X. impressus LeConte, X. melsheimeri LeConte, X. nebulosus LeConte, X. piceus LeConte, X. ptinoides Schwarz, X. quercicola Schwarz, X. subfasciatus LeConte, and X. ventricosus LeConte; and Zonantes tricuspis Casey.
25005912|Descriptions are given for four species, two of which are new: Colpocephalum harterti from Mulleripicus pulverulentus harterti and C. pulverulenti from M. p. pulverulentus. Colpocephalum longicorne Rudow is synonymized with C. inaequale Burmeister.
25008954|Sixteen species of mites are reported associated with Popilius disjunctus (Illiger) (Coleoptera: Passalidae) in eastern United States. Two new species are described: Macrocheles disjunctus and M. whartoni. Changes in nomenclature are as follows: Cosmolaelaps passali Hunter and Mollin = C. trifidus (Pearse and Wharton), new synonymy and new combination; Dendrolaelaps passalorum (Pearse and Wharton), new combination. Diagnostic features, as well as distributional and biological information are given for most species.
25005962|Comparative studies of the transverse nerve suggest that the motor axons of this nerve to the spiracular muscles become incorporated in the lateral nerves in those insects in which a transverse nerve appears to be absent.
25010134|A new species of the polistine genus Agelaia Lepeletier is described, and its relationships to other species of the genus are discussed.
25008851|Cochliomyia macellaria, Phormia regina, and Drosophila melanogaster were highly susceptible to Octosporea muscaedomesticae. Hylemya antiqua, Phaenicia sericata, Musca autumnalis, and Muscina stabulans were slightly susceptible. Calliphora terraenovae, C. vicina, C. vomitoria, Lucilia illustris, Fannia scalaris, Haematobia irritans, Myospila meditabunda, and Stomoxys calcitrans were not susceptible. The significance of these findings is discussed.
25010516|Processina n. gen., belonging to the Cicadellinae (Cicadellidae), is described to contain two new species P. dashahensis n. sp. and P. taiwanana n. sp., collected from Guizhou Province and Taiwan respectively. The male genitalia are illustrated for each species, and a key to the 24 Chinese genera of the Cicadellinae is provided.
25005960|This paper reviews the classification of the North American Pieris "napi" species based upon androconial scales and lists geographically all names. A new name for the summer form Pieris narina mogollon is proposed.
25009623|A diagnosis and description for the genus Agroecus Dallas and diagnoses for all previously known species of the genus are given. Agroecus reticulatus, from Argentina, is described as new. A key to the species is provided. Agroecus tenebricosus Buckup, 1957, is placed in the synonymy of A. griseus Dallas, 1851, and lectotypes are designated for A. griseus, A. ecuadoriensis Jensen-Haarup, and Euschistus lizerianus Pennington.
25005911|Prepupal exuviae weigh 2.19, while those of the pupa 1.09 mg. Values for water content are 11.35 and 17.18%, respectively. In each case these means are statistically different. Nitrogen is approximately 10.7% of dry weight in each case. Lipid N (Fraction A), expressed as % total N, is 0.75 in prepupal and 0.66 in pupal exuviae. Water soluble N fractions (B soluble, and C insoluble in tungstic acid) are significantly lower in prepupal than in pupal exuviae. Values for B are 8.06 and 15.65; and for C, 1.19 and 2.92, respectively. Those for insoluble N (Fraction D) are 89.95 and 80.78, respectively.
25009687|Diagnoses are given for the genus Ablaptus Stl and the type species, A. amazonus Stl. Two new species, A. brevirostrum and A. tavakiliani, from Central America and French Guiana, respectively, are added to the previously monotypic genus.
25010118|The South American species of the ant genus Probolomyrmex are revised. Three species boliviensis, brujitae, new species, and petiolatae are recognized. The synonymy of angusticeps with boliviensis is confirmed. A key to the species is given.
25009421|A distinct propleural suture, well developed proepisternum and considerably reduced proepimeron are clearly represented in Pamphiliidae, Xyelidae, Argidae, Tenthredinidae, Diprionidae and Cimbicidae. In Cephidae, this suture has shifted slightly backward, thus, further reducing the area of proepimeron. In Xiphydridae, the backward shift is more pronounced and the posterior half of this suture has become marginal. In Siricidae, the entire propleural suture has become almost marginal and the epimeral area if any is in the form of a thickened posterior margin of propleural plate. In most of the apocritan families the same state is maintained. In Formicidae even the thickened posterior margin of propleuron is absent. These observations collectively help to establish a systematically changing pattern to which can be attached some evolutionary significance within the order Hymenoptera.
25005793|The following new species from Sikkim are defined: Gonomyia (Protogonomyia) clista; G. (P.) acustylata; G. (P.) distifurca; G. (P.) megalomata, and G. (P.) thiorhopala. An additional species, G. (P.) khasiana is from the Khasi Hills, Assam.
25009862|Canthonella howdeni, n. sp. and C. baorucensis, n. sp. are described from the Sierra de Baoruco of Pedernales Province, Dominican Republic. A key is provided to distinguish them from previously described West Indian congeners. Diagnostic characters of the head, labium, legs and male genitalia are illustrated for the new species and C. isabellae Matthews.
25009605|Ten species of Chimarra (Trichoptera: Philopotamidae) are recorded from eastern North America, three of which are described as new: C. falculata, C. holzenthali and C. parasocia. Illustrations of male genitalia of each species are presented along with notes on distribution, a discussion of variation a key to species, and a phylogeny for the species.
25006216|A beetle, Chlorida festiva (Cerambycidae), exhibited defensive behavior including: (1) motionless concealment, (2) stridulation, (3) "attack" with spined elytra, and (4) flight. This escape-attempt series is similar to that exhibited by many other insects, although the predatory pressures leading to its evolution have not yet been identified in this insular situation (Puerto Rico).
25006189|The subtribe Termitotelina is revised and the single included genus, Termitotelus, is redescribed and illustrated. The 1 previously described species is redescribed and the following 4 new species are described: T. sheasbyi, T. coatoni, T. niger, and T. neoschultzei, all from Cape Province, Republic of South Africa. A new subtribe, Hodoxenina, is proposed to contain a new genus, Hodoxenus, which is described. The single included species, H. sheasbyi, from Cape Province is described as new. All species are found with Microhodotermes viator. A summary of previously collected species from Hodotermitidae nests is presented.
25005930|Locality records of the West African sibling species Dapidodigma hymen Fabricius and D. demeter Clench are given and the distributions mapped and discussed, showing an area of sympatry from Ghana to Nigeria. The distribution, subspecies and characters of another two sibling species are given: Iolaus (Iolaus) eurisus Cramer (Sierra Leone to Nigeria) and I. vexillarius (Senegal to Gabon). Iolaus (Iolaus) bolissus Hewitson is divided into three subspecies: bolissus (western Congo), azureus (Cameroun, Liberia) and aurora (Uganda). Iolaus (Epamera) aphnaeoides aethes is described from Cameroun (the species previously was known only from eastern Africa).
25009367|The sexual behavior of whirligig beetles is more complex than has previously been described. Precopulatory mounting is a behavior pattern performed by males, and proleg-up is performed by females. These interactions are more in accord with the potential complexities of mate selection and sexual synchronization than earlier accounts of whirligig courtship behavior.
25006066|The occurrence of Epicordulia princeps (Hagen), a crespuscular dragonfly common to the central and northeastern United States, at a street light was studied on successive evenings from June 18 to July 4, 1966 (11:00 PM to 1:30 AM-CST) in Chicago, Illinois. Both sexes were usually present with males always predominating. Curiously, the dragonflies repeatedly aggregated (loosely) on a certain portion of the illuminated surface (of stone wall) throughout the study period. Dragonflies arrived and departed singly with either process usually being accomplished, for all individuals present, within 20 minutes. It was not clear if the dragonflies, when attracted to the light, were actually foraging or whether perched (resting) on nearby trees and other suitable resting sites. An anomalous behavior of curving the abdomen upwards when perched on the wall was observed.
25009597|Dr. Asa Fitch, the first professional entomologist appointed by a state legislature, described three tick species and what he questionably believed to be a fourth. These specimens have been rediscovered, and lectotypes have been designated.
25009297|The hesperiid butterfly Calpodes ethlius is very widely distributed in the subtropical and tropical regions of North, Central, and South America, where the larval stage is a specialized herbivore of various Cannaceae, mostly Canna. The larvae are known to be occasional defoliators of cannas, including ornamental species. Some quantitative aspects of the interaction between C. ethlius and several patches of an ornamental species Canna edulis, were examined at Mazatlan, State of Sinaloa, Mexico, at the beginning of the dry season. Defoliation from C. ethlius was very severe during the previous wet season as indicated by aging conspicuous leaf damage to most plants in all patches, lack of new vegetative growth, and an abundance of old fecal pellets from larvae. Only a few late instar larvae and adults were present at this time. A large number of pupae were found in the host plant patches but more than 90% were parasitized, apparently by a chalcid wasp. Although C. edulis blooms profusely here in the early dry season, very few flowers and fruits were present. Presumably the larval population of C. ethlius peaks during the latter half of the wet season following a period of steady increase in response to an abundant food supply. The dry season interrupts this trend in abundance and the population drops off. Severe attack by chalcid parasites in the late wet season intensifies this change in population structure. The parasites cause mortality in the pupal stage thus precluding any regulatory effects on the larval population. Such interactions lower the ability of the infested larvae to produce flowers and fruit. Other aspects of these interactions are discussed.
25009647|Heteromurus (Heteromurtrella) greensladeae and H. (H.) affinis are described from material collected in various localities in Sulawesi Utara (Celebes). Heteromurus (Alloscopus) tenuicornis is reported for the first time from Sulawesi.
25010525|Larvae of Enallagma davisi and E. recurvatum have round gill tips similar to E. minusculum but final stadia are significantly larger (total length 11.4-13.8 mm for davisi and recurvatum combined vs. 9.5-9.7 mm for minusculum) and the lateral carinae of abdominal segments 2-7 have distinct stout setae. The prementum of E. davisi (length 1.85-2.30 mm, width 1.56-1.80 mm; n = 10) is slightly larger than that of E. recurvatum (length 1.75-1.85 mm, width 1.48-1.53 mm; n = 5). The cerci of E. davisi in lateral view are wider than long in males and about as wide as long in females; in E. recurvatum the cerci are longer than wide in both sexes.
25009280|The temporal distribution of Chironomus decorus, inhabiting a shallow, brackish pond, was determined over the course of one season. Data on larval abundance and adult flight activity were collected at regular intervals to study population trends. Initial population levels, following thaw of the winter ice cover, were relatively low. As temperatures rose throughout the spring and early summer, midge abundance gradually increased. Larval density peaked in mid-summer, averaging 700 third and fourth instar larvae per 0.02
25010121|A new Guatemalan species of Cyclocephala is described and modifications to Endrodi's key to the genus are included to allow their identification. New country records for Guatemala are given for C. aequatoria Endrodi, C. alexi Ratcliffe and Delgado, and C. prolongata Arrow.
25009832|Morphological evidence indicates that the North American galerucine genus Ophraella is a strictly monophyletic taxon, closely related to Monoxia LeConte and Erynephala Blake. Host associations for all species, including several hitherto lacking host records, are listed; all hosts are in the Asteraceae. Distinguishing morphological features of adults are described, and descriptions of immature stages of most of the species are provided. O. macrovittata LeSage is placed in synonymy with O. sexvittata (LeConte), and the possibility of conspecificity of O. pilosa LeSage and O. americana (Fabricius) is raised. A new species, Ophraella artemisiae, is described from Texas. Several features of the life history are described. Phenological data indicate that northern populations and species are univoltine, whereas more southern populations are generally multivoltine. Cocoon formation differs from previous reports in that the cocoon material issues from the rectum. Several natural enemies were observed, including, in O. communa LeSage, a eulophid genus not previously recorded in North America. Geographically isolated populations of O. communa display partial sexual isolation, as do closely related sympatric species (O. communa and O. notulata [Fabricius]) which occupy different host plants. A difference in host affiliation is therefore not the only barrier to gene exchange.
25009403|In 1978-1979, parasitized green peach aphids (GPA) were recovered from collards in adjacent weedy and weedless habitats. During each season, 22 percent of GPA were parasitized, primarily in weedless plots wherein Diaeretiella rapae comprised 94 percent of primary parasitism. Parasitism by Aphidius spp. was concentrated on GPA from collards in weedy plots. Secondary parasitism occurred much more frequently in weedless plots, wherein 59 percent of primary parasitoids were parasitized. Secondary parasitoids were: Asaphes lucens (53 percent of all parasitoids recovered), Aphidencyrtus aphidivorus (34 percent), Alloxysta nr. megourae and nr. discreta (7 percent), Phaenoglyphis ambrosiae and n. sp. (3 percent), Dendrocerus niger (3 percent) and D. incompletus (<1 percent); A. lucens was more abundant in 1978 than 1979 while the reverse was noted in Alloxysta spp. Secondary parasitoids were evidently attracted to higher densities of primary hosts on collards located in weedless plots.
25009863|The North American distributions and adventive nature of Simplocaria semistriata (F). and Chaetophora spinosa (Rossi) are reviewed. Previous inferences regarding their status as European immigrants is supported, within the context of C. H. Lindroth's criteria for identification of non-native organisms. Notes on the host mosses, life history, and habitats of both species are provided.
25009614|To investigate the effect of inclement weather on mortality in adult butterflies, black swallowtails were tethered to typical night roosts and monitored during favorable and adverse weather periods. Fair weather mortality averaged less than 10%, yet mortality during weather-prolonged roosting was about 35%. This significant difference was primarily due to increased predation during daylight periods. Starvation was restricted to older butterflies since freshly-emerged individuals could survive 7 or more days without feeding. Vertebrates, particularly birds, accounted for 65% of the predation. Predators attacked the sexually dimorphic males and females equally which supports the role of the more similar ventral patterns in effective mimicry. Predators showed no preferences for individuals roosting on living or dead roosts. Predation on roosting individuals is probably a primary source of mortality for many butterfly species, especially when inclement weather forces individuals to extend roosting during daylight periods.
25009023|The Mexican and Central American species of the lepturine genus Strangalia are reviewed. All known species are characterized and new distributional records listed. New synonymy is presented and the following new species described: Strangalia doyeni (Mexico); S. montivaga (Mexico); S. opleri (Costa Rica); and S. westcotti (Mexico). A key to the Mexican and Central American species of Strangalia is provided.
25009000|Three species of periodical cicadas occur intermixed in roadside vegetation, ovipositing at eye level within easy reach. By collecting these, and noting the plant species on which each individual is ovipositing, one can assess the oviposition preferences of a given species relative to those of other species. The data thus far indicate that both 13-year and 17-year counterparts of Magicicada septendecula prefer hickory more than do the other two species, also that both counterparts of M. septendecim prefer (more than does M. cassini) those tree species that are capable of becoming canopy dominants in mature upland forest.
25009452|The 57 genera and 475 species of Coccinellidae occurring in America north of Mexico are treated taxonomically. Keys to all taxa, descriptions of the higher taxa, species diagnoses, synonymies, and host records are included. Two new tribes, Cephaloscymnini and Selvadiini, are erected for the genera Cephaloscymnus Crotch and Selvadius Casey. New species are described as follows: Brachiacantha barberi; B. rotunda; B. schwarzi; B. soltaui; B. stephani; Exoplectra schaefferi; Gnathoweisea ferox; G. hageni; G. micula; G. texana; Hyperaspidius algodonus; H. andrewsi; H. hardyi; H. nanellus; H. simulatus; Hyperaspis caseyi; H. deludens; H. dobzhanskyi; H. imitator, H. ornatella; H. schaefferi; H. uteana; Nephus (S.) timberlakei; Zagloba satana; Zilus horni. A chapter on biological control involving the family Coccinellidae includes discussions of the introduced species established in North America, and tables listing all the species that have been introduced whether established or not.
25009622|A complex of species of Ozophora in the West Indies is discussed and a key presented to distinguish the species. Two new species are described: Ozophora umbrosa (wide-spread in the Greater Antilles and known to occur in the Bahamas) and Ozophora archboldi known only from Dominica. Ozophora fuscifemur Scudder, known from Little Cayman I. and Cayman Brac, is reduced to a subspecies of Ozophora pallidifemur Scudder from Grand Cayman. Ozophora levis Slater and Baranowski is reported from several islands of the Bahamas. There are descriptions of the nymphs and notes on the habitat of Ozophora umbrosa. Twelve illustrations of distinguishing details of the genitalia are included.
25009996|Three new species of Trichogramma from the New World tropics and one new species from Australia are described. These taxa differ from all congeners by the unjoined funicular and club segments of the male antenna, and the two-segmented maxillary palp. The New World species also are distinguished by the unique structure of the aedeagus. All four new species are retained tentatively within the nominate subgenus of Trichogramma. Their relationship to other species of the genus is discussed.
25009510|Adult weevils infesting cultivated and wild plants were sampled by dislodging them from foliage and by trapping them in pit-falls or under boards at six sites in Connecticut. The black vine weevil, Otiorhynchus sulcatus (F.), comprised 79-95% of the samples obtained by the three methods during June and July 1983. Less abundant species, which were concentrated on unsprayed plants, were: the strawberry root weevil, O. ovatus (L.); the rough strawberry root weevil, O. rugosostriatus (Goeze); and the twobanded Japanese weevil, Callirhopalus bifasciatus (Roelofs). Otiorhynchus sulcatus was the most abundant weevil on foliage of 71% of hosts surveyed in June and on 86% in July. Collectively, the results indicate that adults of O. sulcatus cause most of the foliar notching attributed to weevils. Possible wild reservoirs for O. sulcatus are given, and 17 new hosts for the four weevils are listed. Removal of adult hosts from field borders may minimize the establishment of wild reservoirs.
25009344|The melanic morph of Phigalia titea (Cramer), "deplorans" (Franclemont, 1938), comparised 18.7 percent of 3,906 specimens collected at various light sources at a single location in central Massachusetts between 1968 and 1981. There were no discernible trends in melanic frequency over that period. Three different light sources (incandescent, fluorescent and mercury vapor) yielded similar estimates of melanic frequency. There was a decline in melanic frequency late at night (after 2300 hours), and an increase in melanic frequency during the second half of the flight season. The implications of these results are briefly discussed.
25009515|The life history of Stenocranus lautus Van Duzee was studied in Missouri from April to November 1984, it was reared in the laboratory and the immature stages were described. S. lautus feeds and reproduces on Carex lurida Wahl., is bivoltine and apparently overwinters as eggs. Field collected adults kept on potted C. lurida in the laboratory laid eggs which hatched and were reared to adults. Durations of the five nymphal stadia were 5.4, 7.5, 16.0, 10.5 and 11.0 days, respectively. Nymphal instars differed in body size, number of pit-like sensoria, development of wingpads, number of metatibial and metatarsal spines, and shape and dentition of metatibial spurs.
25009104|Speleognathopsis michigensis Ford is redescribed and placed in the genus Speleorodens. Speleorodens clethrionomys Fain and Lukoschus is placed in synonymy with S. michigensis. The characters used in delimiting genus group taxa within the Speleognathinae are discussed and the taxonomic system of Domrow is rejected in favor of that of Fain. A new genus, Domrownetes, is created for Paraspeleognathopsis exul Domrow.
25009030|Twenty-one species of tarsonemid mites are reported from New York, of which 11 are described and figured as new: Steneotarsonemus oconnori, Tarsonemus ascitus, T. dubius, T. imitatus, T. insignis, T. irregularis, T. neotalpae, T. nidicolus, T. praesignis, T. similis and T. smileyi. The majority were collected from nests of birds, mammals and insects, and from barn debris. Stored grain tarsonemids were also found in nests of birds, which suggests primary sources of stored grain infestations.
25009671|The aleocharine genus Tachiona Sharp and the single previously described species T. deplanata Sharp from Mexico are redescribed. A lectotype is designated for T. deplanata from the syntype series. Two new species, T. nitida Ashe and T. latipennis Ashe, are described from material collected in Mexico and Panama respectively. A key is provided for separation of the known species of Tachiona. Larvae collected in association with adults of T. latipennis from the interior of a web covering a tree wound were presumed to be conspecific with them, described, and compared with larvae collected with a female of T. nitida from a similar web-covered tree hole. Illustrations of diagnostic features of adults and larvae are provided. Based on mouthpart structure, particularly the styliform labial palpi and elongated maxillary lobes, Tachiona is shown to be a member of the probably monophyletic bolitocharine subtribe Silusina. Within the Silusina, members of Tachiona are very similar to those of Diestota Mulsant and Rey in a number of characteristics, especially form of the spermatheca and aedeagus. More precise analysis of relationships among the Silusina must await a more detailed survey of structural features among included taxa.
25009772|Three new ochlerine pentatomid species, Lincus hebes, L. spurcus and L. malevolus, are described from specimens collected in Peru on various palms.
25006171|Dyschirius Bonelli and its close relatives are placed in the subtribe Dyschiriina. The marinus group (= Akephorus LeConte) is the oldest and most divergent group of American Dyschirius. No described South American species are related to the marinus group, and the species described as Akephorus bruchi, A. bryanti, A. darwini, and A. ogloblini by Kult are new combinations in Dyschirius closely related to the tridentatus group. All North American Dyschirius which lack discal elytral setae are keyed and discussed. D. exochus is a new species from Texas, and is placed in a separate group. D. dentiger LeConte is reduced to synonymy with D. aratus LeConte. Species reported from Mexico for the first time are D. aratus, D. erythrocerus, and D. sublaevis. The criddlei, exochus, filiformis, politus, and sellatus groups are a monophyletic unit. Sister-group relationships proposed are: exochus-filiformis and criddlei-politus-sellatus; and criddlei-politus and sellatus.
25009113|Plakidas, John D., 8506 Forest Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15237.-Epiblema scudderiana (Clemens) was studied for two successive winters 1974-1975 and 1975-1976, to evaluate the moth's economic importance as a winter host reservoir for parasitic insects in Southwestern Pennsylvania. From the collection of 5,609 galls for the two year study, an average of 11.12% primary parasitism was observed. Results reveal that E. scudderiana harbors 12 primary parasites, including 6 ichneumonids, 4 braconids, 1 eupelmid, and 1 tachinid. Seven of these parasites are known to parasitize a variety of insect pests during their summer generations. As an economically beneficial winter host reservoir, E. scudderiana increases the natality of these parasites during periods when alternate hosts are scarce.
25010072|A new genus and four new species from New Guinea are described in the tribe Colpurini (Coreidae). The relationships of the genus are stated to be with Hygia. Dorsal view illustrations, and drawings of the head, pronotum and male and female genitalia are provided.
25009757|The Cyrtogaster-group, which includes the genera Cyrtogaster Walker, Novitzkyanus Boucek, Tricyclomischus Graham, and Callicarolynia, n.g., is defined as containing those miscogasterine pteromalid genera that possess three symmetrically arranged clypeal denticles and a weakly sculptured petiole with a distinct median and pairs of sublateral and lateral carinae. A phylogenetic analysis of relationships among these genera and their relationships to other miscogasterine genera is presented. Polycystus Westwood is herein synonymized with Cyrtogaster Walker. Seven Nearctic Cyrtogaster species are treated: C. anapodisis, n. sp., C. britteni Askew, C. capitanea, n. sp., C. clavicornis Walker, C. reburra, n. sp., C. tryphera (Walker), and C. vulgaris Walker. Keys to the Nearctic Cyrtogaster species and a summary of the biology of the genus and each species are presented. A new Hawaiian species, C. annectens, n. sp., is also described. Polycystus clypeatus Girault is transferred to Thinodytes Graham; Polycystus propinquus Waterston, Polycystus nigriscapus Howard, and Polycystus luteipes Howard are transferred to Halticoptera Spinola; and Polycystus nigritus Howard belongs in a new genus near Thinodytes Graham. A new genus Callicarolynia is described to accommodate a single Nearctic species, C. eruga, n. sp.
25008808|Analogous mechanisms to escape predation by Anomma driver ants are employed by a terrestrial pulmonate mollusk and by lepidopterous larvae. Each involves dropping on the end of a thin cord of secreted material that the ants cannot traverse. Theoretically, this mechanism could be used by diverse organisms having the ability to secret or form such cords.
25009467|Using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), we have demonstrated the presence of bacteria on the outer surface of the tarsi of adult male and female German cockroaches (Blattella germanica), collected from natural populations. Our results indicate that the microorganisms are relatively tightly attached, supporting the hypothesis that mechanical transmission is important in introducing bacteria into human habitation, and may play a role in infections of humans and domesticated animals.
25008949|The results of observations carried on for a period of five years on one species of the Callicorinae, Diaethria astala Gurin, are presented. An account is given of the external morphological characteristics of the early stages, of the time elapsed in the metamorphosis, of the progressive sizes of each stage, and of the foodplants in El Salvador. The evident similarities between the early stages of this species and of Catagramma titania Salvin, and C. pitheas Latreille, on one hand, and the early stages of species belonging to the Catonephelinae are pointed out, suggesting a close phylogenetic relationship between the three groups. The probability of the species having developed impalatability against predators is deduced a priori from the noxious properties of the foodplants exploited by the larvae, and a posteriori from the brilliant coloration exhibited by the adults.
25009758|Worker honey bees of two subspecies (Apis mellifera mellifera and A. m. ligustica) were bioassayed in the laboratory to determine their willingness to sting at various ages. Foragers returning to field colonies of both subspecies were captured, bioassayed for stinging behavior, and the sugar concentration and volumes of their nectar loads were measured. Residual value theory, which has previously been demonstrated to be a good predictor of the intensity of risky nest defense by parental birds, was used to interpret these data. Workers of the more highly defensive A. m. mellifera displayed residual value sensitivity in their stinging behavior, while the less defensive A. m. ligustica did not.
25009526|The life history of Belostoma lutarium was studied in southern Illinois, and the immature stages are described. The bug also was reared from egg to adult in the laboratory. This apparently bivoltine species overwintered as adults in leaf litter and detritus in very shallow water along the shoreline and became active in early March. Eggs were found between the 3rd week of April and early August and were laid on the backs of males. First instars appeared in early May followed by marked overlapping of the subsequent instars. Active adults were last observed in November. This species was reared on Chaoborus americanus larvae under a 16L: 8D photoperiod at 26.7  1.5C. The incubation period averaged 9.9 days. Durations of the 5 subsequent stadia averaged 6.3, 6.4, 10.7, 12.9, and 13.7 days, respectively.
25005980|Attempts to find an organized muscle layer surrounding the midgut of the early instar larval Aedes aegypti mosquito have not been successful. But, by studying whole mounts of larval midguts of various stages, muscle cells were found to be present from the earliest stages of larval life. The early, first-instar muscle layer consists of two pairs of longitudinally arranged rows of muscle cells connected by two circular bands of muscle cells. Beginning at about the second instar, these cells begin to undergo mitotic divisions, eventually giving rise to a muscular network, completely encircling the larval midgut. The network present in the prepupal midgut apparently remains during metamorphosis to become the muscular coat of the adult midgut.
25009974|Frankliniella alba Moulton and F. bratleyi Watson are junior synonyms of F. bondari Hood (New Synonymy). The seven species and varieties of Frankliniella treated as junior synonyms of F. cephalica (Crawford) in the "Catalogue of the Thysanoptera of the World" (1974), are not synonyms. Frankliniella bispinosa (Morgan), F. bruneri Watson, F. echinodora Moulton, F. melanommata Williams and F. reticulata (Crawford) are treated as valid species. Euthrips tritici var. projectus Watson and Frankliniella cephalica var. masoni Watson are junior synonyms of F. bispinosa (New Synonymy).
25009444|The harvestman genus Leptobunus Banks is revised. Leptobunus californicus Banks and Leptobunus borealis Banks are redescribed, and Leuronychus parvulus Banks is transferred to Leptobunus and redescribed. Lectotypes for L. borealis and L. parvulus are designated. Leptobunus aureus n. sp. and Leptobunus pallidus n. sp. are described from California, U.S.A. and Bering Island, U.S.S.R., respectively. Leptobunus atavus Cockerell, Leptobunus koreanus Roewer, Leptobunus mexicanus Goodnight and Goodnight, and Leptobunus spinulatus Banks are all excluded from the genus Leptobunus. The North American Tertiary fossil species is maintained as Amauropilio atavus (Cockerell), whereas all Recent species excluded from Leptobunus are reported in the following new combinations: Mitopus koreanus (Roewer), Paranelima mexicana (Goodnight and Goodnight), and Metopilio spinulatus (Banks). In conjunction, the Mexican species Diguetinus raptator Roewer is removed from synonymy with "Diguetinus" spinulatus (Banks). All the species are illustrated, including the male and female genitalia, for which new anatomical terminology is presented. A dichotomous key to the species and many new distributional records from western North America and northeast Asia are provided. The history of the family-group name Leptobunidae is discussed and the name is attributed to Banks (1901). The family is abandoned and morphological characters traditionally used for the classification of "Leptobunidae" are discussed. The type genus of the Leptobunidae, Leptobunus Banks, is transferred to the Phalangiidae, subfamily Phalangiinae. The genera Cosmobunus Simon, Leuronychus Banks, and Homolophus Banks are transferred to the Gagrellidae, subfamily Leiobuninae, and Trachyrhinus Weed is maintained in the Gagrellidae, subfamily Gagrellinae. The North American genus Protolophus Banks is tentatively placed in the Gagrellidae, subfamily Sclerosomatinae. The South American genus Thrasychirus Simon is retained in the Neopilionidae, subfamily Enantiobuninae. The North American genus Globipes Banks is maintained in an assemblage that is as yet unnamed. The New World members of the genera Homolophus and Cosmobunus are not congeneric with Old World members referred to those genera.
25009458|The natural history of Oncocnemis piffardi (Walker) is described and the larva and pupa are illustrated. Larvae have been field-collected as well as cultured on Spiraea latifolia (Art.) Borkh., its natural host. Elpe semiothisae (Brooks) (Tachinidae) and an apparently undescribed Mesocharus (Ichneumonidae) were reared from field-collected larvae. The Mesocharus is a hyperparasite of yet another ichneumonid.
25009688|The genus Mathiolus Distant, 1889, is transferred from the pentatomid subfamily Discocephalinae to the nominate tribe of the Pentatominae. A diagnosis is given for the genus. The type species is redescribed and a lectotype designated. Two new species are added to the genus, M. labiatus from Venezuela and M. tumidus from Ecuador.
25009755|Tanystoma diabolica, new species, is described from Baja California, and a key to the five species of Tanystoma is presented. A cladistic analysis of the species permits elucidation of past vicariant events leading to the present-day species. The long-time disjunction of the California fauna by vicariance at the Salinas Valley is supported by the area cladogram derived for this group.
25009917|A new genus of Micrelytrinae (Alydidae) is erected and three new species collected in Mexico are described. Its resemblance with Bactrophya Breddin, Bactrocoris Kormilev, and Slateria Ahmad, as well as its relationship within the Micrelytrinae, are discussed. The host plant of each species is a Guadua spp. (Bambuseae). A key is given to distinguish the known species. Illustrations include a dorsal and lateral view of the head, the antennal segments, and details of the pygophore and the genital plate of the female.
25010311|Two new species of Tanycricos are described and illustrated from the Indonesian province of Irian Jaya, comprising western New Guinea: T. jaetipi n. sp. and T. ziwa n. sp., both from the upper Wapoga River basin. Additional records are given for previously described species of Tanycricos in Irian Jaya, and island wide distribution maps are provided for all species in the genus.
25009464|We describe a simple procedure for rearing colonies of the Texas leafcutting ant, Atta texana (Buckley), from foundress females in the laboratory. The progress and outcome of cooperative colony foundation attempts by several females is described. The results show that cooperative colony foundation (pleometrosis) in A. texana can lead to large polygynous colonies.
25008951|The overwintering capabilities of sibling calliphorid species Phaenicia sericata (Meigen) and Phaenicia pallescens (Shannon) are compared. P. pallescens is not capable of overwintering in the Chicago region in an unheated shelter while P. sericata can overwinter as larvae.
25008885|In previous papers, eleven species of fleas have been reported from Connecticut. The present list, consisting largely of specimens collected by the senior author in Windham and Tolland counties, adds eleven species to those previously recorded from the state. The additional species include: Atyphloceras bishopi Jordan, Catallagia borealis Ewing, Tamiophila grandis (Rothschild), Nearctopsylla genalis genalis (Baker), Stenoponia americana (Baker), Rhadinopsylla orama Smit, Megabothris asio asio (Baker), Orchopeas leucopus (Baker), Peromyscopsylla hamifer hamifer (Rothschild), Peromyscopsylla hesperomys hesperomys (Baker), and Peromyscopsylla scotti I. Fox. A hypothetical list of twenty species is appended.
25010490|The species of the genus Drapetis Meigen from China are reviewed, and a key to the species of the genus from China is presented for the first time. The following new species are described and illustrated: D. guangdongensis and D. nanlingensis.
25009235|Melissodes agilis, an anthophorid bee that is oligolectic on sunflowers, was found nesting in and adjacent to a planting of commercial sunflowers in northern Utah. Observations and excavation of nests yielded information on nest architecture, larval morphology, foraging activity, and parasites. The species will probably be most valuable as a commercial pollinator where minimum- or no-tillage agricultural practices are appropriate.
25009634|Using direct observation and sticky trap captures, larvipositing female Euphasiopteryx depleta were studied in central Brazil. Females were attracted by phonotaxis to sound traps that broadcast synthesized calling songs of Scapteriscus mole crickets. Mean permanency at sound traps during larviposition was less than 3 secs, with females orienting upwind to sound sources in windy conditions. Data suggest that E. depleta populations are highly mobile, with activity periods corresponding to mole cricket calling periods. The number of females attracted to sound traps varied with respect to broadcast sound intensity.
25009732|Six specimens of the genus Metopina are reported from the late Oligocene amber of Chiapas, Mexico, the lower Miocene amber of the Dominican Republic, and with one of the specimens, Metopina goeleti, n. sp., the oldest known phorid, from the late Cretaceous amber of New Jersey. Details of the morphology and distribution are discussed with respect to living members of the genus. Species distinctions between the specimens in the Oligomiocene ambers are not apparent. Taxonomic placement of the Sciadoceridae previously described from Cretaceous amber of Canada is discussed, and it is hypothesized that the Phoridae s.s. appeared much earlier than the late Cretaceous.
25009594|A diagnosis for the Neotropical genus Dushinckanus and a key for species identification are presented. Myodocha inermiba Distant is transferred to Dushinckanus, new combination, and two new species, D. ashlocki from Brazil, and D. camelopardus from Ecuador are described. Line drawings of the head and pronotum of D. camelopardus and D. ashlocki and a full dorsal view illustration of a male of D. crassicornis Brailovsky, 1981 are provided.
25004249|Thermal constants for beginning emergence and maximum emergence of the overwintered generation and the first summer generation of codling moth, determined by summation of day degrees of effective temperature, exhibit a sufficiently small amount of variation from year to year to render them satisfactory indicators of time when insecticidal applications should be made for the control of the larv of that insect entering apples, but that the dates, as determined by the thermal constants, should be checked against the codling moth bait pan records in order to make sure that the season in question does not exhibit some unusual type of variation. While the dates of beginning emergence and maximum emergence of the overwintered generation and the first summer generation seem to vary according to the latitude and altitude phase of the bio-climatic law, the writer feels that further data should be secured before dependence is placed upon this principle for determining the dates of insecticidal applications. When the average weekly minimum temperature approaches 60 F. codling moth transformation from larva to pupa ceases. It is probable, however, that the determination of this tendency of larv to pupate occurs under a somewhat higher average minimum than 60 F. and it seems, in the writer's experience, that this determination of tendency takes place before the larva starts to spin its cocoon.
25009474|The typical and melanic morphs of Phigalia titea (Cramer) exhibited different background preferences in an experimental apparatus, the typicals behaving like species known to rest on many tree species in nature, and the melanics behaving like species known to rest preferentially on white birches. Field observations of Cosymbia pendulinaria Guene indicate that some melanic moths are cryptic on gray (Betula populifolia) and paper (B. papyrifera) birches. It is suggested that the successional characteristics of these birches in New England forests may provide the basis for a recurring advantage of melanism, and that increases in the abundance of these birches since colonial settlement may explain the melanism seen in the region today.
25009441|The karyotype (2N = 26) of the ant Conomyrma flava is reported from material collected in central Texas. The chromosome numbers and morphology match those of Conomyrma bicolor from the western U.S.A. more closely than those of Conomyrma spp. from Peru and Brasil. A lactic acid dissociation, air-drying technique with Giemsa staining for ant chromosomes is described.
25010436|New records of five species of batflies (Diptera: Streblidae and Nycteribiidae) on vespertilionid bats are provided from So Paulo State, Brazil.
25008819|The digestive system of the house-dust mite was studied by means of light microscopy, and transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The system consists of: 1) a prebuccal cavity which is surrounded by mouthparts comprising a gnathosoma, 2) a cuticle-lined foregut which consists of a muscular pharynx and a thin-walled esophagus, 3) a microvillous midgut which is divided into a large anterior portion with two caeca and a bulbous posterior section, and 4) a cuticle-lined hindgut consisting of a broad anterior portion and a narrow posterior section. The relationships of the mouthparts, the morphology of the systematic components, and the varying cell types are demonstrated. Discussed are possible digestive processes including formation of a peritrophic membrane and the production of salivary secretions which originate in the idiosoma and are channeled anteriorly to be utilized in the prebuccal cavity. An attempt is made to homologize the diverse nomenclature previously used for naming the gut regions of the Acari.
25010240|Two new species of the Australian ant genus Melophorus are described. M. majeri new species is morphologically very distinct from all the other species with spines on the propodeum, and the worker caste extremely elongate. It has so far only been collected at two localities in Western Australia in heath vegetation. M. anderseni new species was found once in the backyard of the CSIRO labs in Darwin. It displayed a perplexing behavioral pattern, with hugging and rubbing intimately the worker of the meat ant Iridomyrmex sanguineus, rushing into their nest and carrying out their larvae without being interrupted by the hosts. A possible reaction of the meat ant might be the blocking of the nest entrance of the robbers by piling up little stones over their nest entrance.
25010371|The genus Ptilomera is revised for New Guinea and nearby islands. Four previously described taxa are redescribed and discussed: P. aello Breddin, P. papuensis Hungerford & Matsuda, P. breddini Hungerford & Matsuda, and P. cheesmanae Hungerford & Matsuda, the latter newly elevated from subspecies to full species rank. Eighteen new species are described as follows: P. waigeo from Waigeo Island, P. misoolensis from Misool Island, P. yapenana from Yapen Island, P. arfak from the Vogelkop Peninsula of Irian Jaya, P. timika from southern Irian Jaya, P. etna from western central Irian Jaya, P. iriana from north central Irian Jaya, P. wapoga from north central Irian Jaya, P. kiunga from southwestern Papua New Guinea, P. omo from southern central Papua New Guinea, P. kutubu from the southern highlands of Papua New Guinea, P. jimi from the central highlands of Papua New Guinea, P. wewak from northern Papua New Guinea, P. morobe from northeastern Papua New Guinea, P. biroi from northeastern Papua New Guinea, P. insularis from Umboi Island, P. novabrittanica from New Britain, and P. bismarckensis from New Ireland. Keys to all species occurring in the New Guinea region are provided for both males and females, accompanied by range maps, and figures of the male genitalic complex, male parameres, male endosoma, and female terminal abdomen in lateral view.
25009214|Larvae of the tortricid, Argyrotaenia velutinana Wlk., have been recorded feeding on the seeds of the orchid, Platanthera cristata (Michx.) Lindl., on Long Island, New York.
25006067|Six new species of Eriopterine crane flies are described, these being Gnophomyia (Gnophomyia) diacaena n. sp., from Assam; Gonomyia (Lipophleps) pentacantha n. sp., Kumaon; Toxorhina (Ceratocheilus) bistyla n. sp., Assam; T. (C.) fulvicolor n. sp., Assam; T. (C.) fuscolimbata n. sp., Assam; and T. (C.) simplicistyla n. sp., Assam.
25009432|The black grass bug genus Irbisia Reuter is revised. Over 20,000 specimens were examined and information concerning the biology, host plant and distributional relationships of the species is compiled. In addition to external characters, the male parameres and vesica, and the female dorsal labiate plate of the bursa copulatrix and sclerotized rings are used to distinguish the species. Thirty-four characters selected from male genitalia, and external morphology are cladistically analyzed. Twenty-three species in five species groups are recognized in the genus. Two keys to the species are presented. Two new species, Irbisia bliveni and I. cascadia, are described. The following synonymies are proposed: I. brachycera (Uhler) = I. gorgoniensis Bliven, I. paeta Van Duzee, I. tejonica Bliven and I. vestifera Bliven; I. californica Van Duzee = I. eurekae Bliven, I. paenulata Bliven and I. umbratica Bliven; I. elongata Knight = I. retrusa Bliven; I. mollipes Van Duzee = I. upupa Bliven; I. setosa Van Duzee = I. ustricula Bliven; I. silvosa Bliven = I. paulula Bliven; I. sita Van Duzee = I. neptis Bliven; I. solani (Heidemann) = I. inurbana Bliven and I. lacertosa Bliven. Irbisia species diversity is greatest in the Coastal, Peninsular, Sierra and Transverse Ranges of California and decreases northward, northeastward and eastward. Major centers of endemism are located in California and the Rocky Mountains northwest of the Wyoming Basin; a minor center is located in the Siskiyou Mountains of southwestern Oregon. The distribution of the Irbisia species appears to be delineated by climatic conditions; late winter and early spring precipitation is required for growth of their cool season grass hosts. Over twenty native and introduced species of grasses are utilized by nymphal and adult stages of Irbisia in the Pacific Northwest. Larval feeding is observed on four species of nongrass monocots, and species of Lupinus and Lathyrus (Fabaceae). There appears to be no grass host specificity among the Irbisia species. However, all the grass species utilized are in the subfamily Pooideae; genera from the tribes Avenae, Poeae and Triticeae predominate. Irbisia species are the earliest mirids to consume the grass resource, completing their life cycle before grass seed is mature. Many Irbisia species, upon maturity, leave grasses and congregate on conspicuous nearby shrubs and trees. Their dispersal is correlated with the blossoming of these plants; adult feeding on pollen, nectar or honeydew is suspected.
25006203|A large mimicry complex occurring in the montane cloud forest of northern Venezuela was observed during the summer of 1967. Distinct preferences were shown by many of the species for specific microhabitats and light intensities. The dominant family in the complex was the Ithomiidae, and over 90% of the individuals in the complex were Mllerian mimics. Some species of the complex were shown to belong to more than one mimicry complex, with the pattern of the complex centered around the Ithomiidae and the behavior of other complexes. It is concluded that the mimicry complex is much larger than usually thought and that members of a mimicry complex do not have to resemble each other perfectly. Habitat differences and the selective advantage of cryptic coloration favor the evolution of a generalized pattern. It is hypothesized that a predator would find it easier to learn a single generalized pattern than several specific ones.
25010406|The Neotropical genus Flintiella is reviewed and eight new species are described and illustrated: F. alajuela from Costa Rica, F. boraceia from Brazil, F. panamensis from Panama, F. tamaulipasa from Mexico, F. yanamona from Peru, F. heredia from Costa Rica, Ecuador, and Peru, F. astilla from Brazil, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela, and F. pizotensis from Columbia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, and Peru. New illustrations are provided for F. andreae Angrisano. Keys are provided to separate the males and the associated females of the nine known species in the genus.
25006161|Lethe eurydice (Johansson), 1763, a Nearctic butterfly, has heretofore been considered a single species with four subspecies. However, two of its supposed subspecies fly at the same time and in close proximity, but they occur in different environments and have constant superficial differences. The conclusion is reached that they are sibling species and probably have different food plants. The names recognized for them are Lethe eurydice (Johansson) and L. fumosus (Leussler), 1916.
25005943|The history, ecology, and occurrence of Hemiargus huntingtoni is given, together with characters that are useful in the recognition of this species. Two new subspecific names are proposed: continentalis, from Colombia, and hannoides, from Mexico; nominate huntingtoni was described from Trinidad, and may occur in Venezuela.
25009462|Males of four species of Cercerini have been found to defend territories and to scent-mark stems on the peripheries of the territories: Eucerceris flavocincta, E. cressoni, E. superba, and Cerceris nigrescens. Males of E. flavocincta form aggregations resembling leks in which large males are more likely to maintain possession of a territory because of their advantage in aggressive interactions. Data are also presented on nest distribution and prey of these species.
25009244|The effect of egg numbers on parasitism of Euphydryas phaeton (Nymphalidae) was examined by comparing single and multiple egg clusters on leaves. Some 65 to 80% of the clusters lost eggs to parasitism and predation, with 5 to 9% of the eggs lost per cluster. For total clusters, single clusters and multiple clusters, the numbers of parasitized clusters were significantly different between years. It appeared that when the overall level of parasitism was greater one year, multiple clusters were attacked more frequently than single clusters. However, the number of egg clusters per leaf had no effect on the number of parasitized eggs per cluster. The sequence of egg clusters deposited on a leaf did not affect the level of parasitism and number of parasitized eggs per cluster. Thus, these egg clusters composed of several hundred eggs each lost only a small fraction of eggs to parasitoids and predators and did not appear to benefit from aggregation of egg clusters.
25009345|The larvae of 19 species of flies belonging to 7 families were found to feed in the rotting portions of leaves, petioles, and flowers of skunk cabbage. Among flies bred from this plant, drosophilids were by far the most numerous, but there is considerable geographic and seasonal variation in composition and abundance of the fauna. The sex ratio of one species, a Bryophaenocladius sp. (Chironomidae), reveals it to be parthenogenetic. The breeding biology of the flies, with particular reference to other dipteran-aroid relationships, is reviewed.
25008805|Eight species of Penenirmus from the Picidae are recognized and discussed. Neotypes are established from P. serrilimbus (Burmeister, 1838) and P. heteroscelis (Nitzsch, 1866). Paranirmus Zlotorzycka, 1964, is considered congeneric with Penenirmus. New synonymies include: P. macrotrichus (Kolenati, 1858) and P. tuktola (Ansari, 1947) (=P. pici (Fabricius, 1798)); P. fiebrigi Eichler, 1953, P. serrilimbus asyndesmus Emerson and Johnson, 1961, P. s. pileatus Emerson and Johnson, 1961, P. pici rivolii (Carriker, 1963), P. p. caurensis (Carriker, 1963) and P. silesiacus Zlotorzycka, 1966 (=P. auritus (Scopoli, 1763)); P. accuratus Zlotorzycka, 1964 (=P. heteroscelis (Nitzsch)); P. villosus Emerson and Johnson, 1961 (=P. jungens (Kellogg, 1896)). Species from 18 genera and 60 species of Picidae were examined. A key is given, and all species are illustrated and or re-described.
25009205|Populations of the alfalfa weevil, Hypera postica (Gyllenhal), in Maryland and New Jersey and of associated parasites changed greatly in the period 1966-70. The alfalfa weevil declined rapidly during the period under the increasing pressures of the introduced parasites Bathyplectes curculionis (Thomson), Tetrastichus incertus (Ratzeburg), Microctonus colesi Drea, Microctonus aethiopoides Loan and Bathyplectes anurus (Thomson).
25009255|Preceding pupation, Dytiscus verticalis larvae burrow into soil above the waterline. They construct pupal cells using mandibles, legs, and body wriggling. Pupal cells are nearly spherical and the openings are sealed from the inside with soil placed there by mandibles. Beetles spent 20 to 34 days in pupal cells. Newly eclosed adults are white but darken in 8 to 14 h. Pupae are described.
25010541|We surveyed apple orchards in the Finger Lakes region of New York State. Pollinator guilds included many honey bees and native bee species known to be effective pollinators of apples. Of the 31 native bee species collected, 14 species belong to eight subgenera of Andrena. Cavity-nesting mason bees were represented by a single female blue orchard bee, Osmia lignaria Say. The most numerous bees were mining bees in the genus Andrena. This paper serves as a preliminary look at the native bee pollinators in apple orchards in New York State.
25009918|Previous works on the Leptopodomorpha of Madagascar and nearby Indian Ocean islands are reviewed, keys to genera and species are provided, and the following new taxa are described: Leptopoides n. gen. to hold Leptopus horvathi Drake and Hottes (type-species) and Leptopoides poissoni n. sp.; Erianotoides oculatus n. gen., n. sp. (Leptopodidae); Mascarenisalda n. gen. to hold Saldula mametiana Drake (type-species); Capitonisaldoida cryptica n. gen., n. sp.; Rupisalda slateri n. sp., Rupisalda vincenti n. sp., and Rupisalda atra n. sp. (Saldidae). Additional descriptive notes are given for Leptopoides horvathi (Drake and Hottes) and Saldula madagascariensis Cobben. Other described taxa occurring in the region are discussed.
25010014|The extant world genera of the family Hemerobiidae are revised; and the literature on fossil hemerobiids is reviewed. A key is provided to the 25 extant genera recognized. An intergeneric cladistic analysis utilizing 107 characters, 24 ingroup genera, and 3 outgroup species provides a basis for (1) justifying the holophyly of the family, (2) recognizing holophyletic subgroups within the family, (3) proposing a new nine-subfamily classification of the family, and (4) identifying putative synapomorphies for nearly all recognized named taxa. Traits used in the cladistic analysis include characters from the head, forewing, and male and female terminalia. The biogeographic patterns exhibited within the family are discussed in light of the cladistic classification. For each genus, a synonymical listing, a differential diagnosis, a list of proposed synapomorphies, and notes on distribution and included species are given. To the extent possible from the material available for study, representative forewings, hind wings, and several aspects of the male and female terminalia, are illustrated for each genus. Phylogenetically important character complexes are analyzed in the comparative framework of the familial classification. The hemerobiid genitalic structure previously termed the "parameres" is here considered a unique evolutionary novelty of the family, and renamed the parabaculum. This structure is not a homologue of the "parameres" (=9th gonocoxites sensu Adams) of other neuropterous families. A new terminology is proposed for the putatively homologous regions of the gonarcus, facilitating comparative analysis of this complex sclerite.
25008825|At present, 242 species of aphids on 313 plants are known to occur in New Jersey. This paper is based on collections made in 1969, 1970, and 1971 and on several records omitted from my four previous papers on New Jersey aphids. Here are listed 52 species of aphids from 68 plants and records of five aphids and two food plants new to the state.
25010135|Uranocoris maculatus is described as a new species from New Guinea. Comparison is made with U. suavis Walker, which is the only previously known species of the genus. Habitus view illustrations and drawings of the male genitalia are provided to help distinguish these taxa.
25010278|Eggs, larval instars and pupae of Psyllobora gratiosa Mader, 1958 are described and illustrated using scanning electron micrographs. Some notes about the life habits are also provided.
25009979|The life history of Prokelisia crocea (Van Duzee) was studied in Missouri from May to October 1988 and the immature stages described. P. crocea feeds and reproduces on prairie cordgrass, Spartina pectinata Link, is trivoltine and overwinters as nymphs. Nymphal instars differed in body size, development of wingpads, number of metatibial spines, and shape and dentition of metatibial spurs.
25009490|The genus Cynipencyrtus is moved to the Tanaostigmatidae from the Encyrtidae. Characters are given to distinguish this genus from Encyrtidae, and from other Tanaostigmatidae. A redescription of the genus is given.
25009699|The spider genus Cyrioctea, previously known only from Chile and Argentina, is newly recorded from Namibia (C. whartoni, C. hirsuta, and C. namibensis, new species) and Queensland (C. raveni, new species).
25009815|The genus Proelymiotis Schaus is placed in synonymy with Nystalea Guene. The N. aequipars species complex is defined, and contains four species. Two new species, N. corniculans and N. montana are described. Diagnoses and illustrations are provided for all species in the aequipars complex. A brief description of nystaleine genitalic and prothoracic leg structures is also provided.
25008886|The life cycle of Epiphile adrasta adrasta Hewitson (Nymphalidae-Catonephelinae) and its natural history were studied in several localities of El Salvador during a period of two years. Special attention was given to the description of the life-cycle stages, time spent in the different stages of the metamorphosis, foodplants during the larval period, and behavior of the early stages and adults. The apparent correlation between the Catonephelinae and Callicorinae is discussed, emphasizing the paradoxical behavior of the species at times suggesting palatability and at times unpalatability to predators.
25009593|Derephysia foliacea (Falln) (Hemiptera: Heteroptera: Tingidae) is recorded from North America for the first time, based upon specimens collected in western Oregon, chiefly on or near Mary's Peak, Benton County, Polk County, and the H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, eastern Lane County on the west slope of the Cascade Mountains. Several other Holarctic genera and species of Hemiptera: Heteroptera occur with D. foliacea, suggesting a true Holarctic distribution rather than an introduction. In the Palaearctic Region, the tingid is known from Western Europe, North Africa and eastward to Siberia, Mongolia and Japan.
25009143|Larvae of Euaresta bella (Loew) and E. festiva (Loew) destroy seeds of Ambrosia artemisiifolia L. and A. trifida L., respectively; E. bella has been colonized in the USSR for ragweed control. The univoltine adults feed on honeydew and ragweed sap. In Maryland, E. bella adults reach peak abundance in mid-August, E. festiva a month later. Courtship behavior by both sexes is complex, involving several stereotyped wing movements, proboscis and foot contact, head butting, and male territoriality or lekking. Oviposition occurs in the young female flowers.
25009381|A study of the population dynamics of fleas associated with the gray-tailed vole, Microtus canicaudus Miller, was conducted on three sites surrounding the city of Corvallis, in Oregon's Willamette Valley. Over a period of 12 months, 22,641 adult and larval fleas representing eight species were recovered from 377 comparable voles and 256 nests. On all sites, adult and larval flea populations experienced spring and early winter peaks followed by drastic summer and midwinter declines. These fluctuations are consistent with the thesis that humidity and temperature are the chief factors influencing flea populations.
25010151|Guentheria formosa Lallemand is transferred from the Phenacinae of the Fulgoridae to the Eurybrachidae. Hellerides Lallemand of the Limoisini of the Aphaeninae of the Fulgoridae is synonymised with Zophiuma Fennah of the Lophopidae. Two new specific combinations Z. guineae (Lallemand) and Z. butawengi (Heller) are established.
25006211|The bee Kelita chilensis (Friese) is reported to be a nest parasite of Psaenythia parvula Friese (Panurginae). The following details of the biology of K. chilensis are described: the flight behavior of males and females, the egg, and the egg insertion in the cell wall of the host.
25005901|The principal characteristics of Parnassius apollo are given, a survey of the treatment this insect has received in German literature by Friedrich Schnack is made, and experiences in searching for and capturing this arctic relict in the Bavarian Alps are related.
25009491|A newly observed character, apparently unique to liphistiid spiders, supports a hypothesis of their monophyly. Flattened spurs situated distally on the prolateral and retrolateral sides of tibiae I-III can contact slightly raised, oval, unsclerotized areas situated proximally on the sides of metatarsi I-III. The character is found in juvenile and adult females and in juvenile males, and may function as a proprioceptor of lateral leg deflection.
25009604|A list of taxonomic names of Heteroptera proposed by J. C. M. Carvalho alone or in coauthorship from 1943 to January 1985 is presented. Included are 1 subfamily, 5 tribes, 254 genera, and 1,260 species and subspecies. For each name the original reference is cited, and for holotypes the permanent depository is given.
25009174|Gregarious behavior was observed in the pupae and adults of Calopteron terminale (Say) (Coleoptera: Lycidae). Predatory habits in the adults were not confirmed by experiments. The larva and pupa are described and illustrated.
25009567|The nesting biology and other aspects of the natural history of Exomalopsis nitens (Exomalopsini) are described and compared with the ethology of other members of the genus. This bee nests in walls of cracks in claylike soil in southern California; cells range in depth from 20 to 54 cm. Numerous females use a single surface entrance to the fissures, but each apparently constructs an individual nest in the crack face. Cells are arranged either singly or in series of two and agree in shape and other details with cells of other species in the genus. Provisions are formed into smooth elongate loaves, each supported by a 'foot' at the front. Elongate, curved eggs are deposited on top of the food masses toward the front and feeding larvae crawl around the masses. Fully fed larvae either defecate and pupate immediately, or spin cocoons incorporating fecal material and then enter diapause, depending upon factors not fully understood. The structure of the cocoon differs in certain respects from that of other Exomalopsis. An undescribed species of cuckoo bee belonging to the genus Melanomada (Nomadini) attacks the host nest by entering just after the Exomalopsis females depart to forage, and then depositing eggs in the cell wall. Melanomada larvae crawl as they feed and enter diapause without cocoon spinning.
25006146|The genus Gosodesmus Chamberlin is reviewed. With a relatively large series of G. claremontus Chamberlin from a number of localities in California, a more thorough evaluation of this species is presented. Until now a series of disjunct populations have been given specific rank, but our studies indicate G. claremontus to represent a polymorphic species. Herein, we place the genus Eucybe Chamberlin, including the species E. clarus Chamberlin (1941), E. longior Chamberlin (1950), and E. auctus Chamberlin (1954) under the synonymy of Gosodesmus claremontus.
25004534|Firebrats were reared at 37 C. The cycle from egg to egg was completed in about eleven weeks. Growth and molting continue after sexual maturity. Rolled oats and beef are suitable food. Development was more rapid when water was provided. The eggs and tiny nymphs are highly resistant to dessication.
25009249|This paper calls attention to an anonymous publication on butterflies and satisfactorily establishes the authors thereof.
25008988|The structure and possible function of the supracoxal glands of the house-dust mite, Dermatophagoides farinae, have been described. Light and electron microscopical techniques were used to study this extremely complex gland. There is one pair of supracoxal glands in the house-dust mite. Each gland is composed of eight cells that make up four two-celled functional units. Three of the two-celled units are similar to each other, whereas the fourth unit is smaller with a distinctly different morphology. The cells of the glands are characterized by several criteria, but common to all are numerous mitochondria, infolded cell membranes, microtubules, and a cuticle-lined duct. The ducts of all the functional units have a point of common attachment from which an anteriorly directed duct goes to the outside. Repugnatorial and osmoregulatory functions are discussed.
25010404|Seven new Neotropical deltocephaline leafhopper genera are described and illustrated: Hecadula (Cicadulini); Stenogrampta, Penthigrampta, and Perugramptella (Penthimiini); and Chimaerotettix and Idioceromimus (incertae cedis). Together these genera are based on 11 new species from Ecuador, Peru, and Brazil, including ten from rainforest canopy-fogging samples. Male, female, and (for four genera) fifth-instar characters are described and illustrated. Perugrampta Kramer is redescribed and transferred from Nirvaninae to Penthimiini, together with four new species, and a key to the six known species is provided. This and the three new penthimiine genera apparently represent an endemic Neotropical clade distinct from the Old World Penthimiini. Hecadula is the only known endemic South American representative of the largely Holarctic tribe Cicadulini. Chimaerotettix and Idioceromimus display unusual combinations of deltocephaline and non-deltocephaline traits and, thus, may represent endemic South American deltocephaline lineages distinct from currently recognized tribes.
25009041|Egg proteins and hemolymph proteins of larval, pupal and adult forms of the gypsy moth (Lymantria dispar, Linnaeus) were analyzed electrophoretically. Six isoenzymes: polyphenol oxidase, malic acid dehydrogenase, alcohol dehydrogenase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase, and lactic acid dehydrogenase were followed electrophoretically in the metamorphic forms of the gypsy moth. Changes in isoenzyme concentration were observed during development of the insect, and in some cases these differences were sex associated.
25009698|The larvae of worker and sexual castes of the ant Notostigma carazzii from Australia are described and illustrated.
25005818|A parental age study of 2 strains of house flies, Musca domestica, was undertaken. In the CSMA strain 18 consecutive generations, from the first eggs laid in each generation, and 2 consecutive generations from the parental, the
25009380|Diel activity cycles of carrion arthropods and microclimate in and around carcasses were recorded using a bait trap and electronic telethermometer apparatus, respectively. Arthropod collections and temperature data were gathered for 24 hours each on 2 collection dates in 12 consecutive 2-hr intervals. Ants, histerid and dermestid beetles were active throughout the 24 hr period. Temporal segregation was observed between diurnal muscoid flies and nocturnal trogid beetles. Small numbers of maggots emerged from carcasses between 1 AM and 9 AM MDT. In the microclimate experiments, highest temperatures were noted on the soil surface (50C), whereas the carcass surface (47C), carcass interior (42C), and surrounding air temperatures (36C) were notably lower. Highest mean temperatures were recorded in the carcass interior and were probably attributable to internal heat generation by bacteria and maggots.
25009710|Reuteria craigi is described as new from Missouri, where it occurs on sugar maple, Acer saccharum Marshall (Aceraceae). The male genitalia are illustrated. Henry's (1976) key is modified to incorporate the new species.
25006076|The last-stage larva of Dioxys pomonae pomonae and D. productus productus? are described taxonomically and compared with the previously published account of the larva of D. cincta (Jurine). The three other larval instars and the pupa of D. pomonae pomonae are also described and the adaptive significance of some of the anatomical features of the larvae are discussed. A preliminary key is presented to distinguish among the genera of parasitic megachilid bees on the basis of the last larval instar.
25006040|The characteristic feeding habit and position of mature larvae of Panthea furcilla (Packard) (Lepidoptera, Noctuidae) on Pinus strobus is described and illustrated.
25005959|Describes six new genera and nine new species of discocephaline pentatomids as follows: Placidocoris bivitattus (Argentina), Tetragonotum megacephalum (Brazil), Pandonotum punctiventris (Brazil), Uncinala tau (Brazil), Grassator sinuatus (Costa Rica), Grassator reticulatus (Costa Rica), Patronatus binotatus (Panama), Patronatus punctissimus (British Guiana), Patronatus flavicrus (Venezuela). Gives phyletic relationships of genera.
25006081|This paper contains the description of a new genus and species of neotropical Berytidae. Acanthoberytus wygodzinskyi n. gen. and n. sp., described from Peru, is related to Acanthophysa Uhler, 1893 and Hoplinus Stl, 1874, by having the head and pronotum armed with long spines. The new genus differs mainly by its wide unarmed hemelytra and by having large bullae on the membrane.
25010389|The tenebrionid genus Epipedonota (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini) consists of 23 species from southern South America. A cladistic analysis of the species of Epipedonota is conducted suggesting that this genus forms a monophyletic group defined by synapomorphies from external morphology and male genitalia. A cladistic biogeographic analysis of 14 areas of endemism in southern South America is performed using seven taxa inhabiting this area. Subtree analysis to these taxon-area cladograms leads to 84 general area cladograms. A consensus tree is presented to show the common vicariant events from all cladograms. The proposed vicariant events which split the ancestral biota are the uplift of the Andean mountain range and resulting ecological and climatic change as well as marine transgressions. The status of area conservation for Epipedonota is examined using the phylogenetic information. Illustrations of external morphology, internal skeletal anatomy and genitalic features, cladograms, and a map with the areas of endemism are included.
25005878|The taking of Tabanidae as prey by the wasp Crabro monticola is confirmed. Chrysops venus is added to the previously known species used as prey.
25009727|Larvae of Sthenopis auratus (Grote) were found tunneling in the artichoke-like leaf bases and stems of several ferns: Ostrich Fern (Matteuccia struthiopteris (Linnaeus) Todaro), Marginal Shield Fern (Dryopteris marginalis (Linnaeus) Gray), Mountain Wood Fern (Dryopteris campyloptera (Kunze) Clarkson), and Lady Fern (Athyrium filix-femina (Linnaeus) Roth), all Polypodiaceae. An ichneumonid parasite, Pterocormus devinctor Say, was associated with a cocoon of S. auratus. The early evening calling behavior by males is described. The male has prominent androconia on the hind tibia presumably for dissemination of a pheromone. Males did not seek out females, but rather adopted sessile calling displays on emergent understory vegetation. Additional locality records are given for this rare northeastern moth. The larva and pupa are described and illustrated in detail.
25010275|The genus Empedocles Stl is redescribed, and one new species collected in Brazil and Argentina is described; new distributional data for E. tenuicornis (Westwood) is included; dorsal view illustrations, and drawings of antennal segments, pronotum, hind leg, and male and female genitalia are provided.
25009326|Founding queens of Camponotus pennsylvanicus were collected in the field from early March through the middle of July from 1977 to 1981. No synchronization of population nuptial flights was detected. Sex ratios of colonies are male biased, contrary to previous reports.
25010190|A new species of the South American genus Spinalanx is described from southern Brazil. The primary differentiating characters are found in the genitalic structures. The new species is named in honor of the distinguished hemipterist, L. H. Rolston.
25008814|In Trinidad the parasitic Exaerete dentata (Linn.) develops in the cells of Euplusia surinamensis (Linn.) and a second species in the cells of Eulaema terminata Smith. The female of E. dentata opens the recently sealed cell and removes the host's egg and after ovipositing reseals the cell. Females of Exaerete sp. were observed to enter a nest of E. terminata but activities within the nest could not be observed. In the discussion the behavior of Exaerete spp. is compared with other parasitic bees.
25006102|In the noctuid moth Panthea furcilla (Packard) melanism is increasing rapidly in Putnam, Connecticut, an area not subject to appreciable industrial pollution. Wholly melanic and very strongly melanistic are dominant over normal gray, and wholly melanic is dominant over very strongly melanistic. Larval melanism is independent of adult melanism. Results are given of unbiased collections of adults, the reared progeny of wild-caught females and crosses of such progeny.
25009549|Drosophila caputudis, new species, from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia is described and figured. It is the only Hirtodrosophila known to have males with heads that are laterally distended.
25008974|The genus Sibaria is redefined, a diagnosis given for the two species previously known, and S. englemani new species, which ranges from Mexico to Colombia, is described.
25010323|Notiobiella thaumasta, new species, is described from four specimens preserved in Dominican amber. Probably of mid to early Miocene age, this species appears to be closely related to the extant Notiobiella species (particularly israeli) that currently occupy Cuba, Hispaniola and the adjacent Central and South American mainland. The specimens reported here are the first hemerobiids to be described in detail from New World amber and are the first reported fossils of the genus Notiobiella.
25009233|Dosage-mortality responses of third-instar grubs of the Japanese beetle, Popillia japonica Newman, showed that a population from Fairfield (Conn.), when compared at the
25009475|In the North American Miridae, nine new synonyms for species and one for a genus are proposed, replacement names are given for two homonyms, ten species are transferred to different genera, and six lectotypes are selected.
25009340|The food plant of Lygaeus turcicus (F.) is shown to be the false sunflower, Heliopsis helianthoides (L.) (Sweet) (Asteraceae) rather than species of milkweeds (Asclepiadaceae). The literature is reviewed and the records of L. turcicus on milkweeds are believed to pertain to Lygaeus kalmii Stl. Laboratory rearing records are summarized for L. turcicus on seeds of Heliopsis helianthoides, Asclepias syriaca L. and sunflowers. Nymphs of all five instars and the egg are described. The nymphs are compared and contrasted with those of Lygaeus kalmii.
25010214|The neotropical waterscorpion genus Curicta Stl 1861 (Heteroptera: Nepidae) is comprehensively reviewed for the first time, based on examination of type specimens from all but three previously named species as well as approximately 1,200 nontype specimens. Three invariant characters are unique to the genus among waterscorpion genera: absence of an ejaculatory reservoir in the male phallus, presence of a tubular vesicle rod in the phallus, and convergence of sutures delimiting the abdominal sterna and parasterna on the midline of abdominal segment 6 in males. Examination of male and female genitalia failed to reveal species specific characters. Therefore, species decisions were made on the basis of perceived disjunctions in nonreproductive morphological characters. Because many of the nongenitalic characters used previously in the taxonomy of the genus, e.g., pronotal, antennal, and paramere shape, were found to vary significantly within well defined morphospecies, a species concept that emphasizes polymorphism has been adopted. Characters that have proven useful for species delimitation include: shape of the profemur, number and position of profemoral teeth, presence or absence of profemoral sulcal teeth, presence or absence of granulations on the pronotum and hemelytra, presence or absence of longitudinal carinae on the last abdominal tergum and on the mesosternum, and shape of the prosternum. On the basis of these and other characters, one new species (C. decarloi, from eastern Brazil) and 13 new synonymies are designated, reducing the number of species in the genus from 29 to 16. All 16 species are described, or redescribed, and a key to these species is provided. A numerical cladistic analysis of species within the genus, using the waterscorpion genera Nepa and Telmatotrephes as outgroups, produced a single most parsimonious cladogram of length 98 and RC 0.481. Seven synapomorphies supported the monophyly of the genus but only six of thirteen hypothesized clades within the genus received unambiguous support. Thus, further study will be required to elucidate, with more assurance, the cladistic relationships of curictan species.
25010262|Peristenus digoneutis Loan, an introduced parasite of the tarnished plant bug, Lygus lineolaris (Palisot) (a native species), has spread from its original establishment point in northwestern New Jersey into six additional states. It has been found in 36 counties, but likely is more widespread. Its dispersion has mostly been to the northeast, and has not occurred south of latitude 40N. Peristenus conradi Marsh, an introduced parasite of the alfalfa plant bug, Adelphocoris lineolatus (Goeze) (an introduced insect), has spread from its initial establishment location in northern Delaware into two other states. It is known from a total of nine counties, but probably also is present in others. Both parasitic wasp species are now established widely enough that field studies can be conducted in several states.
25010346|The mirine plant bug genus Chilocrates Horvth, previously synonymized with Deraeocoris Kirschbaum in the subfamily Deraeocorinae, is restored and transferred to the tribe Mirini of the Mirinae. Two species, Chilocrates patulus (Walker, 1873) and Chilocrates chelonia (Distant, 1904), the only confirmed members of the genus, are diagnosed with respect to color pattern and genitalia, and reported from Bhutan and Nepal for the first time. The following synonymies and taxonomic changes are established: Chilocrates Horvth, 1889 = Shana Kirkaldy, 1902 = Liocoridea Reuter, 1903 = Gismunda Distant, 1904; Chilocrates patulus (Walker, 1873) = Chilocrates lenzii Horvth, 1889 = Shana ravana Kirkaldy, 1902 = Liocoridea mutabilis Reuter, 1903 (including var. nigra Reuter, 1903 and var. testacea Reuter, 1903) = Deraeocoris variabilis Distant, 1904 = Gismunda modesta Distant, 1909 = Lygus szechuanensis Hsiao, 1941 (including var. ruficephalus Hsiao, 1941); and Chilocrates chelonia (Distant, 1904) = Deraeocoris variabilis 'var. a-d'. Lectotypes of Gismunda chelonia and Deraeocoris variabilis are designated.
25010448|Crepidodera bella Parry (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae: Alticini), previously known only from Florida, South Carolina, Alabama, and Louisiana, is discovered in central Maryland. This species is sympatric with C. browni Parry on Salix nigra growing along swamps in the McKee-Besher Wildlife Management Area (390430N, 772300W). Morphological features of the integument and genitalia are described and compared to C. browni.
25005804|The larvae, pupa and case of this species are described for the first time. The immature stages substantiate the separate generic status recently given the species.
25006085|New information is presented on the distribution of six species of the neotropical weevil genus, Metamasius, subfamily Rhynchophorinae.
25009730|The larvae of four species of ants in the genera Platythyrea, Plectroctena and Streblognathus are described. The larvae of Streblognathus and Simopelta are characterized for the first time. Included also are a few additional references to ponerine larvae found in the literature.
25010524|Included among numerous native insects that have colonized the introduced African bunchgrass Eragrostis curvula in the southern United States are four little-known fulgoroids not previously documented as grass feeders: the fulgorids Amycle vernalis Manee, Cyrpoptus belfragei Stl, and C. reineckei Van Duzee, and the dictyopharid Rhynchomitra microrhina (Walker). Male and female genitalia and nymphs of these planthoppers are described and illustrated; the distributions and host plants, both native and introduced, are listed; and notes on habitat associations and seasonal histories are provided. All four species appear to be at least bivoltine and grass generalists that use hosts in several subfamilies. Host-range expansions and colonization of novel plants by herbivores are discussed; we suggest that the architectural complexity of weeping lovegrass has played an important role in its colonization by native planthoppers.
25009211|Nesting females of Tachytes tricinctus (F.) were observed on San Salvador Island, Bahamas, during June, 1978. This paper reports the first published data on nest construction and predatory behavior in this species. Females captured acridid grasshoppers, Ophullela pelidna pelidna Burmeister and Delia sp., which were carried to the nest in flight. The nests were multicelled with one to five cells per nest; cells were located below the level of the main burrow, and contained two to nine prey. Evidence is presented that females of this species capture all the prey for a particular cell before ovipositing on one of the prey.
25010449|An isolated population of Moneilema appressum LeConte was discovered above Long Park in the Chiricahua Mountains of southeastern Arizona (315244N, 1091712W) during July 2001. Specimens of this flightless lamiine cerambycid were observed hiding and walking in the junctures of Echinocereus coccineus Engelmann (Cactaceae) at 2,760 m (9,055 feet). These data represent new host plant and elevation records for this species.
25010466|Descriptions and illustrations are given for four new species of Myrsidea Waterston from manakins. They and their type hosts are: M. edgarsmithi ex Pipra erythrocephala from Trinidad, M. andyolsoni ex Heterocercus linteatus from Brazil, M. rekasii ex Pipra mentalis from Costa Rica, and M. baileyae ex Pipra erythrocephala from Trinidad. These represent the first species of this chewing louse genus to be described from the members of the passerine family Pipridae.
25010245|Two species of Buprestidae are added to the Antillean insect fauna. Agrilus jamaicensis is described as the second member of that genus known from the island of Jamaica. Taphrocerus chalumeaui is reported from Guadeloupe, taken on the leaves of the palm Euterpe globosa. Both species are more closely related to Central American forms than to known Antillean species. Agrilus hispaniolae is proposed as a new name to replace A. klapperichi Hespenheide, a primary homonym of A. klapperichi Obenberger.
25008816|Prodidomus tirumalai sp. n., P. palkai sp. n., P. venkateswarai sp. n., and P. papavanasanemensis sp. n. are described from the State of Andrah Pradesh.
25006213|During July 1969, virgin female gypsy moths were used as decoys to sample male gypsy moth populations on Long Island. Although most common near an area in which larvae had completely defoliated tall oaks, male moths dispersed into areas where infestations were sparse or nil. Increases in the average size of male moths were noted at several trapping sites during the sampling period, this change being attributable to the early emergence of small moths in severely defoliated areas.
25010056|A new species of the lecontei group of Plusiotis is described, based on recently collected material in the state of Veracruz, Mexico. The distinctive characteristics are illustrated, a key to separate the species of the lecontei group is presented, and its eco-geographical distribution is outlined and compared with that of the fir forest. /// Se describe una nueva especie de Plusiotis del grupo lecontei con base en material recientemente colectado en el estado de Veracruz, Mxico. Se ilustran sus caracteristicas distintivas comentando sus relaciones con las demas especies del grupo. Se presenta una clave para la separacion de las especies comprendidas dentro del grupo lecontei y por ultimo se comenta su distribucion ecogeogrfica discutiendo sus relaciones con el bosque de abeto.
25010294|A redescription of Amecocerus senilis (LeConte) (Coleoptera: Melyridae: Dasytinae) is provided based on the author's examination of 875 specimens of this species. The male genitalia of A. senilis are illustrated and compared with those of A. suckeri Hatch, a related species from Washington and Oregon. Adults of A. senilis occur abundantly on flowers in open forests of Pinus ponderosa Douglas in the vicinity of Estes Park, Colorado. Flowers on which adults of A. senilis were collected during this study include Achillea lanulosa Nuttall, Cerastium arvense L., Erigeron annuus (L.) Persoon, Eriogonum heracleoides Nuttall, Gaillardia aristata Pursh, Geranium viscosissimum Fischer and Meyer, Grindelia squarrosa (Pursh) Dunal, Potentilla gracilis Douglas, and Solidago occidentalis (Nuttall) Torrey and Gray.
25009420|Eight species of the genus Ommatius Wiedemann are reported from Hispaniola in the Caribbean Islands. Seven of the species are described as new (O. haitiensis, O. nigellus, O. russelli, O. gwenae, O. stramineus, O. cinnamomeus, O. hispaniolae), O. vitreus Bigot is redescribed, and illustrations and a key are included.
25010059|A new species of neotropical Aradus is described from Surinam. Habitus, male genitalic and other structures are illustrated. A key is given for the six South American species of Aradus with bicolored antennae and their antennae are figured.
25006048|Collection records of the Palaearctic bee Anthidium manicatum (L.), reported by Jaycox in 1967 as being adventive in the United States, are brought up to date. New flower host records are included. European literature on the aggressive behavior of the male is briefly summarized. Observations on the behavior of A. manicatum in 1965 and 1966 show the male to be territorial and aggressive. The female works without hindrance while other species of bees are struck and driven from the territory being patrolled by the male. No bees showed any inclination to defend themselves against the attacking male of A. manicatum. It is believed that A. manicatum is a rather unique subject for further study, including distribution, behavior, nest building, flower preferences and genetics.
25000064|Determinations were made on the vitamin content of the fat bodies of normal and aposymbiotic cockroaches. Of the 10 vitamins studied (ascorbic, folic, nicotinic and pantathenic acids, biotin, cyanocabalamin, inositol, pyridoxine, riboflavin and thiamine), only 3 (ascorbic, folic and pantathenic acids) were present in considerably larger amounts in the normal fat body. Cultured symbionts were able to synthesize them. The lighter cuticular color, sluggishness and reduced reproductive ability of the aposymbiotic insect may be explained by the absence of these vitamins.
25009010|The East African army ant Aenictus eugenii Emery includes 1 subspecies and 3 varieties. One of these, A. kenyensis Santschi, is placed in synonymy, and a taxonomic history of the species is presented. The queen for the species is described for the first time and is compared with the 3 other known African Aenictus queens. Observations of A. eugenii foraging behavior show that it is a column raider and a specialized predator of ants, particularly the immature stages, that the workers move along the foraging trails in single file in small tandem groups and that they normally subdivide their prey only when it is larger than they.
25010353|The South American genus Callyntra (Pimeliinae: Nycteliini) comprises 16 previously known species distributed in central Chile, plus a new species described from the central coastal mountain range: C. cantillana n.sp. A cladistic analysis of the 17 species of Callyntra is conducted. Callyntra comprises a natural group of species, characterized by nine synapomorphies from external morphology and internal skeletal anatomy. The species relationships are resolved. The paper includes scanning electron micrographs of the pronotum and clypeus of the new species. A discussion concerning the status of conservation of the five areas of endemism for Callyntra using the phylogenetic information is presented.
25006238|The European skipper has greatly expanded its range on the Allegheny Plateau in central New York, east to Chenango County. The first record from the Pocono Plateau in Pennsylvania is reported. Populations on the Piedmont in Bucks County, Pa. and Mercer County, New Jersey reached outbreak proportions in 1970. The skipper's range is expected to become continuous across the northeastern United States.
25010482|An intensive survey for Cerambycidae of El Yunque National Forest and many of the state forests in Puerto Rico showed 49 species representing over half of the hitherto reported species from the Island. Two tribes and four genera are recorded from Puerto Rico for the first time. The description of a new genus, Pseudothonalmus Guerrero, is included. Four new species are described: Elateropsis julio Lingafelter and Micheli, Pseudothonalmus woodleyi Lingafelter, Micheli, and Guerrero, Styloleptus taino Lingafelter and Micheli, and Distenia puertoricensis Lingafelter and Micheli. The larva of Parandra tavakiliani is described. Locality data and method of collection are provided for all encountered Cerambycidae. /// Una expedicin para colectar Cerambycidae en el Bosque Nacional El Yunque y varios otros bosques estatales de Puerto Rico encontr 49 especies lo cual representan ms de la mitad de las especies reportadas para la Isla. Dos tribus y cuatro gneros son reportados por primera vez para Puerto Rico. Se describen un nuevo gnero, Pseudothonalmus Guerrero, y cuatro especies: Elateropsis julio Lingafelter and Micheli, Pseudothonalmus woodleyi Lingafelter, Micheli, and Guerrero, Styloleptus taino Lingafelter and Micheli y Distenia puertoricensis Lingafelter and Micheli. La larva de Parandra tavakiliani se describe. Datos de localidad y mtodo de coleccin se proveen para todos los Cerambycidae encontrados.
25009669|Two new ground beetles species in the tribe Cychrini are described from western Arkansas: Scaphinotus (s. str.) parisiana and Scaphinotus (Nomaretus) infletus. Distribution records within Arkansas are given for four additional cychrine species. A cladogram of relationships for the five known species in the subgenus Nomaretus is proposed.
25010203|The larva and pupa of Nola pustulata (Walker) are described and illustrated. Lyonia ligustrina (L.) DC. [Ericaceae] is established as a host. The moth is much more restricted in distribution than its food plant. The species is univoltine, overwintering as an egg that is deposited on the twigs of the food plant. Hatching coincides with bud burst. A keel-shaped cocoon is produced and adults emerge in early June. A parasitoid, Distatrix sp. (Hymenoptera: Braconidae), and a predator, Nabis inscriptus Kirby (Heteroptera: Nabidae) are reported.
25005817|A list of all the known host ants and beetle species (Cremastocheilini) is given along with a detailed description of the behavior and habits of C. stathamae with the honey ant Myrmecocystus mimicus. Information on the feeding habits and behavior of the ant are included. It is determined that the true relationship between the species of the genus Cremastocheilus and their host ant species is not yet known and that these beetles are found associated with at least 11 different genera of ants.
25008852|This paper describes the nest and other aspects of the biology of Andrena (Pterandrena) accepta Viereck and provides a taxonomic description of its postdefecating larva. This species is the first North American representative of the genus known to nest communally. Details of the nest structure are discussed, the provisions are described, and a fly larva (Conopidae) is recorded from the metasoma of an adult female. Characters of the mature larvae of Andrena are presented that tentatively permit the larvae to be distinguished from those of the andrenid subfamily Panurginae.
25009643|Metriocnemus yaquina from Oregon coastal rock pools is described in all life history stages as new to science. The generic diagnosis of Metriocnemus is emended and the disparate larval ecologies exhibited within the genus are reviewed and supplemented.
25010467|The study of population variability and the reexamination of type material of certain Ephemerellidae species has revealed changes in status and new synonyms. Ephemerella dorothea Needham, 1908 [=E. infrequens McDunnough, 1924, new synonym, =E. mollitia Seemann, 1927, new synonym] is divided into two subspecies: E. d. dorothea, new status, and E. d. infrequens, new status [=E. mollitia, new synonym]. New synonyms were discovered for the following: Ephemerella excrucians Walsh, 1862 [=E. inermis Eaton, 1884, new synonym, =E. argo Burks, 1947, new synonym, =E. crenula Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. lacustris Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. rossi Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. rama Allen, 1968, new synonym], E. invaria Walker, 1853 [=E. rotunda Morgan, 1911, new synonym, =E. vernalis Banks, 1914, new synonym, =E. feminina Needham, 1924, new synonym, =E. fratercula McDunnough, 1925, new synonym, =E. inconstans Traver, 1932, new synonym, =E. choctawhatchee Berner, 1946, new synonym, =E. simila Allen and Edmunds, 1965, new synonym, =E. floripara McCafferty, 1985, new synonym], E. mucronata (Bengtsson), 1909 [=E. moffatae Allen, 1977, new synonym], Serratella micheneri (Traver), 1934 [=E. altana Allen, 1968, new synonym], S. serrata (Morgan), 1911 [=S. sordida (McDunnough), 1925, new synonym, =S. carolina (Berner and Allen), 1961, new synonym, =S. spiculosa (Berner and Allen), 1961, new synonym], and S. tibialis (McDunnough), 1924 [=S. sequoia (Allen and Collins), 1968, new synonym]. The larval description of E. altana is based on E. excrucians larvae that were associated erroneously with an adult of E. altana (=S. micheneri, new synonym). Variability and new distribution data are documented for each species, and records based on misidentifications are corrected. New diagnostic characters are provided for certain species.
25009508|Brachydeutera longipes Hendel, a species previously known from the Orient, is reported to occur in eastern North America (Maryland south to Georgia). This is the 4th species of Brachydeutera for North America and the only adventive one in recent times. The natural history of the species, mostly based on published records from India, keys, a description, and illustrations are provided to facilitate identification and future research on the species.
25009791|The history and present distribution of Orius minutus (Linnaeus) in North America is summarized. The systematic position of O. minutus is reviewed, showing that this introduced species is the only member of the subgenus Heterorius Wagner in North America. The adult and nymph of O. minutus are illustrated and distinguished from the native sympatric species Orius tristicolor (B.-White). The ecology and potential benefits of O. minutus as a predator in agroecosystems are discussed.
25005841|Forty-four queens (including five callows), several hundred workers of the polymorphic series, and males of the two species are studied, covering all systems but with particular attention to glandular cytology as between queens and workers. The post-pharyngeal gland of the queen fills most of the head cavity anterior to the brain; that of the worker is smaller but similar. Small glands at the bases of the legs contain increasing numbers of cells through the polymorphic series; most of all in the queen. The metasternal gland is conspicuous in the queen's thorax but not so in the worker's; the poison glands of the queen are larger than in the worker and present still other differences. The reproductive system of the queen is described in terms of differences in specimens collected at various points in the functional cycle of the colony, also in terms of differences between callow and functional queens and in contrast to the simple system of workers. Differences in the muscular, nervous and respiratory systems of queen and worker are described. In dorylines these last systems are similar to those in other ants except for secondary details related to physogastry in the queen. Included are 17 detailed plates.
25009466|Dictyla echii (Schrank), a Palearctic lace bug associated with boraginaceous plants, has been recorded previously in North America from Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and West Virginia; additional records are cited for these states, and new records are given for New York and Ohio and for Ontario, Canada. The seasonal history and habits of D. echii on viper's bugloss or blueweed, Echium vulgare L., in southcentral Pennsylvania are presented. A diagnosis of the adult and a summary of its habits in the Old World are provided.
25009379|A total of 2,397 individuals representing 8 species of carrion beetles (Silphidae) and 2,336 individuals representing 4 species of "carrion beetles" from 4 other families were collected on carrion in the Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge during June, July and August in 1980 and during April and May in 1981. Beetles were trapped in 3 habitats-forest, field, and marsh. Of the 8 silphid species, 5 manifested a strong preference for a given habitat. These species were Oiceoptoma noveboracense (forest), Necrophila americana (field), Nicrophorus orbicollis (forest), Nicrophorus pustulatus (forest); and Necrodes surinamensis (forest). Two silphid species manifested a slight preference for a given habitat: Oiceoptoma inaequale (field), and Nicrophorus tomentosus (field). One species, Nicrophorus marginatus, manifested a probable preference for the field. Insofar as other "carrion beetles" are concerned, 1 species, Onthophagus hecate (Scarabaeidae) showed a strong preference for the field. Three species manifested slight preferences for given habitats: Omosita colon (Nitidulidae) and Dermestes caninus (Dermestidae) for the forest, and Euspilotus assimilis (Histeridae) for the field.
25005976|Describes a new varicolored species of Mecistorhinus Dallas from Ecuador and calls it M. variegatus. Heteroptera, Pentatomidae, Discocephalinae.
25010383|Corrections to the 1995 catalog of Miridae entitled "Plant Bugs of the World" are presented. These include taxa and references omitted from the catalog, corrections of synonymies, and corrections of other errors such as spellings of scientific names and incorrect distributional information. A new replacement name Rondonegeria nom. n. is proposed for the preoccupied name Egeria Carvalho and Costa, 1993.
25009577|A new spider, Panjange sedgwicki, remarkable for its prolonged eye stalks, is described from Sarawak.
25009487|Twenty-four new cerambycid host associations are reported from southeastern Texas. Specimens were reared from Cercis canadensis, Sesbania drummondii, Sophora secundiflora, Zanthoxylum clava-herculis, and Zanthoxylum fagara. Plectromerus dentipes is recorded for the first time from Texas.
25006082|The eight fully known species of Microcrambus Bleszynski occurring in North America are characterized and differentiated. The male genitalia of all are figured. Three of the species, M. copelandi, kimballi and matheri, are described as new.
25005925|The segmental nerve plan in the pregenital segments of the abdomen in the tettigoniid Neoconocephalus exiliscanorus (Davis) anod the gryllacridid Ceutophilus gracilipes gracilipes (Haldeman) was found to conform to a pattern previously described in other orthopterous families and in the Lepidoptera, and shares some of its features with the Plecoptera and the Megaloptera.
25005830|The problem of what has occurred to the sting accessories of the stingless bees is considered. Primitive Meliponini retain the sac homologous to the sac of the acid gland of stinging bees; evolved stingless bees do not have this sac in the workers but do have it in the queens. Since Apis mellifera lose their stings as a result of use of the sting in defense, the authors suggest that new methods of defense evolved which do not exact a heavy toll of the colony. The fact that there are at least thirteen ways in which stingless bees protect themselves, makes stings obsolete. In 24 species of Apinae it has been possible to correlate different levels of evolution with: nests, communication systems, mandibular glands and cytology. A diagrammatic representation of evolutionary levels reached by each species is presented.
25005865|Nomadopsis (Micronomadopsis) euphorbiae (Cockerell, 1925) is a junior synonym of N. (Micronomadopsis) helianthi (Swenk and Cockerell, 1907).
25009670|The phylogenetic relationships of the genera of Stenogastrinae are investigated using cladistic methods. The cladogram here proposed is: Liostenogaster + ((Eustenogaster + Stenogaster) + (Anischnogaster + (Metischnogaster + (Holischnogaster + Parischnogaster)))). Holischnogaster is newly synonymized with Parischnogaster.
25010154|The Neotropical genus Neocordulia is a rare, small, and very poorly known group of dragonflies, including eight species known to date. Only the larva of N. biancoi has been described. The larva of N. b. longipollex is characterized by: body densely covered with scale-like setae; frons strongly produced anteriorly in a shelf; antennae short with the third joint the longest; prementum abruptly narrowed basally; premental setae 5+4, palpal setae 5. Meso- and metasternum strongly hollowed out for reception of labium. Abdomen without lateral spines or dorsal protuberances; segment 10 reduced. Differences in frontal projection, proportion of antennomeres, number of premental and palpal setae, and presence/absence of abdominal spines, permit the separation of the larva of N. b. longipollex from that of N. biancoi.
25009443|The aedeagal bladder in the male reproductive system of the fire ant Solenopsis invicta Buren lies within the external genitalia. The lumen is lined by a single layer of squamous epithelium surrounded by heavy musculature. In mature, sterile and mated males it contains a milky substance but no fluid is found in newly eclosed males. The fluid in the bladder consists of fatty acid esters (glycerol monodecanoate and glycerol monododecanoate) in a proteinaceous matrix. The function of the secretion remains unknown.
25009060|Grossfield, Joseph, Department of Biology, City College, N.Y., N.Y., 10031.-The behavior of three quinaria group species of Drosophila, D. falleni, D. occidentalis and D. guttifera was observed. Males of each species were given a choice of normal and decapitated conspecific females. Males of D. occidentalis and D. guttifera fail to inseminate any decapitated females while D. falleni inseminates significantly fewer decapitated females. Normal females are courted preferentially as evidenced by either the number or the sequence of courtships. Of the three species, D. guttifera is the most effective in converting courtship to inseminations with an effective courtship ratio (C/I) of 1.2. Decapitated females do not give acceptance signals. This excludes the possibility that this motor pattern is part of a reflex arc analagous with vertebrates. For some species visual stimuli are involved within the courtship sequence as well as in the initiation of courtship. The recognition by males of these visual signals serves as a gating point for the next step in his courtship sequence. The acceptance response can serve as trigger mechanism for the male motor response. The behavioral architecture of these species differs from the D. melanogaster pattern. The discriminatory mechanisms responsible for specific stimulus recognition represent the intrinsic component of behavior least sensitive to environmental modification.
25009383|This paper presents the anatomy and histology of the reproductive system, the external genitalia, and the terminal gastric sterna in the male adult and advanced-stage pupa of the Old World doryline ant, Aenictus gracilis. The male reproductive system consists of the testes, the vasa efferentia, the vasa deferentia, the seminal vesicles, the accessory glands, the short bound accessory gland duct, the ejaculatory duct and wedge, the aedeagal bladder, and the external genitalia. The testes are enclosed in a thin common capsule, and each testis is composed of about 32 follicles. The epithelium of the testicular follicle in the adult consiss of a basal and an inner layer of cells around a central lumen, which contains scattered or clustered spermatozoa. In the pupa, the epithelium is composed of irregularly-shaped cells, each with a large central vacuole filled with spermatozoa. The seminal vesicles are U-shaped in the adult and pupa. The epithelial cells in the pupa are taller than those in the adult. In the adult, spermatozoa were present throughout, but in the pupa, sperm were absent throughout. The accessory glands are tubular and bent around the proximal region of the intestine. The epithelium is more folded in the pupa than in the adult. In the adult, some regions contain an acidophilic secretion, some basophilic, and some both. In the ejaculatory duct, a cuticular wedge is present on the lateral and ventral walls; this wedge is more complex in its structure in the adult. The duct enters the dorsal, posterior surface of the aedeagal bladder. The epithelium of the bladder consists of small cells covered by a thick, wrinkled intima. The muscle fibers that surround the bladder are larger in diameter than the visceral muscles of the ejaculatory duct. The lumen of the bladder is devoid of secretion. The basal ring of the genitalia, the three pairs of valves, and the eighth and ninth sterna are described. They are quite different in shape from those of the New World dorylines, Eciton hamatum and Neivamyrmex harrisi, but in some respects resemble those of the Old World dorylines, Dorylus wilverthi and nigricans. Comparisons made with previously described Old and New World species have revealed structures and features that lend support to the concept of the triphyletic origin of the dorylines.
25009408|The life history of Euschistus ictericus was studied in southern Illinois, and the immature stages were described. The bug was also reared from egg to adult in the laboratory. Adults emerged from overwintering sites in early May, began feeding on Carex comosa Boott, and reproduced shortly thereafter. Eggs were generally laid on C. comosa and nymphs were found only on this plant. No individuals were found after mid-August. E. ictericus was reared on green beans under a 16L:8D photoperiod and constant temperature of 23.9  1.1C. The incubation period averaged 7.33 days. Durations of the 5 subsequent stadia averaged 3.99, 7.72, 7.27, 9.03, and 12.62 days, respectively. The external anatomy of the egg and each of the 5 nymphal instars is described.
25006088|Alloperla concolor is removed from synonymy. New notes and figures for the recognition of Alloperla idei are presented. A. onkos is shown to have only a very restricted range and not to replace A. mediana in the northeast as hitherto believed. A figure of the previously unillustrated female of A. voinae is given. Extensions of the range of several species are given and a key to northeastern and central Alloperla is presented.
25009189|This paper presents the first description of the anatomy and histology of the alimentary tract, the postpharyngeal glands, the salivary glands, the Malpighian tubules, and the mandibular glands in the male adult and pupa of the Old World doryline ant, Aenictus gracilis. The alimentary tract consists of the cibarium, the buccal tube, the infrabuccal chamber, the pharynx, the oesophagus, the cardiac valve, the ventriculus, the pylorus, the intestine, the rectal valve and the rectum. In the adult the infrabuccal chamber lies posterior to its usual position in ants under the posterior floor of the buccal tube and the anterior pharynx, while the pupa has a recess where the infrabuccal chamber is usually present. The pharynx is divisible into a broad anterior, an indented middle, and a tubular posterior region into which the postpharyngeal glands open. The epithelium of the pharynx has flattened cells in the adult and low columnar cells in the pupa. The intima of the postpharyngeal glands and ducts bears long hair-like projections. Maxillary glands are absent. The epithelium of the oesophagus has small folds in the pupa and the lumen is wider than in the adult. The continuation of the oesophagus into the ventriculus is the cardiac valve. A crop and a proventiculus are absent. The ventriculus has a dorsal concavity toward its posterior half. The ventricular epithelium of the adult consists of digestive and regenerative cells. In the pupa the ventricular epithelium has disintegrating and regenerating regions. The regenerating digestive cells are of three distinct types that represent stages in the maturity of the epithelium. The pylorus is internally divided into an anterior region where the 18-20 Malpighian tubules enter, and a posterior region. The posterior extension of the intestine into the rectum is the rectal valve. The inner wall of the rectum has 3 rectal pads. The very small salivary glands are of the simple branched acinar type, and their ducts have a tortuous cuticular lined lumen. The mandibular gland consists of about 12 pyriform cells and a reservoir. Comparisons made with the other Old World and New World species previously described have revealed features of phylogenetic importance that lend support to the concept of the triphyletic origin of the dorylines.
25009652|A key to the Rhysodini of Sulawesi and the nearby Banggai Archipelago is provided. Six new species are described and illustrated: Omoglymmius (s. str.) ferrugatus, from Banggai, and the remainder from Celebes: Plesioglymmius (s. str.) moorei, Omoglymmius (s. str.) wallacei, O. (s. str.) brendelli, O. (s. str.) seriatus and O. (Indoglymmius) astraea. Comparisons are made with the two species previously recorded from Sulawesi, and a key to all eight species is included.
25010539|Papuamorbus rostellus, new genus and new species, is described from Papua New Guinea, and included in the tribe Amorbini. A dorsal view illustration and drawing of male genital capsule are provided. A key to the known genera of Amorbini is given.
25006087|A new species of membracid Leptocentrus rufotibialis is described and figured.
25010337|Adult and mature larval characters of Blepharida atripennis, B. rhois, B. sacra, Diamphidia sp., Euplectroscelis xanti, Ophrida marmorea Podontia affinis, P. lutea and P. dalmani, were studied as representatives of their respective genera or subgenera from the Blepharida-Group of approximately 16 genera worldwide, presumed to be related. The similarities and relationships of these and other genera based on adult and larval morphology and biology are discussed. The mature larvae of these nine species are illustrated in detail, three for the first time (Ophrida marmorea, Euplectroscelis xanti, and Diamphidia sp.). Adult external morphology and the metafemoral spring were compared and indicated several overlapping similarities. Some discussion of the classification of the Galerucinae and Alticinae is provided.
25009550|A new species, Myolepta graciliventris Wiegmann (Diptera: Syrphidae), is described from Nepal. A revised key to the Oriental Myolepta is included. Phylogenetic relationships among subgroups of the genus are reviewed.
25010313|Three new genera of phyline Miridae are described from North America to accommodate two taxa removed from Plagiognathus and five newly recognized species from the western part of the continent. Coniferocoris, new genus comprises the type species C. pinicolus and two additional new species, C. abiesicolus, and C. polhemi; Piceophylus, new genus comprises the type species P. keltoni, new species; and Pinophylus, new genus comprises the type species Plagiognathus rolfsi Knight, Plagiognathus carneolus Knight, and the new species Pinophylus stonedahli. Two new species are placed in Psallovius Henry: P. nigroantennatus and P. dimorphicus, and new distributional and host records for P. flaviclavus (Knight) are given. The male genitalic structures of all species are illustrated, and scanning electron micrographs are presented for the head, dorsal vestiture, and pretarsus of representative species. Habitus views as photographs or illustrations are provided for all species.
25009967|The new hydropsychid caddisfly, Hydropsyche franclemonti, is described, illustrated and its distribution plotted (Connecticut, New York, North and South Carolina, Virginia and Quebec). It is differentiated from its closest relatives in the scalaris group, H. rossi and H. mississippiensis, and their distributional patterns are discussed.
25009273|The genus Erora Scudder is characterized and discussed. Characteristics of E. laeta (Edwards), E. quaderna quaderna (Hewitson) and E. quaderna sanfordi dos Passos are given and evaluated. The early stages, ethology, ecology and geographic distributions of E. laeta and E. quaderna sanfordi are described. The peculiar dense vesture of the larvae, and a "bald" area (the calvarium) on the prothorax, are potentially significant in generic taxonomy. Full, annotated synonymies and lists of distributional records are given. Possible phylogenies are discussed.
25010437|The 21 reported Chrysomelidae types in the Hunterian Museum were examined. Cassida quadripustulata Fabricius and Chrysomela morio Fabricius were not found in the collection. The specimens of Altica nigripes Fabricius, Chrysomela flavicornis Fabricius, and Cassida discoides Fabricius are not types. Chrysomela decimaculata Fabricius is a Coccinellidae; Chrysomela histris Fabricius is an Erotylidae. The syntypes of Altica anglica Fabricius appear to be lost. The 16 valid types are documented. Chrysomela clavata Fabricius is transfered to Anomoea and synonymized with A. laticlava (Forster).
25010380|Mirabilamorbus monteithi, new genus and new species, is described from Northern Territory and Western Australia. It is placed in the coreid tribe Amorbini. Comments are made on the variability in body size and shape of hind femora. Dorsal view and details of the male genital capsule and parameres are illustrated. A key to the Australian genera of Amorbini is included.
25009160|The families of Pentatomoidea of the Western Hemisphere (Acanthosomatidae, Canopidae, Corimelaenidae, Cydnidae, Cyrtocoridae, Dinidoridae, Megarididae, Pentatomidae, Phloeidae, Scutelleridae, Tessaratomidae), the subfamilies of Pentatomidae (Asopinae, Discocephalinae, Edessinae, Pentatominae, Podopinae), and the tribes of Pentatominae (Halyini, Mecideini, Pentatomini, Sciocorini) are keyed and diagnosed. Edessinae is raised from tribal status and Pantochlora Stl included in this subfamily. All Western Hemisphere genera formerly included in Halyini except Brochymena Amyot and Serville are removed from this tribe. Caracia Stl, Marghita Ruckes and Janeirona Distant are transferred to Pentatomini. Janeirona is a senior synonym of Zimmerana Ruckes.
25008830|A diagnosis is given for the genus Menecles, M. insertus (Say) is redescribed, and a new species of the genus described from Texas.
25010445|The Veliinae of Vietnam are reviewed, and the new species Velia tonkina described from the Huong Lien Son mountains in the far north of the country. Three additional species of Veliinae, Chenevelia stridulans, Angilia bispinosa, and Angilia orientalis, are recorded from Vietnam for the first time. Distribution maps are provided for all these species, dorsal habitus illustrations are provided for Velia tonkina and Chenevelia stridulans, and illustrations of male genitalic structures are provided for Velia tonkina.
25008976|Some insect predators of the alfalfa weevil commonly found in the alfalfa fields of Western Nevada were screened for their predatory efficiency against the alfalfa weevil larvae and the pea aphids. By offering each predator species a combination of the alfalfa weevil larvae and pea aphids as diet, their preference for the host insects was determined. The three lady beetle species, the big eyed bug and the nabid bug preferred to feed upon the pea aphids; whereas, the soft winged flower beetle, Collops bipunctatus Say, significantly preferred to feed upon the alfalfa weevil larvae and hence could be of importance in the biological control of the alfalfa weevil.
25008777|The history of melanism in Panthea furcilla, and methods for rearing and mating this moth are presented. Based on rearing data of P. furcilla it is tentatively concluded that melanism in P. furcilla is controlled by a single, sex-linked, dominant gene.
25010153|The life history of Phylloscelis pallescens Germar in Missouri is summarized and the egg and nymphs are described and illustrated. P. pallescens is univoltine, has five nymphal instars and apparently overwinters as eggs. This dictyopharid planthopper feeds exclusively on slender mountain mint [Pycnanthemum tenuifolium Schrad. (Lamiaceae)]. Nymphal instars can be separated by body size, number of pit-like sensoria, size of wing pads, metatibia and tarsomere spination, and number of metatarsomeres.
25009749|A new genus and species of fossil solpugid, Happlodontus proterus, is described from Dominican amber. This is the first Tertiary record for the order, the second described fossil solpugid and the first solpugid fossil described from amber. On the basis of this fossil and the present distribution of the family Ammotrechidae, phylogenetic aspects of the group are discussed.
25009012|In this list 43 species, subspecies and named aberrations with larval hostplant, where known, are added to the Supplemental List of Macrolepidoptera of New Jersey, 1965.
25006030|An alphabetical listing of the generic and subgeneric names in the families Tortricidae and Phaloniidae is presented; it is complete up to approximately the end of 1964.
25009980|An undescribed Amycle fulgorid planthopper nymph that mimics jumping spiders when viewed from behind is recorded from Guerrero, Mexico. The nymph has 4 smooth, polished dark areas on its metathorax and hind wing pads that resemble the anterior eyes of jumping spiders. The middle and hind legs, which project posteriorly and have flattened femora and tibiae, were moved in an up and down manner similar to those of salticid legs and pedipalpi. It is hypothesized that such mimicry affords protection from predation by salticids only, not predators in general.
25009231|The relative susceptibility of the American dog tick, Dermacentor variabilis, to selected insecticides was determined in the laboratory by larval exposure to insecticide-treated surfaces and by adult exposure to topically applied insecticides. Subsequent field experiments were conducted with caged ticks to determine the potential of these insecticides for use in area control of D. variabilis adults. Results from both field and laboratory experiments indicate that emulsifiable formulations of naled and chlorpyrifos were highly effective acaricides, more toxic to larval and adult ticks than acephate, propoxur, pyrethrins and ronnel, as demonstrated by
25008806|The range of temperatures encountered at hibernation sites of Vespula maculata (Linnaeus), Vespula arenaria (Fabricieus), and Polistes fuscatus (Fabricius) during the winter and spring of 1971-72 are presented. The tolerance of each species to temperatures below freezing was determined. All individuals of both Vespula species tested were killed by -10C, while all Polistes fuscatus tested were killed at -20C. These lethal temperatures were lower than the minimum temperatures observed at the hibernation sites.
25009026|The shortened life expectancies of female head lice, Pediculus humanus capitis DeGr., due to increased copulations by males when overcrowded, was examined in natural and reared louse populations. Natural populations were too small to verify if a detrimental influence upon females by males does occur, while the number of reared females was not significantly reduced in the denser populations indicating female longevity does not decrease when overcrowded. Results from individually isolating newly emerged females with a number of like males showed the former survived a considerably shorter time than their normal life expectancies. The shortened lives of these females was attributed to their not being fully sclerotized prior to copulating, causing injury and death, and not as the result of frequent copulations by males.
25009926|Both sexes of two new species of Teratembiidae from Argentina, are described and illustrated. Oligembia mini, n. sp. is closest to Oligembia bicolor Ross, 1944. Diradius erba, n. sp. is closest to Oligembia unicolor Ross, 1944 (which seems to belong to Diradius).
25010020|The genus Dorcadothrips is reviewed for Hawaii and North America. Dorcadothrips oahuensis, new species, on sweet basil in Hawaii is described and the males of D. cyperaceae (Bianchi) and D. xanthius (Williams) are described for the first time. A key to identify the females and males of these three species and D. walteri (Crawford) is provided.
25010535|Blackburnia kavanaughi, new species, previously misidentified as Blackburnia asquithi Liebherr, is described from the western portion of the Alakai Plateau, Kauai, Hawaii. The species is placed phylogenetically based on cladistic analysis including all known Hawaiian Blackburnia, supporting membership in the subgenus Metromenus Sharp. The new species is hypothesized to be most closely related to B. debilis (Perkins) of Molokai and B. kuiki Liebherr of East Maui, sharing enhanced pubescence of the antennal pedicel, reduction in number of the dorsal elytral setae, and elongate ventrolateral setae of tarsomere 5. Individuals of all three species reside in deep arboreal moss mats associated with ohia lehua trees (Metrosideros polymorpha: Myrtaceae). Blackburnia debilis, previously known only from the single male holotype collected in 1902, was recollected in 2005 from Uapa summit, Molokai, in arboreal moss on the mesic leeward edge of ohia lehua forest. Discovery of B. kavanaughi on Kauai implies an additional colonization event from Kauai to newer islands during the diversification of Blackburnia, while corroborating the previous general biogeographic pattern of progressive colonization of the Hawaiian Islands by this clade. Phylogenetic placement of B. debilis + B. kuiki as adelphotaxon to B. kavanaughi results in a hypothesized sister-group relationship between sympatric sister species-the epigean B. calathiformis (Sharp) and the troglobitic B. howarthi (Samuelson and Liebherr)-corroborating F. G. Howarth's general hypothesis for the evolution of Hawaiian troglobites.
25009644|The biology and mature larva of Hemipimpla pulchripennis (Saussure), are described for the first time. The relationships among the tribes of Pimplinae are discussed with emphasis on the Ephialtini, of which Hemipimpla is a member.
25009147|Polyphagous southern armyworms, Spodoptera eridania, are extremely efficient at assimilating ingested biomass and nitrogen in foliage of forage legumes. Variable efficiencies of processing the digested food (E.C.D.) were observed, however, and these differences reflect metabolic costs which may be related to biochemical factors mediating varietal differences in host plant resistance to other kinds of insects. Armyworms are apparently able to compensate for low conversion efficiencies with increased consumption rates such that their relative growth rates (mg. gained/mg. tissue/day) are virtually independent of digestive efficiency. In fact, larval growth rates of southern armyworms on these 15 legume varieties were among the greatest observed in a comparison with 22 other species of Lepidoptera in 140 similar feeding experiments. It appears that the combination of high leaf water content (80-91%) and high nitrogen content (4.2-5.5% dry) of legume foliage are key factors permitting such growth. Allelochemics such as coumarin or the various saponins known to be present in these legumes were ineffective "barriers" to larval feeding and growth of armyworms in no-choice situations.
25009190|A third species of Fecelia, F. biorbis n. sp. from Haiti, is added to the genus. It is described, figured and compared to the other species of Fecelia.
25005811|Describes Parantiteuchus hemitholus from French Guiana as a new genus distinct from Antiteuchus Dallas by virtue of the longer head, sinuate anterolateral pronotal margins, gibbous scutellum, crenulated abdominal margin, and ramose veins in the hymelytral membranes. While sorting an old accumulation of miscellaneous Neotropical Heteroptera which have been residual in the collections of the American Museum for a number of years, the following interesting specimen was discovered. It is sufficiently distinctive to warrant description.
25008775|When eggs of the mealworm, Tenebrio molitor, were allowed to develop at 30 C., 85.1% of them hatched. Treatment of eggs at different stages of development with ultrasonic vibrations of 20 kilocycles per second for 15 seconds at 10, 20, and 30 watts resulted in values ranging from 1.8 to 46.8%. Earlier stages were more sensitive than the later ones. Correspondingly, the rate of oxygen consumption was reduced more during early development than at later stages. There was a significant decrease during the first four days, whereas during the last two days the decreases were not significant. These effects may be correlated with the embryological events occurring within the eggs at the time of their treatment and with the structure of the egg membrane.
25009528|Two new species of Apronius, froeschneri and granulosus, are described as new and a key is provided for the five species now included in the genus.
25010040|The genus Cubaniella Russo is synonymized with Tanaostigmodes Ashmead, and the placement of C. trotteri within Tanaostigmodes is discussed. /// El gnero Cubaniella Russo es sinonimizad con Tanaostigmodes Ashmead, y se reconoce a C. trotteri dentro de ste ltimo.
25010041|A key is provided to the three species of Orothrips, and two new synonyms are recognized. Two of these species are from western U.S.A. but the third is from southern Europe. This discontinuous distribution, also similar distribution patterns amongst other taxa in the basal clades of the Thysanoptera which involve the five areas of the world with a Mediterranean climate, is discussed. The systematic significance of the duplicated antennal sensoria found in Orothrips species is briefly discussed.
25010433|Detailed descriptions and illustrations of the larvae of Erpetogomphus boa Selys and E. cophias Selys, are provided. Comparison with other larvae of the crotalinus-subgroup (sensu Garrison, 1994) is also included. Both species are easily separable by general body coloration, length and shape of ligula, and details of male's epiproct.
25006050|Listed are 93 aphids arranged alphabetically by genera and by species under each genus. Detailed records of the localities, dates, food plants and collectors are given for each species and a list of 101 food plants on which the aphids have been collected is included. Of the aphids 20 species and of the food plants 26 have not previously been recorded from New Jersey. At present 227 aphids on 267 plants are known to occur in New Jersey.
25006240|The larval stage of Rhyacophila vuphiphes Milne is described. It appears to prefer small rivers. Water quality parameters are given.
25009881|Two new species of Caliothrips, C. floridensis and C. multistriatus, are described from the United States. Caliothrips insularis (Hood) is a new record for the United States. A key is provided for ten Nearctic species.
