10.2307/1467423|We investigated secondary production by two stream gastropods, Elimia clara and E. cahawbensis (Pleuroceridae). Monthly production was estimated for each of five size classes for both species using the instantaneous growth method. Both laboratory and field growth rates were estimated monthly for each size class from individuals kept in growth chambers. Growth rates in the field and in the laboratory did not differ significantly (p > 0.05). Laboratory growth rates were used to construct growth curves, which indicated that individuals of E. clara and E. cahawbensis may live for 11 and 10 yr, respectively. Growth and production varied widely from month to month for each species while biomass remained relatively constant. These snails have relatively high standing stocks when compared with most lotic invertebrates: E. clara with 5.4 g AFDM/m<sup>2</sup> and E. cahawbensis with 2.3 g AFDM/m<sup>2</sup>. Because of slow growth, annual production was low when compared with other estimates for snails: 0.8 and 1.6 g AFDM/m<sup>2</sup> for E. clara (field and laboratory estimates, respectively) and 0.6 and 0.7 g AFDM/m<sup>2</sup> for E. cahawbensis. Annual turnover of biomass was slow (approximately 0.3 for both species) owing to the long life cycle.
09-155R|If organisms move beyond the boundaries of local sampling units, regional metacommunity dynamics could undermine the ability of bioassessment studies to characterize local environmental quality. We tested the prediction that fish dispersal influences local fish community structure and bioassessment metrics as a function of site position within stream networks. We evaluated fish community data from the US Environmental Protection Agencys Regional Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program in West Virginia, USA, to compare the influences of stream network position, ecoregion, basin, and stream size on local fish community composition. We assigned sites to 1 of 3 stream network positions: 1) main channels (MC,
09-082|Stream metabolism at both ecosystem and functional-compartment scales was measured in a low-order Pampean stream (La Choza) over a 3-wk period to characterize metabolic rates and discern the contribution of each functional compartment (submerged macrophytes, benthos, floating macroalgae, water column, and hyporheic zone) to ecosystem metabolism. La Choza stream is an autotrophic ecosystem during low flows and has gross primary production rates of up to 22g O
4095673|Large-scale patterns of hyporheic exchange are predictable within some river systems, but our understanding of the factors driving hyporheic processes and the magnitude of hyporheic exchange needed to influence biophysical patterns at larger scales remains limited. We investigated the patterns, magnitude, and potential effects on biota of reach-scale hyporheic exchange in an alluvial river of the Pacific Northwest. The river was topographically similar to and in the same geographic region as other systems where large-scale hyporheic exchange and associated biological responses have been observed. We hypothesized that predictable reach-scale patterns of hyporheic exchange would occur in alluvial valley segments of the river and that hyporheic upwelling would be associated with reach-scale patterns of physical and biological characteristics. We used in-channel piezometers and synoptic stream flow measurements to quantify hyporheic exchange. We measured temperature, dissolved O
10-053R|Aquatic ecosystems and their fauna are vulnerable to a variety of climate-related changes. Benthic macroinvertebrates are used frequently by water-quality agencies to monitor the status of aquatic resources. We used several regionally distributed state bioassessment data sets to analyze how climate change might influence metrics used to define ecological condition of streams. Many widely used, taxonomically based metrics were composed of both cold- and warm-water-preference taxa, and differing responses of these temperature-preference groups to climate-induced changes in stream temperatures could undermine assessment of stream condition. Climate responsiveness of these trait groups varied among states and ecoregions, but the groups generally were sensitive to changing temperature conditions. Temperature sensitivity of taxa and their sensitivity to organic pollution were moderately but significantly correlated. Therefore, metrics selected for condition assessments because taxa are sensitive to disturbance or to conventional pollutants also were sensitive to changes in temperature. We explored the feasibility of modifying metrics by partitioning components based on temperature sensitivity to reduce the likelihood that responses to climate change would confound responses to impairment from other causes and to facilitate tracking of climate-change-related taxon losses and replacements.
1468120|We examined the effects of riparian vegetation removal on algal dynamics and stream nutrient retention efficiency by comparing NH
1468427|This paper considers how the theory of ecological stoichiometry may be applied to issues of importance to benthic ecologists. Ecological stoichiometry considers both the causes of elemental (C:N:P) imbalances between trophic levels and their consequences on foodweb dynamics (e.g., predatorprey interactions) and ecosystem processes (e.g., nutrient cycling). Elemental imbalances are created between consumers and their food, in part, by the accumulation of C relative to other nutrients (N and P) in benthic organic matter as a result of the deposition of detritus and/or unbalanced growth in aquatic producers. High C:N and C:P ratios in food material can reduce growth and reproduction and alter related processes such as nutrient release in benthic consumers. By affecting consumer metabolism, elemental imbalances may affect population dynamics, trophic interactions, and gross transfer efficiencies in benthic systems. Future work is needed to quantify the frequency and magnitude of elemental imbalances, to determine why elemental ratios differ within and among trophic levels, and to examine how stoichiometric imbalances affect fundamental ecosystem processes (e.g., nutrient cycling and spiraling, consumer growth dynamics, and responses to environmental disturbance) in benthic systems.
10.2307/1467846|We compared the macroinvertebrate assemblage of Doe Run Creek, Kentucky, in 1990 with that found by Minckley in 1960. Physico-chemical variables such as discharge, current velocity, temperature, dissolved oxygen, and pH were similar in both studies, although dissolved iron concentration increased and light transmission to the stream's surface decreased. Similarly differences between 1960 and 1990 in total invertebrate density and taxonomic richness did not exceed annual, seasonal, and among-habitat differences. Although individual invertebrate-habitat associations often changed between the two studies, differences were also within the range seen annually or seasonally. This spring-fed stream is thus a fairly stable ecological system, at least in terms of system-level parameters like total abundance and taxonomic richness.
4095653|Mesoscale spatial (centimetersmeters) and temporal (daysweeks) flow variability plays an important role in stream ecosystem structure and function. The structural effects of flow variability have been widely tested but its influence on ecosystem processes is less well understood. Our study examined the influence of mesoscale flow variability on cobble biofilm metabolism in an Australian regulated upland stream that had been subjected to severe catchment disturbance as a result of extensive fire 10 mo before the study. Rates of primary production and respiration were calculated from changes in dissolved O
4095745|Stream ecologists often use enclosure experiments to investigate predatorprey interactions and competition within and among fish species. The design of enclosures, manipulation of species densities, and method of replication may influence experimental results. We designed an experiment with enclosure cages (1 m
10.2307/1467647|Adaptation is a fundamental concept in ecology and evolution. Determining whether organisms are adapted requires genetic analysis of the organism. We characterized the genetic structure of isolates of two species of aquatic bacteria (Pseudomonas cepacia and P. pickettii) using starch gel electrophoresis to determine the relationship between genetic diversity and stream location. Genetic diversity in these species of bacteria did not change longitudinally. However, each location in the stream had genetically unique bacteria. Genetic distance among isolates was found to be related to geographical distance, i.e., isolates farther apart in the stream were more genetically dissimilar. The results suggest localized adaptation. Soil forms of P. cepacia collected from the same catchment were very different genetically from the aquatic forms of the same species. Analyzing patterns of allozymes may be of value in determining the source of bacteria in aquatic ecosystems.
10.2307/1468005|Nutrient availability varies both spatially and temporally in temperate systems because of timing of seasonal and hydrological events (e.g., spring snowmelt). Most studies have found either N or P to be primarily limiting. A nutrient-diffusing bioassay was used to determine if N, P, neither nutrient, or both nutrients were limiting to periphyton growth (measured by chlorophyll a) in 6 tributaries to Lake Superior during the ice-free season of 1994. Molar ratios of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to soluble reactive phosphorus (DIN:SRP) were also calculated to predict potential limitation conditions and determine agreement with bioassay results. Co-limitation predominated (N + P > all other treatments). No limitation was also common during the late portion of the ice-free season. DIN: SRP ratios were not useful in predicting nutrient-limitation conditions. Results showed that nutrient limitation of periphyton biomass varied over space and time on a relatively small regional scale. This result is significant because many studies extrapolate results from a single stream or time period to a much larger spatial or temporal scale.
1468042|Relocation of unionid mussels into refuges (e.g., hatchery ponds) has been suggested as a management tool to protect these animals from the threat of zebra mussel (
1468128|Comparative studies on macrozoobenthos were done in 2 shallow mesotrophic lakes in the middle basins of the Yangtze River, China: Lake Biandantang where macrophytes were abundant, and Lake Houhu where macrophytes were scarce. Samples were taken monthly at 4 stations in each lake from April 1997 to March 1999, and a total of 67 and 31 taxa of macrozoobenthos were recorded in Lake Biandantang and Lake Houhu, respectively. Both annual mean density and biomass of macrozoobenthos were higher in Lake Biandantang than in Lake Houhu: 780 vs 532 indivials/m
1468000|Metrics characterizing the benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages in wadeable streams in the Mid-Atlantic region of the United States were analyzed to explore the relative responses of the metrics to different types of anthropogenic stress. The data used in our study were collected by the US Environmental Protection Agency Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program from 1993 to 1996. Regression models were developed relating metric values at reference sites to natural sources of variability. These models were then used to predict reference values at test sites. Test site metric observations were scaled by subtracting the predicted reference value and dividing by the standard deviation of residuals at reference sites. Stressorresponse relationships for each scaled metric were then estimated using generalized additive models. Metric responses to 4 groups of stressors (nutrient enrichment, habitat degradation, elevated metals concentrations, and elevated ion concentrations) were different. The proportional abundance of tolerant taxa was the most sensitive indicator of nutrient enrichment and habitat degradation, whereas Ephemeroptera richness was the most sensitive indicator of elevated metals or ion concentrations.
4095688|Stream biota in urban and suburban settings are thought to be impaired by altered hydrology; however, it is unknown what aspects of the hydrograph alter fish assemblage structure and which fishes are most vulnerable to hydrologic alterations in small streams. We quantified hydrologic variables and fish assemblages in 30 small streams and their subcatchments (area 820 km
1468415|Cattle grazing in riparian areas can affect the structure of aquatic insect assemblages by adding nutrients (manure) to the stream, or by physically altering the habitat through trampling or foraging. Although cattle grazing is a well-described source of disturbance in stream habitats, the effects of manure inputs have not been previously isolated from effects of the physical disturbance. We traced the responses of aquatic insects representing 5 different functional-feeding groups to this introduced food source. We simulated manure enrichment from light grazing intensity and hypothesized that insects that feed directly on imported organic matter (shredders, filterers, gatherers) would have higher assimilation rates and densities than predators or periphyton-grazers in response to manure enrichment. We expected insect responses to increase with incremental enrichment over time, and decrease with increasing distance from the manure input. We introduced manure (composed of undigested C
1467991|An empirical survey of macrophyte biomass collected from 38 stations along 28 rivers in southwestern Ontario was conducted in 1999 and 2000 to quantify the relationship between biomass and instream nutrients and dissolved ions. Multiple regression models showed that mean and maximum biomass were weakly but significantly related to the nutrients N and P; these variables explained 27% of the variability in biomass across stations. Models developed with 1999 data were improved with the addition of measurements of total residue, which is correlated to ionic concentrations and turbidity, providing a rough indication of instream light availability. However, validation of the models with an independent data set, collected in 2000, showed that the nutrient-only models were the most robust across data sets. We detected a significant lack of fit in all of the models developed, indicating the independent variables used were not best at explaining variability in macrophyte biomass. Although our study yielded only weak predictions of biomass in rivers, the robustness of the models based on nutrients among data sets suggests that nutrient-abatement programs, focussed primarily on N, may be successful in reducing nuisance macrophyte biomass.
10.2307/1467327|The understory diatom species of Epithemia made up nearly 55% of the diet of the freshwater limpet Ferrissia fragilis, while these same diatom species made up <20% of the epiphyton assemblage on Nuphar leaves occupied by limpets. Furthermore, the larger, upright overstory diatom species had relatively low electivity values. The apparent selection of understory diatom species by Ferrissia may be a function of both shell morphology and the radular architecture. The close-fitting limpet shell may serve to push the larger upright and stalked diatom cells aside, and the small stout teeth of the radulae, as revealed by scanning electron microscopy, scrape the remaining adnate diatom cells. Observations also indicated that Ferrissia avoided clumps of filamentous green algae and large clusters of stalked diatoms. This study provides evidence for resource partitioning of different growth forms of epiphytic algae by gastropod species that occupy the same submerged macrophytes. It may also imply that vacant niches, containing adnate algal species, are present in those freshwater habitats that lack grazers like Ferrissia.
4499032|Widespread declines in biodiversity at both global and local scales have motivated considerable research directed toward understanding how changes in biological diversity may affect the stability and function of the ecosystems on which we rely. However, the research effort devoted to addressing this question in benthic systems has been minimal. In laboratory microcosms, we manipulated the number and composition of 3 functionally distinct benthic invertebrate freshwater species that are bioturbators of sediment over 3 biomass levels. Our objective was to test the effects of bioturbator diversity on rates and reliability of total dissolved P (TDP) flux between benthic and pelagic habitats. Both composition and species richness affected TDP flux. TDP flux was highest in the most species-rich community because of functional complementarity rather than selection effects. Furthermore, species richness enhanced TDP flux reliability by increasing the predictability of the biomassTDP flux relationship by 30%, on average, for each species added. We attributed these nonadditive effects of invertebrate diversity to a combination of functionally mediated biogeochemical interactions and density-mediated interaction strength. Thus, our results suggest that bioturbator diversity can be important to nutrient cycling in aquatic ecosystems by strengthening benthicpelagic coupling.
41318759|The life table is a well known approach for understanding populations and has appeared in general ecology textbooks for >60y. Secondary production is associated with energy flow, but methods rarely appear in texts. Our objectives were to: 1) demonstrate conceptual/analytical relationships between secondary production and life tables, 2) use a real example of pond-breeding salamanders to illustrate how the 2 approaches can be integrated, and 3) use publication frequency analysis to determine trends and biases for each approach within ecological (particularly aquatic) subdisciplines. The example illustrated that both approaches incorporate age- or stage-specific survivorship. The main difference is that life tables are used to calculate
10.2307/1467844|We investigated nitrogen dynamics over a 15-mo period in the parafluvial zone (the part of the active channel without surface water) of Sycamore Creek, Arizona, a nitrogen-limited Sonoran Desert stream. The parafluvial zone and surface stream are linked hydrologically; thus, nitrogen dynamics in the parafluvial zone potentially influence whole-system functioning. We identified discrete parafluvial flowpaths by following the movement of fluorescent dye through gravel bars over time, sampled subsurface water along these flowpaths, and collected parafluvial sediments for measurement of nitrification rate. Water samples were analyzed for nitrate-N, ammonium-N, dissolved oxygen, temperature, and conductivity. Nitrate-N concentration increased along parafluvial flowpaths, with the largest increases occurring in summer. Although ammonium-N concentration was low and did not vary with season or location on flowpath, dissolved oxygen declined as water moved through parafluvial gravel bars. Net nitrification rate was highest in the summer and at the heads of flowpaths where surface water entered the parafluvial zone, suggesting that nitrification may be dependent upon ammonium, dissolved organic nitrogen, or particulate organic nitrogen imported from the surface stream. Overall, the parafluvial zone of Sycamore Creek was a source of nitrate to the nitrogen-limited surface stream, and may play an important role in the productivity of the stream ecosystem.
10.2307/1467706|Nine species of caddisflies (seven species of Leptoceridae, Helicopsyche borealis and Molanna flavicornis) were univoltine in a stream near Edmonton, Canada. Neureclipsis bimaculata was bivoltine at this site. No evidence of egg or adult diapause was seen among the ten numerically dominant species, although four species apparently overwintered as dormant larvae. No obvious increase in mortality was associated with overwintering. Emergence of the ten species occurred during the June to August period. Analysis of literature records of adult collections revealed significant relationships between date of first capture and latitude, and duration of the capture period against latitude for H. borealis and Oecetis inconspicua. Most of the species were found in association with macrophytes, especially Chara and Potamogeton richardsonii. Macrophytes were important as attachment sites for pupal cases, for dormant overwintering larvae, and for the filtering nets of the net-spinning species. Macrophytes may also be important as sources of food, either directly or by providing substrata for periphyton growth.
4095657|Regional acidification of aquatic habitats has caused severe reductions in biodiversity. Reduced sulfur dioxide emissions over the past several decades have resulted in increased pH and alkalinity in some areas of North America and Europe. However, biological recovery has lagged behind increases in lake pH. We propose that acidification-induced changes in predator assemblages can provide
4095633|We examined the effects of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) (280400 nm) on epilithic algal metabolism, biomass, and taxonomy from early June to mid August 1999 (66 d) in Lake 224, an oligotrophic lake in the Experimental Lakes Area, northwestern Ontario, Canada. Epilithon colonized bare clay tiles placed under UVR-transparent (UVR+) and UVR-shielding (UVR) acrylic filters, at depths of 0.5, 0.8, and 1.4 m. Filamentous chlorophytes and cyanophytes were the dominant algal taxa at 0.5 and 1.4 m depths, respectively, on day 28. Biovolumes did not differ between UVR treatments for any major algal class. We measured epilithic metabolism on days 28, 45, and 66 after the tiles were deployed. Photosynthesis was not affected by UVR on any date. On day 28, dark respiration was 33 to 49% greater in UVR+ than in UVR treatments at all depths. On day 45, respiration was 11% greater in UVR+ than in UVR treatments only at 0.5 m, and by day 66, respiration did not differ between treatments at any depth. Thus, the effects of UVR on respiration diminished with depth and over time and were strongest when epilithic biofilms were least developed. UVR probably has little impact on naturally colonized, fully developed epilithon deeper than 0.5 m in Lake 224, i.e., UVR affects <6% of the littoral zone. Comparison of our findings with those of an earlier study in Lake 224 suggests that the intensity and specific nature of UVR effects depend on the taxonomic composition of the benthic algal assemblage.
10.2307/1467760| Nutrient enrichment experiments were conducted during low flow periods in 1985 and 1986 in a northern Ozark stream characterized by low nitrate-N concentrations and molar ratios of TN:TP less than 20:1. Enrichment with nitrate to a concentration 3-6 times greater than ambient, either alone or in combination with phosphate addition, stimulated periphytic chlorophyll a by 4-6  and AFDM by 2-5  over unenriched controls in two 30-d experiments. An intermediate increase in chlorophyll a in response to phosphate addition was observed in 1985 when TN:TP averaged 19:1. Differences in periphyton accrual among treatments were influenced by snail grazing (Goniobasis) during 1986 when periphyton biomass in N-enriched treatments continued to increase over the 30-d enrichment period, but remained at low levels in control and P-enriched treatments. Low nitrate-N concentrations and TN:TP  20:1 were also characteristic of 16 sites on 10 streams in the northern Ozark Plateau during low flow periods in 1985 and 1986, suggesting that nitrogen limitation may be common in the region. 
10.2307/1467651|Phoretic associations among three species of Chironomidae (Thienemanniella sp. nov., Rheotanytarsus sp. 1, and R. sp. 2) and two genera of Corydalidae (Corydalus sp. and Chloronia sp.) were studied in 13 streams in northwestern Costa Rica that varied in size, elevation, and water chemistry. Thienemanniella sp. nov. seemed to be obligatorily phoretic on Corydalidae larvae, while Rheotanytarsus sp. 1 and R. sp. 2 were also found on other benthic substrates. The number and location of chironomids on megalopteran larvae were assessed over a 9-mo period (February to October). Corydalus sp. was the preferred host for all three chironomid species. Site selection by Chironomidae was related to age of the chironomid (e.g., late instar Thienemanniella were on the thorax while earlier instars were on the abdominal gills). Large megalopteran larvae supported more chironomids than smaller larvae.
4095572|We examined primary production, respiration, and nutrient dynamics in littoral areas of the mainstem and lagoons of the Cinaruco, a nutrient-poor river in the Venezuelan llanos. Gross primary productivity (GPP) was relatively high, given the poor nutrient conditions in this river. Seasonal variability in net ecosystem production (NEP) was also high, with highest values occurring in the dry season (MarchApril) when fish biomass and chlorophyll
40792582|Mitigation of urban effects on streams requires an understanding of the paths by which urban effects are transmitted from catchments to streams and how those effects are attenuated with distance. We assessed whether modeling attenuation from impervious surfaces and septic tanks along drainage lines improved prediction of 3 instream ecological indicators. Eleven regression models were calculated for each indicator (
10.2307/1467721|Export of N, P, major ions, and SiO<sub>2</sub> was measured for streams draining tropical rain forest catchments on three islands of volcanic origin in the Lesser Antilles. Structure of the native forests was similar in each island, but land use varied in each. Patterns of inorganic nitrogen export followed land use patterns, with greatest export (7 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) from the most densely populated catchment. Phosphorus followed a different pattern, with greatest export (0.5 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) from the catchment with the lowest population density and least agriculture. Export of base cations and silica varied primarily with runoff. Weathering rates were high in these humid tropical basins, with SiO<sub>2</sub> export of 400-800 kg ha<sup>-1</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. These data provide some of the first estimates of the impact of land use on nutrient export from small tropical streams, and point to the possible impact of soil chemistry and weathering in regulating phosphorus flux from volcanic terrains.
10.2307/1467899|In a laboratory experiment, we tested how substrate shape influenced snail-substrate associations by measuring colonization by one large species (Lymnaea stagnalis) and one small species (Amnicola sp.) on five substrates (presented separately) constructed of balsa wood, coated with dried creamed spinach. All five substrates (a prostrate square, standing inverted triangle, standing rectangle, standing 1 cm wide strips, and standing 1 mm wide strips) had equal surface area, but differed in shape and degree of contact with the bottom. Substrates were designed to mimic natural substrates (e.g., 1 mm strips mimic dissected macrophyte leaf morphologies, prostrate square mimics prostrate growth forms or rocks). For both snail species, colonization differed among substrates, with the following rank order of colonization for each species: L. stagnalis (p < 0.006), 1 mm strips > prostrate square > 1 cm strips > rectangle > triangle; Amnicola (p < 0.0001), prostrate square > 1 mm strips > 1 cm strips > triangle > rectangle. Colonization by both species was related positively to degree of contact with the bottom. For L. stagnalis, colonization also was related positively to usable area, which, for the 1 mm strips, was greater than surface area because the foot of L. stagnalis could span the gap between strips, whereas the foot of Amnicola could not. Two predictions emerging from these results are tested with previously published data: 1) numbers of invertebrates should be greater on prostrate than on upright, single-stemmed macrophytes, and 2) numbers of invertebrates should be greater on dissected-leaved than on broad-leaved plants. Published data were equivocal regarding prediction 1). In contrast, prediction 2) was supported strongly, but the data suggest that the relationship between macrophyte dissection and invertebrate density may be strongly affected by species-specific morphology and behavior of invertebrates.
10.2307/1468011|The decline in freshwater mussel populations in many river basins throughout North America has been attributed, in part, to land-use modifications that cause changes in sediment regimes. However, the specific associations that mussels have with stream sediments are poorly understood, making it difficult to assess the impacts of changes in sedimentation rates on unionid mussels. Both bed and suspended materials, and concomitant changes in channel form associated with changes in sediment supply, may affect mussels in numerous ways at various stages in their life cycle. Considerable debate and uncertainty remains regarding the strength of associations between sediments and mussels, including whether increased sedimentation is a cause of recent mussel declines. It is important to be aware of appropriate procedures for sampling and analyzing fluvial sediments, and the nature of sediment sources, to adequately assess relationships between unionid mussels and fluvial sediments.
10.2307/1468258| I examined variation across habitats and time in the ability of the flannelmouth characin (Prochilodus mariae) to strongly influence patterns of sediment accrual in a tropical Andean stream and the resulting heterogeneity of the streambed. Prochilodus is an often dominant component of the fish biomass in Andean piedmont streams and is highly specialized to derive nutrition from organic-rich sediments. Previous research demonstrated that its selective removal from pools resulted in highly significant increases in sedimentation and concomitant changes in the composition of algal and invertebrate assemblages. I report new results from a field experiment conducted over a 40-d period, in which Prochilodus was selectively removed from shallow pools as well as riffle habitats. A significant treatment  habitat interaction was observed whereby Prochilodus strongly influenced sediment accrual in pools, yet had no detectable effect on sediments in riffles. These patterns were established almost immediately (i.e., within 48 h) and persisted over the duration of the 40-d experiment. A 2nd experiment was subsequently performed to evaluate whether other epibenthic-feeding fishes compensated for the loss of Prochilodus in shallow riffle habitats. When the remainder of the fish assemblage was excluded from riffles, highly significant increases in sediment accrual were observed, similar to the effects of selective removal of Prochilodus in pools. These results illustrate that benthic fishes are important sediment processors across habitats in Andean piedmont streams; however, the cast of major players is variable. Prochilodus is a strong interactor in pools, yet is a weak interactor in riffles where other species compensate for the functional loss of this species. 
10.2307/1467294|Consideration of the adequacy of the conceptual basis of stream ecology is facilitated by a comprehensive (global) perspective focusing on the scales of space and time. The full lineal (10<sup>-8</sup> to 10<sup>7</sup> m) and temporal (10<sup>-7</sup> to 10<sup>3</sup> yr) dimensions faced by stream ecologists each extend over 16 orders of magnitude. Examination of both dimensions reveals weaknesses in the process and product of stream ecology through which existing theory is derived. As knowledge about streams developed and the thinking of lotic ecologists matured, conceptualization of stream ecosystem boundaries expanded out from, into, and along the channel resulting in a corresponding change in perception of the factors responsible for the structure and operation of stream ecosystems. Selection of the size of the sampling unit relative to the total sampling area of interest can profoundly influence one's perception of pattern and process in stream ecosystems. Failure to use an appropriate sample scale relative to the size of the intended "universe" may have resulted in some erroneous ideas about ecological relationships in flowing water. Stream ecologists have focused mainly on temporal scales of days, seasons, and years. Other ecologically meaningful scales, such as day/night, diel, and lunar intervals, have been examined much less frequently. Several factors indicate that progressive changes in stream ecosystem dynamics on the order of a hundred years or more may occur. This has important implications in terms of the proper interpretation of results isolated in time ("instantaneous") as well as the development of predictive capabilities for the management of streams. Space and time also function together to shape lotic communities and ecosystems at scales ranging from short-term/local to evolutionary/global. Areas where the simultaneous consideration of space and time in streams is important include longitudinal succession, climate, and disturbance. It is concluded that the idea of longitudinal succession on a geological time scale is wrong but that the concept when considered at the level of the flow-through time of a river is not. Climate operates at several scales of space and time; larger-scale aspects beyond the stream-specific level are just beginning to be addressed but their consideration is necessary if broad-scale patterns in stream ecosystems are to be discerned. Southwood's habitat templet lends itself to the development of hypotheses and the ordering of knowledge along spatiotemporal axes. Application of this model to streams is illustrated for flow-related disturbance. Several misconceptions concerning disturbance in streams seem to have arisen from failure to consider the full range of spatial-temporal dimensions. The explicit recognition and utilization of appropriate spatial and temporal scales is essential to the development of an accurate stream theory having a truly world-wide perspective.
20491178|Fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) plays a critical role in structuring and sustaining stream food webs by providing an essential resource for various organisms. Our goal was to elucidate FPOM dynamics by determining chemical properties, microbial respiration, and in situ decomposition rates of different FPOM fractions in relation to the parent coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM). FPOM (100500 m) of defined quality was produced by feeding 5 types of CPOM to shredding amphipods (
10.2307/1467323|Weight losses of sugar maple (Acer saccharum Marsh.) and English oak (Quercus robur L.) leaf disks in two streams were positively correlated with temperature and pH. Maple leaves lost 16-60%, and oak leaves 9-25% during 30 d of stream exposure. In a laboratory stream with constant temperature and without macroinvertebrates, weight loss of maple leaves due to microbial activity varied between 28 and 49% and peaked at a pH between 5.5 and 6.0. Pure cultures of three aquatic hyphomycete species were able to break down sterile maple leaves at pH values ranging from 4 to 9. Peaks of decompositional activity and of fungal respiration were species-specific and corresponded loosely to the species' natural occurrences in acid or alkaline streams.
4095538|We measured the attenuation of ultraviolet B (UVB) and ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation in 32 streams located within the Ontonagon River watershed on the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, USA. Attenuation coefficients (
09-098|Ecological speciation is the process by which barriers to gene flow arise between populations as a result of ecologically based divergent selection. Environmental salinity has been identified as one of the most important ecological drivers influencing distribution, abundance, and species richness of aquatic organisms. Springs of the northern Chihuahuan Desert vary in salinity and are home to the
10.2307/1467521|Total annual production by the stonefly assemblage (13 species in riffles) of a second-order Ozark foothills stream was 6.1/g dry weight (5.07-7.14/g/m<sup>2</sup>) or 25.5/g wet weight/m<sup>2</sup> (21.34-29.65/g/m<sup>2</sup>). The contribution of individual species to total stonefly production (dry weight) ranged from 0.01/g/m<sup>2</sup> for Allocapnia rickeri to 2.57/g/m<sup>2</sup> for Acroneuria evoluta. Over 50% of the stonefly production was contributed by the perlid predators Acroneuria evoluta and Agnetina capitata. Predators contributed 83% of the total stonefly biomass and 67% of the total production, even though they represented only 22% of the total abundance. Omnivores and shredders, which formed 78% of total stonefly density, contributed only 17% to the total biomass and 33% to total production. Stoneflies from samples containing 6 g or more combined fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) and coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) accounted for 67.2% of the total production. The high stonefly production of this Ozark foothills stream apparently contributes substantially to its total energy budget.
4095632|The landscape position of a lake relative to local and regional groundwater flow patterns has important ecosystem consequences. The local hydraulic gradient sets up seepage regimes, influences hydrologic and nutrient budgets, and alters site stoichiometry (molar N:P). However, little is known about the biotic (ecological) consequences of groundwaterlake coupling. We investigated the relationship between groundwater flux (resource supply rates), resource supply ratios, and species patterns of benthic algae in Sparkling Lake, Wisconsin, USA, a north-temperate flow-through seepage lake. Nutrient fluxes of seepage waters influenced both local benthic algal biomass and species composition. Sites of high groundwater discharge (HGD) were characterized by low N:P flux, high algal biovolume, and low species richness and diversity. In contrast, low groundwater discharge (LGD) and low groundwater recharge (LGR) sites had high N:P, low algal biovolume, and high richness and diversity. HGD sites were dominated by diatoms and cyanobacteria characteristic of high P, whereas LGD and LGR sites were characterized by taxa associated with low P. Many species were unique to the local flow regimes, increasing overall benthic algal species richness in Sparkling Lake.
40792505|Exotic plants have invaded the riparian zones of many streams worldwide, but their consequences for stream fauna are seldom fully appreciated, especially when effects are sublethal. In northern New South Wales, Australia, the exotic tree camphor laurel (
10.2307/1467326|Annual secondary production was determined for two subtropical populations of the prosobranch snails Viviparus subpurpureus (Say) and Campeloma decisum (Say). The two large, live-bearing detritivores were sampled from the littoral zone of a detritus rich, low gradient, alluvial plain stream in southern Louisiana. Production was estimated using the size-frequency method in two ways: (1) directly from sampling data and (2) using regression analyses to estimate the density of individuals in underrepresented size classes. Both methods included production of embryos. Annual standing stocks differed significantly between species (p < 0.025) and were relatively high at 16.0 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> for V. subpurpureus and 8.5 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> for C. decisum. Including under-represented size classes did not change mean annual biomass estimates for V. subpurpureus but did increase values for C. decisum from 8.5 to 10.2 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>. The species also differed significantly in annual production (p < 0.05), with the magnitude of difference depending on the calculation method employed. Based on uncorrected sampling data, V. subpurpureus had a productivity of 35.7 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>; with corrected data, productivity was 45.6 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. For C. decisum, productivity was 15.4 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> (uncorrected data) or 22.9 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> (corrected). Regardless of the calculation used, these results are still among the highest single-species production estimates reported for lotic macroinvertebrates.
10.2307/1467748|The Hydropsyche morosa group is recognized as Hydropsyche subgenus Ceratopsyche. Through study of type specimens and of series collected over much of the range, geographic variation is assessed in Hydropsyche (C.) alhedra Ross and Hydropsyche (C.) cockerelli Banks. Hydropsyche (C.) racona Denning and H. (C.) riola Denning are designated as junior subjective synonyms of H. (C.) alhedra; and H. (C.) bicornuta Denning and H. (C.) jewetti Denning as junior subjective synonyms of H. (C.) cockerelli. Revised diagnoses are given for the two species. Diagnosis and description are provided for the male and female of Hydropsyche (C.) aenigma n. sp. from New York State; this species is contrasted with its close relatives H. (C.) alternans (Walker) and H. (C.) centra Ross.
1468043|The ability to adjust physiological parameters in response to environmental conditions while simultaneously maintaining growth and reproduction increases an organisms fitness. We altered energy demands to examine the effect of environmental conditions on energy allocation in zebra mussels (
10.2307/1467601| 18% of a population of Elliptio complanata was found living completely buried in the sediments of a Qubec lake during mid-summer. This population was found to descend into the sandy sediment as winter approached, and emerged in the spring. More than 60% of the population was endobenthic during late autumn. Endobenthic mussels were significantly smaller than epibenthic mussels (50-60% of average length) and most mussels that were endobenthic during mid-summer were juveniles. Shell morphology did not vary significantly between epi- and endobenthic mussels. Failure to count endobenthic E. complanata in population surveys could result in severe underestimates of actual population densities. A sampling program based strictly on epibenthic mussels would underestimate the contribution of young mussels to the biomass and production of this population. 
1468416|Invertebrate richness, density, mass, and functional-group analyses were used as surrogates for ecosystem attributes to evaluate conditions of 10 remnant oxbows along the channelized lower Caloosahatchee River in southwest Florida. Replicate 30-sec dipnet samples were taken in
4095716|We investigated the effects of autotrophy on short-term variations in nutrient dynamics by measuring diurnal and day-to-day variations in light level, primary productivity, and NO
10.2307/1467480|Diatom community development was monitored in the Colorado River below Lake Mead over two successive 8-wk periods that differed in discharge patterns to examine the effect of discharge reduction on diatom community dynamics. Flow varies on both a daily and seasonal basis in this system, but other physicochemical parameters show little seasonal change. During each discharge period, samples were collected from clay tiles incubated in either exposed or sheltered habitats on the river bed. The initial 8-wk colonization period was characterized by relatively high mean daily discharge (HMD). A seasonal reduction in daily discharge minima resulted in low mean discharge (LMD) conditions in the final 8 wk. Biomass accumulation in sheltered habitats was lower in LMD than in HMD, while exposed habitats supported greater biomass in LMD conditions. A greater number of diatom taxa colonized exposed substrata under low mean discharge conditions than in HMD. Additionally, high densities of colonial-unattached taxa occurred on exposed-LMD tiles, suggesting that reduction in minimum daily discharge enhanced immigration success of species that were poor immigrants in higher flows. Densities of benthic diatoms did not differ between discharge treatments on exposed substrata, but were significantly lower in sheltered habitats during LMD. This response may have stemmed from decreased growth rates of benthic taxa in sheltered environments brought about by lower reproductive rates in slow flow. The manner in which diatom communities were affected by large-scale discharge reductions below Lake Mead depended upon differences in the localized current environment, and in the growth-form and autecologies of the diatom taxa involved.
10-129R|Explaining the mechanisms underlying patterns of species diversity and composition in riverine networks is challenging. Historically, community ecologists have conceived of communities as largely isolated entities and have focused on local environmental factors and interspecific interactions as the major forces determining species composition. However, stream ecologists have long embraced a multiscale approach to studying riverine ecosystems and have studied both local factors and larger-scale regional factors, such as dispersal and disturbance. River networks exhibit a dendritic spatial structure that can constrain aquatic organisms when their dispersal is influenced by or confined to the river network. We contend that the principles of metacommunity theory would help stream ecologists to understand how the complex spatial structure of river networks mediates the relative influences of local and regional control on species composition. From a basic ecological perspective, the concept is attractive because new evidence suggests that the importance of regional processes (dispersal) depends on spatial structure of habitat and on connection to the regional species pool. The role of local factors relative to regional factors will vary with spatial position in a river network. From an applied perspective, the long-standing view in ecology that local community composition is an indicator of habitat quality may not be uniformly applicable across a river network, but the strength of such bioassessment approaches probably will depend on spatial position in the network. The principles of metacommunity theory are broadly applicable across taxa and systems but seem of particular consequence to stream ecology given the unique spatial structure of riverine systems. By explicitly embracing processes at multiple spatial scales, metacommunity theory provides a foundation on which to build a richer understanding of stream communities.
4499035|We used a subsidystress model as a basis for predicting macroinvertebrate community response to a steep gradient of P enrichment in the Florida Everglades, a P-limited wetland ecosystem. We tested the hypothesis that consumers were resource limited and their biomass would show a subsidy response (increase) to low-to-moderate levels of P enrichment, but a stress response (decrease) at high levels of P enrichment because dense emergent macrophytes, particularly
10.2307/1467249|Tadpoles of the tailed frog (Ascaphus truei) are common in riffles within many small, high-gradient streams of the Pacific Northwest (United States and southern Canada), where they typically graze periphyton from exposed cobbles. We conducted field observations and experiments in Clearwater Creek, southwestern Washington, to determine if tadpoles would reduce their feeding activity (i.e., emergence from crevices to graze periphyton) in the presence of non-visual cues released from each of four aquatic predators: giant salamanders (Dicamptodon spp.), cutthroat trout (Salmo clarki), brook trout (Salvelinus fontinalis), and shorthead sculpin (Cottus confusus). In absence of predators, tadpoles usually emerged from under cobbles to feed at night (2000-0100 h), and spent the remainder of the 24-h interval hidden in crevices. In the presence of giant salamanders, cutthroat trout, and brook trout that were all confined within separate, in situ enclosures immediately upstream of tadpoles, tadpole activity was reduced two-, three-, and six-fold, respectively, compared with predator-free controls. In contrast, tadpoles appeared unable to detect upstream sculpins. Subsequent consumption experiments in the laboratory showed that salamanders, sculpins, and cutthroat trout all were capable of consuming tadpoles in both structurally simple and complex habitats. We hypothesize that the inability of tadpoles to detect predaceous sculpins may explain why tailed frog tadpoles are largely absent from lower-gradient streams where sculpins are often abundant.
1468302|We translocated
10.2307/1468377|Substrate stability in streams is fundamental to benthic communities, many of which decline in biomass and taxon richness with decreased stability. Although of obvious importance in describing a stream's disturbance regime, substrate movement is often difficult to quantify accurately. Traditional techniques rely either on subjective scoring systems (e.g., Pfankuch stability score), or require repeated site visits to follow downstream displacement of painted stones. Newbury's Instability Index measures substrate movement based on calculations of a stream's tractive force at bankfull discharge, but the assumptions on which this method is based limit its use to lowland streams. We have developed a new method to assess substrate movement suitable for shallow, steep mountain streams with a high bed roughness, based on an extensive review of existing hydraulic literature. We calculated the % of the streambed in motion at bankfull discharge (P<sub>BF</sub>) in 48 New Zealand headwater streams using our method, the Instability Index, and Pfankuch score. Concordance analysis showed that the 3 methods of assessing substrate stability ranked the 48 streams differently. We next related the 3 stability measures to aquatic bryophyte cover because these plants are good biological indicators of substrate stability. We observed a highly significant correlation (p < 0.001) between P<sub>BF</sub> and bryophyte cover, a weaker correlation between the Pfankuch score and bryophyte cover (p = 0.023), but no significant relationship between cover and the Instability Index. These results suggested that our method is a useful and potentially powerful tool to accurately quantify substrate movement in steep headwater streams.
10.2307/1468366| We used 5 species-specific microsatellite DNA markers to assess genetic differentiation among 6 populations (4-226 km apart) of the rare mayfly Siphlonisca aerodromia Needham in Maine. All populations, even those 4 km apart and from the same river drainage, showed significant differences in allele frequencies, and all subpopulation fixation indices based on infinite allele mutation models (F<sub>st</sub>) and stepwise mutation models (R<sub>st</sub>) were significantly different from 0. However, a hierarchical analysis of F<sub>st</sub> and R<sub>st</sub> values among sets of populations indicated that the most substantial pattern of differentiation was between the 2 populations from the Kennebec drainage in western Maine and the 4 populations from the Penobscot and St. Croix drainages in central and eastern Maine. We found no evidence for significant linkage disequilibrium among alleles at any locus in any population, suggesting that parthenogenesis is not an important mode of reproduction in these insects. Our results confirm previous findings that local populations of mayflies may not form panmictic breeding units. Nevertheless, the minimal differentiation among populations located >100 km apart in the St. Croix and Penobscot drainages suggested that adult flight may be an important mode of dispersal and sufficiently frequent to maintain substantial levels of gene flow between these populations. We hypothesize that the differentiation between eastern and central, and western populations may be caused by geographic isolation and long-term reproductive isolation. The later occurs because climatic differences between these areas result in a substantial gap (20 d) in emergence times of the reproductively active, short-lived adults. 
20491122|We developed empirical models for fish, macroinvertebrate, and diatom assemblages to assess the biological condition of 268 streams sampled from 1993 to 2002 in 7 major river basins in the Appalachian region of the USA. These models estimate the expected taxonomic composition at each site based on observed variation in taxonomic composition at reference sites. The index, O/E, is the ratio of the number of predicted taxa that were observed (O) to that expected (E) to occur at a site and is a measure of taxonomic completeness. We compared how O/E for each assemblage varied among major landuse settings and whether impaired assemblages were associated with particular physicochemical conditions. We also examined concordance among assemblages in their response to stress. Biological, chemical, and physical data were collected following consistent protocols. We used land-cover criteria, published data, and topographic maps to classify sites by major landuse setting. Fish, macroinvertebrate, and diatom assemblages had been sampled at 73, 108, and 52, respectively, of the least disturbed sites used to establish reference conditions. The models accounted for a substantial portion of the natural variation in taxonomic composition across sites that was associated with biogeographic, climatic, and basin-scale factors and generally were unbiased across the range of environmental gradients observed in the region. Assessments at nonreference sites showed that impairment of fish and macroinvertebrate assemblages was most strongly associated with agriculture and urban land uses, whereas impairment of diatom assemblages was most strongly associated with mining in the basin. Concordance in assessments among assemblages was not strong. Assessments based on 2 assemblages differed in 28 to 57% of cases, and assessments were never concordant for cases where all 3 assemblages were sampled. Furthermore, only  of these cases would have been assessed as ecologically impaired had only 1 assemblage been sampled. Differences between observed and predicted frequencies of occurrence for individual taxa were generally consistent with known tolerances to environmental stressors and might aid in identifying causes of biological impairment.
10.2307/1468148|Leaf litter is an important functional component of mesic stream ecosystems; however, the importance of leaf litter has not been established for streams of the southwestern North American deserts. These streams exhibit many functional and structural characteristics that are the result of the pattern and amount of precipitation and which differ from their mesic counterparts. Our objective was to determine the influence of leaf litter on ecosystem processes of Sycamore Creek, Arizona, a typical Sonoran Desert stream, and to compare these results with knowledge gained from other regions. Patterns of nitrogen dynamics and respiration during leaf decomposition were similar for leaf packs in Sycamore Creek and previous studies of mesic streams. Macroinvertebrates in Sycamore Creek colonized natural and artificial leaf packs equally, and taxonomic composition did not differ significantly between leaf types, or between leaf pack communities and benthic communities. Shredder macroinvertebrates feeding on leaf material were absent. Leaf litter input to Sycamore Creek was low and litter residence time was reduced by flash floods. As a result, leaves played an insignificant role in terms of nutrient dynamics, energy flow, and macroinvertebrate assemblages in this ecosystem. Differences in the role of leaf litter between regions are attributed to channel and riparian form and to the frequency of severe disturbance, which are functions of meteorologic, hydrologic, and geomorphic features of the landscape.
4095749|One of the dilemmas in designing any large-scale macroinvertebrate bioassessment is deciding where to sample within streams. Streams contain a wide variety of habitats with varying macroinvertebrate assemblages, yet consistency in sampling protocol is needed to interpret results across sites in a region. The Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) conducted large regional probability surveys in the mid-Atlantic (19931998) and the western US (20002001). In these surveys, 2 macroinvertebrate sample types were collected at each site: pool and riffle in the mid-Atlantic region, and reachwide and riffle in the western US. We analyzed data from sites where both types of samples had been collected (206 mid-Atlantic and 293 western US sites) to examine the effects of sample type on typical metric and multivariate analyses done in bioassessments. Sample types differed in terms of taxon richness measures and assemblage composition, and differences were more pronounced between mid-Atlantic riffle and pool samples than between western US reachwide and riffle samples. Nonetheless, sample-type differences did not obscure the overall pattern in ordination analyses, nor did they influence detection of important environmental gradients. In addition, bioassessments based on Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera taxon richness showed that regional assessments differed little with sample type. Our analyses indicate that typical bioassessment methods are relatively robust with respect to sample type in regional surveys. Reachwide sampling could be used with little risk to the quality of assessments in surveys covering large geographic areas where a single targeted habitat may not occur at all sites. Reachwide sampling is also easy to apply consistently at most sites and requires approximately the same effort and cost as single-habitat sampling.
10-040|We addressed how timber harvest can interact with salmon (
4499017|We investigated whether 2 stream sampling protocols collected different diatom assemblages within sampling reaches and, consequently, influenced the outcome of bioassessment. We analyzed data collected at 71 sites by both reach-scale (Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program [EMAP]) and targeted-habitat (US Environmental Protection Agency [EPA] Science to Achieve Results [STAR]) sampling protocols as part of the US EPA EMAP survey. Overall, diatom assemblages generated by the 2 protocols were similar. Median BrayCurtis (BC) similarity between EMAP and STAR diatom counts was 70% (range 1991%). Taxon richness (
4095690|Restoration of streams degraded by urbanization has usually been attempted by enhancement of instream habitat or riparian zones. Such restoration approaches are unlikely to substantially improve instream ecological condition because they do not match the scale of the degrading process. Recent studies of urban impacts on streams in Melbourne, Australia, on water chemistry, algal biomass and assemblage composition of diatoms and invertebrates, suggested that the primary degrading process to streams in many urban areas is effective imperviousness (EI), the proportion of a catchment covered by impervious surfaces directly connected to the stream by stormwater drainage pipes. The direct connection of impervious surfaces to streams means that even small rainfall events can produce sufficient surface runoff to cause frequent disturbance through regular delivery of water and pollutants; where impervious surfaces are not directly connected to streams, small rainfall events are intercepted and infiltrated. We, therefore, identified use of alternative drainage methods, which maintain a near-natural frequency of surface runoff from the catchment, as the best approach to stream restoration in urban catchments and then used models of relationships between 14 ecological indicators and EI to determine restoration objectives. Ecological condition, as indicated by concentrations of water-quality variables, algal biomass, and several measures of diatom and macroinvertebrate assemblage composition, declined with increasing EI until a threshold was reached (EI = 0.010.14), beyond which no further degradation was observed. We showed, in a sample catchment, that it is possible to redesign the drainage system to reduce EI to a level at which the models predict detectable improvement in most ecological indicators. Distributed, low-impact design measures are required that intercept rainfall from small events and then facilitate its infiltration, evaporation, transpiration, or storage for later in-house use.
4095578|The Cinaruco River, a lowland floodplain river in the Venezuelan llanos, has a strongly seasonal hydrology, low nutrient concentrations, and high fish diversity and abundance. Fish exclosure/enclosure experiments were conducted in the littoral zone of the river channel and connected lagoons to examine seasonal variation in the magnitude of fish effects on benthic organic matter and algal biomass. During the dry season, large-fish exclosures in the channel accrued significantly more sediment, organic material, and chlorophyll than control cages after 20 d. Grazing scars suggested the bocachico,
10.2307/1467282|Ground penetrating radar (GPR) was used to investigate the structure of the sediments in a floodprone gravel-bed river. Measurements were made on 2 gravel bars and in the adjacent channel. We buried a metallic object to calibrate depth and to visualize changes in GPR-profiles taken before and after digging. In addition, along 2 GPR-profiles the structure of the alluvial sediment of a gravel bar was visually verified by digging a trench down to the groundwater table. The GPR method enables one to distinguish sedimentary units of different texture with a vertical resolution of about 0.25 m. The investigation showed the depth of the alluvial valley fill, and it revealed geomorphological features such as lateral point bar accretion, fills of former pools, or open framework textures. These structures form a complex 3-dimensional mosaic of sediment patches. The GPR method also allowed us to document the changes resulting from bed-moving floods, such as in the formation of homogeneous gravel sheets during high magnitude floods. At some sites we observed intercalations of coarse organic matter between adjacent sedimentary units. Based on GPR data and the analysis of geomorphological structures near the study site, we developed a diagrammatic model of the sediments of this site in the lower Necker Valley.
10.2307/1468453|Competitive interactions involving macrofouling organisms were virtually unknown in North American freshwater systems prior to the introduction of the Eurasian zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha. In southern Lake Michigan, the zebra mussel co-occurs on solid surfaces with an exotic bryozoan, Lophopodella carteri. Previously unreported from Lake Michigan, L. carteri was found attached to the shells of adult zebra mussels that were encrusting pier posts (depth 2-4 m) in the Michigan City, Indiana, harbor. This epizoic growth was often so prolific that entire patches of mussels were obscured by gelatinous colonies of L. carteri, thereby reducing shell surface area available to settling mussel larvae. A 4 to 5 difference in densities of newly settled mussels on mussel groups not covered by L. carteri compared to covered groups indicated that recruitment of mussel larvae was inhibited by the presence of bryozoan colonies. Although dense colonies of bryozoans, such as L. carteri at Michigan City, may not be widespread in the Great Lakes, locally dense populations may alter zebra mussel demographics by covering preferred attachment space.
1468484|Conservation plans for freshwater mussels include enhancing natural populations with artificially cultured individuals. Chemical marks on cultured juveniles would provide a way to evaluate the success of those efforts. We immersed
10.2307/1467663| The study was designed to determine if spatial distributional patterns of lotic macroinvertebrates differed more strongly between eastern deciduous forest (EDF) and grassland (GRASS) biomes than among sites along rivers within a biome. Macroinvertebrates were collected in spring at five sites along each of three rivers within the EDF of southwestern Ontario and three rivers within the grasslands of south-central Alberta. Differences in total density, taxonomic composition, and functional feeding groups of macroinvertebrates were not consistent among sites and between biomes, as shown by the significance of the interaction term (biomes  sites). Variation in total density among rivers within biomes was attributable to differences in land use practices. Only three taxa (Leptophlebiidae, EDF; Ephemerellidae, GRASS; Pulmonata, GRASS) showed significant (negative curvilinear) relationships between density and distance from a river's source. Densities of shredders (EDF), collector-gatherers (GRASS), and predators (GRASS) also decreased in a curvilinear fashion with increasing river distance from source. The longitudinal river profiles of both taxonomic composition and functional feeding groups were weak. Despite differences in land use types within biomes, an overriding influence of biomes on the macroinvertebrate community was evident. 
09-157|Whether active or passive, dispersal accompanied by gene flow shapes the genetic makeup of populations and ultimately the evolutionary divergence of species. Our objective was to determine if 2 very different aquatic invertebrates with overlapping distributions show similar dispersal histories in their phylogeographic patterns and genetic uniqueness. Two spring-dwelling invertebrates,
41319681|We examined seasonal patterns of abundance of mussel larvae (glochidia) in stream drift in a diverse, large-stream mussel assemblage in the Sipsey River, Alabama, across 1y. We used recently developed techniques for glochidial identification combined with information about mussel fecundity and benthic assemblages to evaluate how well observed glochidial abundance corresponded to expected abundance based on glochidial production. Glochidia from short-term brooding species (
10.2307/1468175|Traditional methods of establishing control sites in field-oriented biomonitoring studies of water quality are limited. The reference-condition approach offers a powerful alternative because sites serve as replicates rather than the multiple collections within sites that are the replicates in traditional designs using inferential statistics. With the reference-condition approach, an array of reference sites characterises the biological condition of a region; a test site is then compared to an appropriate subset of the reference sites, or to all the reference sites with probability weightings. This paper compares the procedures for establishing reference conditions, and assesses the strengths and deficiencies of multimetric (as used in the USA) and multivariate methods (as used in the UK, Canada, and Australia) for establishing water-quality status. A data set of environmental measurements and macroinvertebrate collections from the Fraser River, British Columbia, was used in the comparison. Precision and accuracy of the 2 multivariate methods tested (AUStralian RIVer Assessment Scheme: AusRivAS, BEnthic Assessment of SedimenT: BEAST) were consistently higher than for the multimetric assessment. Classification by ecoregion, stream order, and biotic group yielded precisions of 100% for the AusRivAS, 80-100% for the BEAST, and 40-80% for multimetrics; and accuracies of 100%, 100%, and 38-88%, respectively. Multimetrics are attractive because they produce a single score that is comparable to a target value and they include ecological information. However, not all information collected is used, metrics are often redundant in a combination index, errors can be compounded, and it is difficult to acquire current procedures. Multivariate methods are attractive because they require no prior assumptions either in creating groups out of reference sites or in comparing test sites with reference groups. However, potential users may be discouraged by the complexity of initial model construction. The complementary emphases in the multivariate methods examined (presence / absence in AusRivAS cf. abundance in BEAST) lead us to recommend that they be used together, and in conjunction with, multimetric studies.
09-163|I investigated the effectiveness of activity traps for macroinvertebrate monitoring in shallow, heavily vegetated drainage ditches and explored 2 ways to optimize the use of activity traps for monitoring purposes. I tested the effects of trapping duration (48, 96, and 168h) and use of attractants (bait and preconditioned leaves). The number of taxa and individuals captured increased with trapping duration. Based on the taxon accumulation curves, deployment times of 48h and 96h were equally efficient in capturing new taxa, but a trapping duration of 168h was much more efficient and resulted in a larger number of taxa collected with every new sample added. Of the attractants offered in the traps, only bait caused differences in the macroinvertebrate assemblage recorded. After 48h, more predators were captured in traps with bait than in control traps and traps with preconditioned leaves. This effect disappeared with longer trapping duration. Because of their relatively low labor requirements and high level of standardization, activity traps appear to be a valuable tool in lentic biodiversity surveys, especially when deployed for a longer period than has usually been reported. The use of bait is advisable only if capture of specific taxa is required and not for standard monitoring purposes.
10.2307/1467432| Inter-habitat variation in benthic community structure and function was investigated in 3 headwater streams in West Virginia, USA. Abundance and biomass of benthic macroinvertebrates and salamanders together with standing crop of benthic organic matter were estimated for riffles, rock faces, plunge pools, debris-dam pools, and leaf packs. In 1 stream, installation of log dams for fish habitat (K-dams) created artificial plunge pools and debris-dam pools. Standing crop of benthic organic matter was lowest in riffles and rock faces (50 g ash-free dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>) and was dominated by coarse (1-10 mm) and fine (0.25-1 mm) particles. Mass of benthic organic matter was highest in debris-dam pools (>2 kg ash-free dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>), and was dominated by coarse particles and wood. Mean animal density (macroinvertebrates and salamander larvae) was highest in debris-dam pools and on rock faces (>10,000/m<sup>2</sup>) and lowest in riffles and plunge pools (<5000/m<sup>2</sup>). Standing biomass of animals was highest in pools (3-8 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>) and lowest in riffles and on rock faces (<2 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>). Chironomids and the stonefly Leuctra were the most abundant taxa in most habitats; co-dominant taxa differed among habitats. Ordination of macroinvertebrate taxa showed that community structure was more similar among habitats than among streams. Functional organization differed among habitats. In riffles, all functional groups were well represented. Scrapers, filterers, and gatherers predominated on rock faces. In pools, shredders and predators dominated biomass, although gatherers were the most abundant group. In plunge pools, crayfish (Cambarus) were relatively more abundant than in debris dam pools; he opposite was true for macroinvertebrate predators. Overall, inter-habitat variation in taxonomic structure, animal abundance, biomass, functional organization, and benthic organic matter exceeded among-stream variation. Comparison with published data for a North Carolina headwater stream revealed common patterns of inter-habitat variation in functional organization. Installation of K-dams in a headwater stream influenced the abundance, biomass, and functional organization of the benthos by providing habitat for taxa able to exploit debris-dam pools formed upstream of K-dams, which retain abundant organic matter. 
10.2307/1467913|Colonization, distribution, and immigration of Baetis bicaudatus on rock surfaces was observed in a small Idaho (USA) stream. Baetis densities on rocks were assessed by direct observation through clear plastic viewing boxes. Baetis distributions among regions on individual rocks was related to periphyton abundance. Densities of Baetis on periphyton patches reflected the relative abundance of periphyton. Among rocks, distributions also were most strongly influenced by periphyton abundance. Water velocity and substrate size did not greatly influence distribution patterns. Chlorophyll a was the best indicator of periphyton abundance. Immigration rates, determined through time-lapse photography, were as high as 5.8 individuals/100 cm<sup>2</sup>/hr. Over 50% of nymphs arrived from the drift. At such immigration rates, the proportion of immigrants that emigrate per unit time would have to be high to maintain densities observed on rocks after 48 hr. The results of this study show that Baetis bicaudatus abundance on rock surfaces is an interplay between immigration rate and nymphal response to food abundance.
10.2307/1468459|Aquatic bryophytes are a common but often overlooked component of a wide variety of stream ecosystems. Although stream environments present a number of challenges for bryophyte reproduction and survival, some bryophytes have characteristics that allow them to persist in a wide variety of stream types (e.g., adaptations to low light and temperature, rapid nutrient uptake, resistance to scouring and spates). Primary production by aquatic bryophytes can equal or exceed that by epilithic and periphytic algae, which have been much more widely studied. Also, it is clear that bryophytes can profoundly influence both the abundance and community structure of stream invertebrates. However, a number of fundamentally important roles of bryophytes in stream ecosystems remain unexamined. Very little is known, for example, about the dynamics of nutrient uptake by bryophytes. The dynamics of nutrient regeneration from decomposing bryophyte tissues are essentially unknown. Nor is it known whether bryophytes increase or decrease the habitat quality for stream trophic levels other than stream invertebrates. For example, ecological interactions between bryophytes and epiphytic microorganisms are potentially important but unknown. Similarly, it is not clear whether fish benefit from the increased abundance of insects often observed when bryophytes are present in streams. The purpose of this review is to summarize the existing literature on the functions of bryophytes as important ecosystem components, rather than as simple environmental indicators. We hope that this information will foster a greater appreciation for the potential functions of these organisms, and will stimulate additional research that will improve our knowledge of whole-stream ecosystem dynamics.
20491148|Resource availability is an important ecosystem attribute that can influence species distributions and ecosystem processes. We manipulated the quantity of leaf litter, a critical resource in streams, in a replicated field experiment to test whether: 1) greater litter quantity promotes microbial leaf decomposition (through greater microbial inoculum potential), and 2) reduced litter quantity enhances decomposition by leaf-shredding invertebrates (because shredders aggregate on rare resource patches). In each of 3 streams, we identified reaches in which litter quantity was either: 1) augmented, 2) depleted, or 3) left unchanged. We determined decomposition rates and macroinvertebrate colonization of alder leaves placed in coarse- and fine-mesh litter bags, an approach intended to allow or prevent access to leaves by leaf-shredding macroinvertebrates. Responses to litter manipulations were complex. In 2 streams, litter quantities differed among treatments, but high quantities of litter in the control reach of the 3
10.2307/1467849| Effects of the amphipod Monoporeia affinis, the oligochaete Tubifex tubifex and the chironomid Chironomus riparius on the production ([<sup>3</sup>H]-thymidine incorporation) and abundance (acridine orange direct counts) of sediment bacteria were studied in a series of microcosm experiments. Measurements were performed on the visually distinct sediment zonation generated by oxygen penetration and influenced by deposit-feeder activity. All three species at higher densities caused an increase in the depth of the light-colored surficial sediment layer in the microcosms. Bacterial production in surficial sediment increased by factors as high as 3.2 (Monoporeia experiment), 1.4 (Tubifex experiment), and 4.4 (Chironomus experiment) compared with controls. Physical disturbance of sediment through invertebrate activity was concluded to be the main causal mechanism for increases in bacterial production. Changes in bacterial abundance appeared to be zoobenthos species-specific, reflecting differences in feeding and/or foraging behavior of the animals. Bacterial abundance was negatively affected by mechanical stirring and by the activity of Tubifex tubifex, a subsurface deposit-feeder known to gain a large proportion of its energy demand from sediment bacteria. Monoporeia affinis and Chironomus riparius did not affect bacterial abundance; apparently their surficial feeding activity resulted in a compensation of bacterial losses. In subsurface sediment layers neither bacterial abundance nor production was affected by any of the three species. 
20491221|We experimentally manipulated mussel community structure and observed mussel burrowing behavior in mesocosms held in a greenhouse. Vertical positions, vertical movements, and horizontal movements of
4498989|Aggregation of organic matter occurs commonly in the water column of streams and rivers. Aggregates are formed by physicochemical or biological mechanisms, and these aggregations result in the transformation of suspended matter into much larger units. Microaggregates are formed by spontaneous assembly of organic molecules and resemble single particles. In contrast, macroaggregates (flocs and snow) are formed by binding of components with exopolymers (EPS), and they vary in size, shape, and porosity. Fecal pellets are a 3
10.2307/1467809|We sampled the mussel assemblages at 4 locations in the St. Croix River, Minnesota and Wisconsin, to examine sampling bias between quantitative (sediment excavation) and qualitative (timed searches) methods. Both methods provided similar species richness, diversity, and evenness values among locations examined. At all locations, each sampling method resulted in similar relationships between the number of mussels collected and the number of species found. However, assemblage composition and the mean length of individuals collected differed significantly between methods. Quantitative samples included smaller mussels than qualitative samples; individuals <20 mm long (approximately) were excluded from qualitative collections. Examination of length-frequency histograms for individual species revealed that the degree of bias differed among locations. This bias occurred even with large sample size (n > 1000 individuals) and was probably related to differences in substrate composition among locations.
40792589|Urban streams have been the focus of much research in recent years, but many questions about the mechanisms driving the urban stream syndrome remain unanswered. Identification of key research questions is an important step toward effective, efficient management of urban streams to meet societal goals. We developed a list of priority research questions by: 1) soliciting input from interested scientists via a listserv and online survey, 2) holding an open discussion on the questions at the Second Symposium on Urbanization and Stream Ecology, and 3) reviewing the literature in the preparation of this paper. We present the resulting list of 26 questions in the context of a review and summary of the present understanding of urban effects on streams. The key questions address major gaps in our understanding of ecosystem structure and function responses (e.g., what are the sublethal impacts of urbanization on biota?), characteristics of urban stream stressors (e.g., can we identify clusters of covarying stressors?), and management strategies (e.g., what are appropriate indicators of ecosystem structure and function to use as management targets?). The identified research needs highlight our limited understanding of mechanisms driving the urban stream syndrome and the variability in characteristics of the effects of urbanization across different biogeoclimatic conditions, stages of development, government policies, and cultural norms. We discuss how to proceed with appropriate management activities given our current incomplete understanding of the urban stream syndrome.
10.2307/1468020|Stream research has contributed only modestly to general ecological theory. Moreover, the rate of generation of new ideas in stream ecology may have slowed recently. These shortcomings might be remedied by a more deliberate effort to generate new, creative ideas about streams that will enhance their use in developing general theory. The creative process has been thoroughly studied by psychologists and, while the field is still in flux, most cognitive psychologists agree that juxtaposition of disparate concepts or observations can stimulate new ideas. How this technique might enhance stream ecology is illustrated with an analogy between functional morphology and stream ecology. Definition of form and function in streams is required to develop this analogy and a hierarchical, scale-dependent approach is essential. The effect of structure and configuration of stream channels on their functioning is a promising research area that can be applied at several scales. Parallels with landscape ecology are strong. Extending this analogy to larger scales reminds us that streams are, in essence, branched systems; however, little research has been done on the ecological consequences of branching patterns in streams and rivers. Combination of this branched image with other surface and subsurface water bodies leads to an even broader view of streams as planar systems, intimately connecting terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems along flowpaths. This exploration of ideas about stream shape and its functional consequences suggests several opportunities for stream ecology to contribute to general ecological theory. More importantly, this effort suggests that the process of idea generation is straightforward, accessible, and beneficial for both science and scientist.
20491216|Leaf litter inputs and retention play an important role in ecosystem functioning in forested streams. We examined colonization of leaves by microbes (bacteria, fungi, and protozoa) and fauna in Fuirosos, an intermittent forested Mediterranean stream. Black poplar (
1468103|We examined the spatial distributions of Alaskan freshwater fishes using 2 frameworks, ecoregions and hydroregions (catchments). Ecoregions are defined by climate, terrain, vegetation, and soils; their utility in explaining distributions of aquatic organisms is based upon terrestrialaquatic linkages. Analysis of the probable dispersal of aquatic organisms along past and current hydroregions provides an alternative and likely complementary path to understanding distributions of aquatic organisms. We use published distribution records for freshwater fishes of Alaska to construct a matrix of presence/absence records for each fish species in ecoregions and hydroregions of Alaska. We assessed faunal similarities among ecoregions and hydroregions using the Jaccard index. Classification analyses (two-way indicator species analysis [TWINSPAN] and unweighted pair-group method using arithmetic averages [UPGMA] cluster analysis) were used to group ecoregions and hydroregions. Similarities of fish faunas were highest in adjacent hydroregions, with declining similarity between latitudinally disjunct hydroregions; similarities were lower between hydroregions separated by high-elevation mountain chains than between hydroregions separated by lower-elevation mountains and lowlands. The Brooks Range Tundra, which is a high-elevation swath of the mountains separating the Arctic coastal plain from interior Alaska, showed the greatest dissimilarity in fish fauna from other (even adjacent) ecoregions. Classification analyses of hydroregions and ecoregions produced geographically similar patterns, tentatively considered ichthyoregions. From north to south, these ichthyoregions included Arctic and Brooks Range regions, a region consolidating most of the Yukon catchment of interior Alaska, a western Alaska region, a coastal southwestern region (Bristol Bay to Cook Inlet and adjacent Alaska Range), and a southern maritime region including Southeast Alaska. Fishes of the Beringian refuge (local survivors of Pleistocene glaciation) dominated northern regions, with increasing representation southward by fishes derived from the Pacific Coast (Cascadia) refuge, suggesting a Pleistocene imprint on distribution of Alaskan fishes. Thus, we hypothesize that the distribution of Alaskan freshwater fishes is complexly determined by ecophysiological requirements of fishes along the latitudinal gradient from northern rain forest to Arctic tundra, by current and past barriers to dispersal, and by the legacy of Pleistocene glaciation.
4095738|Terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) is a DNA-based technique used to examine microbial community structure. We used this technique to examine variability in microbial community structure in 3 pools and a riffle in a semipermanent stream that becomes a chain of pools during the summer. We examined microbial communities under 3 hydrological conditions: predrought (all sites inundated), drought (all sediments dried for 2 mo), and rewet (1 mo after inundation). We used nonmetric multidimensional scaling to ordinate microbial communities and analysis of similarity to test whether communities differed among sites and whether community structure within sites changed in response to drought and rewetting. Microbial communities within sites differed with respect to hydrological condition, with most within-site variability occurring within the riffle section of the stream. Sediment drying significantly changed the microbial community structure at all sites. One month after rewetting at all sites, the microbial communities had not returned to their predrought structures and were significantly different from the predrought and drought microbial communities. Within-site variability in microbial community structure was much lower after the drought than before the drought. T-RFLP proved to be a powerful method for resolving microbial community structure, and its application helped address our limited understanding of microbial community dynamics.
1468074|We investigated genetic differentiation among 8 populations of the protected damselfly
41318763|Interest in the biodiversity value of urban waters is growing. Understanding key ecological processes is essential for effective management of these aquatic ecosystems. Our paper focuses on identifying the key factors that structure chironomid assemblages, such as water quality and dredging, in urban waters strongly influenced by seepage of large rivers. Chironomid assemblages were studied in urban surface-water systems (man-made drainage ditches) in polder areas along lowland reaches of the rivers RhineMeuse in The Netherlands. Multivariate analysis was used to identify the key environmental factors. Taxon richness, Shannon index (H), rareness of species, and life-history strategies at urban locations were compared with available data from similar man-made water bodies in rural areas, and the effectiveness of dredging for restoring chironomid diversity in urban waters was tested. Three different chironomid associations were distinguished by Two-Way Indicator Species Analysis. Variation within and among chironomid associations were significantly related to substrate (sludge layer and substrate type: sand vs clay), % cover of lemnids, submerged vegetation, filamentous algae, and water transparency. Chironomid taxon richness and H were similar in urban and rural waters, probably because of their similar hydrologic, morphologic, and water-quality conditions and their similar dredging and weed-control regimes. Rareness was slightly higher in urban than in rural waters. In urban water systems, chironomid taxon richness was negatively related to sludge layer and % cover of lemnids. Dredging changed chironomid species composition, and increased taxon richness and life-history strategies indicative of good O
10.2307/1467962|Experimental additions of phosphorus or phosphorus plus nitrogen to Oksrukuyik Creek, an arctic tundra stream, stimulated production at all trophic levels relative to an unfertilized reach. Epilithic chlorophyll concentration, primary production, and respiration in the epilithic community increased in fertilized riffles, and biomass of diatoms and filamentous macroalgae increased considerably. Production and density of Baetis spp. and Orthocladius rivulorum, 2 key grazing larval insects, increased in the fertilized zone. Production and density of larval black flies, the major filter feeders in the Creek, were not affected significantly by enrichment. Fertilization increased summer growth of adult and young-of-the-year Arctic grayling Thymallus arcticus. Mean summer discharge was an important regulator of epilithic chlorophyll concentration, macroalgal biomass, Orthocladius production, and possibly fish growth. We compared our results to a similar fertilization experiment conducted in the Kuparuk River, a larger arctic tundra stream. In both systems, production increased at every trophic level, although responses of specific primary producers and insects differed, possibly because of differences in flow regimes.
41318755|Headwaters (stream orders 12) traditionally have been considered depauperate compared to mid-order streams (orders 34)a conclusion that arises from a perception of streams as linear systems and emphasizes change in average  (local) diversity along streams. We hypothesized an opposite pattern for  (among-site) diversity and suggest that headwaters might account for a large degree of basin-scale biodiversity if considered within the more realistic framework of streams as branching networks. We assembled pre-existing biodiversity data from across the globe to test this hypothesis broadly at the population-genetic (mitochondrial haplotype diversity within species) and community (species/taxonomic diversity) levels, with a focus on macroinvertebrates. We standardized 18 (9 headwater and 9 mid-order) population-genetic and 16 (10 headwater and 6 mid-order) community-level ecoregional data sets from 5 global ecozones for robust comparisons of -diversity estimates between the 2 stream-size categories. At the population-genetic level, we applied measures of among-site variation commonly used at both population-genetic (
10-042|The 16 contributors who produced the 15 chapters in Robert Usingers
40792524|It is generally accepted that juvenile salmonid production is linked, via bottom-up pathways, to marine-derived nutrient (MDN) inputs from spawning salmon. Many studies have used standing stock biomass estimates of aquatic macroinvertebrates to infer relationships between MDN and secondary production in streams that receive spawners. However, no study has measured aquatic macroinvertebrate secondary production in relation to MDN. To assess the relationship between MDN and aquatic insect production, we measured secondary production of the 5 dominant mayfly genera (
1468108|The usefulness of ecoregions for discriminating between littoral macroinvertebrate assemblages of 363 Swedish lakes was examined. A relatively good correspondence was found between ecoregion delineations and macroinvertebrate assemblages of the lake littoral zone. Variables describing macroinvertebrate assemblages (abundance, taxon richness, diversity, and Srensen similarity) had significantly different values in the 6 ecoregions, but the most marked differences occurred between the middle and southern boreal regions, coinciding with the approximate location of the ecotone delineating the northern coniferous (taiga) and southern deciduous forests. Macroinvertebrate assemblages of lakes in the south were generally more diverse, having more taxa, whereas lakes in the north in general and in the arcticalpine complex in particular were characterized by low richness and the presence of 2 plecopterans, namely
10.2307/1467202|We studied trends in nutrient cycling and periphyton characteristics (biomass, species composition, productivity, and nutrient content) along longitudinal gradients in laboratory streams to test the hypothesis that upstream-downstream linkages produce distinct longitudinal patterns in stream ecosystems. Periphyton communities were grown under uniform light and flow conditions in two 88-m-long laboratory streams created by connecting four channel segments (each 0.3 m wide and 22 m long) in series. At the end of 8 wk, large longitudinal declines in streamwater N and P concentrations were observed in each stream. Although chlorophyll a declined and the proportion of cyanobacteria in the periphyton increased with distance downstream, longitudinal trends in ash-free dry mass, gross primary productivity (GPP), and total respiration were not significant. In contrast, longitudinal trends in most of the parameters related to nutrient deficiency and cycling were significant. Chlorophyll-specific phosphatase activity and C: nutrient ratios in periphyton biomass increased from upstream to downstream, suggesting greater nutrient deficiency downstream. Ratios of net N uptake rate: GPP and net P uptake rate: GPP declined from upstream to downstream, suggesting that nutrient recycling supported a greater fraction of the algal nutrient demand downstream. Ratios of net: total P uptake rate also declined from upstream to downstream, suggesting that a larger fraction of the total P uptake from stream water downstream was met by P recycled within the segment rather than by inputs from upstream. Within-segment recycling supplied only 10-25% of P uptake from stream water in upstream segments but contributed 60-70% of the P uptake from stream water in downstream segments. Finally, total P uptake rate: GPP ratio declined from upstream to downstream, suggesting that cycling of P within the periphyton mat was greater downstream than upstream. Together, our results showed that increased nutrient cycling can compensate for longitudinal declines in nutrient concentrations in stream water, preventing large longitudinal changes in periphyton biomass and productivity. Nutrient cycling and algal species composition were the characteristics showing strongest longitudinal linkage in these periphyton-dominated streams, whereas total biomass and productivity patterns were poorly related to longitudinal position.
10.2307/1467386| The benthic macroinvertebrate community of experimentally divided Lake N-2 (673827N, 1493730W) was studied during six years of experimental fertilization. The dominant snail, Lymnaea elodes, increased on the fertilized side of the lake. Another snail, Valvata lewisi, previously shown to be competitively inferior to Lymnaea, did not increase in the fertilized sector until the fifth year of the study, but then increased dramatically. Chironomids were more abundant and had higher biomass on the reference side of the lake, an initial condition, and did not increase in the fertilized sector. Slimy sculpin, previously shown to control chironomids on bare sediments in nearby Toolik Lake, were the only fish predators on chironomids in Lake N-2; they did not grow faster in the fertilized sector. These results suggest that the dominant benthic invertebrates in N-2, chironomids and snails, were limited by different factors; chironomids were not food limited and appeared to be limited by predators, but snails, free from predation in N-2, appeared food limited. The planktonic model of cascading trophic interactions, if applied to benthic communities, would predict that, at low (zero) piscivore density, sculpin density and/or growth would increase as increased primary productivity was passed up the food web; they did not. The physical structure of the benthic zone is such that edible food can accumulate, whereas this cannot occur over extended time scales in planktonic systems. I suggest that this structural difference leads to functionally different constraints on planktonic and benthic communities. 
10.2307/1468384| A growing body of research suggests that direct and indirect interactions among consumers can have strong effects on the abundance of their prey. We examined the independent and interactive effects of 2 common freshwater consumers, crayfish (Orconectes propinquus) and rainbow darters (Etheostoma caeruleum), on benthic macroinvertebrates in a southern Michigan, USA, stream. A secondary goal was to assess the effects of crayfish and darters on the basal trophic level (periphyton) in the system. Presence and absence of crayfish and darters were manipulated in situ in wire mesh cages (0.2 m<sup>2</sup>, 6-mm mesh) using a 2  2 factorial, randomized block design. Invertebrates and periphyton (for chlorophyll a analysis) were sampled biweekly for 6 wk from artificial rock substrates within these cages. Neither consumer significantly affected chlorophyll a accumulation. Darters alone had no significant effects on total invertebrate abundance. Crayfish alone caused, on average, a 58% reduction in total invertebrate abundance relative to exclosures, and most common invertebrate taxa were negatively affected. In the presence of darters, however, crayfish reduced invertebrate numbers by only 29% relative to exclosures. Daters apparently modified the ability of crayfish to suppress invertebrate abundance, although the mechanism is unclear. Evaluations of community structure based on manipulations of individual consumer species may be misleading when interaction modifications such as these occur. 
10.2307/1468007|Benthic macroinvertebrates shifted from deep water to shallow water of the shore zone during annual flooding of a large, gravel-bed river. The shore zone is seasonally inundated during flooding for up to 4 mo of the year, and is a geomorphic feature of many large rivers in northern latitudes with limited floodplain habitat. We collected samples of invertebrates along with measures of several hydraulic and sedimentary variables 5 times through the flood cycle from 4 fixed water depths; stations shifted laterally over a distance of 30 m between baseflow and peak flow. In deep water (1.5 and 3.0 m), shear velocity and substrate mobility increased as a result of flooding. At shallow depths (0.2 and 0.5 m) within the shore zone, stable substrate and low hydraulic stress remained throughout the flood cycle, providing flow refugia to benthic invertebrates. Invertebrate density and species richness were similar during months on the rising limb of the hydrograph while the wetted area of the channel markedly increased. Persistence of the invertebrate community appears to have been facilitated by a shift in a large proportion of organisms from deep water to shallow depths of the shore zone during flooding. Total density and the density of most collector-gatherers such as Rhithrogena and Baetis was highest at 1.5 m prior to flooding but shifted to depths of 0.5 and 0.2 m at peak flow. The filter-feeding caddisfly Hydropsyche was most abundant at 1.5 m in all months of the study while the location of 1.5 m samples shifted laterally over a distance of 30 m through the flood cycle. The ecological importance of the shore zone as a flow refugium was demonstrated by the broad diversity of species with varying feeding behaviors and morphologies that concentrated in this zone during flooding.
1468325|BRIDGES is a recurring feature of J-NABS intended to provide a forum for the interchange of ideas and information between basic and applied researchers in benthic science. Articles in this series will focus on topical research areas and linkages between basic and applied aspects of research, monitoring policy, and education. Readers with ideas for topics should contact Associate Editors, Nick Aumen and Marty Gurtz.
10.2307/1467388| The relationship of growth form to phosphorus uptake, carbon fixation, and susceptibility to grazing was tested in stream algae. We hypothesized that algal species with high surface area: volume (SA:V) ratios would have higher biomass-specific rates of nutrient uptake and photosynthesis than species with low SA:V ratios. We also predicted that algal species with gelatinous or prostrate growth forms would have low susceptibility to grazing. Physiological measurements were made using ten taxa comprising five different algal growth forms commonly found in flowing waters (unbranched filamentous; branched filamentous; gelatinous, branched filamentous; gelatinous, colonial; and prostrate). Significant positive relationships were obtained between SA:V and phosphorus uptake, and SA:V and carbon fixation at high light (200 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>), but only after two outlying taxa were deleted from the analysis. A significant regression was obtained between SA:V and carbon fixation at low light (20 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>) when all ten taxa were included. Herbivore preference for different growth forms was assessed in a short-term experiment which compared the amount of algae in snail feces vs. that on substrates. The ranking for least preferred to most preferred growth form was: gelatinous (colonial) = unbranched filamentous (Oedogonium) < prostrate < unbranched filamentous (Fragilaria). The overall results are consistent with the hypothesis that the functional attributes of lotic algae are related to their growth form. However, other factors beside growth form also can influence the functional performance and, by inference, the distribution of lotic algae in nature. 
10.2307/1467418|In a whole-river fertilization experiment, density of the dominant caddisfly, Brachycentrus americanus, was significantly higher downstream of fertilizer addition, while black fly density was significantly lower. In a caging experiment where Brachycentrus density was manipulated, black flies were significantly less abundant in high-density Brachycentrus cages than in ambient- and low-density Brachycentrus cages. Microcosm experiments and gut analyses showed that Brachycentrus--black fly encounters did not result in predation, but sometimes resulted in black fly drift. Black flies were more abundant on river rocks without conspicuous periphyton cover, but in microcosms they preferred periphyton-covered rocks. In microcosms the presence of periphyton resulted in a shift in black fly distribution from the tops of rocks to the bottoms and sides of rocks, the preferred microhabitat of Brachycentrus. Brachycentrus in microcosms did not affect black fly microhabitat preference. Increased periphyton abundance in the fertilized river probably did not reduce black fly abundance directly, but may have caused black flies to occupy a different microhabitat on the rocks, where they were more likely to encounter caddisflies. Results from the stream caging experiment and the microcosm experiments combined suggest that caddisfly dislodgement of black flies accounted for the observed lower density of black flies in the fertilized river.
10.2307/1467866|Faunal assemblages, leaf litter processing rates, and seston export were followed in two streams two years after one was altered with an insecticide. Two years after treatment ended, the macroinvertebrate trophic structure of the treated stream (TS) community had recovered and was similar to that of the reference stream (RS); however, major differences in taxonomic composition persisted. Some taxa, e.g., Diplectrona metaqui and Pseudostenophylax, which were rare or absent in TS before treatment became locally abundant during recolonization. Other taxa (e.g., Peltoperla, Pycnopsyche, Diplectrona modesta, and Fattigia), which were known to be abundant in TS before treatment, remained absent or rare in TS and common in RS. Recovery of shredder functional group biomass in TS was accompanied by restoration of leaf litter processing rates, seston concentrations, and export. These had all decreased significantly in TS, relative to RS, during the treatment period. Despite the recovery of the shredder functional group biomass, the taxa dominating this group remained strikingly different from RS and pretreatment conditions in TS. Biomasses of some shredders (e.g., Lepidostoma spp. and Tipula) were twice as high in TS as in RS, while others (e.g., Peltoperla, Fattigia, and Pycnopsyche) were low or absent in TS. Although taxonomic differences still existed between TS and RS, trophic structure was similar between streams. Restoration of shredder biomass, leaf litter processing, and organic seston concentrations in TS supports the concept that stream ecosystems are resilient to disturbance. Thus recovery of trophic function may occur in a fashion not recognizable solely by taxonomic criteria.
10-012R|Taxonomic identification of benthic macroinvertebrates is critical to protocols used to assess the biological integrity of aquatic ecosystems. The time, expense, and inherent error rate of species-level morphological identifications has necessitated use of genus- or family-level identifications in most large, statewide bioassessment programs. Use of coarse-scale taxonomy can obscure signal about biological condition, particularly if the range of species tolerances is large within genera or families. We hypothesized that integration of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcodes (partial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I sequences) into bioassessment protocols would provide greater discriminatory ability than genus-level identifications and that this increased specificity could lead to more sensitive assessments of water quality and habitat. Analysis of DNA barcodes from larval specimens of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) taxa collected as part of Marylands Biological Stream Survey (MBSS) revealed 2 to 3 as many DNA-barcode groups or molecular operational taxonomic units (mOTUs) as morphologically identified genera. As expected, geographic distributions for several mOTUs were tighter than for the parent genus, but few mOTUs showed closer associations with water-quality variables or physical-habitat features than did the genus in which they belonged. The need for improved protocols for the consistent generation of DNA barcodes is discussed.
10.2307/1467933|Although protozoa have been largely disregarded in the trophic structure of lotic systems, they have been shown to be important in lentic and marine environments. As part of a larger study concerning the basis of secondary production in the Ogeechee River, GA, preliminary experiments were done using fluorescently-labelled bacteria to directly measure bacterial grazing by protozoa. Protozoan grazing rates can be as high in moving lotic waters as in still waters as demonstrated by comparing a main channel site, a backwater, and a floodplain pond. In the main channel site during April and May 1988, flagellates and ciliates ingested an average of 17 and 320 bacteria/individual/hr, respectively. When this is multiplied by the high protozoan densities present, an average of 47% of the water-column in the main channel is estimated to be cleared of bacteria by protists each day. Protozoan bacterivory could facilitate carbon flow to higher trophic levels by turning bacteria into larger parcels of carbon and nutrients which are available to a greater portion of the filter-feeding members of communities.
10.2307/1467447| The retention potential of forested headwater streams is strongly influenced by forest succession through the input and transport of different amounts and types of wood and the interaction of woody debris with drainage basin geomorphology during forest succession. To evaluate experimentally the effects of changing amounts of wood on the retention potential of streams, ten log dams were added to a 50-m reach on two second-order streams, Aspen 1 and Aspen 2. Both streams lacked woody debris and flowed through a successional aspen forest in the southern Rocky Mountains. All wood >5 cm in diameter was removed from a 50-m reach of a third stream, Conifer, previously choked with wood in an adjacent climax conifer forest. Although both aspen streams were in the same forest type, Aspen 1 appeared to be at an earlier successional stage than Aspen 2. It flooded more frequently, had more erosion in its upper drainage basin, and had an unstable channel compared with Aspen 2. Within each stream, reaches with wood stored twice the organic matter of reaches without wood. Sides of streams stored more than centers (Aspen 1 = 6, Aspen 2 = 2, Conifer = 3.5). Conifer contained 3.5 times and Aspen 2 contained 2 times more stored organic matter than Aspen 1. Average water velocities were lower in reaches with wood than in reaches without wood in Aspen 2 and Conifer, but not in Aspen 1. Velocities decreased and width and depth increased in both aspen reaches with wood. Velocities increased and width and depth decreased in the conifer reach without wood. Dye-measured transit time revealed the greatest difference between Conifer reaches and the smallest differences between Aspen 1 reaches. Experimental releases of uniformly shaped "woodchips" and spray-painted leaves showed that Aspen 1 was least retentive and Conifer was most retentive, but the greatest difference in retention of particles was between the Aspen 1 reaches. When wood is added, streams retain and store organic matter directly by holding back organic matter and indirectly by increasing the physical heterogeneity of the channel and deflecting water movement into eddies and backwaters. Finally, the effects of woody debris vary with channel stability supporting the concept of linkage between stream succession and the geomorphic processes occurring within each catchment as a whole. 
10.2307/1467900| The habitats of mussel species in a portion of the main stem of Navigation Pool 10 of the upper Mississippi River were examined. Population composition, abundance, and sediment and current preferences were measured at 186 sites in the East Channel of the pool. Although total mussel abundance varied significantly as a function of sediment and current (p  0.05), abundance could be predicted in only 44% of sites by discriminant analysis models. Accurate prediction of abundance for most species also was poor. Species showed little discrimination in choosing main channel habitats, but could be broadly classified into species preferring fine to medium-fine sands (e.g., Truncilla truncata and Potamilus alatus) or coarser sands (e.g., Lampsilis cardium and Truncilla donaciformis). The endangered Lampsilis higginsi was found in a broad range of habitats similar to those occupied by many of the more common species, suggesting factors other than loss of adult habitat for the rarity of this species. 
10.2307/1467236|Sediment description is becoming an essential consideration in many types of lotic research. This paper examines the necessity for detailed organic loss-on-ignition measures and inorganic particle-size-analysis in describing streambed sediment samples. Sediment samples (n = 94) were obtained from a 150-m stretch of the Madawaska River in central Ontario, and a full analysis (organic content and inorganic particle-size-analysis) of each sediment sample was carried out. The difference between every pair of sample points in the composition of sediment was summarized in a distance matrix of average taxonomic distances. We quantified the loss of information about variation in benthic sediment habitat when (i) organic content of the sediment was ignored, (ii) size fractions of sediment were pooled prior to analysis, and (iii) the presence or absence of size categories, rather than actual mass determinations, were used to describe sediment samples. Distance matrices were re-calculated with these cruder sediment descriptions, and Mantel's test was used to measure the correlation between distance matrices based on varying levels of resolution in sediment analysis. Also, a distance matrix was calculated which summarized the difference between pairs of sites in the total Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera emergence downstream of core removals. This matrix was also correlated, using Mantel's test, with distance matrices based on varying degrees of resolution in sediment analysis. The original detailed sediment description, with organic content present, was highly correlated (r = 1.000, p < 0.001) with the detailed sediment description excluding organic content. Sediment descriptions with pooled sieves but actual mass of fractions were more highly correlated with the original, full description of the sediment (r = 0.88 - 0.81, p < 0.001) than binary (presence/absence of size fractions) sediment descriptions (r = 0.76 - 0.22, p < 0.001). Variation among sampling points in insect emergence was also more highly correlated with sediment data using actual mass measures (r = 0.40 - 0.37, p < 0.001) than sediment descriptions using only presence/absence data (r = 0.33 - 0.12, p < 0.001). Both sieve reduction methods suggested in our paper retain most of the original sediment-sample information important in explaining the variation in emerging insects. The usefulness of pooling sieve categories and recording only the presence or absence of size fraction categories to future sediment characterizations will depend on the extent to which the original sediment information is retained in the new characterizations.
20491170|We ask 3 questions that bear on the ability of aquatic scientists to influence public perceptions and public policy related to important environmental issues: 1) Why should scientists become better communicators? 2) What can we do to promote effective communication? 3) How can scientific societies help scientists meet this communication challenge? Shareholders in the environment include watershed groups, environmental interest groups, water-quality agencies, the general public, and the scientific community. These shareholders often are not professional scientists, but they influence the formation of natural resource policies. Individual aquatic scientists should be able to explain their science to other shareholders in a way that disabuses misconceptions of scientific principles, fosters informed dialogue concerning actions that affect aquatic ecosystems, and prevents poor decisions that can result from inaccurate information or short-sightedness. Scientific societies can effectively communicate the concerns of individual scientists by: 1) articulating the links between basic research and ecological principles to applied science, thereby building the foundation of science needed to support informed decision-making; 2) translating and disseminating results of scientific research to nonscientists to minimize inaccuracies, thereby fostering scientific literacy; and 3) taking proactive positions that promote infusion of sound science into policy debates on pressing environmental issues, especially those that bear on freshwater ecosystems.
4499030|Leaf-litter inputs provide substrate and energy to stream systems. These contributions vary based on species-specific differences in litter quality, but little is known about how differences in litter quality within a species can affect ecosystem processes. Genetic variation within tree species, such as oaks and cottonwoods, affects ecosystem processes including decomposition and nutrient cycling in forest ecosystems and has the potential to do the same in streams. We collected litter from 5 genotypes of each of 4 different cottonwood cross types (
1468192|The processing of whole leaves into smaller particles by leaf-shredding macroinvertebrates may be important to macroinvertebrates that feed on fine particles. Such interactions, termed processing chains, have also been proposed for larvae of leaf-scraping scirtid beetles (family Scirtidae) and filter-feeding mosquitoes (e.g.,
41319680|The biological effect of water abstraction from unregulated streams in New South Wales, Australia, was assessed with data on macroinvertebrate assemblages in riffles (445 samples) and pool edges (718 samples) obtained from a national assessment of river condition in 1995 to 2000. We used limiting environmental difference (LED) modeling to predict the macroinvertebrate assemblage expected for each sample in the absence of water abstraction and estimated effect by comparing predicted and observed assemblages for sites with upstream abstraction. We found a high likelihood of effect on macroinvertebrates in 30% of riffles with upstream abstraction and 22% of edges. Complex combinations of biological traits appeared to determine the sensitivities and tolerances of individual taxa to water abstraction. For example, rheophilous families generally were rarer than predicted in apparently affected riffles, where thermophilic families seemed tolerant of the effects of water abstraction, and free-swimming families were less common than predicted in apparently affected edges, where families with tegument respiration appeared unaffected by water withdrawals. The trait response was clearer for the riffle fauna than for the edge fauna, perhaps because the physical and chemical effects of abstraction are more consistent for riffles than for edges. Our approach can support management planning by identifying taxa that are most at risk from water abstraction and sites where apparent effects are most evident.
4499051|The Asian clam
10.2307/1467795| We compared the production and biomass of fungi with that of bacteria during the breakdown of yellow poplar leaves (Liriodendron tulipifera) in 2 streams that differed in water chemistry. The hardwater stream contained higher concentrations of nutrients (N and P) than the softwater stream. Fungal biomass (determined from ergosterol concentrations), production (determined from rates of [<sup>14</sup>C]acetate incorporation into ergosterol), and sporulation rates associated with leaves were greater in the hardwater stream than in the softwater stream. Bacterial biomass (determined from direct counts and cell volume estimates) was similar on leaves in both streams, but bacterial production (determined from rates of [<sup>3</sup>H]leucine incorporation into protein) was greater on leaves in the hardwater stream than in the softwater stream. Fungal biomass associated with leaves was always much greater than bacterial biomass (385-1236 in the hardwater stream, 32-185 in the softwater stream) during leaf breakdown. Fungal production reached maximum values within the first 2 wk after leaves were submerged in the hardwater stream. In the softwater stream, fungal production was low and remained relatively constant throughout the study with a minimum occurring after 28 d. In both streams, bacterial production increased throughout leaf breakdown. Even so, with the exception of 1 date, production of fungi was greater (2-108 in the hardwater stream and 0.9-35 in the softwater stream) than bacterial production during leaf breakdown. On the basis of both biomass and production, fungi played a greater role than bacteria in the breakdown of yellow poplar leaves in these streams. 
4095656|The gut contents of a guild of invertebrate grazers inhabiting the moss
20491208|The species composition of benthic diatoms was related to environmental conditions in streams throughout the western US to develop diatom traits, indicators for assessment of biological condition and indicators for diagnosing stressors. We hypothesized that indicators based on species traits determined for subsets of streams with similar natural landscape features would be more precisely related to environmental conditions than would be indicators calculated based on species traits for all streams in the data set. The ranges of many environmental conditions were wide among western streams, and these conditions covaried greatly along a major environmental gradient characterized by positive correlations among % watershed disturbed by agricultural and urban land uses (% WD), conductivity, total N, total P, and % fine sediments. Species traits were calculated for 242 diatom taxa. Weighted average (WA) methods were used to define species environmental optima, and regression approaches were used to determine whether species were sensitive or tolerant to environmental conditions indicated by % WD, total P, total N, a nutrient multivariate index, pH, conductivity, % fine sediments, % embeddedness, and a watershed disturbance multivariate index. Indicators based on WA optima and sensitive/tolerant traits were highly correlated with these environmental conditions. Natural and anthropogenic conditions varied greatly among classes of streams grouped by climate regions, but indicators developed for the entire western US were consistently more accurate than were regional indicators. Indicators for individual stressors, such as total P, conductivity, and % embeddedness, were highly correlated with values of respective stressors, but covariation among all indicators and stressors indicated that only 1 environmental gradient was reliably reflected by the indicators. Thus, robust indicators of the biological condition of diatom assemblages were developed for streams of the western US, but development of stressor-specific indicators will require application of additional analytical approaches.
4095726|A common objective when surveying freshwater mussels is to detect the presence of rare populations. In certain situations, such as when endangered or threatened species are potentially in the area of a proposed impact, the survey should be designed to ensure a high probability of detecting species presence. Linking survey design to probability of detecting species presence has been done for quantitative surveys, but commonly applied designs that are based on timed searches have not made that connection. I propose a semiquantitative survey design that links search area and search efficiency to probability of detecting species presence. The survey can be designed to protect against failing to detect populations above a threshold abundance (or density). I illustrate the design for surveys to detect clubshell (
10.2307/1467588|During summers 1984, 1985, and 1988 we tested the effects of stainless steel mesh enclosures on the microhabitat and composition of the invertebrate community (community structure) at a third-order site on the East River, Gunnison County, Colorado. Comparisons of substrate composition, interstitial flow rates, periphyton on stones, coarse detritus accumulation, and benthic invertebrate community structure were made between enclosed and unenclosed habitats, and among enclosures remaining in the stream for different lengths of time. Surface flow rates were not a good predictor of interstitial flow through substrates inside or outside enclosures, and interstitial flow rates inside enclosures were significantly lower than those of the adjacent unenclosed habitat. Due to reduced flow rates, enclosures were detritus sinks, accumulating significantly more coarse detritus than in surrounding substrates. This difference became more pronounced as enclosures were exposed for longer periods. Similarly, although there were no significant differences in particle size distributions of coarse substrates inside versus outside enclosures, enclosures accumulated fine sediments, especially following storms. Densities of diatoms, blue-green, golden-brown, and green algae were similar on glass slides after exposure inside and outside enclosures for six days. Further, chlorophyll a values were the same on stones exposed inside or outside enclosures over 3, 6, and 9 days. Despite apparently unchanged chlorophyll a levels, macroinvertebrate community structure in enclosures was markedly changed from that of the surrounding benthos after seven days. Communities initially dominated by grazers became dominated by shredders after two weeks, probably due to accumulation of detritus in enclosures. A concurrent decline in grazers suggests that the periphyton resource in enclosures became either less suitable or less accessible for grazing mayflies; the mechanism of this effect remains to be tested. These data support the recommendation that experiments testing for invertebrate community-level effects using these or similar enclosures in open-canopied mountain streams be implemented over the short term. Longer-term experiments may be possible in streams where changes in benthic communities occur more slowly, and time before enclosure artifacts occur is longer.
10.2307/1467557| A longitudinal succession of species of Hydropsyche along a stream continuum is a common pattern in Palearctic as well as in Nearctic regions. Using a laboratory channel, we studied the relationship between current velocity and six Hydropsyche species distributed from small streams to large rivers in the Rhne Basin (France). Different phases of net-building behaviour were used to test the reactions of larvae to variations in current speed over a range of 4-40 cm/s. Hydropsyche angustipennis had more than 30% of its larvae wandering at the end of the experiment and was the least adapted species to the experimental conditions; the proportion of wandering larvae for the other five species was less than 10%. The largest proportion of catchnets with regular meshes occurred at velocities between 28 and 40 cm/s for the upstream species (H. siltalai and H. angustipennis) and for a species of the middle reaches of stream (H. pellucidula). Another middle-reach species (H. exocellata) had the highest proportion of catchnets with regular meshes between 8 and 40 cm/s, and for the downstream species (H. contubernalis and H. modesta), this proportion occurred at 15 cm/s. Our results suggest that the species are ordered in a downstream sequence according to their ability to spin a normal catchnet when the natural current velocity decreases. Downstream species seem to be more tolerant than upstream species to low-velocity conditions that may occur over long periods in the lower reaches of large rivers. 
10-004|We developed a multilocus deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-barcoding approach to identify newly transformed juvenile mussels collected from naturally infested fishes in a federally protected waterway that is home to a diverse mussel community, the St Croix River (Minnesota/Wisconsin, USA). We used new and publicly available data downloaded from GenBank to build reference databases for identified adult mussels. We assessed the efficacy of the mitochondrial loci cytochrome oxidase c subunit I (COI) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase subunit 1 (ND1) for DNA barcoding. We concluded that the barcoding gap between average intra- and interspecific genetic distances is wider for ND1 than for COI, but both loci perform well for species identification in character-based phylogenetic analyses. Almost every species formed a monospecific clade with high bootstrap and posterior-probability support. We obtained newly transformed juvenile mussels by collecting individuals of 3 different fish species that were infested with unionid larvae. We held the fish in aquaria until the mussels emerged naturally. We then extracted DNA and sequenced our loci of interest. When sequences from the juveniles were included in phylogenetic analyses, they grouped with single species (or, in one case, a pair of closely related species) with high bootstrap and posterior-probability support. Identifying juveniles using morphology alone is difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Therefore, our approach will be useful to researchers interested in the relationship between unionid mussels and their fish hosts.
10.2307/1468053| Quantitative descriptions of interactions between zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) and other organisms are needed for an understanding of zebra mussel effects on energy flow and community dynamics in North American freshwater ecosystems. We used a field experiment to quantify effects of 2 potential mechanisms for increasing benthic macroinvertebrate biomass and densities in the Great Lakes following the zebra mussel invasion: 1) habitat created by zebra mussel shells, and 2) habitat and food provided by increases in benthic organic matter. Macroinvertebrate biomass, macroinvertebrate densities, and organic matter mass (hereafter termed organic matter) were measured on substrates (tiles without zebra mussels, with zebra mussel shells, and with live zebra mussels) that were held in western Lake Erie for 37 d. Organic matter was 3-5 greater on tiles with live mussels than on plain tiles or tiles with shells, demonstrating that filter-feeding zebra mussels increased organic matter on benthic substrates. Organic matter did not differ on tiles with shells and tiles without mussels. Similarly, total macroinvertebrate biomass was 2-5 greater on tiles with live zebra mussels than on tiles with shells and tiles without mussels; however, macroinvertebrate biomass also was 3X greater on tiles with shells than on tiles without mussels. Habitat created by shells was the most important cause for zebra mussel-generated increases in total macroinvertebrate biomass and densities of Hydridae, Dugesia tigrina (Turbellaria), Physella sp. (Gastropoda), Gammarus fasciatus (Amphipoda), and Microtendipes pedellus (Chironomidae). However, organic matter produced by zebra mussels also caused increases in total macroinvertebrate biomass and densities of Physella and Microtendipes. Zebra mussels did not reduce densities of any macroinvertebrate taxon. Because benthic macroinvertebrates are important prey for crayfish and benthivorous fishes, increases in macroinvertebrate abundance may be important in channeling energy from zebra mussels to higher trophic levels in the Great Lakes. 
40792499|Aquatic fungi are important decomposers of plant litter in temperate streams. However, these microorganisms have been poorly studied in tropical streams. We assessed the dynamics of aquatic hyphomycetes during the decomposition of
10.2307/1467237|Concentrations of suspended particulate organic carbon (POC), dissolved organic carbon, bacteria, and chlorophyll a were measured in a lake outlet in western Montana, USA. Seven sites within the first 3 km downstream from the lake were sampled over 14 mo. Downstream change in concentration of each variable was tested for fit to a power function (C=aD<sup>b</sup>). Downstream changes in POC, bacteria, and chlorophyll a, sometimes fit a power function, and the value of the exponent b was positively correlated with discharge. At low discharge, a downstream decline in lake algae was accompanied by an increase in stream algae. At high discharge, concentrations of lake algae did not change downstream, and some stream algae increased. These patterns suggest that although initial concentrations of suspended organic carbon (seston) are determined by the lake, within a short distance, concentrations become regulated by stream processes. As discharge increases, lake products are transported farther downstream. Thus, the extent of the influence of the lake on seston composition expands and contracts longitudinally with increases and decreases in discharge.
4095547|The Asian clam (
10.2307/1467785|Two embayment sites in Kentucky Lake, an impoundment of the Tennessee River, have low species diversity of mussels. A field bioassay with 6-wk-old laboratory-cultured juvenile mussels (Utterbackia imbecillis Say) was developed and used to compare these sites with a reference site. Mussels exposed to sediment at the test sites exhibited higher mean mortality than those exposed only to overlying water. Results showed significant mortality at both low-diversity sites: 97% mortality at a site where mussels were absent, and 51% in a mussel bed with limited species diversity. Mortality of sediment-exposed juvenile mussels at a reference site with diverse species was only 21%. Based upon the results of this study, field assays with juvenile mussels can be used to assess stress in aquatic ecosystems.
09-144R1|The goal of this paper is to help managers better understand implications of using aggregate community metrics, such as taxon richness or Indices of Biotic Integrity (IBI), for detecting threshold responses to anthropogenic environmental gradients. To illustrate, we offer an alternative analytical approach, Threshold Indicator Taxa ANalysis (TITAN), geared toward identifying synchronous changes in the distribution of multiple taxa as evidence of an ecological community threshold. Our approach underscores the fundamental reality that which taxa are affected by stressors is important, both from a conservation standpoint and because taxon-specific life-history traits help us understand relevant mechanisms. First, we examine macroinvertebrate community response to an impervious cover gradient using a well-studied biomonitoring data set to show that representative community metrics are relatively insensitive to synchronous threshold declines of numerous individual taxa. We then reproduce these response relationships using a simulated community data set with similar properties to demonstrate that linear or wedge-shaped responses of community metrics to anthropogenic gradients can occur as an artifact of aggregating multiple taxa into a single value per sampling unit, despite strong nonlinearity in community response. Our findings do not repudiate the use of community metrics or multimetric indices, but they challenge assumptions that such metrics are capable of accurately reflecting community thresholds across a broad range of anthropogenic gradients. We recommend an alternative analysis framework that begins with characterization of the responses of individual taxa and uses aggregation only after distinguishing the magnitude, direction, and uncertainty in the responses of individual members of the community.
1468428|A review of various metrics used to characterize transient storage indicates that none of the existing measures successfully integrate the interaction between advective velocity and the transient storage parameters (storage zone area, storage zone exchange coefficient). Further, 2 existing metrics are related to mean travel time, a quantity that is independent of the storage zone exchange coefficient, . This interaction and the effect of  on travel time are important considerations when determining the mass of solute entering the storage zone within a given reach. A new metric based on median reach travel time is therefore proposed. Median reach travel time due to advectiondispersion and transient storage, and median reach travel time due solely to advectiondispersion are computed based on numerical simulations. These 2 travel times are used to determine
20491141|The reference-condition approach to bioassessment often uses the observed/expected (
4498996|Periphyton is a key component of shallow littoral zones of lakes and streams because it is an important source of primary production and a food resource for herbivores. Meiofauna are abundant in periphyton, but macroinvertebrate grazer (macrograzers) effects on periphytic meiofauna have not been studied so far. We used a spatially structured field experiment (hierarchical nested design consisting of 3 subsites at each of 3 sites) in Lake Erken (Sweden) to investigate the effect of macrograzers on epilithic meiofauna and algae in periphyton by controlling macrograzer access to littoral periphyton communities. Overall, we found a strong negative effect of macrograzer presence on algal biomass and some evidence for negative macrograzer effects on meiofaunal abundance and community composition. The impact of macrograzers on both algae and meiofauna were highly variable between sites and subsites. The largest spatial differences were for macrograzer effects on meiofaunal abundance and composition. We also investigated the ability of macrograzers to reduce spatial heterogeneity of periphyton biomass, but the presence of macrograzers did not alter the variation in algal biomass and associated meiofauna among replicates. We conclude that strong local variability in algal biomass and meiofauna abundance exists between neighboring sites even in the presence of strong overall macrograzer effects. This local variability could be based on factors known to cause spatial heterogeneity, such as hydrodynamics, nutrients, substrate characteristics (size, texture, exposure), or biotic interactions.
10.2307/1467832|Tolerance values for families of arthropods are presented to enable calculation of a family-level biotic index (FBI) in the field. In six streams differing in substrates and degree of organic pollution, an average of 23 min, 35 s was needed to assess the condition of a stream in the field using the FBI; this period was at least an hour less than is normally required to evaluate a stream with the generic- and species-level biotic index (BI). Comparison of the FBI and BI of replicated samples from these six streams and from 120 random samples from other Wisconsin streams showed that some accuracy is lost by using the FBI, with the FBI usually indicating greater pollution than the BI in unpolluted or slightly polluted streams and less pollution in polluted streams. The purpose of the FBI is to provide a rapid, but less critical, evaluation of streams in the field by biologists who can recognize arthropod families by sight. It is not intended as a substitute for the BI.
10.2307/1467436| Heavy metal resistance has been well documented in many aquatic invertebrate species, but its nature has been clearly demonstrated on only a few occasions. We investigated 2 mechanisms, acclimation and adaptation, that are commonly thought to be responsible for this resistance. Data were obtained from growth and respiration experiments using instar III and IV Chironomus riparius under the influence of 0.0, 62.5, 125, 250, and 500 g/L Zn. Comparisons were made between larvae that were cultured in clean water conditions and larvae from cultures that had been exposed to 10 g/L for >18 mo. Instar III larvae from clean water cultures showed significant reductions in growth and respiration rates when exposed to zinc concentrations 62.5 g/L; in instar IV larvae, growth and respiration rates were significantly reduced at 250 and 62.5 g/L, respectively. Instar IV larvae from zinc cultures had increased tolerance to the metal whereas instar III larvae displayed no additional tolerance. To determine if the resistance was due to acclimation or population adaptation, additional growth and respiration experiments were conducted with F2 progeny of zinc-cultured adults that had been reared in clean water. Growth rates of F2 progeny larvae were affected by the same concentration that affected untreated larvae, suggesting that acclimation-based resistance to zinc can be induced in C. riparius. Because respiration rates of F2 generation instar IV larvae were affected only by high zinc concentrations (500 g/L), the results suggest that larvae evolved resistance to Zn during the course of this study. 
10.2307/1467238| We investigated direct and indirect (food-chain) effects of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis (B.t.i.) on selected nontarget benthic insects. Sixteen taxa of various Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera, and Diptera were exposed to B.t.i. directly, and indirectly through ingesting B.t.i.-contaminated food (black flies and conditioned leaves) in experiments that were conducted in artificial and natural streams. Lethal effects and sublethal effects (drift, feeding, growth, emergence success, and time to emergence) were measured up to 35 d following B.t.i. exposure. In addition, we measured larval detachment and decomposition rates, following B.t.i. application, to determine how long B.t.i.-killed larvae remain available to potential consumers. We observed no lethal or sublethal effects on most taxa following direct and indirect B.t.i. exposure. Mortality was recorded with two species, Tipula abdominalis (Diptera:Tipulidae) and Arthroplea bipunctata (Ephemeroptera: Heptageniidae), when immatures were exposed to B.t.i. at dosages considerably higher (>50 and 500, respectively) than recommended field rates. Acroneuria lycorias (Plecoptera:Perlidae) nymphs exposed to a high B.t.i. dose (100 ppm for 120 min) drifted at higher frequencies than nymphs not exposed. Predators consumed equal numbers of B.t.i.-killed and live black flies, except for one trial where Isoperla signata (Plecoptera:Perlodidae) ingested significantly fewer B.t.i.-killed black flies than live ones, and another trial where Ceratopsyche sparna (Trichoptera:Hydropsychidae) ingested significantly more B.t.i.-killed than live larvae. Shredders switched to consuming black fly larvae once the black flies were killed with B.t.i. Siphlonurus rapidus (Ephemeroptera:Siphlonuridae) nymphs provisioned with B.t.i.-killed larval black flies attained a greater body mass over 7 d than those not so provisioned. No change in adult emergence success or time to emergence was recorded after respective taxa were exposed to B.t.i. B.t.i.-killed black fly larvae remained attached to substrates in artificial streams up to 16 d, until decomposing beyond recognition. In summary, B.t.i. appears harmless to nontarget benthic insects, even when these organisms are exposed to higher than recommended dosages, and when they consume B.t.i.-killed black fly larvae. 
1468075|It is a common belief that mountain streams are richer in oxygen than lowland streams and, as a result, macroinvertebrates inhabiting streams at high altitudes are thought to have smaller gills than invertebrates from lowland streams. I examined gill development of assemblages of trichopteran larvae in relation to water temperature, oxygen concentration, and oxygen supply in a number of small streams along a 4000-m gradient of altitude in tropical Ecuador. Oxygen concentration was almost independent of altitude and followed the pattern predicted from considering the changes in solubility of oxygen with water temperature and atmospheric pressure. The estimated oxygen supply, however, was higher in warm lowland streams than in cold highland streams because the oxygen partial pressure decreases with increasing altitude, the diffusion coefficient of oxygen in water increases with increasing temperature, and the kinematic viscosity of water and thus the thickness of the diffusive sublayer decreases with increasing temperature. Allometric scaling showed that total body surface area (including gills) increased with body volume at a rate
1468110|An
1468477|We investigated the breakdown of 2 leaf species,
10.2307/1467776| We used five in situ experiments to test the influence of fluctuations in river discharge on the structure and function of the tailwaters benthos associated with cobble substrata in the Colorado River downstream from Glen Canyon Dam, Arizona, USA. Periods of daily desiccation and freezing during river fluctuation significantly limited community biomass and energy. The permanently submerged channel supported 4-fold higher macroinvertebrate mass than the varial zone. Daily harvests of benthos showed a 50% reduction in mass of Cladophora glomerata after 2 d of repeated 12-h summer exposure. Five days of repeated exposure resulted in >70% reduction in C. glomerata and >50% reduction in epiphyton mass. We observed a 85% reduction in benthic macroinvertebrate mass after only one 12-h summer exposure. One night time exposure to subzero winter air temperatures resulted in 50% loss of chlorophyll a and mass of C. glomerata and 90% loss in macroinvertebrate mass. Gastropod densities on resubmerged cobbles that were subjected to long-term desiccation (6 mo) equalled submerged control cobbles within 1 wk, whereas recolonization by C. glomerata, Gammarus lacustris, and chironomid larvae was significantly slower; i.e., 30% of controls after 4 mo. Hence, our data showed that two 12-h exposure periods may require >4 mo for recovery to achieve the mass of permanently submerged benthos. Incremental increases in benthic energy (joules/m<sup>2</sup>) over increased base discharge from 142 to 793 m<sup>3</sup>/s may result in an increase in trout mass of approximately 42.5 kg/ha in the tailwaters at Lees Ferry. 
10.2307/1467726|Six new species of Smicridea subgenus Smicridea from Central and South America are described: S. aries n. sp., S. gomezi n. sp., and S. gomphotheria n. sp. in the nigripennis group; and S. gemina n. sp., S. catherinae n. sp., and S. hybrida n. sp. in the fasciatella group. Smicridea gemina is erected from within the species S. bivittata (Hagen), and S. catherinae and S. hybrida are erected from within the species S. varia (Banks), whose identity is redefined, and a complex of related and possibly interbreeding species is recognized and termed the fasciatella complex. The fasciatella complex is revised, relationships of the species are discussed and evolutionary mechanisms, involving introgression and sexual selection, are proposed to explain speciation in the group.
4095551|Our study investigated whether algae-based water-quality assessments are affected by differences between algal assemblages on hard substrates (rocks, wood) and soft substrates (fine-grained sediments). We analyzed a US Geological Survey National Water-Quality Assessment (NAWQA) program data set that consisted of 1048 pairs of samples collected from hard and soft substrates at 551 river sampling locations throughout the US. Biovolume and diversity of algal assemblages, biovolume of major taxonomic groups, and abundance of motile diatoms differed significantly between samples collected from hard and soft substrates at the same sites. Ordinations of assemblages from hard and soft substrates were highly concordant and provided similar information on environmental gradients underlying species patterns. The strengths of relationships between composition of algal assemblages and water chemistry parameters (conductivity, pH, total P, and total N) did not differ consistently between substrate types. Performance of weighted averaging (WA) inference models did not differ between models based on assemblages from hard and soft substrates. Moreover, the predictive power of inference models developed from single-substrate data sets was not reduced when these models were applied to samples collected from other substrates. We concluded that the choice of substrate to sample should depend on the assessment indicators to be used. If indicators based on the autecologies of many algal taxa (e.g., inference models or autecological indices) are used, restricting samples to a single type of substrate is unnecessary. If algal diversity, total algal biovolume, or abundance of specific algal taxa is used, samples should be collected from a single type of substrate.
10.2307/1468152|We constructed predictive models using 2 macroinvertebrate data sets (for both species and family) from bankside habitats at 49 undisturbed reference sites from 6 Victorian river basins; data were accumulated over 4 to 6 sampling occasions. Classification (by unweighted pair-group arithmetic averaging with the Bray-Curtis association measure) showed 3 site groups were evident at the species level and 4 at the family level. A subset of 5 of 22 environmental variables provided maximum discrimination (using stepwise discriminant analysis) between the 3 species site groups; these variables were: conductivity, altitude, substrate heterogeneity, distance of a site from source, and longitude. Four variables discriminated between the 4 family site groups: conductivity, catchment area upstream of site, mean annual discharge, and latitude. From the discriminant analysis, it was possible to predict the group into which an unknown site (specified only by measurements on the 4 or 5 variables just noted) would be placed and thus the probabilities of occurrence of taxa at this site. To test predictive ability, 4 sites were removed at random from the 2 data sets and the classification and discriminant models were recalculated. This process was repeated 5 times. The identity and number of taxa observed at each of these sites were compared with those predicted with a probability of occurrence >50% and the results expressed as a ratio of numbers observed to numbers expected (O/E). This ratio varied from 0.75 to 1.05 at the species level and from 0.83 to 1.12 at the family level, indicating that the fauna conformed with expectation (O/E near 1.0). To test such predictive models on independent data, O/E ratios were also calculated for family data collected in spring at 18 sites from a basin not used in the original models. Two new discriminant models based on single sets of samples from the reference sites taken in spring were constructed for this purpose. O/E ratios varied from 0.09 to 1.01 for the 18 sites and were inversely correlated (r = -0.4 to -0.8) with a range of water quality variables, the values of which increased as water quality deteriorated. The O/E ratio could thus be considered a sensitive measure of disturbance.
4095691|The term urban stream syndrome describes the consistently observed ecological degradation of streams draining urban land. This paper reviews recent literature to describe symptoms of the syndrome, explores mechanisms driving the syndrome, and identifies appropriate goals and methods for ecological restoration of urban streams. Symptoms of the urban stream syndrome include a flashier hydrograph, elevated concentrations of nutrients and contaminants, altered channel morphology, and reduced biotic richness, with increased dominance of tolerant species. More research is needed before generalizations can be made about urban effects on stream ecosystem processes, but reduced nutrient uptake has been consistently reported. The mechanisms driving the syndrome are complex and interactive, but most impacts can be ascribed to a few major large-scale sources, primarily urban stormwater runoff delivered to streams by hydraulically efficient drainage systems. Other stressors, such as combined or sanitary sewer overflows, wastewater treatment plant effluents, and legacy pollutants (long-lived pollutants from earlier land uses) can obscure the effects of stormwater runoff. Most research on urban impacts to streams has concentrated on correlations between instream ecological metrics and total catchment imperviousness. Recent research shows that some of the variance in such relationships can be explained by the distance between the stream reach and urban land, or by the hydraulic efficiency of stormwater drainage. The mechanisms behind such patterns require experimentation at the catchment scale to identify the best management approaches to conservation and restoration of streams in urban catchments. Remediation of stormwater impacts is most likely to be achieved through widespread application of innovative approaches to drainage design. Because humans dominate urban ecosystems, research on urban stream ecology will require a broadening of stream ecological research to integrate with social, behavioral, and economic research.
09-152|Consumer nutrient cycling supplies limiting elements to autotrophic and heterotrophic organisms in aquatic systems. However, the role of consumers in supplying nutrients may change depending on their diet and their own stoichiometry. We evaluated the stoichiometry, N and P excretion, and diets of the dominant macroinvertebrates and fish at 6 stream sites to determine if the nutritional composition of food alters nutrient excretion. We used
40792668|Few studies have examined the effects of low flows on stream biotaa paradoxical situation considering the mounting pressure on streams as a result of increased human abstraction. We present a conceptual model describing processes operating in rivers during low flows and argue that such processes reflect both direct effects of reduced flow on benthic invertebrates and indirect effects of enhanced plant growth occurring during such periods. Our model suggests that the longer the duration of low flow, the more the plant community will change and, in turn, the more habitat quality will change, with consequences to benthic invertebrate communities and higher trophic levels. A fundamental part of the model is the recognition of different stream types, based on a habitat-template matrix of resource supply, interflood velocity, and substrate stability during flood events. This habitat template results in 12 stream types, each of which supports specific plant communities that set the antecedent plant conditions prior to a low-flow period. During low flows, hydraulic factors interact with the antecedent plant communities, which undergo specific responses. For example, in low-nutrient streams with gravel substrates and dominated by diatoms, low-flow conditions will cause little or no change to the antecedent plant community because this plant community is structured by top-down grazing pressure. Consequently, benthic invertebrate composition will not change. In contrast, cover and biomass of filamentous green algae in higher-nutrient gravel-bed streams will increase during low-flow events, and this increase will affect habitat suitability for invertebrates over and above those caused solely by hydraulic changes. The greatest changes to invertebrate communities are expected in macrophyte-dominated streams because these plants change instream habitat conditions the most during extended periods of low flow. Therefore, current flow-management techniques must consider the type of plant communities that exist prior to low flows and be cognizant of that fact that these plant communities can have dramatic influences on benthic communities during low-flow periods.
10.2307/1467541|Energy acquisition and subsequent allocation to components of the bioenergy budget were measured in three groups of Nephelopsis obscura fed one (low), two (medium) or three (high) ad libitum meals per week. The pattern of growth was the same in all treatments with asymptotic biomass attained after 38 wk, but at 853 mg in the high, 740 mg in the medium, and 189 mg in the low frequency treatment. Food ingestion increased over time in all three groups. Between 180 and 193 mg (maximum size for leeches in the low feeding frequency treatment) there was no difference in total amount of energy ingested per wk among the three treatments. Thus, leeches in the low food treatment ingested more food per meal than those in higher feeding frequency treatments. Absorption efficiency was highest in the low frequency treatment and lowest in the high frequency treatment, primarily because of the increased energy losses in faeces plus mucus with an increase in food availability. Proportionally less energy was allocated to size-specific maintenance respiration by leeches in the low frequency treatment compared with leeches of the same biomass provided with food more frequently. In the medium feeding frequency treatment, N. obscura showed compensation in growth as a result of adjustments in the bioenergy budget so that reducing the food ration from three to two meals per wk did not reduce size at maturity in proportion to the reduction in food availability. Although leeches in the low frequency treatment ingested the most food per meal they also allocated proportionally more energy to active respiration and did not attain sexual maturity. At the expense of growth and reproduction these leeches allocated more energy to lipid storage which increases survival if low food conditions persist.
1467977|The P, N, and C content of littoral macroinvertebrates from 8 lakes located in 3 distinct geographical regions of Canada (central Alberta, northwestern Ontario, and Rocky Mountains near Jasper, Alberta) is described. A wide range of values was found in the body content (all values are % of dry mass) of P (0.41.6%), N (5.813.7%), and C (32.553.5%) in the data set containing invertebrates from all 8 lakes. C:P (63324), N:P (9.660), and C:N (4.27.6) (all by atom) also varied widely. This variation was partly related to the different mean body content of P, N, and C among taxonomic groups. However, the mean P, N, and C content of macroinvertebrate assemblages varied little among lakes. The patterns of elemental composition in benthic invertebrates shown here are similar to zooplankton and terrestrial insects, and indicate that the strength of stoichiometric constraints acting in littoral food webs will depend on the taxa being considered.
10.2307/1467540|To characterize interactions among fish and dragonfly predators that influence population dynamics and community structure, we conducted enclosure/exclosure experiments (April-October) using 1.8-m diameter cylinders at 1-m depth in the littoral zone of Bays Mountain Lake, Tennessee. A nearly natural invertebrate assemblage colonized allochthonous detritus through 1.8-mm mesh screen from April to May when further colonization was restricted by 0.5-mm mesh. Treatments introduced in mid May consisted of all combinations of two densities of two predators--small sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus), 0 or 4 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>; senior-year-class dragonfly larvae (Epitheca cynosura), 0 or 15 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>--acting on cohorts of junior-year-class E. cynosura hatching from eggs stocked at two densities, 90 or 900/m<sup>2</sup>. Treatments were assigned randomly in each of six spatiotemporal blocks: two in 1987 and four in 1988. Junior-year-class Epitheca hatching from eggs stocked at different densities experienced strong density-dependent survival early; a 10:1 ratio of Egg Density treatments in May declined to 2:1 by mid July and 1:1 by October. This result occurred even in treatments without predators, where it is attributed to intra-cohort cannibalism. Sunfish predation reduced numbers of junior-year-class Epitheca surviving to October, but predation by senior-year-class Epitheca had little effect. Surviving junior-year-class larvae grew rapidly; at low larval densities (low Egg Density and/or Fish treatments which led to low larval density), more than 90% reached the final instar by October; in enclosures with higher densities, less than 80% did so (p < 0.03). Fish predation that reduces larval dragonfly densities early in the life cycle has long-term effects by promoting faster density-dependent development and thus shortening larval development times.
4095719|Nutrient-diffusing substrata were used to determine if periphyton communities in lakes of different benthic productivity respond similarly to nutrient inputs, and if their responses corresponded with inference models developed from a calibration set of 32 Irish lakes. In addition, the attributes of the periphyton community most effective for detecting changes in periphyton associated with nutrient addition were examined. P-addition treatments had significantly higher algal biovolume than N-addition or control treatments. Canonical correspondence analysis using nominal variables to define treatments indicated that both nutrient addition and lake (= benthic productivity) significantly affected taxonomic composition and the proportion of algal growth forms. The more productive lakes had a greater relative abundance of filamentous chlorophytes, cyanobacteria, and mobile and stalked diatoms. Within lakes, nutrient addition was associated with an increase in filamentous chlorophytes and decreases in nonmobile prostrate growth forms and
41319692|We evaluated the potential of habitat restoration to improve stream and riparian habitat and to minimize the prevalence of whirling disease in a population of native cutthroat trout in northern Utah. We fenced 67ha of riparian habitat to exclude livestock and measured key response variables at impact and control sites before and after the completion of the exclosure. Total N concentrations decreased in response to the exclusion. Over this short time period (12y postrestoration), the combination of natural variability and exclusion of livestock grazing appeared to alter the vegetation and riparian conditions through increased bank stability and decreased % cover of exotic plant species. The effect of the exclosure on whirling disease was confounded by climatic variation. However, restoration appeared to reduce the prevalence of whirling disease during a nondrought year, but not during a drought year. Therefore, in the short term, these beneficial effects of restoration on trout appeared to hinge on favorable climatic conditions. We expect the longer-term restoration response to be affected less than the short-term response by climatic conditions. The results of our study indicate that passive stream restoration is an effective management approach for restoring stream habitat and has the potential to minimize interactive effects of disease and habitat degradation, especially when other options for disease management are not possible or practical.
40792521|Competitive interactions, including interference and intraguild predation, occur in many aquatic food webs and influence large-scale patterns of abundance, especially in lentic habitats. In a study of small coastal streams in eastern Canada, we found patterns suggesting that abundances of a predatory invertebrate,
10.2307/1467817|The effects of flow variation on surface invertebrates have been well documented; however, studies involving the subsurface (hyporheic) environment are rare. We assessed the response of hyporheic invertebrates to drying by sampling 5 sets of wells (30, 50, and 100 cm deep) from 8 May 1995 to 4 August 1995 in an intermittent desert stream undergoing drying. Drying began with discontinuity of surface water, and continued through loss of surface flow to recession of the water table (at a rate of 11 cm/wk) to >1 m depth by August. Twenty taxa were collected during the study. Shallow (30- and 50-cm) assemblages consisted mainly of insect larvae and cyclopoid copepods whereas bathynellaceans, isopods, and harpacticoid copepods were the major taxa in deeper (100-cm) sediments. Total abundance of all taxa combined and abundance of many individual taxa differed between depths, but also changed significantly over time. The interaction between date and depth was also significant, indicating that the direction of temporal change was not consistent among well depths. Once surface-water dried, total invertebrate abundance began to increase in wells that remained inundated. Thereafter, as the water table continued to recede, abundance in the 100-cm wells increased while numbers in shallow wells decreased. This pattern supports the hypothesis that the hyporheos migrates into deeper sediments to avoid conditions associated with drying.
10.2307/1467538| We studied the relationship between geology and lotic secondary production by analyzing geographical patterns of the distribution, biomass, and production of the freshwater snail Elimia (Pleuroceridae) in Alabama. Nine streams were selected for study, three each in three physiographically distinct regions of uniform climate but contrasting lithology. Our objectives were to assess: 1) the production and biomass of Elimia among streams with contrasting alkalinities due to differences in regional geology--sandstone (5.7 mg/L as CaCo<sub>3</sub>) < phyllite (19.4) < carbonate (103.4); p < 0.05--and 2) geologically mediated variation in thermal regime as an alternative factor contributing to the widely observed correlation between alkalinity and productivity. Although conspicuous in phyllite and carbonate streams, Elimia was absent from sandstone streams. Biomass (B) and annual production (P) of Elimia were significantly lower (p  0.03) in streams draining phyllite (B = 1102 mg/m<sup>2</sup>, P = 1565 mg/m<sup>2</sup>) compared with carbonate catchments (B = 2990 mg/m<sup>2</sup>, P = 2501 mg/m<sup>2</sup>). However, whereas the correlation between biomass and alkalinity was consistent throughout the year, the correlation between production and alkalinity was not. Production did not differ significantly during the summer months (April-October, p = 0.41), and differences in annual production between regions were attributable to near cessation of production in phyllite streams during the winter months (October-April, p = 0.04). Although mean annual stream temperature was not significantly different between regions (p = 0.51), a simulation showed that the low winter temperatures of phyllite streams (10C) should cause the cessation of production and high net losses of snail biomass and result in insufficient post-winter biomass for rapid compounding of production during spring and summer. Consequently, biomass should be regulated at relatively lower levels in phyllite than in carbonate streams where production occurs year-round because of a more moderate thermal regime (e.g., winter minima 10C). 
1468286|A collaborative study among 6 states along the mid-Atlantic seaboard of the USA developed a consistent approach for collecting and interpreting macroinvertebrate data for low-gradient streams of the coastal plain. The study had 3 objectives: 1) to evaluate the validity of aggregating reference site data into a single bioregion, 2) to select biological metrics that best discriminated reference sites from sites impaired by habitat disturbance and organic pollution, and 3) to combine these metrics into an index of biological quality. Macroinvertebrate, physical habitat, and water-quality data were collected in 106 streams during autumn 1995. Fifty-five sites were reference, 34 sites had habitat stresses, and 17 sites had water-quality stresses. Classification of reference sites divided the coastal plain into 3 bioregions, separated north and south by Chesapeake Bay and separated east and west by ecoregion. Five metrics were effective at discriminating impairment: number of taxa, number of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) taxa, % Ephemeroptera, Hilsenhoff Biotic Index, and % clinger mode of existence. An aggregated index, the Coastal Plain Macroinvertebrate Index (CPMI), was developed using these metrics. The CPMI accurately identified 86% of impaired sites. The precision of CPMI scores was estimated to be 10% (3 scoring units out of 30) at the 90% confidence interval. The CPMI accurately assigned both habitat disturbance and water-quality impairment indicating a similar degree of ecological impact from these 2 stressors. Guidance is provided for applying the CPMI to other macroinvertebrate data sets in the region.
10.2307/1467842| The responses of macroinvertebrate communities to longitudinal changes in flow and other environmental variables were determined by sampling twelve sites along Carey Brook, in the southwest of Western Australia, at 3-mo intervals over 12 mo. Higher values of mean velocity (), roughness shear velocity (U<sub>* <sub>r</sub></sub>), Reynolds number (Re), and roughness Reynolds number (Re<sub>r</sub>) and lower values of coarse and fine particulate organic matter were recorded at lowland sites than at upland sites. Shear velocities (U<sub>*</sub>) and substrate roughness (k) were highest at intermediate sites. Species richness was positively correlated with U<sub>*</sub>, Re<sub>r</sub>, and k. Macroinvertebrate abundance was positively correlated with k and negatively correlated with water surface slope (s). Ordination and classification revealed a longitudinal gradient in community structure; but, unlike the sharp zones of transition that have been postulated by others, the change in the composition of the macroinvertebrate fauna from upland to lowland sites on Carey Brook appeared to be a gradual one. The responses of macroinvertebrates with similar morphological or behavioural adaptations to flow were examined by classifying the fauna into flow exposure groups: obligate, facultative, and avoiders. Abundances of obligates were positively correlated with the majority of flow descriptors; they occurred in highest numbers in turbulent habitats with high shear velocities. Abundances of facultatives were positively correlated with substrate roughness, possibly because rougher substrates provided better refuge from flow. Abundances of flow avoiders were positively correlated with high shear velocities, substrate roughnesses, and turbulence; these conditions may promote higher fluxes of organic matter and oxygen within interstitial sediments. Flow-exposure-group classification provides insight into the response of macroinvertebrates to local flow conditions and may prove to be a useful adjunct to functional-feeding-group analysis in benthic stream ecology. 
4499015|Intraspecific and interspecific variation in the trophic position of various consumers is central to many theories of aquatic ecosystem functioning and dynamics. In recent years, such issues have been addressed using stable N isotopes (
10.2307/1467652|Colonies of the bryozoan Pectinatella magnifica commonly occur on submersed substrata in an oxbow lake (Touson Lake) in the floodplain of the Black Warrior River, Alabama. Seasonal growth patterns, substratum preference, and potential effects of bryozoan colonies on algal assemblages attached to artificial and natural substrata were determined. Colony growth on artificial substrata (pine sticks) and natural ones (dead cypress twigs and aquatic plants) was monitored at biweekly intervals from the appearance of bryozoans during early autumn to the loss of colonies from substrata in late December. Maximum colony growth occurred during late September and early October. Some colonies reached up to 65 cm in length and 10 cm in diameter. Colonies showed no preference among the substrata examined, but young colonies always developed first on the shaded side of the substratum. The presence of bryozoan colonies affected the composition of attached algae. Blue-green algae (90%) dominated on surfaces enclosed by the colonies and also within the gelatinous colony matrix, whereas surfaces uncolonized by Bryozoa developed mixed communities of diatoms (78%), blue-green algae (12%), and green algae (11%).
10.2307/1467728| We examined total development times for 5 mayfly species, 2 stoneflies, 10 caddisflies, and 18 chironomid midges collected from three streams that flow through tropical evergreen forest in northwestern Costa Rica. Most eggs, larvae, and pupae were reared in the laboratory in a photoperiod of 12:12 LD and at 20C, which simulated field conditions. Algae, algal detritus, and leaves were provided as food for all species; predators were also given various animal prey. All study species had total development times that were rapid relative to the univoltine life histories observed or assumed for many temperate species. Egg development times ranged from a few days to approximately a week for chironomids and from 10 to 38 days for mayflies, stoneflies, and caddisflies. Most chironomids had short larval/pupal development times: development was completed in 19-29 d by seven species, in 30-40 d by nine species, and in >50 d by two species. Relatively short development times (including the pupal stage when present) were also observed for the mayfly Acerpenna sp. (28 d) and the caddisflies Wormaldia sp. (45 d) and Oecetis nr. prolongata (52 d). Larval/pupal development times were longer for the other four mayflies (76-159 d), two stoneflies (83-167 d), and eight caddisflies (72-209 d). No evidence of egg or larval diapause was observed. The combination of rapid development and absence of diapause suggests that all these species have multivoltine life histories. This finding has important implications for temporal changes in the structure and function of the aquatic insect assemblage in these streams. 
40792495|Omnivorous central stonerollers (
10.2307/1467303|This paper applies concepts of landscape ecology and patch dynamics to lotic systems. We present a framework for the investigation of pattern and process in lotic ecosystems that considers how specific patch characteristics determine biotic and abiotic processes over various scales. Patch characteristics include: size, size distribution within the landscape, juxtaposition, diversity, duration, and mechanisms affecting patch formation. Several topics of current interest in lotic ecology are examined from a patch-dynamics perspective: (1) response of periphyton communities to nutrient patches; (2) effects of patch dynamics on nutrient spiralling; (3) riparian patch dynamics and effects of leaf litter characteristics on lotic food webs; (4) beaver-induced patch dynamics; and (5) patch dynamics of river floodplains. We conclude that a patch-dynamics perspective coupled with a strong experimental approach can enhance the utility and predictive power of unifying concepts in lotic ecology, such as the river continuum hypothesis and nutrient spiralling, through its focus on organismal and process-specific building blocks of lotic systems. The effectiveness of a patch-dynamics approach as a framework for the study of lotic systems lies in the strength of the linkage between reductionist and whole-stream perspectives.
10.2307/1467575| Growth rates were measured for chironomid larvae throughout the year in chambers simulating natural conditions at a field site on the bank of the Ogeechee River, a blackwater river in the Georgia Coastal Plain. Growth rates were among the highest ever reported for chironomids in laboratory or field studies, averaging 0.60, 0.43, and 0.44 mg mg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> for Chironomini, Tanytarsini, and Orthocladiinae, respectively. The relationship of growth with temperature was best described with second-order polynomial curves for Chironomini, Tanytarsini, and total Chironomidae. Most curves suggest an x-axis intercept (zero growth) at 4-7C and a growth maximum at 21-24C. Growth rates were significantly lower and the relationship of growth with temperature was no longer significant when river discharge was well below the mean. Growth equations were applied to natural environmental conditions, predicting maximum growth during spring and fall, with an annual growth rate (an approximation of annual P/B ratio) ranging from 222 for Chironomini to 182 for Tanytarsini. Predicted growth rates were high throughout all seasons, indicating that the bioenergetic role of chironomids in invertebrate communities is substantially greater than can be assumed based on their standing stock biomass alone. 
40792488|Benthic grazers can affect the nutrient stoichiometry of periphyton through different pathways: 1) grazers can reduce periphyton biomass, thereby increasing the relative amount of nutrients for the remaining periphyton; 2) grazers can change benthic algal community composition toward grazer-resistant taxa that might differ in their C:N:P stoichiometry from less resistant benthic algae; 3) grazers can differentially recycle or incorporate nutrients, thereby changing periphyton nutrient content; and 4) mechanical removal of high-C detritus by grazers can decrease C:nutrient ratios. Nutrient-mediated grazer effects on periphyton nutrient stoichiometry depend on the relative availability of nutrients in the system in relation to the nutrients made available through grazing. We tested the relative importance of the different pathways under differing nutrient conditions in a 3-wk laboratory experiment in which grazer presence and dissolved N and P concentrations were manipulated. The effects of the gastropod grazer
10.2307/1467946|Four experiments were conducted to determine whether nutrient amendment with nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), or both N and P had seasonally fluctuating effects on algal biomass, as chlorophyll a, in the French River, Minnesota, a North Shore tributary to Lake Superior. During spring, early summer, late summer, and fall seasons, clay pots containing agar supplemented with N, P, N+P, or control (no nutrients) were placed in the stream for 3-wk periods. In spring, with meltwater in the stream, P-diffusing pots had significantly higher algal biomass than controls (p < 0.05). N-diffusing pots supported significantly higher algal biomass in early summer (p < 0.05) and late summer (p < 0.05) than control pots. In fall, algal biomass was not significantly different among treatments. Algal biomass on control pots was similar for all 4 experiments. In the spring, there was a significant accumulation of algae on stream rocks during the experimental period (p = 0.002). However, in fall, algal biomass on rocks was much higher than in the spring and showed a trend toward increasing (p = 0.06). Nutrient concentrations and the ratio of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to soluble reactive phosphorus also fluctuated seasonally, but were not consistent predictors of algal biomass responses on pots. These results show that nutrient limitation of algal biomass is seasonally dynamic, thus must be determined by a variety of processes within the stream and watershed.
10.2307/1467966|Despite the ecological importance of the exposure of streams to sunlight, quantitative measurements of stream shade have seldom been reported, apparently because of difficulties of measurement. We have developed methods to characterize shade over streams using a canopy analyzer, an instrument based on fisheye lens optics and designed for measuring indices of plant canopy structure. Point-to-point variability of lighting and average shade characteristics of a stream reach can be rapidly measured with this instrument. Fisheye lens photographs, which permit qualitative interpretation of stream shade, are a useful adjunct to canopy analyzer measurements. The significant advantages of the canopy analyzer method over alternatives such as visual survey, or long-term logging with photoelectric or photochemical sensors, are emphasised.
20491147|Developing spatially explicit conservation strategies for stream fishes requires an understanding of the spatial structure of dispersal within stream networks. We explored spatial patterns of stream fish dispersal by evaluating how the size and proximity of connected streams (i.e., stream network topology) explained variation in fish assemblage structure and how this relationship varied with local stream size. We used data from the US Environmental Protection Agencys Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program in wadeable streams of the Mid-Atlantic Highlands region (
4498998|We conducted a field experiment to evaluate the effects of habitat modification by aggregations of the case-building caddisfly
10.2307/1468386|The Oxyethira aeola Group at present contains 8 species distributed among Nearctic, Palaearctic, and Neotropical regions. The 4 North American species of this group, O. abacatia Denning, O. aeola Ross, O. anabola Blickle, and O. mirabilis Morton, are similar and difficult to identify. The males of each of the 4 species are redescribed, illustrated, and keyed to clarify the confusing taxonomy.
4095565|We sampled 6 rivers of the piedmont region of Venezuela during the dry seasons of 1997 and 1998 to compare physical, chemical, and biological features and evaluate the influence of natural and anthropogenic differences in their watersheds. These 6 watersheds lie in a northeast-to-southwest transect along the interior slope of the Andes. Human disturbance declines and elevation of river origin increases along this transect. All watersheds experience a pronounced dry season from December through March, but rivers to the southwest exhibit less pronounced seasonality in flow and higher water yields. Sediment concentrations were highest in the Ro Acarigua, which experiences the greatest human disturbance, but also were high in the least disturbed Ro Bumbun, apparently from natural causes. Dissolved nutrient concentrations were lowest in the Ro Acarigua, whereas less disturbed rivers contained higher amounts of dissolved nutrients. We collected 46 taxa of invertebrates and 50 fish species. Invertebrates and fish exhibited greatest diversity in rivers intermediate in the gradient. These more diverse systems may experience an intermediate level of disturbance that favors higher diversity, compared to the 2 rivers in the least disturbed landscapes. Cluster analysis done separately using invertebrates and fish separated rivers in the northeast from those in the southwest. However, a full explanation of these trends will have to address the intertwined effects of the natural biogeographical differences and the different human impacts that occur along the gradient.
4095744|Chironomid midges are abundant and important components of freshwater communities, but estimating their production is problematic because of taxonomic difficulties, short generation times, and overlapping cohorts. We measured growth rates of nontanypodine chironomid larvae from a 3
4095627|Wetland soils contain a reservoir of dormant plant seeds and invertebrate eggs, collectively termed the seed or propagule bank, which integrate spatiotemporal variation at various levels of biology (genetic, phenotypic, species, and community). Several recent studies suggest that anthropogenic physical or chemical stressors may disrupt the process of emergence from propagule banks. This process is often the single most important colonization process in wetlands isolated geographically from other water bodies. The potential for disruption of emergence can be exploited as a useful indicator of anthropogenic stress. The aim of our paper is to provide a conceptual framework that shows the advantages and limitations of wetland propagule banks as indicators of anthropogenic stress or ecological integrity. This framework describes mechanistic responses of propagule banks to stressors and makes recommendations on experimental approaches for the evaluation of causeeffect relationships between stressors and propagule bank responses. This indicator could help bridge the current gap between basic and applied wetland ecology and could find application in future wetland management and restoration strategies.
10.2307/1467537| Articulated concrete mattress blocks (ACM) are now used almost exclusively for erosion control of banks along the lower Mississippi River (LMR) and provide habitat for macroinvertebrates and fishes which could not otherwise colonize the unstable substrate of the natural river channel. We studied the distribution and abundance of macroinvertebrates in the LMR on ACM blocks with smooth, rough, and grooved surfaces. Additionally, the effects of block surface modifications on substrate velocity profiles were determined at three flow velocities in a laboratory flume using a thermistor-based current meter. Total density of macroinvertebrates and the densities of individual taxa were significantly different on the three surface types after 3 mo of colonization; rough blocks had 1.4 greater densities than smooth blocks, and densities on grooved blocks were 2.3 higher than smooth and 1.6 higher than rough blocks. The caddisfly Hydropsyche orris and the amphipod Corophium lacustre were significantly denser on grooved than on the other block types. In a flume, velocities in groove bottoms were 7-24 lower than ambient water column velocities (0.12, 0.23, and 0.44 m/s) and increased significantly from 1 mm to 65 mm above the block surface at all flume velocities. For all surface types there was a negative relationship between height above the block surface and measured variance in velocities and a positive relationship between flume velocities and the measured variance in velocity readings which could be attributed to increased turbulence over the block surfaces. In the field, H. orris in grooves built retreats with the anterior opening containing the feeding nets extending up into the near-surface flows over the grooves. Low velocity eddies in the grooves provided a velocity refuge while still allowing the feeding structures to contact feeding flows over the block surface. Grooved blocks in the LMR supported, on average, more than twice the invertebrate density as smooth blocks, and are recommended for future deployment of mattress blocks. 
40792671|Disturbances from flooding are a dominant feature of the habitat template in streams. Frequent floods created by recreational releases (12d between releases/floods) from Abanakee Dam in the Adirondack Mountains, USA, result in a static mosaic of scoured patches in areas of high shear stress (low diatom densities) and mats of algae in areas of low shear stress (refugia); this pattern is different from the shifting mosaic of patches more typical of streams recovering from floods. Predictable, recreational release floods and similar bed size particle distributions in this stream enabled us to use a reciprocal replacement experiment to examine macroinvertebrate community responses in high scour and flow refugia areas without the confounding variable of different substrata. Trays of substrata were embedded in both high shear stress (HSS) and low shear stress (LSS) areas. Half of the trays from each area were then reciprocally exchanged while resident trays remained in their original positions. After 2, 6, and 12 releases, 20 trays for each of 4 treatments were sampled. Lower macroinvertebrate densities in the LSS area reflected an absence or loss of filter-feeders that require higher current velocities than were present between releases, and this absence probably was responsible for the lower species diversity in the LSS area. The net-spinning caddisfly,
10.2307/1467422|A standardized qualitative sampling technique was developed and tested for shallow streams in North Carolina. This method emphasizes multihabitat collections and the use of both coarse- and fine-mesh samplers. All samples are picked in the field, a process facilitated by field-preservation of some samples. The qualitative method was found to be more rapid than a semi-quantitative technique (kick nets), yet produced a greater number of taxa per site. Different taxa richness criteria were developed for each ecoregion to assign water quality classifications, and these values were shown to be related to more conventional physical/chemical measurements. This method has potential as a rapid, inexpensive biomonitoring tool.
10.2307/1467295|Boundaries separating adjacent resource patches are dynamic components of the aquatic landscape. This article addresses some fundamental questions about boundary structure and function in lotic ecosystems. We give examples of longitudinal and lateral boundaries associated with stream systems, demonstrate the application of chaos theory to understanding the inherent variability of boundary properties, and compare characteristics of boundaries in an arctic-tropical transect. We conclude that studies of resource patches, their boundaries, and the nature of exchange with adjacent patches will improve our perspective of drainage basin dynamics over a range of temporal and spatial scales.
10.2307/1468054|Leaf litter inputs have been excluded from 1 of 2 1st-order streams at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina since August 1993 to examine the bottom-up effects of resource reduction on stream ecosystems. As part of the larger project, we studied the effect of litter exclusion on the extracellular enzyme activity and fungal biomass of wood biofilms in the presence and absence of leaf litter. Replicate strips of wood veneer were incubated in both streams for 28, 58, and 86 d. Ergosterol content (to estimate fungal biomass), the activity of 5 lignocellulose-degrading enzymes, acid phosphatase activity, breakdown rates, and % organic matter were determined when the veneer strips were collected. Hydrolytic enzyme activity and wood breakdown rates in the litter-excluded stream were significantly higher than in the reference stream. Enzyme activities of all hydrolytic enzymes were highly correlated with each other. Measurement of relative activities of selected extra-cellular enzymes comparing carbon and nutrient acquisition suggested nutrient limitation of heterotrophic biofilms in the reference stream. Microbial activity of wood biofilms was significantly altered by the exclusion of leaf litter, and hydrolytic enzyme activity, as an indicator of carbon cycling, was higher on wood in streams without leaf litter.
4095715|We examined changes in stream chemistry following the removal of a 2-m-high dam on Manatawny Creek in southeastern Pennsylvania. Our primary objective was to determine the effect of small dam removal on the concentrations and forms of C, N, and P. Dissolved and particulate constituent concentrations were monitored at sites upstream and downstream of the dam and impoundment. Seasonal changes in alkalinity and N and P concentrations were observed before and after dam removal. However, the proportions of NO
10.2307/1467710|The effect of substratum on production of two species of net-spinning Trichoptera (Hydropsychidae), Parapsyche cardis Ross and Diplectrona modesta Banks, was examined in two second-order southern Appalachian streams: Hugh White Creek (HWC), a reference stream draining an undisturbed hardwood catchment, and Big Hurricane Branch (BHB), which drains a catchment that was clear cut during the first six months of the study. Surber samples were collected monthly for 21 months in four common substrata in each stream: moss-covered rock face, cobble riffle, pebble riffle, and sandy reach. Both hydropsychid species showed distinct substratum preferences. Abundances and production (size-frequency method) of P. cardis were significantly higher in rock face > cobble riffle > pebble riffle > sandy reach in both streams. Distribution of D. modesta was more uniform among substrata and differed between streams: highest abundances and production occurred in cobble riffle in HWC, but on rock face in BHB; the lower density of moss in HWC may not have provided sufficient microhabitats for Diplectrona compared with the thicker moss of BHB. Overall production (weighted according to the relative proportions of each substratum in each stream) of D. modesta was highest in HWC. Parapsyche cardis had higher substratum-specific production in BHB than in HWC for all substrata, but higher overall production in HWC; this difference was due to availability of preferred substrata in the two streams. Differences in production between streams may be related more to geomorphic differences (i.e., relative proportion of common substrata) between streams than to effects of logging on these two species. Comparisons between streams on a reach or catchment basis should consider carefully whether the streams differ in geomorphic characteristics such as the relative proportion of channel substrata.
41319693|A systematic investigation of macrozoobenthos was conducted in Yangtze floodplain waters to reveal patterns of density, biomass, and production in relation to river connectivity. In the Yangtze-connected lakes, 78 taxa belonging to 33 families and 62 genera were identified. Macrozoobenthos density was 327 individuals/m
10.2307/1467803|This study examines the effects of substrate and predator type on microdistributions and drift responses of nymphs of the mayfly Heptagenia hebe in a warmwater sandy stream in northern Michigan. Nymphs were significantly more abundant on cobble/boulder substrates than on gravel/pebble or woody debris. Mayfly densities among these substrates were unrelated to densities of predaceous stoneflies (perlids) and hellgrammites (Nigronia serricornus). Nocturnal drift, measured instream from enclosed substrates, was significantly lower from cobble/boulder substrates (0.1%) than from gravel/pebble and woody debris. Drift rates were unrelated to stonefly, crayfish, or fish (mottled sculpin and hornyhead chubs) densities, but were positively correlated with hellgrammite densities. However, experiments in artificial stream channels revealed that propensity to drift was strongly linked to substrate type, not predator type (hellgrammites and/or stoneflies). Cobble/boulder substrates apparently function as sinks (where immigration > emigration) for dispersing H. hebe nymphs in sandy streams with limited suitable habitat.
20491217|The physical structure of vegetation influences diversity, interactions, movement, and thermoregulation of animals. Vegetation structure might be a good indicator of habitat requirements of generalist predators, such as dragonflies and damselflies (order Odonata), and thereby affect species diversity. Odonates use aquatic and terrestrial habitats during larval and adult life stages, respectively, but the relative importance of vegetation in these habitats is poorly understood. We compared how aquatic and riparian habitat variables affected odonate larvae from 41 sites (each 30 m in shoreline length) on 17 lakes in northern Wisconsin. We used principal components analyses to reduce multiple habitat variables to 2 lake-level axes (lake size and development, lake wetlands and predators), 2 site-level littoral axes (littoral macrophytes, littoral muckiness), and 2 site-level riparian axes (riparian structural complexity, riparian tall wetland plants). Most (61.6%) of the variance in larval species richness occurred at the site level. Density of the most abundant family, Gomphidae, was positively related to riparian tall wetland plants, whereas species richness was positively correlated with abundance of littoral macrophytes (on the basis of multiple linear regression with an information theoretic approach). Surveys in 18 paired littoral microsites in 9 lakes indicated that larvae from the clasper and sprawler behavioral guilds were most abundant in microsites with submerged macrophytes. However, predation risk, assessed by tethering larvae in patches of submerged macrophytes, did not differ between habitats with and without macrophytes. We tested whether shoreline plants affected recruitment from the adult stage by comparing adult odonate behaviors in response to 2 riparian vegetation treatments. Adult damselfly abundance was higher where we placed potted wetland plants than at manicured lawns without tall vegetation. Our results indicate that odonate larvae might be influenced by vegetation structure in both aquatic and riparian habitats and demonstrate how animals with complex life histories link aquatic and terrestrial communities.
10.2307/1467364|We used the size-frequency method to calculate annual production of the shredder functional group in four streams on the Allegheny Plateau of West Virginia. These streams were characterized by different bedrock geology, streamwater pH, and alkalinity. Mean alkalinity was 40.8, 0.9, 0.7, and 0.0, and mean pH was 7.5, 6.1, 6.0, and 4.3 in the four streams. The crayfish Cambarus bartoni contributed >55% of shredder biomass in all streams, but contributed <20% of shredder production. Annual production of the other common shredder species differed among streams. Gammarus minus and Tipula abdominalis contributed 77% of shredder production in the stream with the highest pH. Tipula abdominalis, Pycnopsyche sp., and Peltoperla arcuata together contributed 68% and 54% of shredder production in the two streams with intermediate pH. Leuctra spp., Amphinemura sp., and Paracapnia angulata contributed 71% of shredder production in the stream with the lowest pH. Annual production of the shredder functional group was 3.77 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> in the highest-pH stream, 2.06 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> and 1.56 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> in the intermediate-pH streams, and 1.19 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> in the lowest-pH stream. The differences in annual production of different shredder species among streams paralleled the results of other studies that have found differences in macroinvertebrate community structure in relation to differences in pH and alkalinity. However, the annual production of the shredder functional group in these streams may also have been affected by differences in the riparian vegetation and temperature among streams in addition to pH and alkalinity.
40792666|Mountaintop removal and valley fill (MTR/VF) coal mining has altered the landscape of the Central Appalachian region in the USA. Among the changes are large-scale topographic recontouring, burial of headwater streams, and degradation of downstream water quality. The goals of our study were to: 1) compare the structure and function of natural and constructed stream channels in forested and MTR/VF catchments across ephemeral, intermittent, and perennial flow regimes and 2) assess the relationship between leaf litter breakdown and structural measures, such as the habitat assessments currently used by regulatory agencies. Specific conductance of stream water was, on average, 36 to 57 higher at perennial reaches below valley fills than at perennial reaches in forested catchments, whereas pH was circumneutral in both catchment types. Channel habitat and invertebrate assemblages in litter bags differed between forested streams and constructed channels in VF catchments. Invertebrate density, diversity, and biomass were typically higher in litter bags from forested catchments than from VF catchments. No differences in fungal biomass, estimated as ergosterol concentration, were detected between litter bags from forested and VF catchments. Breakdown of oak (
1468095|A survey of methods used by US state agencies for collecting and processing benthic macroinvertebrate samples from streams was conducted by questionnaire; 90 responses were received and used to describe trends in methods. The responses represented an estimated 13,00015,000 samples collected and processed per year. Kicknet devices were used in 64.5% of the methods; other sampling devices included fixed-area samplers (Surber and Hess), artificial substrates (HesterDendy and rock baskets), grabs, and dipnets. Regional differences existed, e.g., the 1-m kicknet was used more often in the eastern US than in the western US. Mesh sizes varied among programs but 80.2% of the methods used a mesh size between 500 and 600 m. Mesh size variations within US Environmental Protection Agency regions were large, with size differences ranging from 100 to 700 m. Most samples collected were composites; the mean area sampled was 1.7 m
10.2307/1468383| Nymphs of Pteronarcys biloba Newman and attached chironomid larvae (Nanocladius [Plecopteracoluthus] undescribed sp., nr. branchicolus) were collected from Catamaran Brook, New Brunswick, in May and November 1997, for stable-carbon- and stable-nitrogen-isotope analysis. Nanocladius (P.) sp. had mean (1 SD)  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N values of -27.7  1.0 and 4.9  0.6, respectively, whereas those of P. biloba were -28.4  1.0 and 1.3  0.7, respectively. Nanocladius (P.) sp. always had more positive  <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N values than P. biloba, and average fractionation factors (isotope differences between symbiont and host) were +1.2 and +3.5 for carbon and nitrogen, respectively. These results confirm a parasitic relationship between Nanocladius (P.) sp. and P. biloba. No statistical differences were found among the  <sup>13</sup>C values of the plecopteran shredder in 4 stream reaches from headwaters to mouth, and  <sup>13</sup>C values were similar to those of their expected leaf litter diet. Pteronarcids from the headwater site (Upper Reach) were not parasitized and had distinct  <sup>15</sup>N values from those at downstream sites. However, stable-isotope ratios of parasitized stoneflies were not significantly different from those of non-parasitized individuals at the 3 other study locations. Nanocladius (P.) sp. were more enriched in <sup>15</sup>N than other chironomid genera in Catamaran Brook, including Ablabesmyia, a chironomid with predatory feeding habits, and fell within the range of other known invertebrate predators. These findings highlight the usefulness of stable-isotope technology to distinguish between phoresy and parasitism in ectosymbiotic relationships among aquatic organisms. 
4095550|Forested depressional wetlands are an important seasonal wetland type across eastern and central North America. Macroinvertebrates are crucial ecosystem components of most forested depressional wetlands, but community compositions can vary widely across the region. We evaluated variation in macroinvertebrate faunas across eastern and central North America using 5 published taxa lists from forested depressional wetlands in Michigan, Ontario, Wisconsin, Florida, and Georgia. We supplemented those data with quantitative community descriptions generated from 17 forested depressional wetlands in South Carolina and 74 of these wetlands in Minnesota. Cluster analysis of presence/absence data from these 7 locations indicated that distinct macroinvertebrate communities existed in northern and southern areas. Taxa characteristic of northern forested depressional wetlands included Sphaeriidae, Lumbriculidae, Lymnaeidae, Physidae, Limnephilidae, Chirocephalidae, and Hirudinea (Glossophoniidae and/or Erpodbellidae) and taxa characteristic of southern sites included Asellidae, Crangonyctidae, Noteridae, and Cambaridae. Quantitative sampling in South Carolina and Minnesota indicated that regionally characteristic taxa included some of the most abundant organisms, with Sphaeriidae being the 2
1468436|We showed that salmon carcass tissue can increase the growth rate of individual caddisflies as well as increase the local biomass of the aquatic insect community in 3 major stream habitat types. Sixteen insect taxa were found on salmon carcasses. The 7 dominant taxa in terms of biomass all had greater biomass in containers baited with salmon flesh in all habitats sampled; however, only 5 showed a significant salmon effect at the Bonferroni adjusted  of 0.007. The larval growth of
10.2307/1467328| Filtration rates of Musculium transversum from Brown's Lake, Mississippi, were measured at suspended particle concentrations spanning the yearly ambient range. Filtration rates for adult clams increased as particle concentrations increased from 5 to 26 mg/L, then decreased with further increases in particle (2-m microspheres) concentration. Maximal filtration rates were observed at particle concentrations near the mean annual average (15.2 and 15.7 ml/hr at 18 and 26 mg/L, respectively). The effects of particle size and type on filtration rates were examined using microspheres of various sizes, natural suspended particles, and Chlorella at the mean ambient suspended particle concentration. Filtration rates were highest when measured with particle sizes most commonly encountered in the water column. There was also no difference in filtration rates measured with 5-m microspheres and similar sized Chlorella. Musculium transversum could not retain particles less than 1 m in size indicating that ciliary feeding structures act as a sieve with a minimum mesh size of approximately 1 m. Pseudofeces were produced by all sizes of clams at particle concentrations greater than 26 mg/L and at particle sizes greater than 7 m for newborn and medium sized clams and 11 m for large clams. Thus morphological constraints on the gill limit the range of particle concentrations and sizes that can be effectively processed. Laboratory observations demonstrated the potential for deposit feeding in M. transversum in habitats that have rich organic substrates, low quantity or poor quality of suspended food, or seasonal variation in the abundance of suspended food. 
10.2307/1467886|The ecotone concept is used to consider exchanges of matter and energy between groundwater and surface water systems. Ecotones control these exchanges by acting as a combination of three types of filter: the contrast between permanent darkness and day-night alternation produces a photic filter; the matrix of interstitial underground systems creates a mechanical filter which slows down water velocity; biological and chemical processes, which often occur simultaneously, define a biochemical filter. The permeability of these filters changes according to water velocity. Thus, for ecotones between a surface system and a porous aquifer with large substrate pore size, dynamics of permeability are governed by hydrology, whereas between a surface system and a partially clogged aquifer with small substrate pore size, they are governed by aerobic and anaerobic processes. According to the degree of permeability, ecotones can be classified as either permanent or temporary sinks for the two adjacent systems. In the latter case, matter fluxes are retained in the ecotone, often undergoing transformation before being released to one of the ecosystems.
10.2307/1467520| Laboratory studies were conducted to measure growth, respiration, ingestion, and egestion for a leaf-shredding aquatic insect, Pteronarcys proteus (Plecoptera:Pteronarcyidae). These variables were measured for each of three cohorts found in a stream population, and all were a function of nymphal size and temperature. Relative growth rates (RGR) ranged from 0.031 to 0.0037 g g<sup>-1</sup> day<sup>-1</sup>, with small nymphs growing fastest. Ingestion ranged from 5 to 40% of dry body weight per day. Respiration ranged from 330 to 980 l O<sub>2</sub> g<sup>-1</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>. Respiration, ingestion, and growth were highest for smallest nymphs and decreased with increasing size of nymphs. Assimilation efficiencies also followed this pattern, except for female nymphs, for which both ingestion and assimilation efficiencies did not decline. Total assimilation by a population of Pteronarcys proteus in a mountain stream was estimated at 119 kcal m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, accounted for primarily by the two oldest cohorts present. Energy flow was greatest at and after autumn leaf abscission and lowest after spring emergence of adults. Annual energetics of the nymphal population were: ingestion = 906, growth = 41, respiration = 78, and egestion = 828 kcal/m<sup>2</sup>. Annual production of three coexisting cohorts was 0.438 (Cohort 1), 3.158 (Cohort 2), and 4.182 (Cohort 3) g/m<sup>2</sup>. In the stream, instantaneous daily growth rates (IDGR) were highest for smallest nymphs and ranged from 0.018 to no detectable growth. Correlations between temperature and IDGR were not significant except for the youngest cohort, for which growth rates were highest during higher temperatures. Larger nymphs, however, grew fastest after leaf-fall when temperatures were lower. The data show that growth rates of small nymphs were influenced by temperature and growth rates of larger nymphs were affected by food supply. Simulation of growth of nymphs under food-unlimited conditions supported this conclusion. Pteronarcys proteus consumed an estimated 41-64% of the litterfall in the study stream. 
40792649|Most studies of the effects of litter mixing have focused on decomposition in mixtures of senescent leaves of different plant species. In temperate forests, substantial quantities of green leaves fall in spring and summer, and previous research has shown that stream detritivores can benefit from the combined use of senescent and green leaves. We conducted a litterbag experiment to test the hypothesis that mixtures of senescent and green leaves of different species decomposed more rapidly, mediated by increased detritivore colonization, than leaves of each type in isolation. The observed abundances of 2 detritivore species, the amphipod
20491142|Zebra mussels might enhance denitrification rates by altering 3 primary controls: O
10.2307/1467763| To test the roles of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) loading and fish predation on benthic community structure and leafpack breakdown, CPOM and fish density were manipulated in a stream. Mt. Sinai Creek, a 3rd-order stream in Piedmont North Carolina, USA, was divided into twelve 30-m<sup>2</sup> segments with 0.5-m high weirs. CPOM was loaded and maintained at 0.01 ambient, ambient and 4  ambient levels for 19 mo. Fish were excluded from half the segments and maintained at natural densities in the others, in a fully cross-classified design. Neither CPOM loading nor fish predation had significant effects on leafpack breakdown and macrobenthic species richness or diversity in leafpack and sediment samples on all dates. The total abundance of invertebrates was reduced by fish in sediment samples but not in leafpacks. Almost all species were not significantly affected by the CPOM or fish treatments. Only two taxa responded to each treatment in sediments throughout the study, and none responded in leafpacks, i.e., less than 5% of the taxa tested. Interactions between fish and CPOM were rarely significant. This work shows that CPOM loading and fish predation, and their interactions, were not major forces in determining the diversity, richness, or litter breakdown rates of this lotic community. The absence of a fish effect on the animals in leafpacks suggests that leafpacks function as a refuge from fish predation for macrobenthic invertebrates. The effect of fish predation on total individuals but not on populations in sediments suggests that fish feeding has a significant impact on the benthos, but that natural variability in population sizes can obscure this effect. 
1468084|We investigated variations in resource availability (NO
10.2307/1468056|In long-lived unionid mussels, many short-term measures of growth are of limited value. Changes in physiological condition may be an early indication of stress, because the increased energy demand associated with stress often results in a depletion of glycogen reserves, the principal storage form of carbohydrates in unionid mussels. Our goal was to nonlethally extract tissue from freshwater mussels and then to develop a rapid and dependable method for the analysis of glycogen in the tissue extracts. A biopsy technique was developed to remove between 5 and 10 mg of foot tissue in Amblema plicata plicata. The survival rate did not differ between biopsied and non-biopsied mussels during a 581-d observation period, demonstrating that the biopsy technique will allow nonlethal evaluation of the physiological condition of individual mussels through measurement of changes in contaminant, genetic, and biochemical indicators in tissue. We also modified the standard alkaline digestion and phenol-sulfuric acid analysis of glycogen for use on the small samples of biopsied tissue and to reduce analysis time and cost. We present quality control data, including method detection limits and estimates of precision and bias. The modified analytical method is rapid and accurate and has a method detection limit of 0.014 mg glycogen. Glycogen content in the biopsied samples was well above the method detection limit; it ranged from 0.09 to 0.36 mg, indicating that the method should be applicable to native mussels.
10.2307/1467914|Larvae of Rhithrogena pellucida (Ephemeroptera:Heptageniidae) were observed feeding in observation flow cells using macroscopic video techniques. The stereotypic feeding behavior is described as cycles delineated by specific movements of the labial palps and consisting of stages of coordinated movement of the entire suite of mandibulate mouthparts. When employing the Labial Brushing Cycle, larvae used the labial palps to brush loosely accreted material from the substrate. When employing the Maxillary Scraping Cycle, larvae used special pectinate setae of the maxillary palps to remove material more tightly bound to the substrate. In both cycles, the legs of the larvae also removed material from the substrate. Larvae did not perform gathering cycles or feed on deposits of detritus. Food processing by successive fields of setae on various mouthparts to the point of ingestion is described in detail. Feeding observations combined with field and laboratory data on gut content and microhabitat distribution suggest that R. pellucida feeds primarily on periphyton. Comparisons are drawn between the primary scraping function of R. pellucida and the primary brushing function of Stenacron interpunctatum. A spectrum of adaptational strategies for obtaining food materials along a gradient of substrate association from seston to the most tightly attached materials is suggested and may be used to describe the feeding roles of many macroinvertebrates.
40792586|Many studies have shown that streams degrade in response to urbanization in the watershed. These studies often are based on use of biotic and abiotic variables to measure stream health across a gradient of land cover/land use. The results of these studies can be applied to other urban systems, but often fail to provide a mechanistic understanding of the urban impact, in part, because of the nature of the experimental design. We analyzed the advantages and disadvantages of using environmental gradient studies to further understanding of urban stream systems. We also evaluated alternative experimental design approaches, including best management practice monitoring, long-term watershed studies, paired-watershed studies, and beforeafter controlimpact studies, which could be used to complement the gradient approach. We illustrate these theoretical discussions with an urban paired-watershed case study in the Etowah watershed in northern Georgia. Our goal is to move experimental designs in a direction that will further our mechanistic understanding of the effects of existing urbanization on aquatic ecosystems and will provide opportunities to evaluate stream responses to environmentally sensitive urban land cover.
20491165|The strength of biotic interactions between native and invasive species is a key component of invasive species impact, but often is not quantified explicitly. We measured biotic interaction strengths between an invasive and a native endemic snail species in 2 streams in the western United States. The invasive freshwater New Zealand mudsnail,
40792648|The zebra mussel (
10.2307/1467279|The purpose of this study was to estimate the densities and sizes of the major remaining populations of Alasmidonta heterodon, a unionid mussel listed as endangered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. We studied 13 streams from New Hampshire to North Carolina. At 2-9 reaches on each stream, we assessed A. heterodon populations using both timed searches and quadrats, and measured the shell lengths of all living A. heterodon that we found. All populations of A. heterodon that we studied had 3 characteristics: 1) low density, with mean densities typically <0.01-0.05/m<sup>2</sup>; thus, low or declining density per se may threaten populations of A. heterodon; 2) recent reproduction, as shown by the presence of young animals or gravid females; and 3) vulnerability to loss from small ranges, low population densities, linear ranges, or a combination of these 3 factors. Furthermore, several of the populations that we studied included 100s to 10s of 1000s of animals, so these populations probably were too large to be strongly affected by many of the conservation problems of small populations (e.g., inbreeding, demographic stochasticity). These populations were large enough to provide animals for experimental studies, attempts to reestablish historical populations, and the like. Other populations, especially those in the Neuse basin of North Carolina, had exceedingly low densities, and may have contained fewer than 100 adults. The most robust populations of A. heterodon probably were those in the Connecticut River (New Hampshire), Ashuelot River (New Hampshire), Neversink River (New York), Po River (Virginia), and Shelton Creek/Tar River (North Carolina)--and perhaps the Little River (North Carolina).
10.2307/1467685|Floodplains of large alluvial rivers are often expansive and characterized by high volume hyporheic flow through lattice-like substrata, probably formed by glacial outwash or lateral migration of the river channel over long time periods. River water downwells into the floodplain at the upstream end; and, depending on bedrock geomorphology and other factors, groundwater from the unconfined aquifer upwells directly into the channel or into floodplain springbrooks at rates determined by head pressure of the water mass moving through the floodplain hydrologic system. These large scale (km<sup>3</sup>) hyporheic zones contain speciose food webs, including specialized insects with hypogean and epigean life history stages (amphibionts) and obligate groundwater species (stygobionts). Biogeochemical processes in the hyporheic zone may naturally load groundwaters with bioavailable solutes that appear to exert proximal controls on production and biodiversity of surface benthos and riparian vegetation. The effect is especially evident in floodplain springbrooks. Dynamic convergence of aquifer-riverine components adds physical heterogeneity and functional complexity to floodplain landscapes. Because reaches of aggraded alluvium and attendant ecotonal processes occur serially, like beads on a string, along the river continuum, we propose the concept of a hyporheic corridor in alluvial rivers. We expect predictable zonation of groundwater communities and other aquifer-riverine convergence properties within the corridor from headwaters to river mouth. The landscape-level significance and connectivity of processes along the hyporheic corridor must be better understood if river ecosystems, especially those involving large floodplain components, are to be protected and/or rehabilitated.
10.2307/1468361| Microbial communities of alluvial floodplain aquifers of 5th- and 6th-order reaches of the Flathead River, Montana, were quantified by sampling wells drilled along transects (500-5100 m) perpendicular to the channels. Cell densities decreased progressively with distance from the river at both reaches. Only 2-3% of the total microbial densities measured in the river water column (3.1  10<sup>5</sup> cells/mL) occurred in wells most distant from the river (9.0  10<sup>3</sup> cells/mL). The rapid decline in bacterial densities could be a result of the filtering effect of the bed sediments. Multiple regression analysis indicated that site distance from the river channel was the only variable examined that explained a significant amount of the variance in bacterial densities in the transects in the down-welling region. Bioavailability of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) also may have been important in the distribution of bacteria, but no spatial correlation was observed using DOC. However, continuously low bacterial densities in wells far from the river suggested that DOC in phreatic waters was primarily refractory. Fungal biovolume exceeded bacterial biovolume in a few wells and hyphae were common in many well samples (up to 89/mL), suggesting strong connectivity with the surface environment. Low fungal densities in the river and elevated densities observed in wells located down-gradient in the flow path suggested that vertical immigration through infiltration and percolation of water from surface soils, which were typically high in fungi, may have been an important process influencing aquifer communities and productivity. Protozoa were observed at all sites with densities ranging from 0 to 64/mL in the river and 0 to 213/mL in wells. The discovery of 24 genera of algae and the presence of chlorophyll-containing cells 4 km from the river provided strong evidence that riverine microbiota were entrained great distances in these highly transmissive aquifers. Incubation of small rocks in wells revealed an extensive epilithic microbial community compared to sparse populations in interstitial waters; mean density of epilithic bacteria was 6.3 10<sup>6</sup> cells/cm<sup>2</sup>, whereas fungi and protozoa averaged 134/cm<sup>2</sup> and 350/cm<sup>2</sup>, respectively. Epilithic bacterial production, estimated by the rate of <sup>3</sup>H thymidine incorporation into DNA, ranged from 0.4 to 6.9 g C m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>. Lack of higher epilithic biovolume and metabolism in wells near the river suggested that the very pristine waters of the Flathead River did not stimulate production. However, sporadic increases in DOC during spring runoff, storm events, subsurface wetting of the unsaturated zone, and vertical percolation of rain and snow melt may be used very efficiently by the microbial community. Additional study linking hydrogeomorphic processes in these alluvial aquifers to temporal and spatial distribution of carbon and nutrients in a source-sink context is needed to fully elucidate controls on the microbial communities in these very oligotrophic groundwater systems. 
4095680|A headwater stream adjacent to an abandoned As mine was investigated to determine the influence of As on stream biota and organic matter processing using an upstream (reference reach) and downstream (mine-influenced reach) comparative approach. Field assessments of stream chemistry, macroinvertebrate abundance and composition, and leaf breakdown were coupled with laboratory experiments addressing As influences on leaf biofilm respiration. Streamwater As concentrations varied from below detection limit (2.5g/L) in the upstream reach to >12,000 g/L. Concentrations were low in the reference reach, increased immediately adjacent to tailing piles, and climbed significantly with distance along the mine-influenced reach. Compared to the reference reach, macroinvertebrate density (7869 vs 154 individuals/m
20491179|Inverse analysis is a promising method for addressing a common problem in stream ecology: how to estimate material and energy flows through food webs when the total number of flows greatly exceeds the number of measured flows. Inverse analyses provide solutions to systems of linear difference equations, where each equation corresponds to a flow between 2 foodweb compartments. Physiological and isotopic constraints are used to reduce the number of possible solutions and to ensure that flow magnitudes are realistic. We used inverse methods to develop models of C and N flows through the food web in Kaiwiki Stream, a forested stream on the island of Hawaii. The empirical data used in the models included measurements of respiration and detritus ingestion and particulate organic matter dynamics. Constraints for the models included stable isotope ratios and assimilation and production efficiencies. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the models were robust to changes in the values of most empirical measurements. The models elucidated community- and ecosystem-level properties of Kaiwiki Stream that would have been obscured in simpler tracer or budget models. Among those properties are the flows of dissolved organic C and N through the food web, the roles of bacteria, fungi, and fruit in metazoan diets, and the differences in primary dietary sources of C and N, indicating differential assimilation of ingested food. The modeled C and N flow networks for Kaiwiki Stream had dissimilar structures, which might reflect a combination of differential C and N assimilation and dissimilar effects of physical processes on C and N flows between nonliving pools. Rates of ecosystem processes estimated by inverse analysis (e.g., gross primary productivity, community respiration) were comparable with rates measured in other tropical and temperate forested streams. Our study demonstrates the utility of inverse methods for reconstructing food webs, estimating material and energy flow rates, and generating hypotheses.
10-013|As part of its ongoing work in biomonitoring, Environment Canadas Canadian Aquatic Biomonitoring Network (CABIN) program has assembled an expert-verified reference collection of 3864 specimens of 604 species of Canadian freshwater macroinvertebrates. Such collections are a key resource for developing a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcode library to facilitate molecular identification of biomonitoring samples. We examined the problems encountered in using such legacy material to obtain reference barcodes. We focused on the influence of specimen age and preservation history. To supplement work on the reference collection, we determined the time-dependent effects of formalin preservation on DNA-barcode integrity in 4 common arthropod taxa by controlled exposure of fresh material obtained from laboratory cultures. Specimens in the reference collection were preserved with short-term fixation in formalin followed by prolonged preservation in 70% ethanol. Only 19 caddisfly larval specimens out of the total of 650 analyzed returned full-length sequences. In contrast, formalin preservation of freshly collected material for up to 20d yielded good sequencing success and high-quality sequences. Freshly collected material clearly provides the best basis for the future development of DNA-barcode libraries, and formalin preservation should be avoided where possible to ensure that DNA integrity is maximized.
10.2307/1467459|We studied the microhabitats of six species of freshwater mussels, including two rare species of Alasmidonta, in the Neversink River, New York. In each of 270, 1-m<sup>2</sup> quadrats, we measured water depth, current speed, bottom roughness, spatial variation in current speed, distance to shore, presence or absence of macrophytes, presence or absence of an overhead canopy, the extent of patches of fine sediment, and sediment granulometry, as well as recording the mussels present. Mussel populations in the Neversink are dense (mean=3.2/m<sup>2</sup>) and highly clumped. Stepwise discriminant analyses showed that current speed and spatial variation in current speed were the most useful predictors of the occurrence of mussels in quadrats. Alasmidonta heterodon was found most frequently at moderate current speeds and in quadrats that contained many patches of fine sediments. Alasmidonta varicosa occurred most frequently at moderate current speeds and in sediments with a high proportion of medium sands (0.25-1 mm). Nevertheless, the predictive power of discriminant models based on microhabitat variables is so low that we question the adequacy of a traditional microhabitat approach to unionacean ecology. We suggest that including geomorphological descriptors of the streambed or working at spatial scales of hundreds of metres might be more useful than a traditional microhabitat approach for predicting the distribution of freshwater mussels in streams.
10.2307/1467283|The Baetodes complex is a distinct, monophyletic grouping of Neotropical and southwestern North American baetine (Ephemeroptera:Baetidae) genera having subapical setae on the lateral margin of the tarsal claws of the larvae and a distinct distomedial projection on the basal segment of the genital forceps of male adults. The complex comprises Moribaetis sensu stricto, Mayobaetis new status, Prebaetodes new genus, and Baetodes. Moribaetis is the most plesiotypic lineage, and its larvae have autapomorphic labral and frontal interantennal character states. Mayobaetis shares synapomorphies involving antennal and paraproct armature with Prebaetodes and Baetodes, and its larvae have autapomorphic antennal and cerci character states. Prebaetodes and Baetodes are sister lineages sharing numerous synapomorphies, some of which appear associated with the evolution of more specialized larval clinging behavior in torrential habitats. Prebaetodes is morphologically intermediate between the more plesiomorphic Mayobaetis and the apotypic Baetodes, and its larvae have autapomorphic labral and mandibular character states. Larvae of Baetodes have autapomorphic gill and median caudal filament character states. Within the construct of a strict phylogenetic classification, the generic concept of Moribaetis is restricted, and Mayobaetis, formerly a subgenus of Moribaetis, is elevated to generic rank. Prebaetodes and its type species, P. sitesi new species, are described from larvae from Colombia and Ecuador. A generic key to the larvae of the Baetodes complex is provided.
10.2307/1468026|A heuristic framework for understanding and predicting the distribution and categorical abundance of species in stream communities is presented. The framework requires that species be described in terms of their functional relationships to habitat selective forces or their surrogates, which constitute "filters" occurring at hierarchical landscape scales (ranging from microhabitats to watersheds or basins). Large-scale filters are viewed as causative or mechanistic agents that constrain expression of local selective forces or biotic potential at lower scales. To join a local community, species in a regional pool must possess appropriate functional attributes (species traits) to "pass" through the nested filters. Biotic interactions are also a potential filter on local community composition, and they are invoked at the lower hierarchical levels, after species have passed through the physicochemical habitat filters. Potential landscape filters and their associated selective properties are identified, as are prospective species traits (for invertebrates and fish) that correspond with filters. A categorical niche model is used to illustrate how relative abundances of species in local communities might be predicted from habitat data collected at different scales. The framework emphasizes a biologically based approach to understanding and predicting species distribution and abundance and local community composition by explicitly considering environmental constraints imposed at different scales. As such, it can complement non-mechanistic, correlative approaches to community prediction that often lack generality. Operationalizing the framework will require additional research to specify more clearly 1) the degree to which habitat features at different scales are linked functionally or statistically, 2) what species traits are possessed by strongly interactive species (e.g., keystones) and which habitat filters most strongly constrain the distribution of these species, and 3) the functional significance of a range of species traits and the extent to which these traits are correlated and hence respond in concert to the presence, or modification, of a particular filter. Multi-scale, mechanistic understanding of species-environment relations will likely contribute to better predictions about large scale problems, such as the establishment and spread of exotic species or alterations in community composition with changing land use or climate.
10.2307/1468149| We investigated the developmental performance of the submersed watermilfoil specialist Euhrychiopsis lecontei (Dietz) (Curculionidae) on its native host, northern watermilfoil Myriophyllum sibiricum Komarov, and its newly acquired exotic host, Eurasian watermilfoil Myriophyllum spicatum L. The weevil is a potential biological control agent of Eurasian watermilfoil. To determine if performance is affected by rearing plant or by maternal plant, we examined development of eggs from Eurasian and northern watermilfoil-reared mothers on both species of watermilfoil. Hatching occurred in 3-5 d, and egg emergence rate ranged from 60 to 100%. Larval and pupal stages were completed in 8-11 d at 25C and 16-19 d at 19.5C with survival ranging from 50 to 100% for the larval stage and 60 to 88% for the pupal stage. Overall developmental time from egg to adult was 23-26 d at 25C with survival from egg to adult ranging from 20 to 70%. Development times were significantly longer (1-3 d) on the native northern watermilfoil than on Eurasian watermilfoil. Survival did not differ significantly among rearing plant, but progeny of Eurasian watermilfoil-reared parents performed more poorly on northern watermilfoil than did progeny of northern watermilfoil-reared parents. Adult emergence weight did not vary by rearing plant, but was affected by maternal factors. Thus, there is no developmental performance penalty for shifting to the exotic host and there is evidence of better performance on the exotic host than on the native host. 
1468094|The response of stream benthic invertebrates to surficially deposited fine sediment was investigated in 4 Missouri streams. Twenty to 24 sampling sites in each stream were selected based on similarities of substrate particle-size distributions, depths, and current velocities but for differences in amounts of deposited sediment, which ranged from 0 to 100% surface cover. Deposited sediment was quantified 2 ways: a visual estimate of % surface cover, and a measurement of substrate embeddedness, which were highly correlated with each other and with the amount of sand. Invertebrates were collected using a kicknet for a specified time in a 1-m
10.2307/1467800|Benthic diatoms and water chemistry were sampled from 49 stream sites in the Mid-Atlantic Highlands region of the United States to evaluate the use of diatoms as indicators of environmental conditions in streams across varying geographic and ecoregional areas. Diatom samples were collected from depositional and erosional habitats in a randomly selected reach in each stream site. Patterns of diatom species distributions in relation to environmental variables were determined using canonical correspondence analysis. Diatom species in both habitats were highly correlated with a pH gradient. A second gradient was correlated with variables that were commonly associated with agricultural runoff such as turbidity and total phosphorus. The relationship between diatoms and major environmental variables was quantified with regression and calibration models. The correlation between diatom-inferred and observed pH was high (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.90). Cross-validation with jackknifing showed that pH models were reasonably robust (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.69 for depositional habitats, r<sup>2</sup> = 0.67 for erosional habitats). The regression and calibration models for the depositional habitats had only slightly higher predictive powers than those of erosional habitats. The relationship between diatoms and important environmental variables was robust and quantifiable, and the sensitivity of diatom assemblages to environmental conditions did not differ between erosional and depositional habitats. Therefore we concluded that diatoms can be used as quantitative indicators of environmental conditions in lotic systems.
10.2307/1467635| The thermal tolerance (critical thermal maximum, CTM) of field-acclimatized Orconectes rusticus was examined on both a seasonal and diel basis. Seasonal changes in stream water temperature from 2.5 to 33.0C caused a 10.8C elevation (27.4 to 38.2C) in mean CTM of adult O. rusticus. Juvenile O. rusticus exposed to a 6.9C diel temperature change during summer altered their mean CTM by 1.2C. Excessively high water temperatures (>39C) in an isolated stream pool in southwestern Ohio during mid-July forced most O. rusticus to abandon the pool and dig burrows in sand and gravel beneath rocks near the shoreline. Mean water temperature in these burrows was >6C cooler than that of the open pool. Orconectes rusticus physiologically adjusts its thermal tolerance to compensate for both seasonal and diel changes in its natural environment, but when temperatures change rapidly and become too high the species may search for or create cooler thermal refugia. 
1468127|The effect of bryophytes on stream macroinvertebrates has gained attention in many temperate systems, but is not well understood relative to the role of mineral substrates. Long-term fertilization of the Kuparuk River in arctic Alaska has resulted in dense growths of bryophytes (the moss
10.2307/1467431| Dissolved organic carbon (DOC) is consumed by microbial metabolism as streamwater perfuses through a lateral gravel bar of the East Branch of the Wappinger Creek. The rate of DOC removal was estimated from the decline in DOC and travel time through the bar. Variability in DOC removal together with potential regulatory factors was determined for 14 dates spanning more than a 2-y period. DOC removal was not correlated with temperature, availability of oxygen, or residence time within hyporheic sediments. Hyporheic DOC could be predicted (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.68) from streamwater DOC concentrations, with a surprisingly constant 57% (9% [1 SD]) removal of DOC. This pattern suggests an initial concentration-dependent adsorption of DOC onto surfaces. This mechanism allows for efficient retention of DOC within hyporheic sediments even under conditions (low temperature, high interstitial velocity) that might be expected to minimize biotic consumption of DOC. 
20491228|Many freshwater ecosystems receive allochthonous resource subsidies from adjacent terrestrial environments. In eastern North American forests, geographic broods of periodical cicadas emerge every 13 to 17 y to breed, and local abundances can sometimes be >300 individuals/m
10.2307/1467220|Estimates of annual production for the predaceous aquatic insect Corydalus cornutus (Megaloptera) revealed considerable variation among four Texas streams with similar water quality characteristics but differing in size, flow, and temperature. Values of production varied from 1.62 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup> to 13.19 g dry mass m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. This variation was largely due to differences in growth and development which occurred as a result of differences in thermal regime. At three of the streams, C. cornutus appeared to be univoltine with a cohort production interval (CPI) of 333 days. At a fourth site with higher summer temperatures, development from egg to mature larva occurred in 6-7 months or less, leading to a CPI of 210 days and suggesting bivoltinism (not previously reported for this group). Of the factors thought to control secondary production, including habitat, temperature, food quality and quantity, and biological interactions, temperature seems to be the most important. In addition, a direct relationship was found between production and stream width. This effect could result from limited primary production in canopied, narrow streams which might reduce prey species production and thus lower prey availability to C. cornutus. Permanency of flow appeared not to strongly influence production because the highest production was found in an intermittent stream. Our estimates of production for C. cornutus are among the highest yet reported for a predaceous species and approach the values obtained for primary consumer species in desert streams.
1468124|The fate of organic C applied as radiolabeled dissolved organic C (DOC) was tracked in laboratory experimental chambers with and without snail grazers. Low concentrations of radiolabeled amino acids were incubated with microbial communities attached to pieces of rock collected from a central Alabama stream. The microbial communities assimilated a portion of the amino acids and were then placed in glass chambers with stream water only. Individuals of
10.2307/1467704|Factors affecting filtration rates of the Asiatic clam Corbicula fluminea were studied in controlled laboratory experiments, and the data were then used to illustrate the importance of clam filtering in a North Carolina river. Both temperature and food concentration significantly affected clam filtration rates. Rates measured at winter temperatures were significantly lower than summer rates, while food concentrations and filtration rates were inversely related. Filtration rates were compared among clams collected from several different habitats in North Carolina, and although shell length (SL)-dry flesh weight (DFW) relationships differed between locations, filtration rate-size relationships were not significantly different when SL was used as a measure of clam size. Extrapolation of the above relationships to a population of Corbicula in the upper Chowan River, North Carolina, indicated that the average number of clams in a square meter of river bottom (350) could filter a volume of water equivalent to the overlying water column (mean depth 5.25 m) every 1-1.6 days in summer, depending on seston concentrations.
10.2307/1467586|Nitrate retention was assayed in a 264-m reach of a third-order stream, Little Lost Man Creek, Humboldt County, California, USA. Nitrate budgets (24-48 hours) were calculated under background conditions, and during four other intervals of modified nitrate concentration caused by nutrient amendment or storm-enhanced discharge. Under background, low-flow conditions, the reach was a source of nitrate to downstream communities. Retention during the first 36 hours of nitrate amendment was dominated by storage in the hyporheic zone and later by biotic uptake as storage zones became saturated (plateau concentration). The increase in net retention caused by increased nitrate concentration decreased output/input (O/I) ratio from 1.11 before amendment to 0.61 after 36 hours, and to 0.86 after transient storage zones were filled. Dilution, caused by a nearly four-fold increase in discharge, increased biotic retention and also export as previously stored nitrate leached from the hyporheic zone into the channel. Nitrate continued to leach from the hyporheic zone seven days after the amendment ended. This type of response may enhance biotic nutrient cycling by providing waters of higher nutrient concentration to partially scoured epilithic surfaces following reset of the benthic community by a major storm.
10.2307/1467845|Trophic linkages in Glen and Grand Canyons of the lower Colorado River downstream from Glen Canyon Dam were examined using multiple stable isotope analysis. The  <sup>13</sup>C values of dissolved inorganic carbon (DIC), and the  <sup>13</sup>C,  <sup>15</sup>N, and  <sup>34</sup>S values of seston, aquatic and terrestrial plants, and aquatic animals were determined. The  <sup>13</sup>C value of DIC varied among sites. DIC from the epilimnion of the reservoir (Lake Powell) and from a tributary was more <sup>13</sup>C-enriched than DIC in the Colorado River, probably as a result of variation in aquatic primary production and dissolution of carbonate among sites. Four potential bases of aquatic secondary production: upland vegetation, riparian vegetation, reservoir plankton, and benthic algae were isotopically ( <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N) distinct from each other. Analysis of  <sup>13</sup>C,  <sup>15</sup>N, and  <sup>34</sup>S showed that seston from the dam tailwater (Glen Canyon) consisted of lotic algae and zooplankton from Lake Powell, except for the ultra fine fraction (<0.053 mm) which was derived from Lake Powell particulate organic matter. Longitudinal variation in the composition of Glen Canyon seston was generally small. Seston from a tributary (the Paria River) was derived from a mixture of upland and riparian vegetation and was isotopically distinct from Colorado River seston. Isotope analysis revealed three trophic levels in Glen Canyon: algae (Cladophora glomerata and diatoms), macroinvertebrates (e.g., Gammarus lacustris and chironomids), and fish (primarily rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss). Trout also consumed zooplankton exported from Lake Powell. Direct assimilation of algal N by trout was not indicated despite the high incidence of algae in trout stomachs. Isotope values of fishes (trout and speckled dace, Rhinichthys osculus) from Grand Canyon tributaries reflected variation in the trophic basis of fish production; one tributary fish population appeared to be supported by tributary autochthonous production or mainstem organic matter sources, and others were linked to riparian or upland organic matter inputs.
1467978|We report the occurrence and habitat of mussel populations within a continuous 8-km section of the South Fork Eel River in the Northern Coast Range of California. The primary goals of our study were 1) to compile information on species composition and population density, and 2) to examine whether spatial distribution and variability were related to geomorphology and hydrology. High discharges almost certainly provide more of a constraint on the distribution and persistence of mussels in the South Fork Eel than do low summer flows, so we used the Hydrologic Engineering Centers River Analysis System (HEC-RAS) hydraulic model to estimate physical conditions during high flows when in-channel investigations were not feasible. We found numerous individuals of 2 species (
10.2307/1468255|The objectives of this paper were to introduce frameworks for predicting the determinants and consequences of the great heterogeneity in benthic algal assemblages. A hierarchical framework of environmental factors affecting benthic algal spatial heterogeneity is presented with the ultimate determinants (climate, geology, land use, and biogeography) that are important constraints on benthic algal assemblage structure at large spatial scales. These ultimate determinants constrain expression of intermediate and proximate determinants of benthic algal function and structure. A similar framework for temporal heterogeneity distinguishes how assemblages respond to short-term and long-term environmental changes, referred to as disturbances and stresses, respectively. Assemblages recover from punctuated (short-term) environmental change (disturbance) by immigration and reproduction of both persistent and recolonizing species. Assemblages adapt to permanent (longterm) environmental change (stress) by changing species membership, i.e. loss of some species that cannot survive in the new conditions and invasion of new species that are adapted to the new conditions. Stresses operating on large temporal scales probably constrain effects of disturbance, which operate on small temporal scales. The consequences of interactions among patches are related to benthic algal assemblages and are referred to as the emergent properties of heterogeneity. Enhanced biomass, diversity, and stability of benthic algae are hypothesized to be emergent properties of habitat heterogeneity. A mathematical model is presented that indicates that algal accrual in a reach is enhanced by interactions between algae in riffles and pools. Conceptual models are introduced that hypothesize that dispersal in spatially and temporally heterogeneous habitats enhances diversity and stability of benthic algal assemblages.
10.2307/1468257|Streams are organized with a spatial hierarchical pattern. Investigations of patterns or processes, or both, could be designed to ask questions about variance among basins, stream channels, geomorphic reaches, habitats or solely with respect to physical/biotic processes independent of spatial scale. In this paper, we present data from large- / and meso-scale experiments performed in the Taieri River, New Zealand, and in a stream in the Uinta Mountains, Utah. For each of these experiments, large-scale variance (such as land use in New Zealand) was investigated with finer-scale sources of variance such as fish predators nested within the overall design. These designs have allowed us to make inferences regarding the relative importance of native versus nonnative predators in the context of existing background variation such as riparian vegetation, geomorphic form, and land uses within the watershed. We use these hierarchically organized data to ask whether the spatial scale of variation in abundance of mayflies and caddisflies (the most numerically abundant aquatic invertebrates) is dependent on the type of predator in the stream. Specifically, we hypothesize that large, relatively mobile predators such as trout should homogenize local environments (within riffle variation), show moderate effects within streams, and result in highly variable distributions among streams. Benthic fish, because of their moderate mobility should cause the highest variance at intermediate scales. Finally, in the absence of fish, stoneflies, which show localized predator effects, should cause a high level of variation in the distribution of prey within riffles with decreasing variance as scale increases.
10.2307/1467461|The percentage of deformities in Chironomus menta was compared with both an independent measure of stream water quality and predictions of instream toxicity. Simple organic loading caused small (nonsignificant) increases in the frequency of deformities, whereas toxic conditions caused large increases in both the number and types of deformities.
10.2307/1467400|Stream ecologists are faced with the problem of recognizing patterns in community organization and explaining the processes that determine these patterns. I argue that streams conform reasonably closely to the patch dynamics explanation of community organization which emphasizes temporal phenomena and focusses on the importance of history and chance. Even where competition or predation have been shown to play a role in shaping stream communities, the temporal phenomena of disturbance and colonization are invariably also of fundamental importance. In most cases, temporal variation is probably the factor of overriding significance, and species with weedy characteristics are a particularly prominent feature of streams. I highlight the critical role played by refugia as sources of recolonization after spates, and therefore as buffers against disturbance. A theoretical framework based on the patch dynamics view of community ecology may provide a unifying theme in stream ecology.
10.2307/1467494|Samples were taken in an intermittent stream (dries only at some locations) and a permanent stream in a single watershed in Tompkins County, New York, over a 3-yr period to compare the life history patterns of specialist species (occurring primarily in intermittent streams), facultative species (occurring in both permanent and intermittent streams) and permanent-stream species (occurring primarily in permanent habitats). We also tested the hypothesis that to avoid the dry period, populations of species grow and develop faster and emerge earlier in the intermittent than in the permanent stream. Specialist species emerged by mid-June, whereas permanent-stream species had late summer emergences. Although two of the three specialist species (Amphinemura delosa and Ameletus ludens) had drought-resistant eggs, the third (Paracapnia opis) had immediately hatching eggs. Nymphs of this last species survived the dry period either in the hyporheic zone or in riffles that did not dry. Only one of two facultative species and one specialist species showed greater size and/or advanced development in sites that dried compared with populations in permanent sites; however, these differences occurred only in early spring and had disappeared long before the stream dried. Thus, populations of the same species emerged at the same time from the intermittent and permanent streams. At any one time, individuals of specialist and permanent-stream species were usually larger and/or more developed in the stream or at sites where they were most abundant. Although each specialist species had life history patterns enabling it to survive drought, these patterns were not unique to the intermittent-stream fauna. In addition, species without those characteristics were also present in the stream, and species with populations in both permanent and intermittent streams did not show site-specific variation in life history patterns consistent with drought-avoidance in intermittent streams.
10.2307/1467934|Microalgal communities on clay tiles in Lake McConaughy (Nebraska, USA) were subjected to simulated wave disturbance after 6, 12, 18, or 24 d of development to examine the effects of community age on resistance and recovery in these communities. Six-day communities were less resistant than older communities; diatom standing crops in 6-d communities were reduced 47.6% by disturbance. Resistance of older communities was apparently a function of increased mat stabilization by diatom mucilages and overlying Oscillatoria surface layers. Diatom density reductions in 6-d communities were due to differential removal of large, chain-forming species of Fragilaria, and solitary, motile Navicula and Nitzschia. Sediment-trap data showed that Fragilaria and Navicula resettled quickly, but that once removed, many Nitzschia were not readily replaced through immigration. Differential removal of diatom taxa by disturbance at 6 d, as well as differential settling of taxa following disturbance affected community recovery patterns. Simulated wave disturbance also caused short-term increases in growth rates of four common taxa in 6-d communities. After 24 d, phaeophytin content of control communities exceeded chlorophyll a concentrations, indicating senescence of algal cells. Communities disturbed after 18 or 24 d had chlorophyll a concentrations similar to controls, but significantly lower phaeophytin content, suggesting that wave disturbance delayed senescence within algal mats. We conclude that wave disturbance can affect resistance and recovery of epilithic algal communities in lentic systems and that timing of disturbance influences community response.
10.2307/1468153|The cost and efficiency of different techniques for processing rapid-assessment samples of lotic macroinvertebrates were evaluated. Subsamples of 50, 100, and 150 selectively picked individuals were compared to determine the optimal subsample size for selective picks. Selective subsampling of a set number of animals was then compared with subsampling by picking for a set time (30 min), exhaustive picking of a sample, and randomly subsampling 100 animals. Identification was to family level. Efficiency was assessed by comparing the ability of data generated by each technique to discriminate between unpolluted reference sites and sites with mild to severe pollution by municipal effluent and urban stormwater runoff. This discrimination was tested using both univariate metrics (SIGNAL biotic index, family richness, and EPT [Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera] family richness) and multivariate tests (analysis of similarity--ANOSIM). Cost was assessed as the amount of time each method required for picking and identification. The selective 100-animal subsample is recommended as the most cost-effective method for assessing sites affected by municipal sewage-treatment-plant discharges and urban stormwater runoff. SIGNAL was the best of the 3 metrics, having the most highly significant differences between reference and polluted sites and being most robust to variations in processing method. ANOSIM could distinguish between the reference and polluted sites using any of the sample processing methods, but the degree of the distinction varied with sample processing method.
10.2307/1468146| Zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) in the Illinois River are likely to function as a metapopulation (a system of local populations connected by dispersal). River currents reduce or eliminate internal recruitment by local populations, making them dependent upon external recruitment from propagules (larvae) produced by upriver populations. Because of the importance of external recruitment, understanding the population dynamics of riverine zebra mussels requires knowledge of larval flux. In 1994 and 1995, larval drift past a fixed site on the Illinois River was characterized by pulses of similar-sized individuals. These pulses were composed primarily of D-stage (straight hinge) larvae, not yet competent to settle. The continual passage of pulses of young larvae suggests that the upriver source population(s) spawned in frequent distinct bursts throughout the summer months rather than spawning only once or twice. Overall larval abundance was a poor predictor of availability of competent larvae. Although larvae were frequently present in high numbers, larvae >200 m in shell height (competent to settle) were present only sporadically at our fixed study site from May to November in 1994, and present only from June to early July in 1995. Settlement at a given site on the Illinois River is likely to be sporadic rather than constant. Colonization and population growth at a given site will occur only if suitable habitat and environmental conditions are available during the windows when competent larvae are available. Changes in mean size as a larval cohort drifted downriver suggested a growth rate of 6.72 m/d. At this growth rate, most larvae probably travel a minimum of 304.6 km (190.4 miles) before settling. Thus, larvae spawned in the main channel of the lower 70% of the Illinois River are most likely to settle in the Mississippi River. We suggest that colonization and population growth in the upper 70% of the Illinois River are strongly dependent upon larvae produced at upriver source sites in Lake Michigan and the Chicago area waterways. Control of zebra mussels in a given stretch of the river will depend upon control of the upriver source populations. 
1468194|Three new species of plumatellid (Phylactolaemata) bryozoans are distinguished largely by the presence of tiny, rash-like nodules on the floatoblast surface. Nodules are integral parts of the sclerotized floatoblast envelope, and they persist through generations of laboratory rearing. These minute structures are best detected by scanning electron microscopy. In
1468441|We describe the first use of the element rubidium (Rb) to mark aquatic insects for the study of dispersal. It has been difficult to pursue research that integrates juvenile and adult life stages of aquatic insects. Most species of aquatic insects suffer high mortality during the larval phase; furthermore, larvae shed their entire exoskeletons as they emerge. Adults disperse by flying soon after emergence when they may still be fragile and difficult to handle. We demonstrate that it is possible in both controlled and natural settings to batch-mark very large numbers of aquatic dragonfly (Odonata) larvae by adding Rb as RbCl to the water in which they live. We found that the in-body concentration of Rb in odonate larvae rose to several hundred times the concentration of Rb in the water, and the high concentrations persisted in adults. Less than 1 part per million (by mass) of Rb in water was sufficient to mark odonate larvae. Rb is often used in research on dispersal of terrestrial insects, particularly crop pests, because it is relatively inexpensive and nontoxic at low concentrations. Rb is known to cause developmental problems in insects (probably through competitive binding with K) at much higher concentrations than we used, but we did not detect any evidence of toxicity at the levels used. The cost of Rb and of specimen analysis by atomic absorption spectrophotometry is moderate, compared to other marking techniques. We believe the method is an improvement over other marking techniques, and will facilitate the study of dispersal of aquatic insects, in cases where dispersing adults can be recaptured.
1468087|Cave streams lying near the surface are important ecotones connecting energy sources from the terrestrial environment to deep groundwater. We examined leaf and wood breakdown and transport in 5 cave streams with, and 2 without, large openings that allow litter input from the surface. White oak (
4095675|We characterized channel unit types in 13 steep, headwater streams in British Columbia, Canada, based on physical variables, to determine the influence of channel unit type on benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages. Macroinvertebrate abundance was highest in riffles, followed by rapids, pools, boulder cascades, chutes, and bedrock cascades. Heptageniidae, Nemouridae, Chironomidae, Leptophlebiidae, Enchytraeidae, Chloroperlidae, Lepidostomatidae, and Tricladida were most abundant in either riffles or rapids. Baetidae and Simuliidae preferred bedrock cascades and chutes, and predominance of these families resulted in a distinct assemblage structure within these 2 channel unit types compared with other types. Benthic assemblages within riffles, rapids, pools, and boulder cascades were not distinctive from each other. Significant interstream variation was apparent in abundance of all taxonomic groups studied. In general, invertebrates were more abundant in streams with perennial flow regimes compared to those with intermittent or ephemeral flow. Assemblage structure within ephemeral streams was distinct because of the preponderance of Enchytraeidae. Defining physical characteristics of stream channel units using benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages is a useful means of discriminating habitat conditions within small, high-gradient streams.
1468001|Distributions of freshwater midges, including Chironomidae, Chaoboridae, and Ceratopogonidae, were analyzed along a transect of lakes extending north from Whitehorse (Yukon Territory) to the Arctic Ocean (Northwest Territories).
4095736|The objectives of our study were to assess leaf-litter breakdown in 3 streams in 3 climates and to determine the contributions of associated microbial and invertebrate communities to the process. We incubated leaves of
10.2307/1467342|The causes and consequences of habitat distribution of larvae of the mayfly Paraleptophlebia guttata were analyzed in a 2nd-order stream in west-central Kentucky. Among macrohabitats, larvae were typically significantly more dense in runs and riffles than in pools. Densities were positively related to the percentage of coarse substrata in macrohabitats, but were not correlated with current velocity, predatory fish densities, or the quantity of fine particulate organic matter (food) in macrohabitats. This relationship between density and substratum coarseness was further evidenced in an in-situ colonization experiment in which larvae selected gravel and pebble substrata over sand. Among microhabitats, larvae were more abundant in leaf litter and in gravel/pebble than in silt/sand. Laboratory manipulations showed that predation rates by fish were significantly lower on mayflies in leaf litter and gravel than in fine substrata. The combined effects of substratum particle size and fish predation determine habitat distributions of larvae. Larger larvae were more abundant in runs than in riffles, but larval growth rates in artificial stream channels were similar between current velocities simulating those in riffles and runs. These results, coupled with data from drift samples, suggest that larvae shifted macrohabitats with size. Size-related differences in macrohabitat use may reflect size-related changes in microhabitat use; larvae were significantly larger in leaf litter than in other microhabitats, and leaf litter amounts were greater in runs than in riffles.
40792652|Filter-feeding mussels historically comprised most of benthic biomass in many streams. They contribute to stream ecosystem functioning by linking the water column and benthic habitats. Both native and nonnative species coexist in many streams, but their ecological roles are not well quantified. The invasive bivalve,
1468307|Although >70 dams have been decommissioned in Wisconsin over the past 30 y, little is known about the physical and ecological effects of dam removal on riverine ecosystems. The purpose of our study was to document changes in channel form and macroinvertebrate assemblages following the removal of a low-head, run-of-river dam from the Baraboo River, Wisconsin, in January 2000. We surveyed cross sections and collected benthic macroinvertebrate samples in 6 reaches (an upstream reference reach, reaches immediately above and below the dam that was to be removed, and sequential unimpounded and impounded reaches further downstream) in a multiple-dam system. Surveys were conducted in December 1999, before dam removal, in March 2000 immediately after dam removal, and in August 2000 following a flood. Benthic sediments were collected from selected sites in March and August to measure particle size shifts associated with the dam breach. Before dam removal, impounded reaches were characterized by relatively deep, wide channels, extensive deposits of loose sediments, and macroinvertebrate taxa characteristic of lentic or depositional habitats. Removal of the dam significantly decreased the cross-sectional area of the active channel in the former impoundment from 59 m
4499059|Large river floodplains potentially include the full range of freshwater ecosystems from permanently flowing channels to temporary pools and springs. Attempts to restore such complex systems require tools adapted to assess restoration success. In an analysis of invertebrate assemblages in the Rhne River floodplain (France), taxonomic-based indices (rarefied richness and assemblage composition) were compared with functional metrics using trait-based ratios as surrogates of ecosystem processes. Their ability to respond to a gradient of hydrological connectivity was assessed in 7 cut-off channels. The sampling design included 2 sites/channel (upstream and downstream), 4 randomly chosen sampling points (0.5  0.5-m quadrats)/site, and 2 sampling seasons (spring and summer). Water physicochemical and habitat variables were recorded when invertebrates were sampled. Environmental variables, including water conductance, [NH
10.2307/1468370| Abundances of the larval caddisfly Dicosmoecus gilvipes and epilithic algae were compared at 9 sites (5 exposed to extensive recreational activity and 4 with minimal activity) in Quartzville Creek, Oregon. Recreational impacts on caddisfly densities were apparent for instars 3-5, but effects were greater on earlier instars than later instars. In 1995, sites with low human use had significantly higher densities of D. gilvipes than those sites exposed to intense recreation. Chlorophyll a biomass was not correlated with either D. gilvipes densities or intensity of human activity. In February 1996, an 85-y flood event forced closure of the study area to the public throughout the 2nd sampling season. Recreational impacts from 1995 were apparent at more localized spatial and temporal scales than were effects of flooding in 1996. The flood reduced D. gilvipes densities by 83% (23% SE) and chlorophyll a biomass by 41% (28% SE) across all sites. These results emphasize the need for additional studies on how multiple recreational activities impact lotic food webs. 
10.2307/1468051|At Rainbow Bay, a 1.5-ha temporary wetland pond in South Carolina, 115 taxa of aquatic and semi-aquatic insects from 29 families representing 7 orders (Diptera, Coleoptera, Hemiptera, Trichoptera, Megaloptera, Odonata, Ephemeroptera) were collected using emergence traps from March 1992 through June 1993, a period including 2 hydroperiod cycles. The Chironomidae were the most diverse group (59 species), followed by the Coleoptera (23 species). The Chironomini were the most diverse and abundant chironomids. The chironomid assemblage included many taxa with wide distributions from a variety of southeastern habitats, but several species, including some of the dominant species, are typical of acidic, dystrophic habitats. Several taxa of chironomids collected at the wetland represent new species or generic records for South Carolina or the southeastern USA. Chironomid assemblages at Rainbow Bay and other local depression wetlands were moderately dissimilar, in accordance with reports for other aquatic organisms. Most other insect groups collected at Rainbow Bay are common to other depression wetlands of the region. Cumulative insect emergence was moderate (2774 and 1017 individuals m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup> in 1992 and 1993), and was dominated by the Chironomidae (93% of the total). Annual variation in emergence was probably most strongly influenced by annual variation in hydrology.
10.2307/1467799|Diatom assemblage structure on natural and artificial substrata was related to lotic physical habitat characteristics in an agricultural basin in Minnesota. We found 59 species across the basin, but species richness at individual sites ranged from 4 to 25 (median 16) on natural substrata and 9 to 23 (median 15) on artificial substrata. Most species were rare, with nearly half appearing at fewer than 3 sites. The most abundant taxa were biraphid diatoms (relative abundance >28% in most cases). Rank correlations of guild relative abundance from the artificial substrata (Achnanthes, biraphid, silt-tolerant) were strongest with% bank erosion and the Qualitative Habitat Evaluation Index riparian subscore, both of which were negatively correlated. Diatom assemblages from natural substrata showed strong rank correlations between% canopy coverage and the Achnanthes, biraphid, rheophilic, and silt tolerant guilds. Relative abundance of stalked diatoms and the width of the streams at flood were also strongly correlated. TWINSPAN, and subsequent Kruskal-Wallis testing of differences in habitat condition between the site groupings, provided similar results. Relative abundance of Molloy's Achnanthes, biraphid, and stalked guilds, and the relative abundance of silt tolerant taxa (Bahls's siltation index) appear to have potential for bioassessment of physical habitat in streams of agricultural drainages.
10.2307/1467830|Seasonal breakdown patterns of leaf litter were studied in a Utah Rocky Mountain stream using box elder (Acer negundo) leaf packs between January 1976 and January 1977. Sets of 14, 5-g leaf packs were placed at two sites 400 m apart during the first week of each month. Two packs from each site were removed at 100-degree-day intervals. Leaf pack mass loss and community respiration rates were measured for each removal. Breakdown rates were fit to a negative exponential model using either days or degree days. For both days or degree days breakdown rate varied seasonally at each site and between sites. The fastest breakdown rates using days were in packs placed at the upper site in spring and summer and at the lower site in spring, summer and fall. Using degree days in the model, which factors out the temperature effect, the fastest breakdown rates at the upper site were in packs placed in July and in the following October-January period. At the lower site the fastest rates using degree days were in packs placed in July, late fall, and early winter. Highest respiration rates (mg O<sub>2</sub>/hr/g dry mass) were obtained for the June placement at the upper site and for the September placement at the lower site. These differences are probably due to differences in physical and biological conditions at the two sites.
09-081|Research on aquatic hyphomycetes has been dominated by process-oriented approaches. The main objectives have been accurate estimates of fungal biomass and production and measuring fungal impact on plant litter decomposition. In some cases, these estimates have been complemented by community assessments based on spore counts. Many other ecological and evolutionary topics, commonly studied in macroorganisms, were largely inaccessible, in part because of the low morphological complexity of fungal structures and the near impossibility of identifying them in situ unless attached to propagules. Molecular methods rely on extraction, amplification (polymerase chain reaction) and characterization (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, digitized fluorescent restriction-fragment length polymorphism, sequencing) of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which occurs in all cells regardless of their reproductive status. Molecular methods allow more comprehensive characterizations of fungal diversity and evolution. Enzymatic activities can be explored at the level of gene presence (DNA amplification and sequencing), gene transcription (reverse transcription of messenger ribonucleic acid [mRNA]), by quantifying the total amount of specified enzymes in a sample via global antibodies, or by estimating their effect on model compounds. Selected actual and potential applications of these techniques are reviewed.
1468266|The importance of leaf litter to streams is well known, as is the series of events involved in leaf decay (leaf processing). What is currently missing, however, is an understanding of how the numerous, interacting variables controlling leaf-processing rates in streams can be organized. We suggest that leaf processing is scale-dependent and that factors controlling processing rates will largely depend on the spatial scale of study. Such factors may interact across spatial scales, creating problems in extrapolating results beyond the scale at which the study was conducted. We present a hierarchical framework that relates constraints on leaf processing to specific spatial scales. This framework reveals a predictable structure regarding the factors controlling leaf processing, providing a means for explicit incorporation of spatial scale into studies of leaf processing. Our framework also allows for developing scale-specific predictions of how various environmental changes might affect rates of leaf processing in streams.
1467992|The Bear Brook Watershed in Maine (BBWM) is a paired catchment study investigating ecosystem effects of N and S deposition. Because of the decade long (NH
10.2307/1467812|Subfamily-level groups of the Hydropsychidae Curtis are reassessed, using phylogenetic principles sensu Hennig for the first time. A historical overview of the Hydropsychinae Ulmer and the inconsistent placement of Smicridea McLachlan and allied genera is presented. The subfamily Hydropsychinae as presently defined is found to be paraphyletic. The study establishes monophyly of Hydropsychinae, confirms Macronematinae Ulmer plus smicrideine genera as the sister group, and investigates the status of the Smicrideini Flint 1974 within the family. Diplectrona zealandensis Mosely and Kimmins is found to be the sister group of Smicridea and allies. Hydropsychoidea sensu Weaver and Morse (1986, Journal of the North American Benthological Society 5:153) exclusive of Hydropsychidae are used as outgroup taxa. Analysis based on all larval instars suggests direction of character evolution for certain characters. A proposal is made for removal of the genera Smicridea, Smicrophylax Neboiss, and Asmicridea Mosely and Kimmins from the Hydropsychinae sensu Flint, elevating them to Smicrideinae, new subfamily, new status.
4095541|Benthic macroinvertebrate families were sampled along 3 rivers in New Brunswick, Canada. Stable isotopes of C and N were compared between body tissue and gut contents of individuals. 
10.2307/1468465|Prey employ various strategies to avoid predators, including use of structurally complex habitat where predator foraging efficiency can be reduced. We used laboratory experiments to quantify combined effects of antipredator behavior and habitat provided by zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha) shells on survivorship of snails (Physella heterostropha) co-occurring with molluscivorous fish. First we determined predator effects on prey habitat use in aquaria with and without Dreissena-shell beds (i.e., ceramic tiles with and without shells attached to them, respectively) by comparing snail distribution in the absence of fish and in the presence of chemical cues produced from redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus) preying on snails. Effectiveness of shell beds and other habitats as refuges from actual predation were then evaluated by introducing fish to aquaria that previously received chemical cues, and recording numbers of snails remaining in various habitats 24 h later. Shells and fish had strong independent and interactive effects on snail habitat use. A greater % of snails inhabited tiles when shells were present than when they were absent, and this occurred regardless of the absence or perceived presence of fish. However, fish cues caused snails to increase use of shell beds. In an additional experiment, we found that snails under predation risk also altered their microdistribution within shell beds by abandoning exposed shell surfaces in favor of interstices between shells where they were less vulnerable to fish. The combination of protective shell habitat and antipredator behavior caused snail survivorship to be 8-fold greater in the treatment with shells and fish than in the same predator treatment without shells. Our results suggest that avoidance of predators through use of zebra mussel beds is an important mechanism for the positive Dreissena effects on co-occurring benthic invertebrates that have been observed in field studies.
09-138R1|Ecological thresholds have much potential as a tool to use for watershed management. Not all systems exhibit abrupt nonlinear responses, but the threshold concept is still useful for describing stressor responses or changes in state variables. For example, the minimum detectable negative response is an initiation-of-impact threshold that might allow for planning and management before population-scale change occurs in taxa. An extirpation threshold, which is the point where a system loses a vital component, such as a species or function, also exists. A number of taxon-specific thresholds to landuse change in watersheds have been identified in previous research. We apply these values to make watershed-level and spatially explicit forecasts regarding imperilment and loss of biodiversity in the face of watershed alterations. We show that unchecked development in the Potapsco River watershed of Maryland could result in the loss of nearly 60% of the benthic macroinvertebrate taxa by the time impervious surface cover reaches 15% of the watershed. Application of analytical thresholds to projected increases in residential development in the Middle Patuxent River watershed by 2030 indicates substantial future changes in aquatic biodiversity, with up to 50% of benthic macroinvertebrate taxa disappearing from some stream reaches and few reaches immune from projected biodiversity loss or impairment.
4499009|Factors affecting epilithon biomass were investigated at 3 sites along a temporary karst stream system on the Mediterranean island of Majorca. Two sites were on the mainstream axis (downstream site [T5], upstream site [T4]) and one site was in a spring-fed tributary (GB). The degree of abiotic control of periphyton biomass was examined at the 3 sites. Mean periphyton biomass during a surficial flow period (as chlorophyll
20491186|We compared the effects of 2 common grazers, southern redbelly dace (
10.2307/1468023|Bacteria, while known to be an integral part of all ecosystems, are seldom studied except as a single taxonomic unit. Few ecological studies even acknowledge the extraordinary functional and species diversity of bacteria. Recent research has elucidated some important facts about bacteria in stream ecosystems. For instance, the dynamics of bacterial genomes within a stream suggest that populations of these organisms are more stable temporally than spatially. We develop predictive models and testable hypotheses based on the information spiraling concept to describe the ecology of stream bacteria and to define 2 new terms: colonization distance and information length. Colonization distance (D<sub>c</sub>) is the maximum distance downstream from original colony establishment at which a new colony of bacteria can be established. Information length (L<sub>I</sub>) is defined as the maximum length over which a gene has an effect on an ecosystem process independent of a specific host. These terms are modeled relative to the average temporal energy load (joules/min) in the stream. Energy inputs that exceed biologically defined limits of use result in ecosystem energy leaks regardless of information length. Our models predict that information length should be shorter in montane streams than in Coastal Plain streams of southeastern USA. Furthermore, assuming equal average energy load between streams, the stream with the largest energy load variance will leak more energy downstream. Therefore, temperate streams should be less efficient than tropical streams at utilizing energy within a reach.
20491227|Shredders appear to be scarce in many tropical streams, but few data are available about their abundance or role in litter breakdown in these systems. Shredder species richness, abundance, and biomass were investigated in 10 small streams (5 shaded, 5 unshaded) in Hong Kong as a step toward understanding the role of shredders in tropical Asian streams. In addition, breakdown of
10.2307/1467804| Mature nymphs of Pteronarcys biloba collected from Catamaran Brook, New Brunswick, between October 1994 and October 1995, were hosts to high numbers of parasitic chironomid larvae [Nanocladius (Plecopteracoluthus) undescribed sp., nr. branchicolus]. Nanocladius (P.) sp. has a univoltine life cycle in Catamaran Brook, with emergence occurring nearly simultaneously with the stonefly host in late May and early June. The chironomid larva constructs a silken case on the stonefly nymphs and feeds on hemolymph by piercing the gill tissue or the intersegmental membranes. Stoneflies were collected from different habitat types in 4 stream reaches from the headwaters to the mouth, and the position and number of attached chironomids was recorded for each nymph. The frequency and density of parasitic chironomids was not related to habitat type, but was related to reach; significantly more larvae/host were found in mid-catchment reaches than at the headwaters or mouth (p < 0.05). No parasitized stoneflies were found in the headwater reach, but between 80 and 100% of mature stonefly nymphs collected from the mid-catchment and mouth reaches were parasitized. Mean chironomid densities (<tex-math>$\overline{\text{x}}$</tex-math> 1 SE) were 6.70.4 chironomids/mature host in the fall of 1994 and 3.50.44 in the summer and fall of 1995. Both frequency and density of chironomids were highest on the oldest stonefly age class present; younger stoneflies were also parasitized, but at significantly lower levels. Larval positioning on stoneflies differed with age of larvae; early instar chironomids attached mainly to the thoracic pleura, just under the wingpads, but most migrated to femora by early fall (September), and overwintered on the femora. 
10.2307/1467221|The effects of sedimentation, microhabitat velocity and flow patterns, and larval body size on the distribution of four species of net-spinning hydropsychid caddisflies (i.e., Hydropsyche betteni, H. sparna, H. cheilonis, and H. bronta) were examined in Jordan Creek, Illinois. Significantly more larvae occurred in hydraulically calibrated concrete artificial substrate notches with little or no sedimentation. Accumulation of sediment did not appear to adversely affect the larvae during the study, however, because no significant differences were found between the distributions of larvae and the distributions of notches among four categories of sedimentation. Most larvae were found inhabiting microhabitats with rapidly spiralling flow vortices reflecting the importance of microhabitat flow pattern on Hydropsyche larval distribution. No significant differences were found in the distributions of the four species among the microhabitat velocities inhabited, although some fifth-instar H. betteni, the largest of the four species studied, were found inhabiting velocities up to 35 cm/s, whereas the other species were restricted to velocities less than 25 cm/s. Within a species, larger larvae were found at higher velocities than smaller, less mature, larvae. These results suggest that larval body size and microhabitat flow pattern, rather than capture-net mesh size, influence the distribution of Hydropsyche larvae in Jordan Creek.
10.2307/1467354|The Forest Service (FS) of the US Department of Agriculture and Trout Unlimited (TU) implemented a national partnership in 1987 to enhance the conservation and management of coldwater fisheries and their ecosystems. Professional fisheries scientists and conservation volunteers work together across the United States to manage, enhance, and monitor a world-class fisheries resource. Fisheries resources on Nationa. Forest System lands include habitats on some 161,000 km of waterways, 890,000 ha of lakes and 26,500 km of coastline, amount to about 50% of all the trout and salmon habitat in the US This unique national partnership spans some 475 TU chapters involving 70,000 volunteers working on 125 National Forests and 682 Ranger Districts providing a formidable work force for conservation activities. Since the FS-TU agreement took place, local and regional supplemental agreements have been implemented in 22 states covering 22 TU councils (274 chapters) and 99 National Forests (483 Ranger Districts). TU has become an effective partner and a prime supporter in getting management and budgetary reform built into the FS "Rise to the Future" national fisheries program. The FS and TU have effectively bridged the gap between former "out-side" partners, and are now working partners or shareholders for the benefit of coldwater fisheries resource management. TU has become more technically aware and educated in fisheries management, and the FS has benefitted from more public involvement and concern for the resource. "Involved" partnerships have helped foster better stewardship for management of coldwater fisheries resources across the nation in National Forest waters.
4095739|Quantifying periphyton (attached algal) contributions to autotrophic production in lakes is confounded by properties of substratum that affect community biomass (as chlorophyll content) and productivity. We compared chlorophyll content and productivity of natural algal communities (phytoplankton, epipelon, epilithon, epixylon, and epiphyton) experiencing high (>10%) incident radiation in lakes in the US, Greenland, and Quebec, Canada. Chlorophyll content and productivity differed significantly among regions, but they also differed consistently among communities independent of region. Chlorophyll content of periphyton on hard substrata (rocks and wood) was positively related to water-column total P (TP), whereas chlorophyll content of algae on sediment (epipelon) and TP were not significantly related. Chlorophyll content was up to 100 higher on sediments than on hard substrata. Within regions, chlorophyll-specific primary productivity was highest for phytoplankton and lowest for epipelon. Periphyton on hard substrata and on macrophytes (epiphyton) had similar rates of chlorophyll-specific productivity that were intermediate to those of epipelon and phytoplankton. Area-specific productivity of epipelon was 5 to 10 higher than area-specific productivity of periphyton on hard substrata. This broad geographic comparison indicates that, in low to moderately productive lakes under high-light conditions, algal communities have predictable differences in area-specific and chlorophyll-specific productivity based on substratum. As such, chlorophyll alone is an inadequate predictor of the relative contributions of different algal communities to total primary production. Our results highlight the importance of the relative abundance and spatial distributions of substrata in determining the role of the littoral zones in nutrient and energy cycles in lakes.
10.2307/1467522|Under laboratory conditions larvae of Enallagma ebrium and Ischnura verticalis (Odonata: Coenagrionidae) exclude conspecifics from patches of prey. I analysed dispersal of larvae to artificial substrates in a pond in southern Ontario to test the hypothesis that larvae of these species exhibit spacing behaviour under field conditions. In contrast to predictions of the spacing hypothesis, there was little evidence to suggest that dispersing larvae were smaller or behaviourally subordinate compared with the larval population as a whole. Also, dispersal rate was not positively correlated with an index of food limitation. Lack of evidence for spacing behaviour may reflect a lack of discrete, persistent patches of prey.
10.2307/1467630| Factors affecting phosphate and glucose uptake by seston and epilithon in a pristine boreal forest stream system in north-eastern Quebec were investigated using 6-L recirculating laboratory chambers. The rate of phosphate uptake by the epilithon was highest at 20C; light intensity had no effect between 0 and 500 E m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>. Phosphate uptake rates on colonized rock surfaces, normalized for surface area, organic matter, or chlorophyll a, showed no direct relationship with stream order but were highest in middle-order streams. Uptake rates on colonized glass slides were considerably lower. In contrast, phosphate uptake rates by stream seston increased with stream order, except for one anomolously high rate in a highly organic fifth-order stream. Size fractionation experiments revealed the greatest uptake was by seston particles in the 0.2-1.0-m size range. Epilithic glucose uptake was apparently unconnected with stream order but was correlated with organic carbon. Phosphate uptake by the epilithon in these phosphorus-limited streams apparently is not directly linked to the ecosystem-level continuum of organic carbon retention and use, but is more likely related to environmental and physiological factors at a finer scale. 
10.2307/1468021|Stream ecologists have yet to produce general predictive models of abundance and productivity of lotic organisms. The large number of factors affecting species abundance, differences in fauna and flora among ecoregions, and the cost of calibrating models combine to put in question our hope of producing general mechanistic models that yield quantitative predictions. Similar seemingly insurmountable difficulties have been recognised in other systems and, at least in limnology, an alternative to mechanistic models has clearly emerged: the use of a set of relatively simple regression models describing empirical relationships that are combined to yield predictions of interest. Although smaller, a similar set of empirical models exists for running water systems, and published data permit the estimation of many more. Here I review a subset of published and unpublished models to illustrate how they can be used to: 1) serve as reference values for the interpretation of measurements made in particular conditions, 2) yield estimates of abundance and productivity of populations and assemblages that can be used directly for management decisions or to test ecological theories, and 3) serve as heuristic tools to generate hypotheses about factors that affect community structure. Two major weaknesses are made clear by this treatment. The 1st is the large uncertainty associated with most predictions. This uncertainty will be reduced only by models that include better predictors, or sacrifice generality for precision. The 2nd weakness is the existing gap in the body of empirical models that prevents some useful, and perhaps more interesting, predictions. This gap will only be filled by a concerted effort of stream ecologists to produce more empirical relationships, to report them in a useful format, and to create data and model repositories. In alleviating these 2 weaknesses lies one of the most challenging tasks of our discipline.
1468318|Unlike most large rivers of the northern hemisphere, several medium-sized rivers in the southeastern USA Coastal Plain remain unregulated. These smaller rivers possess 2 habitat types (snags and floodplain) that were historically important for invertebrate assemblages in many rivers and are strongly dependent on flood regime. I reviewed and compared 2 models of habitat inundation (snags and floodplain) that were developed for the Ogeechee River (Georgia, USA) to understand the ecological significance of these habitats. These models showed that snag habitat surfaces varied from only 20 to 50% of channel bottom surfaces, but floodplain inundation varied from 0 to 37 times the width of the channel at 100% inundation. Long-term analysis of inundation patterns from a 58-y record of discharge demonstrated that substantial flooding occurred almost annually for 1 to 2 mo/y. Habitat-specific invertebrate biomass was highest on snags (mostly aquatic insects), followed by the main channel (dominated by
10.2307/1467245|This overview of non-visual communication in freshwater benthic animals emphasizes recent studies of the effect of chemical and mechanical signals on predator-prey interactions of benthic macroinvertebrates and amphibians. Prey species use chemical signals to modify their morphological development, life history strategy, feeding, and predator avoidance behavior. The advantages of chemical signals are that they can be used in dark or turbid environments by animals that do not have image-forming eyes. Chemical signals are more persistent than mechanical signals, and they allow species-level identification of predator species. In streams, prey species may use mechanical signals (hydrodynamic pressure waves or sound) to avoid predators approaching from downstream (a situation characteristic of streams and in which chemical signals are unreliable) and to initiate escape responses. Predators often depend on chemical signals to stimulate or inhibit feeding, and they use species-specific mechanical signals to locate or track prey or potential mates. The exact nature of non-visual signals depends on ecological constraints of both the sender and receiver. Responses to non-visual signals may be adapted to local predator conditions. Non-visual signals are effectively used over a wide range of temporal and spatial scales in all aquatic habitats. Organisms often adjust their responses as ontogenic development results in changing size, diet, and habitat.
4095713|The influence of the net-spinning caddisfly larva
10.2307/1467263|This research examined effects of heavy metals on benthic macroinvertebrate communities in the upper Arkansas River, Colorado. Benthic macroinvertebrates were collected seasonally (fall, spring, and summer) over a 2-yr period upstream and downstream from two sources of metals, Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel and California Gulch. Community responses to metals observed in this study were similar to those reported previously for other streams. Benthic communities at reference stations were dominated by mayflies (Ephemeroptera), which generally constituted >50% of the total individuals collected. In contrast, highly polluted and moderately polluted sites were dominated by Orthocladiinae chironomids and caddisflies (Trichoptera); respectively. The spatial distribution of specific taxa at the Arkansas River was influenced by several factors, including their tolerance for heavy metals, their recolonization ability, and natural environmental conditions. Distribution patterns of some groups (e.g., mayflies, stoneflies, beetles, and Orthocladiinae chironomids) appeared to be directly affected by heavy metals, whereas the distribution of other groups (e.g., caddisflies and black flies) was probably more influenced by factors such as food availability. Macroinvertebrate community responses to metals were complicated by natural seasonal and longitudinal changes in community composition. The greatest effects on community composition and abundance of sensitive taxa were observed during spring, when metal levels were highest. Some longitudinal changes in species richness and abundance of dominant taxa were independent of heavy metals. Determination of the effects of heavy metals on benthic communities requires careful evaluation of natural changes in community composition.
40792565|Homeostatic organisms regulate their elemental composition by retaining nutrients that are limiting and eliminating those in excess. We argue that this type of homeostatic regulation by consumers might decouple the downstream movement of limiting and nonlimiting nutrients in streams. To illustrate the influence of consumers on nutrient spiraling, we developed a longitudinal model of stream nutrient dynamics that explicitly incorporates stoichiometry and recycling. First, we simulated N- and P-tracer addition experiments in a P-limited stream with a particle-tracking algorithm that allowed us to follow the pathways of N and P atoms in the model ecosystem. Then, we varied the biomass, N:P ratio, and strength of stoichiometric regulation of consumers to quantify how these parameters affected modeled spiraling metrics. The particle-tracking simulation showed that the average time for a nutrient atom to complete a spiral increased with the fraction of atoms that entered the consumer compartment in each spiral, which in turn, increased with increasing consumer biomass. Increasing the consumer N:P ratio to exacerbate consumer stoichiometric imbalance with food resources changed the residence times of nutrients in the food web by increasing the downstream velocity of the nonlimiting nutrient and delaying downstream transport of the limiting nutrient. Decreasing the strength of stoichiometric regulation of consumers dampened the observed effects of increased consumer biomass and N:P ratios on nutrient spiraling. Our model results illustrate that consumers have the potential to influence stream nutrient dynamics through differential excretion of limiting and nonlimiting nutrients, but only at relatively high biomass. Stream biogeochemistry has largely focused on factors controlling the uptake of dissolved nutrients, but understanding how these nutrients are retained and recycled once they enter the stream food web will lead to a more complete understanding of nutrient dynamics in streams.
10.2307/1467961| We examined the buffering capacities of different riparian vegetation (natural riparian forest, 3- and 15-y-old poplar plantations, and a wet meadow) on non-point-source nitrogen pollution along a 7th-order reach of the Garonne River in southwest France. Groundwater nitrate concentration was measured monthly for 1.5 y in 51 wells installed within the aquifer of the river floodplain and in River Garonne water. The mixing of river water and groundwater was estimated using a 2-end-member model based on measured concentrations of chloride. Nitrate concentrations in groundwater decreased significantly along groundwater flow paths crossing the riparian zones. Mixing of nitrate-rich groundwater with nitrate-poor river water accounted for most of the change in nitrate concentration along groundwater flow paths. The fraction of river water in wells increased from the margin of the floodplain with an alluvial terrace (31% river water) to the river; an average of 80% river water occured in the natural riparian forest. However, observed concentrations of nitrate were always less than or equal to the concentration expected from mixing alone, indicating biological effects. Denitrification rates were low or 0 below the depth of the water table in all seasons, suggesting that denitrification was not an important nitrate sink. The remaining change in nitrate concentration not accounted for by mixing was likely the result of vegetation uptake and soil microbial immobilization. Indeed, the largest decrease in nitrate concentration (70 g N L<sup>-1</sup> m<sup>-1</sup> of groundwater flow) along a groundwater flow path was measured under the natural riparian forest during the growing season. Because mixing is not a retention process, nitrogen retention in large river margins can be highly over-estimated if the importance of mixing between groundwater and river water is not accounted for. Nonetheless, our results confirm that the effort to reduce non-point-source pollution should be concentrated on wetlands and vegetated riparian zones along small streams. 
10.2307/1468223|This analysis of organic matter dynamics in streams has 3 objectives: 1) to explore the relationships between physical characteristics of streams and their watersheds (climate, geomorphology) and stream organic matter dynamics using data from a broad geographic area; 2) to compare stream organic matter dynamics in a diverse array of streams in order to suggest determinants of observed patterns; and 3) to reveal deficiencies in currently available data on organic matter dynamics in streams. Streams were included in this analysis not to represent the global diversity of stream types but because organic matter data were available. In the introductory chapter we describe the kinds of data included for each stream and provide brief descriptions of previously published organic matter data for streams included in the comparative analysis but not described in individual chapters. The next 16 chapters present organic matter data for streams from North America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica. Most of the streams represented are in the temperate zone of North America. Data presented include climate and geomorphic variables and organic matter inputs, exports, and standing crops. The chapters on individual streams are followed by 7 chapters analyzing physical features of these streams and specific components of the organic matter budgets. Stream size, water temperature, and precipitation were the most important variables setting the physical template for organic matter processes occurring in the streams. Watershed area was the best predictor of gross primary productivity (GPP), which increased with increasing watershed area. Watershed area, discharge, and soluble reactive phosphorus concentration explained 71% of the variation in GPP. Climate (latitude) and vegetation type were more important than stream order in predicting litter inputs across a broad geographic range of streams, although, within a river basin, litterfall decreased with increasing stream order. Regression of benthic organic matter (BOM) and latitude and precipitation proved useful in predicting BOM standing crop in streams at a continental scale, although BOM was also related to channel characteristics such as gradient and woody debris. Benthic respiration increased dramatically with increasing temperature (Q<sub>10</sub>=7.6), suggesting a response related not only to metabolism but also to changes in BOM quality in response to latitudinal shifts in vegetation. Terrestrial and riparian vegetation was found to play an important role in regulating suspended particulate organic matter (POM) concentration and export, with higher values observed in forested streams and in lower gradient streams with extensive floodplains. Channel slope was the best predictor of dissolved organic matter (DOM) concentration and export, probably because of its relationship with riparian wetlands and hydrologic flowpaths. In the final chapter, a synthesis of the organic matter budgets, we reached two conclusions: 1) At a global level, stream organic matter dynamics are driven primarily by climate through its effect on terrestrial vegetation. 2) Despite significant progress in understanding organic matter processes in streams, many of the differences we found among streams reflect omissions of important components of the budget, especially accurate measures of streambed area, heterotrophic respiration, standing stock of fine BOM, and groundwater inputs of DOM.
10.2307/1467387| Diel relationships between physical and chemical parameters and biomass were examined along a 57-km reach of Whitewood Creek, South Dakota, between 29 August and 2 September 1988. A time lag of 3-6 h for fluctuations in soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) concentrations (ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 M at the downstream sites) relative to dissolved arsenic (ranging from 0.3 to 1.2 M as arsenate (pentavalent arsenic)) was consistent with our laboratory studies (reported elsewhere) showing preferential cell sorption of orthophosphate over arsenate by creek periphyton. The potential biological effects on SRP diel fluctuations contrasts with abiotic sorption controls for dissolved arsenate (a chemically similar anion). Cycles for pH, like water temperature cycles, lagged irradiance cycles by 1-3 h. Like pH, the amplitude of dissolved arsenic diel cycles was greatest at the site with most abundant biomass. Diel fluctuations in specific conductance (an indicator of groundwater inputs at elevated conductivity relative to the water column) were out of phase with both SRP and dissolved arsenic concentrations suggesting that groundwater was not the direct source of these solutes. 
10.2307/1467222|The microturbellarian fauna of North America is poorly known. In our survey of interstitial waters, stream surface sediments, and springs in southeastern New York, we found 33 species of flatworms, of which five probably are new to science and eight more are new to North America. The genera Chordarium, Ascophora, Limnoruanis, and an undetermined kalyptorhynch genus are reported from North America for the first time. Members of the order Catenulida dominate the microturbellarian community in all three habitats that we studied. The density of microturbellarians in interstitial samples varies seasonally, with lowest densities occurring in winter. In stream surface sediments, microturbellarians are most abundant in sand. Although microturbellarians are not a dominant part of the fauna in interstitial waters or stream sediments, they are encountered regularly in such habitats, and should be considered as an integral part of the fauna of these and other fresh waters.
10.2307/1467483|The quantitative contribution of microbial carbon to the nutrition of aquatic detritivores has been discussed for some years with no direct measurements of assimilation of bacterial or fungal carbon. Using radiotracers to specifically label bacteria and fungi on leaf litter, we have determined the rate of incorporation of bacteria and a hyphomycete by larvae of Peltoperla sp. (stonefly) and incorporation of bacteria by larvae of Tipula sp. (cranefly). Incorporation of bacterial carbon accounted for less than 1% of the carbon respired by either insect. Incorporation of fungal carbon was greater but still only 25% of the carbon respired by the stonefly larva. These findings suggest that other mechanisms may explain the frequently observed correlation between "microbial conditioning" and food quality.
4499045|Sediment bacteria are ubiquitous and important to the cycling of organic matter and nutrients in streams. We experimentally investigated the effect of sediment grain size on bacterial communities by using artificial substrata of different sizes incubated in a northeast Ohio (USA) stream. We examined abundances of specific bacterial taxa with fluorescent in situ hybridization. In general, taxon abundances were highest on 5.0-mm particles and lowest on 0.1-mm particles, and all taxa responded similarly to particle size. Few differences in abundance were found between substrata incubated in a pool or riffle in the stream or between substrata with or without organic matter amendment. Particle surface area and particle packing (sediment permeability) both affected bacterial abundance in our experiments. However, our results suggest that other factors, such as chemistry of interstitial spaces and susceptibility to predation, also contribute to differences in abundance among substrata of different particle sizes.
09-183|Invertebrates are often used in biological monitoring of soil and water ecosystems. Because of the huge number of invertebrate species, sample processing (sorting and identification) is a labor-intensive and often difficult task that is prone to error. These errors can bias assessment results, which often are used by environmental managers to guide funding decisions for costly restoration measures. However, quality control of assessment results is not implemented in many freshwater monitoring programs. We conducted the first audit of an official European freshwater monitoring program based on 414 macroinvertebrate samples from streams and rivers in Germany. The samples were collected by personnel at 7 different commercial environmental laboratories using the European Union (EU) Water Framework Directive protocol. We audited 12% of all samples at 3 different levels: 1) a sorting audit, 2) an identification audit, and 3) a total audit based on both sorting and identification. The sorting audit revealed that 29% of the specimens and every 5
1468319|Stable isotope data and indirect methods for estimating consumer production were used in a foodweb analysis for the Orinoco River floodplain, Venezuela. The ratio of annual production to mean annual biomass (P
20491233|Chironomidae spatial distribution was investigated at 63 near-pristine sites in 22 catchments of the Iberian Mediterranean coast. We used partial redundancy analysis to study Chironomidae community responses to a number of environmental factors acting at several spatial scales. The percentage of variation explained by local factors (23.3%) was higher than that explained by geographical (8.5%) or regional factors (8%). Catchment area, longitude, pH, % siliceous rocks in the catchment, and altitude were the best predictors of Chironomidae assemblages. We used a
10.2307/1467797| We monitored a 14-km nutrient gradient in the northern Everglades to identify statistical relationships between periphyton and water-quality changes caused by canal discharges into the marsh. Water chemistry measurements were taken at 15 sampling stations every 2 wk over a 20-mo period to quantify changes in major ions along the gradient. Standard algal bioassays were conducted using water from each station to identify trends in nutrient limitation and algal growth potential along the gradient. Patterns of periphyton biomass accumulation and taxonomic composition on artificial substrata were determined in situ during 6 sampling events across seasons. Concentrations of most ions decreased by <25% along the gradient, whereas average total phosphorus (TP) decreased from 150 g/L at peripheral marsh stations (near canal inflows) to 10 g/L at interior stations (>8 km from inflows). Limiting nutrient assays showed a shift from P limitation at interior stations to possible limitation by other nutrients at peripheral stations. Both algal growth potential and biomass accumulation decreased with increasing distance from the canal, and stepwise regression analysis showed that these changes were best explained by changes in TP along the water-quality gradient. Changes in periphyton taxonomic composition, analyzed using principal components analysis, were also related strongly to distance from canal discharges and to TP. In particular, diatom species indicative of low TP (e.g., Anomoeoneis vitrea, Mastogloia smithii) were consistently replaced by eutrophic indicator species (e.g., Gomphonema parvulum, Nitzschia amphibia) at TP concentrations between 10 and 20 g/L. The Everglades periphyton assemblage is sensitive to phosphorus enrichment and may provide one of the first reliable indications of eutrophication in the marsh. 
40792584|Research that explores the biological response to urbanization on a site-specific scale is necessary for management of urban basins. Recent studies have proposed a method to characterize the biological response of benthic macroinvertebrates along an urban gradient for several climatic regions in the USA. Our study demonstrates how this general framework can be refined and applied on a smaller scale to an urbanized basin, the Santa Clara Basin (surrounding San Jose, California, USA). Eighty-four sampling sites on 14 streams in the Santa Clara Basin were used for assessing local stream conditions. First, an urban index composed of human population density, road density, and % urban land cover was used to determine the extent of urbanization upstream from each sampling site. Second, a multimetric biological index was developed to characterize the response of macroinvertebrate assemblages along the urban gradient. The resulting biological index included metrics from 3 ecological categories: taxonomic composition (% Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera), functional feeding group (shredder richness), and habit (% clingers). The 90
41318752|Freshwater mussels are one of the most imperiled groups of animals in North America. Effective resource management and conservation efforts require reliable estimates of species diversity and their distributions. However, sampling protocols for qualitative mussel surveys have not been well established and tested. Furthermore, the sampling effort required for a given data-quality goal (90% of species captured) often varies substantially among sites, and application of a standard effort probably would introduce bias into assemblage comparisons. We tested the sampling adequacy of time-based hand searches. We conducted 16-man-hour (mh) searches at each of 18 wadeable stream sites in Illinois that differed widely in environmental factors and historical species diversity and collected 27 to 942 individuals and 5 to 18 species per site. We accounted for imperfect species detectability by using the Chao-1 richness estimator and measured sampling adequacy as the % of the estimated number of species sampled. Four-mh searches, a frequently used effort, captured 15 to 100% of all species with an average of 61%, and yielded estimates of richness that were not significantly correlated with the estimated total richness (Pearsons
4095552|We demonstrated the use of statistical tolerance intervals as a method for deriving acceptable thresholds for benthic macroinvertebrate community metrics. Tolerance intervals are simply confidence intervals based on percentiles, and they allow selection of acceptable limits (referred to as
10.2307/1467950| In developed countries the longitudinal ecological pattern of large rivers is often strongly influenced by water pollution and flow regulation. The relationship between macroinvertebrate communities and this anthropogenic environment was studied along the French Rhne River. Collected specimens were identified to both family and species level and the results compared. Along the 512 km of this 7th-8th-order river, 10 reaches were chosen for study. Macroinvertebrates were collected 3 times during spring and summer 1991, using 2 techniques, artificial substrates and hand nets Environmental variables (16) were measured and associated with the collected faunistic communities, composed of 73 species or 53 families, depending on the level of identification. The faunistic and environmental structures were compared by means of a co-inertia analysis carried out on the 2 matrices. For the environmental variables and for both families and species, the longitudinal changes were preponderant. The correlation between fauna and environment was very good, as shown by the correlation coefficients r of their F1 scores in the co-inertia analyses: 0.839 and 0.814 for families and species, respectively. For both the fauna and the environment, the ecological pattern of the Rhne River changed downstream of the main city, Lyon, and of the main tributary, the Sane River, where the fauna became poorer. Ephemeroptera and Trichoptera, which were well represented in the Upper Rhne, were replaced by molluscs and lentic groups in the Lower Rhne. The environmental changes in the lower course consisted of higher water mineralisation, increased pollution, and greater flow regulation. Similar patterns were observed at both family and species level, with only a slightly more regular longitudinal change in the upper course at species level. Water pollution was not the only reason for an impoverished fauna in the Lower Rhne, as several taxa found in the upper course were also found in a by-passed section of the lower course. Thus the strong regulation of the Lower Rhne is largely responsible for the limited fauna. The family level of identification gave a meaningful picture of the macroinvertebrate longitudinal pattern of a large river. This family pattern was then compared with that observed in other European large rivers such as the Rhine and the Danube. 
10.2307/1467296|Although it is well known that metabolism, feeding, and behaviour of lotic organisms is influenced by various flow characteristics, hydraulic variables usually are not accurately measured in lotic ecology studies. Using an approach we call "hydraulic stream ecology", we link organismic responses to a more comprehensive treatment of the physical environment. Since a unified analytical solution for all important hydraulic variables in running waters does not exist at the moment, we advocate a simpler view of the physical system. We demonstrate methods for estimating complex hydraulic key characteristics, like turbulence in the free flow, turbulence close to the stream bottom, and the force of flow prevailing at the bottom. Calculations of these complex key characteristics require measurement of simple hydraulic characteristics like mean velocity, water surface slope, depth, bottom roughness, kinematic viscosity, and density of the water. The hydraulic environment shows characteristic patterns within whole catchments or within reaches of different types of running waters (e.g., high gradient mountain stream, lowland stream, mid-order river). Examples from lotic macroinvertebrates, in particular original data on the water bug Aphelocheirus aestivalis (Fabr.), demonstrate how organismic responses are linked to the hydraulic environment. The body shapes of many lotic zoobenthos are not well adapted to minimize forces of flow, as has been generally believed. Indeed, flow forces are rather stressful for these animals. Critical resources in swift flowing microzones can often be exploited by zoobenthos for only restricted periods, a view that is consistent with the temporal, vertical migration patterns observed for most stream invertebrates. The stress of flow and temporal exposure to it may be correlated with the distribution of lotic zoobenthos. Substratum characteristics, usually perceived as a major factor explaining the distribution of lotic macroinvertebrates, is less important than mean velocity and the complex hydraulic key characteristics. Complex hydraulic characteristics are most useful in modeling specific relationships between the distribution of zoobenthos within a stream reach and the physical habitat, which differ depending on developmental stage of the organism, season, and site. On the catchment scale, the distribution of zoobenthos, and, consequently, longitudinal zonation are also largely dependent on hydraulics. Other groups of organisms found in running waters (e.g., microorganisms and fish) show responses to hydraulics that are comparable to those of lotic macroinvertebrates. There is evidence that some species can alter the hydraulic environment for other individuals (or species). Hydraulic stream ecology provides methods to scale flow in lotic research, which will lead to an increase in replicability and predictability in studies of running water ecosystems. We suggest that researchers who have measured relevant simple hydraulic characteristics in many past studies reevaluate their data considering the role of complex hydraulic key characteristics for the distribution of organisms.
4095664|A molecular tracer method was used to assess the extent and sources of pollution to 60 stream sites that were distributed across the watersheds that supply drinking water to the greater New York City area. Samples were collected from each site annually from 2000 to 2002 during summer baseflow conditions. Twelve polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH), 2 fragrance materials (FM), caffeine (CAF), and 7 fecal steroids (FS) were measured using a modification of EPA method 8270, which quantified concentrations to laboratory reporting levels ranging from 0.00009 to 0.016 g/L or 3 to 5 orders of magnitude lower than method detection levels (MDL) given by EPA 8270. In 54 of 180 stream samples, concentrations of 1 PAHs exceeded suggested, nonregulatory EPA guidance values for water supplies (0.0038 g/L for the 5 most toxic PAHs), and PAH signatures (ratios) and spatial patterns suggested that soot from local urban/suburban combustion was the primary source. CAF, FM, and FS all showed their highest concentrations at the 3 sites with large, failing sewage treatment plants, but more complex relationships to landscape variables at remaining sites suggested a variety of anthropogenic point and nonpoint sources. Concentrations of all molecular tracers measured were strongly negatively correlated with % forest cover (= all forest variables used) in the watershed.
10.2307/1467780|Studies were conducted to measure the rate at which meiofauna in White Clay Creek, Pennsylvania, graze epibenthic diatoms and bacteria, and to relate consumption rates to microbial production rates or abundances. Grazing rates were obtained by two methods: 1) taxon-specific grazing was measured from the ingestion of fluorescently labeled native bacteria (FLB) and diatoms (FLD) introduced into epibenthic communities and 2) grazing by the entire meiofaunal assemblage was measured by comparing the rate of change in bacterial and diatom densities between sediment communities with ambient and reduced meiofaunal densities. Bacterial productivity was measured by [<sup>3</sup>H]-thymidine incorporation and algal productivity by O<sub>2</sub> evolution. In some experiments the impact of meiofaunal grazing was assessed by calculating the generation times required by bacteria and diatoms to compensate for grazing losses. Bacteriovory rates (bacteria individual<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>) ranged from 6 for nematodes to 2125 for rotifers. Algivory rates (diatoms individual<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>) ranged from 0 for some nematodes and rotifers to 13.5 for one rotifer taxon. Grazing measured by reducing meiofaunal density generally yielded bacterivory and algivory rates of the same order of magnitude as those obtained with the FLB and FLD technique. Meiofauna ingested only a small fraction of bacterial production except when rotifers and large ciliates were abundant. The proportion of algal productivity ingested was 0.8 and 2.5% when meiofaunal densities were low, but at high densities the calculated generation times needed for diatoms to offset grazing losses ranged from 1.3 to 5.7 d, suggesting significant grazing pressure. In the White Clay Creek epibenthos, meiofauna probably ingest little bacterial production, but they may remove a significant portion of diatom production, especially during periods of high meiofaunal density.
4095543|The relative contribution of microfauna (bacteria and protozoa), and metazoa (meiofauna and macrofauna) to profundal benthic production in Lake Brunnsee was examined in a 1-y study. Abundance of micro-, meio-, and macrofauna was determined and converted to biomass. Annual production was calculated using the [
1468300|Vertical gradients in interstitial water quality may develop within densely organized assemblages of sessile aquatic organisms. These gradients may compromise the survival of individuals. We examined whether a vertical gradient of interstitial water chemistry (NO
1468267|We investigated longitudinal patterns of ecosystem metabolism (primary production and respiration) at 4 sites along a 37-km segment of the Little Tennessee River (LTR), North Carolina. These sites corresponded to 4th- to 6th-order reaches in the LTR in an attempt to identify the transition from heterotrophic to autotrophic conditions in this river ecosystem. In addition, we compared autochthonous C production to supply of coarse organic material from direct litter fall and entrainment from the floodplain during floods to determine the contributions of each to river energetics on an annual basis. Metabolism was measured at several times of year at each site using the single-station diel oxygen change method and reaeration estimated by the energy dissipation method. Gross primary production (GPP) ranged from 0.07 to 1.92 g C m
4095638|We measured shell length, hinge length, and height of glochidia from 21 freshwater mussel species occurring in the Sipsey River, Alabama, to test our ability to identify species based on these glochidial morphometrics. Glochidial size and shape differed widely among species; for all 3 dimensions, mean values for the largest species were 5 to 7 greater than for the smallest species. Within-species variation in glochidia size was low for all species with the exception of
10.2307/1467670|A study of egg parasitism by zoosporic fungi in a littoral chironomid community was conducted during a single season. Glyptotendipes lobiferus (Say) and Endochironomus nigricans (Johannsen) were the species most abundant as egg masses, accounting for approximately 70% of the total chironomid egg masses collected during most of the study period. While egg masses of E. nigricans were approximately twice as abundant as those of G. lobiferus, larvae of E. nigricans made up a smaller percentage (6.0%) of the total number of larvae compared with G. lobiferus (30.0%). Various fungal parasites and other factors accounted for overall rates of egg mass infection and egg mortality of 55.6% and 15.3%, respectively. Highest levels of parasitism were recorded in egg masses of G. lobiferus (81.1% infection in egg masses, 29.9% mortality in eggs) whereas low levels of parasitism occurred in egg masses of E. nigricans (46.6% infection in egg masses, 7.2% mortality in eggs). Intermediate levels of parasitism were recorded in egg masses of all other midge species combined (52.7% infection in egg masses, 17.5% mortality in eggs). The aquatic fungi Catenaria uncinata, Couchia sp., and Atkinsiella entomophaga were important parasites which appeared and disappeared in synchrony with changing water temperatures. Water molds and unknown factors appeared to be little affected by water temperatures as they persisted throughout much of the season. Host specificity was not observed as each parasite category contributed to infection and mortality in all midge host categories.
10.1899/09-077.1|A new benthic freshwater diatom,
10.2307/1467270|We quantified amphipod population distributions in Montezuma Well, characterized two habitats, and tested alternative hypotheses for speciation using behavioral observations and genetic analyses. Amphipod distributions within Montezuma Well, Arizona, indicate nearly complete separation of habitat ranges between two congeneric populations. Hyalella montezuma inhabits the pelagic zone and a Potamogeton-dominated portion of the littoral zone, while H. azteca is restricted to a narrow band of shoreline Berula and Eleocharis roots. A population of H. azteca from nearby Stoneman Lake was included in the study for comparison with populations in Montezuma Well. We estimated genetic distance measures by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) using the polymerase chain reaction with ten-base primers of arbitrary sequences. Based on 96 amplified fragments, the genetic distance between H. montezuma from Montezuma Well and H. azteca from Stoneman Lake was 0.19, whereas the distance between H. montezuma and H. azteca from Montezuma Well was 0.77. Observations of swimming behavior were consistent with genetic data: H. montezuma and H. azteca from Stoneman Lake spent significantly more time swimming than did H. azteca from Montezuma Well. These results suggest speciation resulted from genetic differentiation before introduction of ancestral populations to Montezuma Well.
41319679|Large-scale surface mining in southern West Virginia significantly alters headwater stream networks. The extent to which mining interacts with other stressors to determine physical, chemical, and biological conditions in aquatic systems downstream is unclear. We conducted a watershed-scale assessment of Pigeon Creek, an intensively mined watershed of the Tug Fork drainage in Mingo County, West Virginia. Our objectives were to: 1) develop landscape-based indicators of mining and residential development, 2) quantify the interactive effects of mining and residential development on in-stream conditions, and 3) identify landscape-based thresholds above which biological impairment occurs in this watershed. Macroinvertebrate community structure was negatively correlated with intensity of mining and residential development. Correlation analysis and partial Mantel tests indicated that mining (% of total subwatershed area) caused acute changes in water chemistry (
10.2307/1467897| Anthropogenic changes in stream geomorphology have reduced the capacity of many North American streams to trap and retain sediments and organic matter. Significant losses of retentive structures from many small streams have resulted from beaver trapping. We compared algal standing crops and rates of primary production in two adjacent streams in the Zuni Mountains of New Mexico. Castor Creek has been worked by beaver and is a complex, highly retentive system with an extensive floodplain and accumulations of organic debris. Sawmill Creek is moderately incised, free of large organic debris, and poorly retentive. Clay tiles introduced into Castor Creek had average chlorophyll a standing crops 3-9 greater than Sawmill Creek (54.8-257.8 vs. 18.4-44.9 mg/m<sup>2</sup>). Chlorophyll a on natural substrates averaged 11 greater in Castor Creek than in Sawmill Creek (1679.4 vs. 154.2 mg/m<sup>2</sup>). Average standing crop of chlorophyll a per 250 m reach was 136 greater in Castor Creek than in Sawmill Creek due to its greater surface area (12.4) and greater standing crop (11). Extensive filamentous algal mats and the macro-alga Nitella gracilis in Castor Creek's beaver ponds exhibited the highest rates of primary production (85 mg C m<sup>-2</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup>) while epilithic samples from both streams were similar (16.6 and 21.2 mg C m<sup>-2</sup> hr<sup>-1</sup> for Castor and Sawmill Creeks respectively). Nutrient amendment experiments revealed that both streams were nitrogen limited. Sediment samples taken in 1989 showed Castor Creek had 25 more dissolved NH<sub>4</sub> in the upper 5 cm of sediment than Sawmill Creek (1242 vs. 50 g/L). We suggest that higher algal production in Castor Creek is linked to greater nutrient availability at the sediment/water interface due to greater retention and processing of organic matter in the hyporheic zone. 
10.2307/1467558|Considerable annual variation in precipitation and stream discharge occurred during a 5-yr study of the abundance and size-structure of Simulium spp., Hydropsyche betteni, and Cheumatopsyche spp. larvae. All three taxa exhibited dramatic increases in density associated with increased precipitation and elevated stream discharge. However, Simulium spp. and the two hydropsychid taxa exhibited different seasonal occurrences of early larval instars and peak larval abundance. Simulium spp. produced larval propagules as early as May and continued the production of new larval cohorts throughout the summer, with highest density occurring in May-June. In contrast, H. betteni and Cheumatopsyche spp. produced only one cohort of larval propagules during summer, beginning in June and July, with the highest density in July-August. Short-term (24-d) experimental manipulations of flow regime in a riffle during spring (May-June) and summer (July-August) showed that elevated stream discharge had a strong, positive effect on filter-feeder colonization during both seasons. Taxonomic composition and temporal variation in colonization of filter feeders differed dramatically, however, in spring and summer. In spring, only Simulium spp. colonized rock surfaces; because of their rapid development, pupation, and emergence, they exhibited large temporal variation in abundance, particularly under elevated discharge. In summer, Simulium spp., H. betteni, and Cheumatopsyche spp. all colonized rock surfaces. However, H. betteni was the predominant colonist and its relatively slow developmental rate resulted in reduced temporal variation in filter-feeder abundance. These results indicate the colonization, temporal persistence, and taxonomic composition of filter feeders in riffles is strongly influenced by the life history characteristics of the taxa, particularly their timing of propagule production and subsequent developmental rate, and the temporal distribution and magnitude of discharge in the stream.
10-003R|Analyses of long-term data are an important component of climate-change research because they can help further our understanding of the effects of climate change and can help establish expectations for biological responses to future climate changes. We used macroinvertebrate data to assess whether biological trends associated with directional climate change could be detected in routine biomonitoring data from Maine, North Carolina, and Utah. We analyzed data from 8 long-term biomonitoring sites that had 9 to 22y of data, and focused on thermal-preference metrics based on cold- and warm-water-preference trait groups. The thermal-preference metrics were derived primarily from weighted-average or generalized-linear-model inferences based on data from each state database and are region specific. Long-term trends varied across sites and regions. At some sites, the thermal-preference metrics showed significant patterns that could be interpreted as being related to directional climate change, whereas at others, patterns were not as expected or were not evident. The strongest trends occurred at 2 Utah sites that had 14y of data. At these sites, cold-water taxa were negatively correlated with air temperature, and, when years were grouped into hottest- and coldest-year samples, were strongly reduced in the hottest-year samples. Results suggest that thermal-preference metrics show promise for application in a biomonitoring context to differentiate climate-related responses from other stressors.
40792625|We summarized landscape approaches used in the study of freshwater ecosystems, updated recent literature reviews on interactions between terrestrial and lotic ecosystems, and discussed the influence of
4095720|Grazerperiphyton interactions are shaped, in part, by indirect effects of nutrient regeneration. They are an important model system with which to test predictions of ecological stoichiometry and the Growth Rate Hypothesis. We conducted a laboratory experiment to test how nutrient enrichment and grazer identity interact to regulate the nutrient content and stoichiometry of both periphyton and consumers. We considered a situation in which P concentration in the water column was high, in contrast to previous experiments in which P was the limiting nutrient. We added N and P, alone and in combination, to the water in experimental aquaria that contained periphyton communities on clay tiles and grazers (1 of 3 snail species) or no grazers (ungrazed control). Benthic algae incorporated nutrients in close proportion to their availability in each nutrient treatment. Algal biomass increased significantly with +N+P enrichment, but not with +N or +P enrichment alone. Grazers had no effect on periphyton C:N ratios and positive effects on periphyton C:P and N:P ratios. P content of grazers (% dry mass) increased and C:P and N:P molar ratios of grazers decreased in response to N enrichment of the water. Grazer P content increased in response to N enrichment, probably because of increased grazer growth rates. We hypothesize that the addition of N under N-limiting conditions led to increased P uptake or retention by grazers because of high growth rates and RNA production, consistent with the Growth Rate Hypothesis.
40792528|Aquatic food webs use C derived from 2 sources: autochthonous (derived from inside the water body) and allochthonous (derived from outside the water body). Various autochthonous sources are available to consumers (e.g., algae, mosses, macrophytes), and stable isotope analysis can be used to differentiate among C sources and to determine which sources sustain aquatic communities. The goal of our study was to determine which C sources contribute to the autochthonous pathways in 2 oligotrophic rivers, the Upper Salmon and Big Salmon, in New Brunswick (Canada). Samples were taken from headwaters to river mouth (above head of tide) at 17 study sites distributed across subbasins and stream orders. Vegetation samples included macrophytes, filamentous algae, biofilm, and aquatic bryophytes. Macroinvertebrate taxa in the scraper (grazer) functional feeding group were collected to represent primary consumers that feed primarily on autochthonous food sources. Macrophyte and cyanobacteria 
10.2307/1467930| Despite the vast number of ecological studies on marine meiofauna, little is known about freshwater meiofauna. As part of a larger project on the active and passive movement patterns of stream meiofauna, I report here on an intensive sampling effort undertaken to gather temporal and spatial information on the composition and abundance of meiofauna in a fourth-order stream (Goose Creek) in northern Virginia. Meiofaunal abundance and vertical distribution in the hyporheic zone (0 to 50 cm) were measured from Jan 1988-Jan 1989. Median grain size at the site was 1000 m and discharge varied significantly with highest flows in April and May following heavy spring rains. Total meiofaunal abundance in the streambed averaged >2000/10 cm<sup>2</sup> over the year but reached nearly 6000/10 cm<sup>2</sup> during late June, primarily due to rotifers. Five taxa constituted 85-99% of the community: rotifers, oligochaetes, early instar chironomids, nematodes, and copepods. Pronounced seasonal variation occurred for each group. Rotifer, oligochaete, and copepod abundances were significantly related to discharge with abundances declining in surface layers after major floods. Meiofauna were distributed through all depths in the hyporheic zone for most of the year but abundances were more shallow in July and August when water flow and oxygen penetration decreased. 
4095727|We compared the performance of Test Site Analysis (TSA) to 2 existing bioassessment methods: the BEnthic Assessment of SedimenT (BEAST), and the multimetric approach. In TSA, simple spreadsheet calculations are used to: 1) derive an overall multivariate measure of dissimilarity between a potentially impaired test site and a reference benchmark using a number of biological summary metrics, 2) classify each site as impaired, potentially impaired, or in reference condition with formal hypothesis tests, and 3) identify the metrics important in distinguishing a significantly impaired test site from the reference benchmark. We used data collected as part of the Fraser River Action Plan (British Columbia, Canada) to compare the biological condition of 15 potentially impaired test sites known to be exposed to agriculture, logging, or mining to the condition of 61 minimally disturbed reference sites with comparable habitat. When TSA was used, the false-positive (i.e., Type-1 error) and false-negative (i.e., Type-2 error) rates were as low as or lower than when the other methods were used. Using TSA enhances our ability to identify impairments because it accounts for correlations among metrics and uses a statistically defined
10.2307/1467324|In a laboratory study of the dragonfly Tetragoneuria cynosura (Say) (Odonata: Corduliidae), we measured the feeding rates of second-year-class larvae (Tc2) as a function of Tc2 density and of the density of their first-year-class conspecific prey (Tc1). The experiments were conducted for 24 hr in small, structurally simple, cylindrical plastic aquaria within a controlled environment chamber under a 14L:10D photoperiod. The resulting functional response to prey density followed the decelerated curve (type 2) typical of many predators. Strong feeding interference among Tc2 larvae was indicated by an inverse relationship between feeding rate and predator density. Since we detected no effects of Tc1 or Tc2 densities on movement by larvae within aquaria, density-specific differences in movement probably cannot account for the observed interference. Both a distraction model (in which prey and predators "compete" for the predator's attention) and a pre-emption model (in which interference takes precedence over feeding) fit the data reasonably well. Our laboratory results suggest that the structural complexity and alternative prey present in a previous field study greatly reduced the rate of predation by Tc2 on Tc1 larvae but did not reduce the intensity of interference among Tc2 predators.
1468430|Floodplains of glacial streams are prominent features of alpine ecosystems, yet their ecology has been little studied. The primary goal of our study was to assess the effects of habitat stability and heterogeneity on the assemblage structure of benthic macroinvertebrates in a glacial floodplain stream in the Swiss Alps. Zoobenthic assemblages were investigated during different phases of the annual hydrograph in 3 distinct habitat types (main glacial channel, intermittently connected channels, and groundwater channels). Assemblages in the main channel exhibited high temporal variability in mean densities and were dominated by Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, and Plecoptera. In contrast, groundwater channels displayed low temporal variability in assemblage structure, but high within-channel-type variability. Habitat stability, spatiotemporal habitat heterogeneity, and hydrological connectivity were the primary structuring agents of the habitat templet in each habitat (channel) type. The complex channel network led to a high spatial heterogeneity in macroinvertebrate abundance and assemblage composition. As a consequence, a higher biodiversity at the floodplain scale was possible because of the presence of suitable habitat patches for taxa not able to colonize the main channel. In addition, groundwater and intermittently connected channels were potential refugia for benthic macroinvertebrates during high discharge in summer when environmental conditions in the main channel were unsuitable for most taxa.
1468353|We measured larval growth rates of 2 dominant stream detritivore groups to assess the mechanism underlying declines in invertebrate production following exclusion of terrestrial litter inputs to a forested headwater stream. Larval
10.2307/1468172|The hyporheic zone is assumed to be an important site for decomposition and nutrient turnover in many river ecosystems. We determined ecosystem respiration, hyporheic community respiration, and respiration of the epilithic community at the sediment surface in the Necker, a gravel-bed river, during August 1994. Ecosystem respiration, assessed using single-station diel oxygen curves, varied between 4.6 and 7.0 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. To estimate the respiration of the epilithic community, stones were collected from the surface layer and enclosed in flow-through respiration chambers. The respiration of the epilithic community (mainly algae) ranged from 1.0 to 1.5 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, contributing 4-19% of the river ecosystem respiration. Two different methods were used for measuring hyporheic community respiration. First, chambers were incubated at 30 cm sediment depth for direct assessment of respiration rates. Respiration rates of the hyporheic sediment were measured using a closed chamber system and extrapolated for comparison over 0.5 m and 1 m sediment depth. Second, the difference between whole-ecosystem respiration and respiration of the epilithic community was used for calculating the hyporheic contribution. Hyporheic respiration rates ranged from 3.9 to 5.9 g O<sub>-2</sub> m<sup>2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, contributing 76-96% of ecosystem respiration.
10.2307/1467573| We examined the effect of nutrient input and grazing intensity on resistance and resilience of periphyton communities in laboratory streams to a scour disturbance. Previous theoretical studies using stream models indicated that resilience of nutrient-limited streams, as defined by the return time to the initial state, is strongly related to the residence time of nutrients in the system and to the presence of herbivores. To experimentally test this prediction we established two levels of nutrient input by altering the flow regime (once-through flow and 98% recirculated flow) and two levels of grazing intensity by the presence or absence of the snail Elimia clavaeformis, resulting in a 2  2 factorial design with two replicate streams per treatment. After the streams reached an approximately stable level of periphyton biomass, a scour disturbance was imposed on all streams. Measures of the resistance and resilience of the periphyton to this disturbance were made. The resistance of most structural characteristics of the periphyton was significantly higher in streams with snails than in streams without snails. Nutrient input had little effect on resistance of all periphyton characteristics. Resilience was measured by two parameters: rate of increase of a particular characteristic over time following the disturbance (r), and time to return to the pre-disturbance state (T<sub>s</sub>). The experimental results on resilience were complex. In general, high grazing intensity resulted in low values of r for most periphyton characteristics, but also shorter T<sub>s</sub> for some characteristics. The shorter T<sub>s</sub> values were attributed to lower pre-disturbance biomass and metabolism in the streams with snails compensating for lower r for these characteristics following the disturbance. Contrary to model predictions, low nutrient input generally did not result in low resilience for most characteristics in the streams without snails, probably because increased nutrient recycling compensated for low inputs. However, for the streams with snails, resilience of most periphyton characteristics was lower in streams with low nutrient input compared with streams with higher nutrient input. This contrast in resilience suggests a positive feedback between biomass accrual and nutrient recycling that helps maintain high productivity despite low nutrient inputs during recovery of stream periphyton communities from disturbance. 
20491153|Population viability analysis (PVA) provides a mechanism for analyzing extinction risk by considering processes, such as random fluctuation in demographic features, loss of genetic variation, environmental stochasticity, and the occurrence of catastrophes. Freshwater mussels (Unionoidea) are candidates for PVA because of elevated risk of extinction from anthropogenic activities. We designed a stage-based conceptual model summarizing demographic and genetic changes throughout the mussel life cycle that are associated with changes in population size. We discuss what is known about these stages and the processes that affect transitions between stages. Considerably more information is known about adults than other life stages. Much more work must be done on nonadult life stages because they are potentially vulnerable to disruption via environmental degradation, habitat fragmentation, and loss of vertebrate hosts. New approaches, such as development of molecular identification keys, use of microsatellite markers, and assignment tests to measure dispersal, promise to increase our understanding of nonadult life stages, breeding systems, and linkages among populations. Few studies have attempted to use theory from population biology and conservation genetics to gain insight into strategies for effective conservation. We suggest that more work must be done with species that are not yet critically imperiled because study of such species is likely to yield useful data for PVAs and insight into the mechanisms regulating freshwater mussel populations.
1468188|Measurements of shell growth rate showed that a difference in the population structure of
1468070|We examined whether there was a particular group of diatoms specific to acid mine drainage (AMD) sites and/or reclaimed sites in streams in a coal-mining region of southeastern Ohio. Streams were initially placed into 5 categories: 1) stream receiving AMD from an unreclaimed site, 2) stream receiving drainage from a site reclaimed prior to a 1972 regulation, 3) stream receiving drainage from a site reclaimed between 1972 and 1982 under Ohio Revised Code (ORC) 1513, 4) stream receiving drainage from site reclaimed after 1982 under the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA), and 5) stream not impacted by AMD. The diatom flora from riffles in each system and environmental parameters (pH, conductance, metal concentrations [Al, Fe, Mn], current velocity, width, and depth) were examined to assess the recovery of reclamation sites from mining. Canonical correspondence analyses separated heavily impacted AMD streams from other sites. Total alkalinity and pH were highly correlated to the 1st axis, and SO
4499044|DNA barcoding is becoming widely used to provide species identifications in a variety of invertebrate taxa, but there has been little application so far to environmental monitoring. Here we make this connection using a group of aquatic macroinvertebrates, chironomids of the tribe Tanytarsini. Tanytarsini larvae commonly collected in biological surveys can be difficult to identify to species because of high intraspecific variability and because not all larvae are linked to described adult life stages. We examined whether Tanytarsini larvae could be reliably identified to species with polymerase chain reactionrestriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) using the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene. Tanytarsini were collected from lentic environments and consisted of 3 common genera (
4095723|A numerical model for simulation of freshwater mussel dynamics was used to investigate the effects of substrate and hydrodynamic conditions on the formation of mussel beds in a 10-km reach of the Upper Mississippi River (UMR). Suitable habitats for mussel survival were identified by creating a dimensionless parameter (shear stress ratio) combining shear force and substrate type. This parameter is a measure of substrate stability that could be used in many different applications. Dispersal of juvenile mussels with flow as they detach from their fish hosts was simulated by a particle-tracking mechanism that identified suitable areas for colonization with the potential to evolve into mussel beds. Simulated areas of mussel accumulation coincided with reported locations of mussel beds, and simulated densities were in the range of abundant mussel beds in other reaches of the UMR. These results, although more qualitative than quantitative, provide insight into factors influencing the formation of mussel beds in a large river.
10.2307/1467248|Hydrodynamic and water-borne chemical stimuli are considered important cues that initiate anti-predator behaviours of mayfly larvae. We tested the hypotheses that chemical stimuli from conspecifics and the predacious fish Rhinichthys cataractae and hydrodynamic stimuli from a Rhinichthys model would initiate anti-predator responses by mayfly larvae of Ephemerella aurivillii, Paraleptophlebia heteronea, and Baetis tricaudatus. A second set of experiments tested the hypotheses that chemical stimuli from conspecifics and the predacious stonefly Claassenia sabulosa and hydrodynamic stimuli from a Claassenia model would initiate responses by Baetis. These hypotheses were tested in laboratory streams where mayfly larvae received either chemical stimuli, hydrodynamic stimuli, or the combination of hydrodynamic and chemical stimuli. Responses by larvae to these stimulus types, in terms of use of substratum surfaces and drift rates, were compared with those by larvae in control streams without conspecific and predator stimulus types. Responses to chemical stimuli were variable depending upon mayfly species and the chemical stimulus type. For instance, while Ephemerella and Paraleptophlebia responded to Rhinichthys odours, Baetis did not respond to either Rhinichthys or Claassenia odours. Paraleptophlebia responded to conspecific odours whereas Ephemerella and Baetis did not. In contrast, all three mayfly species responded to hydrodynamic stimuli either alone or when combined with chemical stimuli. Responses by Baetis were more complex when chemical stimuli were combined with hydrodynamic stimuli. For instance, although Baetis did not respond to conspecific odours alone, drift was significantly higher in streams receiving the three stimuli of conspecific odours, predator odours from Rhinichthys, and hydrodynamic stimuli from a Rhinichthys model when compared with streams that received only the conspecific odours combined with the fish model. Similarly, an enhanced response was observed when Baetis odours were combined with Claassenia odours and the Claassenia model. Thus, the lack of a response to a chemical stimulus did not preclude an enhanced response when combined with other stimulus types. These observations suggest that although some mayflies are capable of detecting the presence of some chemical stimuli, a response is not elicited unless the stimulus is accompanied by additional stimuli.
10.2307/1467579|Benthic ecologists have recently begun to use animal body size as an alternative or supplement to traditional taxonomic descriptions of benthic communities, probably because of the successful use of a body-size based approach by planktonic ecologists. Relatively little information is available on the size structure of benthic animal communities, factors that affect the size structure of zoobenthic communities, or consequences of the size structure of a zoobenthic community. Marine and lacustrine zoobenthic communities have different size structures, and there are conspicuous differences among lakes in zoobenthic size structure. Factors likely to influence the size structure of lacustrine zoobenthos include water chemistry, lake productivity, and vertebrate predation. I conclude, however, that the effects of vertebrate predation on zoobenthic size structure probably are weaker than on zooplankton owing to the availability of physical refuges to the zoobenthos and to the widespread occurrence of morphological and behavioral defenses against vertebrate predation among zoobenthos. In turn, the size structure of zoobenthos may affect growth rates and productivity of fish, the fate of zoobenthic production, the turnover rate (and similar ecophysiological properties) of zoobenthos, food web efficiencies, and rates of sediment mixing. There are thus many opportunities for zoobenthic ecologists to use a size-based perspective in their research. Nevertheless, benthic ecologists should not apply planktonic paradigms about body size relationships uncritically to benthic communities, for body size has different implications for zoobenthos than for zooplankton.
1468268|Primary producerconsumer interactions and N dynamics were studied in a 3
20491200|Differences in sampling and laboratory protocols, differences in techniques used to evaluate metrics, and differing scales of calibration and application prohibit the use of many existing multimetric indices (MMIs) in large-scale bioassessments. We describe an approach to developing MMIs of ecological condition that is applicable to a variety of biological assemblage types and to spatially extensive (regional, national) aquatic resource surveys. The process involves testing the performance characteristics of candidate metrics in several categories that correspond to key dimensions of biotic condition. The performance characteristics include: information content (range), reproducibility, calibration for natural gradients, responsiveness to stressor gradients, and independence from other metrics. The best-performing metric from each category is included in the final MMI. The consistency of the process enables development of separate MMIs in different regions that can be combined in a national assessment and that are more comparable across regions and taxonomic groups than a set of independently developed MMIs would be. We provide an example of the process applied to macroinvertebrate data from the US Environmental Protection Agencys Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA) from 3045 sites (of which 1390 were WSA probability sites). The MMIs developed for the WSA demonstrate the feasibility of conducting bioassessments at continental scales and provide a basis for interpreting existing MMIs from regional- and national-level perspectives.
10.2307/1467646|The objective of this study was to determine whether fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) from different sources would have similar surface areas. Individual FPOM particles collected from Grasshopper Creek (clear-cut), Mack Creek (old-growth coniferous forest), and Quartz Creek (second-growth) in Oregon were photographed using scanning electron microscopy, and their surface area was calculated by assuming spherical or cylindrical shapes. In Grasshopper Creek, FPOM cylinders (n = 326) represented 89% of the total surface area (124.9 m<sup>2</sup>) and 68% of the total FPOM numbers. In Mack Creek, FPOM cylinders (n = 231) contributed 77% of the total surface area (114.2 m<sup>2</sup>) even though they represented only 55% of the total numbers. In Quartz Creek, FPOM cylinders (n = 185) represented 79% of the total surface area (61.8 m<sup>2</sup>) and 60% of the total numbers. There was a significant difference in the distribution of particle sizes and shapes from the different streams, particularly between Mack Creek and the other two streams. These differences are likely due to the differences in riparian vegetation. The importance of FPOM surface area to physical, chemical, and biological processes in aquatic ecosystems is usually overlooked in favor of more easily measured FPOM mass.
10.2307/1467205| Nine stream sites, spanning the range of water total phosphorus concentrations ([TP]) found in Eastern Ontario and Western Qubec, were sampled in June 1992 to describe how the size distribution of invertebrates varied along a nutrient gradient and among substrate categories ranging from sand to small boulders. Despite clear differences in the taxonomic composition among sites, the shape of the size distribution was remarkably similar in all sites. Substrate composition affected the overall abundance of invertebrates more than their size distribution. Overall density peaked on fine and coarse gravel and was lower on sand and boulders. Total abundance of invertebrates was highest in eutrophic sites ([TP] > 40 g/L), although only organisms larger than 1 mm (approximately 1 g dry mass) showed higher abundances in richer sites. The increase in total invertebrate abundance with increasing total phosphorus concentration suggests that these streams are phosphorus limited. Animals smaller than 1 mm long account for less than 3% of the respiration of the benthic assemblage on all substrates in our streams. Size distribution of invertebrates, although affected by substrate composition and trophy, is remarkably constant and predictable in our streams. Most of the biomass, and consequently the consumption, respiration, and secondary production, is found in relatively large invertebrates. Meiofauna is relatively rare and consequently has little direct influence on community metabolism in the streams we studied. 
10.2307/1467346| We investigated different procedures for using a fluorescent stain and dehydrogenase indicator technique for detection of respiring bacteria in two stream ecosystems in the southeastern United States. A modified filter-transfer-freeze (FTF) procedure was useful in detecting iodonitrotetrazolium formazan (INT) crystals in unattached bacteria. This technique did not enhance detection of INT crystals in particle-bound epilithic and epipelic bacteria. No significant differences were found between pre-stained polycarbonate filters mounted with immersion oil and those mounted with glycerol, although we preferred glycerol because of its optical clarity. In contrast to previous studies, we did not find that immersion oil dissolved INT crystals within bacterial cells even after a period of 24 h. Percentages of active bacteria in comparable habitats were not significantly different between a sandstone and a carbonate stream. However, benthic habitats (epilithon and epipelon) had significantly higher percentages of active bacteria (15-26%) than overlying stream water (2-7%) at all sites on all sampling dates. 
10.2307/1467681| Seasonal phenology, abundance, distribution patterns, photosynthetic rates, and phosphorus uptake rates of aquatic bryophytes in Walker Branch, Tennessee over a 13-mo period are reported in this study. The most abundant bryophyte in Walker Branch during 1990-1991 was the leafy liverwort Porella pinnata, followed by the mosses Brachythecium cf. campestra and Amblystegium sp. Bryophyte abundance peaked in late summer and was reduced by a severe winter storm. Abundance was positively associated with stable substrate types (bedrock, boulders) and channel units characterized by rapid water velocity (bedrock steps, riffles). Where present, Porella exhibited significantly greater area-specific rates of photosynthesis and phosphorus uptake than periphyton, irrespective of site or season. Biomass-specific rates also were greater for Porella in fall; in winter and spring, however, periphyton on cobbles (but not on introduced cylinders) had significantly greater biomass-specific photosynthetic and phosphorus uptake rates. When these data are extrapolated to the entire 925-m<sup>2</sup> sampling reach, taking into account the patchy distribution of Porella, photosynthesis and phosphorus uptake rates are similar between Porella and periphyton in late summer and fall, but are 3-5  greater by periphyton in spring and early summer. 
10.2307/1467300|We define disturbance in stream ecosystems to be: any relatively discrete event in time that is characterized by a frequency, intensity, and severity outside a predictable range, and that disrupts ecosystem, community, or population structure and changes resources or the physical environment. Of the three major hypotheses relating disturbance to lotic community structure, the dynamic equilibrium hypothesis appears to be generally applicable, although specific studies support the intermediate disturbance hypothesis and the equilibrium model. Differences in disturbance frequency between lentic and lotic systems may explain why biotic interactions are more apparent in lakes than in streams. Responses to both natural and anthropogenic disturbances vary regionally, as illustrated by examples from the mid-continent, Pacific northwest, and southeastern United States. Based on a generalized framework of climatic-biogeochemical characteristics, two features are considered to be most significant in choosing streams for comparative studies of disturbance: hydrologic regimes and comparable geomorphology. A method is described for quantifying predictability of the hydrologic regime based on long-term records of monthly maximum and minimum stream flows. Different channel forms (boulder and cobble, alluvial gravelbed, alluvial sandbed) have different responses to hydrologic disturbance from spates. A number of structural and functional components for comparing disturbance effects within regions and across biomes are presented. Experimental approaches to studying disturbance involve spatial-scale considerations, logistic difficulties, and ethical questions. General questions related to disturbance that could be addressed by stream ecologists are proposed.
4095685|Stream water often diverges from the main channel into sediments below the stream surface, gravel bars next to the stream, or organic debris dams in the middle of the stream. These geomorphic structures have the potential to support processes that produce or consume inorganic N (NH
10.2307/1467206| We studied the effects of an engineered flow disturbance on meiofauna (45-500 m) in an intermittent north Texas prairie stream. As part of an interbasin water-transfer project, water is being diverted by a pipeline across a catchment boundary and released into the headwaters of a natural stream channel. An initial test of the system provided an opportunity for controlled study of flow disturbance (extended near-bankfull discharge) in the stream. Quantitative meiofaunal samples were taken from sediments and small woody debris (<3 cm diam.) at two disturbed sites and one undisturbed site before and after a 2-wk water diversion. Before diversion, meiofaunal density was stable or increasing on both kinds of substrata at all sites. Meiofaunal density in sediments ranged from 15 to 699 per 10 cm<sup>2</sup>, and density on wood ranged from 22 to 224 per 10 cm<sup>2</sup>. In the sediment, nematodes, copepods, and rotifers accounted for 85-99% of individuals. Wood supported a more variable community; however, chironomids, nematodes, and rotifers accounted for 80-92% of individuals. Following water diversion, total meiofaunal density was reduced on both substrata at disturbed sites. In sediments, total density was reduced to 1-2% of prediversion levels and all meiofaunal taxa were affected. On wood, total density was reduced to 10-17% of prediversion levels. Density of chironomids on wood at both disturbed sites and of nematodes at one disturbed site were unaffected. At the undisturbed site, meiofaunal density on both substrates remained stable or increased during the same period. Wood meiofauna were more resistant to flow disturbance than those in sediments and, one month after water diversion, greater recovery was observed on wood than in sediments at disturbed sites. Rotifers responded more rapidly than other major taxa, particularly on wood surfaces. It appears that small woody debris may be an important refuge and source of recolonization of meiofauna in streams after flooding. 
10-010|Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding is an effective tool for species identification and life-stage association in a wide range of animal taxa. We developed a strategy for rapid construction of a regional DNA-barcode reference library and used the caddisflies (Trichoptera) of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park (GSMNP) as a model. Nearly 1000 cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences, representing 209 caddisfly species previously recorded from GSMNP, were obtained from the global Trichoptera Barcode of Life campaign. Most of these sequences were collected from outside the GSMNP area. Another 645 COI sequences, representing 80 species, were obtained from specimens collected in a 3-d bioblitz (short-term, intense sampling program) in GSMNP. The joint collections provided barcode coverage for 212 species, 91% of the GSMNP fauna. Inclusion of samples from other localities greatly expedited construction of the regional DNA-barcode reference library. This strategy increased intraspecific divergence and decreased average distances to nearest neighboring species, but the DNA-barcode library was able to differentiate 93% of the GSMNP Trichoptera species examined. Global barcoding projects will aid construction of regional DNA-barcode libraries, but local surveys make crucial contributions to progress by contributing rare or endemic species and full-length barcodes generated from high-quality DNA. DNA taxonomy is not a goal of our present work, but the investigation of COI divergence patterns in caddisflies is providing new insights into broader biodiversity patterns in this group and has directed attention to various issues, ranging from the need to re-evaluate species taxonomy with integrated morphological and molecular evidence to the necessity of an appropriate interpretation of barcode analyses and its implications in understanding species diversity (in contrast to a simple claim for barcoding failure).
4095669|Primary productivity and chlorophyll
1468483|Adult zebra mussels are generally thought of as sessile animals. However, when detached from their byssus, adult mussels exhibit creeping behavior similar to that of other bivalve species. Our study examined the effects of size, light, water hardness, temperature, and the presence of injured conspecifics on the movement of adult zebra mussels. Mussels were placed in aquaria and their movement was recorded after a 2-h interval. Mussels left visible trails in a thin layer of sand on the aquarium floor that allowed for accurate measurements of distance and direction of movement. The tendency to move and distance moved by the mussels was inversely proportional to size of the individual mussels. There was no significant effect of temperature on movement, though smaller mussels tended to move more at higher temperatures. Although distance traveled was not significantly different in light versus dark conditions, there was a significant effect of light on direction traveled. Zebra mussels were strongly negatively phototaxic. The presence of injured conspecifics decreased movement significantly, whereas water hardness did not have a significant effect on movement. The movement of adult zebra mussels is an under-appreciated phenomenon and deserves greater consideration for understanding dispersal vectors and development of antifouling methods to be used in the future.
10.2307/1468339|Justification of a cause-and-effect relationship in environmental impact studies is complicated by inherent qualities of impact data. Lack of randomization and replication invalidate the use of inferential statistics for inferring a causal link, and place special demands on descriptive arguments for causation. Assembly rules for causal arguments have been developed in epidemiology and provide a rigorous structure for descriptive analysis. Explicit use of assembly rules for making causal arguments allows investigators to efficiently organize, study, and present available evidence. Within this framework, statistical tests can be used to determine if populations at study sites were different after the impact, but the establishment of a causal link between the impact and the observed difference is based on an argument. Causal inference by means of argument is consistent with the scientific method of strong inference and increases the likelihood of correct conclusions.
1467994|Aquatic beetles often have been regarded as mobile transients among water bodies, but recent studies suggest strong environmental influences on distribution and thus the potential for using beetles as bioindicators of habitat quality. We related aquatic beetle assemblage structure to environmental characteristics at 9 sites within a 0.5-km
4095562|Drought leads to a loss of longitudinal and lateral hydrologic connectivity, which causes direct or indirect changes in stream ecosystem properties. Changes in macrohabitat availability from a rifflepool sequence to isolated pools are among the most conspicuous consequences of connectivity loss. Macroinvertebrate assemblages were compared among 3 distinct stream macrohabitats (riffles [R], pools connected to riffles [Pc], disconnected pools [Pd]) of 19 Mediterranean-climate sites in northern California to examine the influence of loss of habitat resulting from drought disturbance. At the time of sampling, 10 sites were perennial and included R and Pc macrohabitats, whereas 9 sites were intermittent and included only Pd macrohabitats. Taxa richness was more variable in Pd, and taxa richness was significantly lower in Pd than in Pc but not R. These results suggested a decline in richness between Pc and Pd that might be associated with loss of connectivity. Lower Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) richness relative to Odonata, Coleoptera, and Heteroptera (OCH) richness was observed for Pd than R and Pc macrohabitats. Family composition was more similar between R and Pc than between R or Pc and Pd macrohabitats. This similarity may be associated with greater connectivity between R and Pc macrohabitats. Correspondence analysis indicated that macroinvertebrate composition changed along a gradient from R to Pc and Pd that was related to a perennialintermittent gradient across sites. High variability among macroinvertebrate assemblages in Pd could have been related to variability in the duration of intermittency. In cluster analysis, macroinvertebrate assemblages were grouped by macrohabitat first and then by site, suggesting that the macrohabitat filter had a greater influence on macroinvertebrate assemblages than did local site characteristics. Few taxa were found exclusively in Pc, and this macrohabitat shared numerous taxa with R and Pd, indicating that Pc may act as a bridge between R and Pd during drought. Drought is regarded as a ramp disturbance, but our results suggest that the response of macroinvertebrate assemblages to the loss of hydrological connectivity among macrohabitats is gradual, at least in Mediterranean-climate streams where drying is gradual. However, the changes may be more dramatic in arid and semiarid streams or in Mediterranean-climate streams if drying is rapid.
4095642|Although spatial scale, upstreamdownstream gradients, environmental variability, and floodplain connectivity and complexity have been recognized as integral components of our understanding of riverine pattern and process, aquatic invertebrate community structure across lateral gradients from headwaters to the lowland of a river has received little empirical documentation. Aquatic invertebrate density, distribution, and richness were investigated at 29 study sites distributed laterally (main channelfloodplain) among 6 geomorphologically distinct river reaches from the headwaters to near the mouth of one of the last seminatural river corridors draining the European Alps, the Tagliamento River in northeastern Italy. Community relationships were examined using multivariate and diversity analyses to investigate patterns of taxonomic richness. Diversity parameters were scaled at the site, reach, and catchment levels to better understand local and regional patterns. Mean invertebrate density increased from 7484  2480 (1 SE) individuals/m
40792514|The combination of varying aquatic habitats and flow regimes creates a complex stimulus environment from which sensory information can be extracted. Previous studies with crayfish in artificial stream settings have shown that altering the temporal and spatial structure of an odor plume modifies orientation behavior. Exposure to more temporally complex odor signals enables crayfish to locate food more efficiently. To link these studies to a more natural setting, we examined how odor signals are dispersed in 3 physically different habitats within the Maple River in Pellston, Michigan, USA, by simultaneously measuring flow patterns and odor plume characteristics. These microhabitats consisted of sections of the stream with gravel, transition (gravel and sand), or sand substrate. Flow measurements were taken using an Acoustic Doppler Velocimeter while simultaneous in situ odor plume measurements were made with an Epsilon electrochemical system. Flow had more turbulent energy in gravel and transition habitats than in sand habitat. Mean velocity was significantly higher in gravel (67.8  2.00 cm/s) than in transition (30.5  0.46 cm/s) and sand (30.6  0.27 cm/s) habitats. In addition, eddy diffusivity rates were higher in gravel (173.3 cm
10.2307/1467310| The life histories of Hexagenia limbata (Serville) and Ephemera simulans Walker were investigated in Dauphin Lake, a large (surface area of 519.3 km<sup>2</sup>) but shallow (mean depth of 2.1 m) prairie lake in south-western Manitoba. Wing pad developmental stages helped to separate overlapping cohorts of H. limbata. During the 2-yr study, seven cohorts of this species were distinguished, indicative of three different life history patterns. Four of the seven cohorts had a 2-yr life history in which the eggs hatched soon after oviposition. Another type of 2-yr pattern was evident in two cohorts which spent nine months as overwintering eggs, and fifteen months in the nymphal stage. One cohort required 1.16 to 1.25 years (14 to 15 months) growth. The weighted average for all seven cohorts was 1.9 years (22.6 mo). The degree days above 10C accumulated by each life history type were 1848, 2030 and 1806, respectively. Three or four cohorts were present at all times of the year in the population, which provides a large range of nymphal sizes and emergence times for feeding fish. In contrast, Ephemera simulans had a simple 2-yr life history in Dauphin Lake. 
1468479|The life cycle and production of the dominant chironomid species (
10.2307/1467764|Variation in growth rates, maximum nymphal sizes, densities, and production estimates of Ephoron leukon (Ephemeroptera:Polymitarcyidae) were investigated at two sites over a 3-yr period on the South River, Virginia. Ephoron leukon is univoltine with development confined to a short (3-4 mo) period during the summer followed by a long (8-9 mo) egg diapause. The short growing season combined with a high degree of developmental syncrony makes this species ideal for comparative field studies. Relative growth rates ranged from 0.014 to 0.028 mg/mg/day and significant differences were observed between sites and years. Spatial differences in growth rates were explained by between-site differences in thermal regime but between-year differences were not. Differences in average densities between years may have been important in explaining annual differences in growth rates. Maximum nymphal weights averaged between 3.22 and 4.78 mg (AFDM) and were significantly higher at the downstream site for all three years. Differences were attributed to faster growth rates combined with relatively small differences in cohort production intervals. Average densities ranged from 117 to 602 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>, and significant differences were observed between sites and years, with annual differences being most pronounced. Average densities were related more to initial densities than to mortality rates and thus factors governing number of eggs laid and hatching success were responsible for annual differences in densities. The data suggest that hatching success may have been influenced by the thermal regime of the previous winter. Annual production ranged from 398 to 2857 mg/m<sup>2</sup>/yr and differences were significant between sites and years. Much of the between-site variation in production estimates was explained by differences in maximum nymphal weight, while differences in mean densities explained much of the annual variation in production.
10.2307/1467633| The ecology of shredding macroinvertebrates was studied in a first-order, headwater stream on the Coastal Plain of Virginia. Twenty-three species of shredders were collected from monthly samples over a 28-mo period. Pycnopsyche luculenta, P. scabripennis, Tipula abdominalis, Psilotreta sp., Agarodes libalis, and Asellus racovitzai were the most abundant species, and, with the possible exception of partial bivoltinism for A. racovitzai, all had univoltine life histories. Total shredder density and biomass were 4-5 greater in debris dams than on sediment, even though dams occupied only 3% of the stream surface while sediments constituted 97% of the surface area. Annual production (dry mass) was 11.6 g/m<sup>2</sup> in dams and only 1.5 g/m<sup>2</sup> on the sediment. Annual mean shredder production adjusted for habitat availability was 1.8 g/m<sup>2</sup>. Gut content analysis showed that T. abdominalis and A. racovitzai were strict leaf feeders. P. luculenta, P. scabripennis, and Psilotreta sp. supplemented their leaf material diets with wood, especially as leaves became scarce in the stream. Agarodes libalis fed exclusively on wood during the summer when wood was the only common detrital food material available, and added leaves to its diet during the fall and winter. 
20491123|The effects of nutrient enrichment of stream water on epilithic chironomid larval assemblages were examined during spring in a Mediterranean catchment. Three reaches that differed in degree of enrichment were selected for comparison. Water chemistry, epilithon biomass (as ash-free dry mass [AFDM]), epilithic algal biomass (as chlorophyll
40792650|Across aquatic ecosystems, benthic secondary production generally is thought to be limited by autochthonous primary production. We estimated secondary production in 8 oligotrophic arctic lakes of varying morphometric characteristics for which we also had estimates of pelagic and benthic primary production during the summer of 2001. Four of the lakes supported similar communities of fish, and 4 were fishless. The sizefrequency method was used to calculate cohort production interval (CPI)-corrected lake benthic secondary production and production to biomass (P:B) ratios for all taxa in all lakes. Taxa examined from sediment samples included
40792513|Detritus processing, the breaking down of organic matter into smaller particles, is an essential operation in aquatic systems because it provides resources to filter feeders and accelerates nutrient release by microorganisms. Detrital foodweb dynamics are influenced by both consumption (top-down) and production (bottom-up) effects. We tested the effects of predators and detritivores on the abundance of microorganisms in an inquiline community in pitcher plants. We manipulated densities of mosquitoes (top predator) and midges (processing detritivore) in a factorial press experiment and measured the response (density) of bacteria, protozoa, and rotifer populations over several generations. We hypothesized that: 1) midges would have a positive effect on microorganisms by increasing nutrient availability (bottom-up effects), 2) mosquitoes would depress microorganism populations through consumption (top-down effects), 3) top-down and bottom-up effects would operate independently, and 4) would attenuate with trophic position. Mosquitoes (predators) had a negative effect on all measured populations. Midges (processing detritivores) had a positive effect on bacteria, but a negative effect on rotifers and some protozoan taxa. The increase in bacterial density probably was the result of nutrient enrichment from detritus processing, whereas the decrease in rotifers seems to have been the result of consumption by midges. Our study shows that the role of processing detritivores is complex and can enhance both bottom-up and top-down effects. Specifically, omnivory can complicate simple top-down and bottom-up predictions. Although they accelerate decomposition by microorganisms and, thereby, can increase resource availability, processing detritivores can also be important consumers in detrital food webs.
10.2307/1467572|Transport and retention of particulate organic matter (POM) were examined in the channels and on the floodplains of two low-gradient headwater streams on the Coastal Plain of southeastern Virginia. During base discharge, POM was primarily retained as it settled onto the sediment surface, but during high discharge, debris dams became primary retainers. During overbank flooding much of the coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) moved from the channels onto the floodplains. The mean distance that wood moved over a year at Colliers Creek, which had low current velocity and a broad, frequently inundated floodplain, was 23 m in the channel and 46 m on the floodplain; at Buzzards Branch, with higher current velocity and a smaller, less-frequently inundated floodplain, wood moved a mean distance of 136 m in the channel and only 2 m on the floodplain. Mean leaf transport distances in the channels ranged from 1.6 m in Colliers Creek during summer base discharge to 156 m at Buzzards Branch during a winter spate; mean leaf transport distances on the floodplains were 0.5-1.7 m. Fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) transport, studied only during base discharge, was farther than that of wood or leaves and varied from 1.8 m during summer base discharge in the Colliers Creek channel to 84.0 m during winter base discharge in the Buzzards Branch channel. Over one year, 97% and 27% of the marked wood placed in the channels was transported into the Colliers Creek and Buzzards Branch floodplains, respectively; only 4-9% of the marked wood placed in the floodplains moved into the channels. Base flow flux of POM was 24,000 kg/yr and 1700 kg/yr on the floodplains, and 7000 kg/yr and 13,000 kg/yr in the channels, at Colliers Creek and Buzzards Branch, respectively. Retention, transport distance, and magnitude of POM exchange between the channels and floodplains were dependent on the timing, frequency and extent of spates, and floodplain inundation, which thus were critical determinants of POM dynamics and hence system structure and function.
40792511|We used 2 caddisflies,
1468301|Aspects of the reproduction, age, growth, fish hosts, and culture of juveniles were determined for the endangered fanshell pearlymussel,
10.2307/1467352|During more than 40 years of conservation activity, The Nature Conservancy has played an instrumental role in the protection of biodiversity by assessing the rarity of species and communities, tracking their locations and ecological status, and pursuing some form of conservation management for critical habitats. The acquisition of key private lands and subsequent management as nature preserves by Conservancy staff has proven to be an effective conservation approach. In response to an urgent need to seek biodiversity protection on larger landscapes, the organization is now shifting its focus to ecosystem-level conservation activities. This venture will largely depend upon: 1) partnerships developed with public-land managers and private landowners and 2) improved understanding of system interdependencies and ecosystem processes. "Bio-hydrological" studies which address the influences of hydrologic regimes on the character of biological communities are critically needed.
20491151|Freshwater bivalves of the order Unioniformes represent the largest bivalve radiation in freshwater. The unioniform radiation is unique in the class Bivalvia because it has an obligate parasitic larval stage on the gills or fins of fish; it is divided into 6 families, 181 genera, and 800 species. These families are distributed across 6 of the 7 continents and represent the most endangered group of freshwater animals alive today. North American unioniform bivalves have been the subject of study and illustration since Martin Lister, 1686, and over the past 320 y, significant gains have been made in our understanding of the evolutionary history and systematics of these animals. Here, the current state of unioniform systematics and evolution is summarized, and suggestions for future research themes are proposed. Advancement in the areas of systematics and evolutionary relationships within the Unioniformes will require a resurgence of survey work and reevaluation of all taxa, especially outside of North America and Western Europe. This work will require collection of animals for shell morphology, comparative anatomy, and molecular analyses. Along with reexamination of described taxa, a renewed emphasis on the natural history, host-fish relationships, ecology, and physiology of these animals is needed. Traditional conchological and anatomical characters should be reevaluated, new character suites should be added, and new morphometric methods should be applied. The fossil record of freshwater bivalves should be carefully reviewed, and phylogenetic hypotheses including fossil taxa must be developed. We will have to expand our set of molecular tools to include or develop additional markers, such as single-copy nuclear genes and microsatellites. Examination of double uniparental inheritance of mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is providing new insights into the evolution of this order. Mitochondrial gene order differs among genera but is still to be explored. Expansion of our understanding of the evolutionary relationships and history of unioniform bivalves will provide a solid foundation to study the zoogeography of these rather sessile, obligate freshwater organisms. The unique natural history of unioniform bivalves provides a fertile area for testing and developing evolutionary theories, and, as our understanding of the systematics of these animals improves, a better understanding of the evolution of this expansive radiation in freshwater will develop.
20491231|Demand for water is increasing in many parts of the world, but removal of significant volumes of water from streams for irrigation, industry, and municipal supply has the potential to affect aquatic biota. Protecting the ecological value of streams is of increasing interest to water managers and the public. However, few experimental studies address the impacts of flow reduction on stream habitat condition and biota. We reduced discharge by 80 to 95% in 3 small, stony-bottomed streams (<4 m width), using weirs and diversion channels/pipes and quantified diel patterns of density of naturally drifting macroinvertebrates before and during a 2-mo period of continuous reduced flow. We also measured artificially induced passive invertebrate drift distance in control and impact reaches to determine the impact of flow reduction on drift distance. We measured the head capsule width of common drifting taxa to determine if larval size interacted with discharge to influence drift distance. Drift density of several taxa increased dramatically in the days following flow reduction, but drift returned to prereduction levels for the remainder of the reduced-flow period. Drift density of some taxa was elevated throughout the reduced-flow period. Few individuals drifted >1 or 2 m under reduced-flow conditions. Larval size influenced drift distance only for the mayfly
10.2307/1467523|In laboratory stream channels we investigated the influence of two predaceous aquatic insects on the substratum particle size preference and drift of a prey species. Predators were the stonefly Acroneuria lycorias and the dobsonfly Corydalus cornutus. The prey organisms were Hydropsyche bronta. In the absence of predators, no significant substratum preference was noted except for the strong avoidance of fine sand particles 0.5-1.0 mm in diameter. In the presence of predators, however, small substratum (13-33 mm) was significantly preferred over large substratum (53-175 mm). By choosing small substratum, Hydropsyche found some refuge from predation. This conclusion is based on our finding that mortality resulting from predation was lower on small than on large substrata. The presence of Acroneuria caused increased drift of Hydropsyche; however, Corydalus did not induce Hydropsyche drift. Drift was used by Hydropsyche both as an escape mechanism and as a method to redistribute at the microhabitat level. The major influence of the predaceous aquatic insects on Hydropsyche habitat selection probably occurred during the prey's active colonization period, during which Hydropsyche became redistributed in a new microhabitat based on substratum size and presence or absence of predators.
40792527|Aquatic communities are highly threatened by anthropogenic and climate change. However, despite their importance in these communities, information regarding temporal changes in populations and assemblages of North American crayfish is scarce. Long-term monitoring of crayfish populations in south-central Ontario, Canada, indicates that the populations are in a significant state of decline. We sought to determine whether these population declines are spatially and taxonomically broad, and if so, what factors might be associated with the declines. We sampled crayfish abundance (catch per unit effort) in 100 lakes, and compared current abundances to survey results from the early 1990s. Abundances of all species (natives and nonnatives) declined significantly during this interval. Declines were both severe (6396% loss of abundance) and geographically widespread for all species. Previous studies have documented native species declines caused by the invasive crayfish
4499038|Agriculture has influenced southern Appalachian streams for centuries, but recent socioeconomic trends in the region have led to extensive reforestation of agricultural land. Stream ecosystem metabolism might recover from agricultural influence as watersheds undergo reforestation, particularly when shade from terrestrial vegetation is restored. We determined historical (1950) and current (1993) forest cover in 2
10.2307/1467511|Two species of Procladius collected from Delta Marsh, a northern prairie marsh in Manitoba, had similar life cycles but differed in their structure and mating behaviour. In this paper, the adult male of P. nietus Roback is redescribed. The female, pupa and larva of P. nietus are described, as are the adults and pupa of P. deltaensis n. sp. Observations on their abundances, habitat preferences, phenologies, overwintering, food habits, and mating behaviour are given. Procladius deltaensis does not swarm and mates on the ground or other suitable surface, whereas P. nietus is apparently a typical aerial swarming species. These different mating behaviours may act to ensure reproductive isolation between these two species.
10.2307/1467667| Epilithon patch structure was investigated in a 4th-order boreal river in northern New York State, USA. Benthic and suspended sampling units, consisting of 120-cm long strands of 5-mm glass beads oriented parallel to the current, were placed in a fast-flowing riffle and an adjacent slow-flowing peripheral channel 2 mo prior to sampling. During three sampling periods, spring, summer, and autumn, 42 units were collected. The substratum contour beneath each benthic sampling unit was mapped, and epilithon patch development was examined at 1 cm resolution by assaying bead pairs for either chlorophyll or alkaline phosphatase activity. Epilithon patch length, estimated by spatial autocorrelation analysis, was 10  8 (SD) cm, approximately half that of the cobble and boulder substratum (22  9 cm), with no apparent differences between sites or seasons. The magnitude of between-patch variation (patch amplitude), quantified by analysis of semivariance, did show spatial and temporal patterns that were dependent on the parameter measured. Between-patch variation in alkaline phosphatase activity was consistently higher at the fast site, with an average amplitude of about 24  mol h<sup>-1</sup> cm<sup>-2</sup> vs. 12 for the slow site. Chlorophyll data showed a seasonal pattern with the highest between-patch variation occurring during the summer. The average fractal dimension of the epilithon (D = 1.81) was much greater than that of the substratum (D = 1.25), suggesting that epilithon patch structure emerged primarily from small scale processes such as turbulence and macroinvertebrate activity. The complexity of the patch structure has implications for food web organization, patch stability, and nutrient spiralling. 
1468112|Ecoregional differences in geology and hydrology may affect physical and chemical conditions in streams and, consequently, the species composition of algal assemblages. Stresses resulting from human disturbance, however, may constrain species membership in algal assemblages and reduce regional diversity. We expected that ecoregional differences in diatom assemblages, if they were present, would be more evident in relatively undisturbed sites than in randomly selected sites. Benthic diatom and water chemistry samples were collected from streams in 7 ecoregions of the Mid-Atlantic Highlands to evaluate correspondence between ecoregional classification and diatom assemblages. Ecoregional differences were assessed using 196 randomly selected stream sites (probability sites) and 60 sites with less disturbance by humans (reference sites). Multivariate analyses showed that significant ecoregional differences in diatom assemblages were observed only in probability sites and not in reference sites. Water chemistry was significantly different among ecoregions, both for probability sites and for reference sites. Significant differences in diatom assemblages and water chemistry were, however, evident only among ecoregions grouped by topography (i.e., montane, high plateau, and low plateau/valley). Ecoregional differences between montane regions or low plateau/valley regions were subtle. Stream sites grouped by catchments were also significantly different in water chemistry but not in diatom assemblages, both for probability sites and for reference sites. Our data suggest that diatom assemblages respond to land use, especially agricultural activities, and thus may correspond to the ecoregional classification when land use differs significantly among these ecoregions (e.g., montane vs valley ecoregions). Diatom assemblages that lack a region-specific feature may be ideal as unbiased indicators of stream water quality.
41318729|Juvenile unionid mussels disperse in the water column after detachment from their host fish. The settling velocity (
10.2307/1467708|Scanning electron microscopy and x-ray energy dispersive spectroscopy were used to examine the influence of sand grain mineralogy and microtopography on diatom colonization patterns. Determinations of the naturally occurring minerals and their relative abundances, along with presence/absence, numbers, and distribution of diatoms on each mineral type were made from six bimonthly samples of stream sand. An in situ experiment was also performed in which diatoms were allowed to colonize sand-sized grains of pulverized quartz, K-feldspar and hornblend rocks placed in chambers suspended over the stream bed. Most sand grains (65%) from the stream were composed entirely of quartz. The remaining grains were calcium and potassium feldspars (26%) and hornblends and other heavy detrital minerals (9%). Nonmotile, stalked diatoms and motile diatoms possessing a raphe had distinctly different microspatial distributions. Stalked diatoms occurred significantly more often and in greater numbers on quartz than on any other mineral type. On all grains, they were found predominantly on "hills" or exposed portions. In contrast, motile prostrate diatoms were attached primarily in depressions and crevices and occurred as often on feldspars as on quartz grains. These results suggest that factors influencing the colonization and attachment of diatoms on quartz and feldspars are different for motile and nonmotile species. Hornblends were rarely colonized by either motile or nonmotile diatoms.
1468314|The agricultural zone of southwestern Australia is an extensively modified landscape. Ninety percent of the perennial native vegetation has been cleared and replaced by annual cereal crops and pasture. Consequently, groundwater has risen and much of the region is affected by dryland salinity. River geomorphology and water quality have been severely impacted by land clearing, anthropogenic patterns of land use, and secondary salinization. The objectives of this study were to determine patterns of distribution of aquatic macroinvertebrates in the region, and to identify environmental variables influencing these patterns. Aquatic macroinvertebrates were sampled at 176 river sites during spring 1997 and a range of environmental data were collected at each site. Eighty-one families were collected, with the fauna being dominated by insects. At the family level, macroinvertebrate communities were homogeneous and depauperate, and consisted of families that tolerated a broad range of environmental conditions. The fauna was particularly resilient to high salinities, with some families tolerating salinities orders of magnitude greater than previously reported for lotic waters. The most significant environmental factors influencing the distribution of aquatic invertebrates were rainfall, salinity, land use, and instream habitat.
4095540|Important ecological services of low-order streams are greatly affected by urbanization. North Buffalo Creek, in the headwaters of the Cape Fear River basin in Greensboro, North Carolina, receives point- and nonpoint-source pollutants. Natural abundances of the stable isotopes of C (
10.2307/1467918|Most studies of the relationships between freshwater macrophytes and phytomacrofauna, or the macroinvertebrates associated with the macrophytes, have been based on individual plant collections or samples from monotypic plant stands. We describe the phytomacrofauna assemblages within naturally occurring, taxonomically mixed stands, and consider how macrophyte surface area and plant morphology influenced phytomacrofauna diversity and abundance. Samples of submersed macrophytes and phytomacrofauna were collected April-November 1979 in Anchor Bay of Lake St. Clair. Only the portions of macrophytes within the water column and invertebrates from above the sediment were considered. Densities of phytomacrofauna were not consistently related to fluctuations in macrophyte surface area, indicating that the use of macrophyte structure by the invertebrates changed during the year. Both the abundance and species richness of the phytomacrofauna were strongly related to macrophyte species richness reflecting the response of the invertebrates to the structural heterogeneity in taxonomically mixed stands. Vertically heterogeneous stands with an understory of Chara and an overstory of vascular macrophytes, for example, were likely to contain more invertebrates than stands with only one macrophyte taxon.
1468126|Two northern Californian streams, an intermittent and a perennial, with similar climate, geology, vegetation, and land use were compared to examine the effects of seasonal drying on surface and hyporheic invertebrate assemblages. Aquatic insects composed 95% and 94% of the surface fauna in the intermittent and perennial streams, respectively, and were dominated by chironomids and caddisflies (e.g.,
10.2307/1467297|Although many species that live in low-order rainforest streams obtain much of their energy in the form of terrestrial leaf detritus, marked regional differences in the quantity, quality, and seasonal timing of leaf fall occur at different latitudes. There are also major seasonal, elevational, and historical differences in the frequency of floods and droughts that influence patterns of leaf input, transport, and decomposition. These differences may provide a basis for comparing stream communities in terms of biotic diversity and modes of detrital processing. At present, regional patterns of community structure are apparent in temperate-zone streams, but no distinct general patterns of biotic diversity or functional feeding groups are clearly evident in stream communities across latitude. Diversity of stream-dwelling detritivorous fishes is apparently highest in the large, geomorphologically complex Amazon basin where environmental conditions have remained highly variable throughout the Pleistocene. Diversity of other neotropical fish communities is regionally influenced by proximity to marine coastal habitats. Some insect and decapod crustacean taxa show higher species richness in mainland montane streams; high levels of endemism characterize some insular streams. As field experimentation increases, the underlying bases for evolution of specific adaptations by benthic invertebrates in highly seasonal neotropical streams can be interpreted more reliably, and detritivory can be placed in a latitudinal perspective. Human-induced disturbances are rapidly increasing in frequency and intensity in tropical regions; the biotic richness of low-latitude streams is being altered and opportunities for research on community dynamics are being lost.
10.2307/1467457| Hydraulic characteristics were measured in artificial streams and in 1st- to 5th-order streams in the Appalachian and Cascade mountains. Appalachian Mountain stream sites at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina, were on six 1st-order streams and a 1st- through 4th-order gradient of Ball Creek-Coweeta Creek. Cascade Mountain sites were located on constrained and unconstrained reaches of Lookout Creek, a 5th-order stream in H. J. Andrews Experimental Forest, Oregon. At each site, a tracer solution (chloride or rhodamine WT) was released for 30-180 min and then discontinued. At the downstream end of the release site, the resulting rise and fall of the tracer concentration was measured. These data, along with upstream concentration and measured widths and depths, were used in a computer model to estimate several hydraulic parameters including transient storage and lateral inflow. Estimated transient storage zone size (A<sub>s</sub>) ranged from near zero in artificial streams to 2.0 m<sup>2</sup> in 5th-order streams. A<sub>s</sub> was largest relative to surface cross-sectional area (A) at 1st-order sites where it averaged 1.2  A, compared with 0.6  A and 0.1  A in unconstrained and constrained 5th-order sites, respectively. Where measured, lateral discharge inputs per metre of stream length ranged from 1.9% of instream discharge in 1st-order streams to 0.05% of instream discharge at 5th-order sites. Our results show that surface water exchange with storage zones is rapid and extensive in steep headwater streams and less extensive but still significant at 3rd- through 5th-order sites. An understanding of relationships between stream morphology, storage zone size, and extent of interactions between surface and subsurface waters will assist comparisons of solute dynamics in physically diverse streams. 
10.2307/1467234|Aquatic dipterans were sampled from coarse woody debris (CWD) and stony benthic habitats from February 1991 through February 1992 in the White River, Illinois River, and Clear Creek of the Ozark Plateau in Arkansas. Chironomidae was the numerically dominant taxonomic group, and they were collected in significantly greater densities from CWD than from benthic habitats; but densities of other dipterans did not differ significantly between habitat types. Representatives of five taxa were collected in significantly greater densities from benthic habitats, and seven from CWD. The greatest estimated mean density of dipterans occurred during the spring, but differences were not significant because of high variation within seasons. The degree of decay of CWD was an important microhabitat factor for representatives of six taxa, of which four were xylophagous chironomids. The xylophages that were affected by degree of decay were Brillia flavifrons, Polypedilum fallax, Stenochironomus sp., and Xylotopus par. Eukiefferiella spp. and Phaenospectra sp. were the non-xylophages affected by decay stage. Biofilm volume appeared to be a less important factor in CWD use, but was important for representatives of two taxa (B. flavifrons and Eukiefferiella spp.).
4499058|We conducted field surveys and experiments to determine whether observed distributions of crayfish among habitats were influenced by differential resource availability, foraging profitability, and predation rates and whether these factors differed with crayfish size and habitat depth. We sampled available food resources (detritus and invertebrates) and shelter as rock substrate in deep (>50 cm) and shallow (<30 cm) habitats. We used an enclosureexclosure experiment to examine the effects of water depth and crayfish size on crayfish biomass and survival, and to determine whether these factors affected silt accrual, algal abundance (chlorophyll
10.2307/1467827|Comparative data on emergence, adult activity, and larval development were used to interpret patterns of phenology, voltinism, and developmental synchrony in a 14-species assemblage of dragonflies (Odonata:Anisoptera). Interspecific differences in these characteristics provided an opportunity to interrelate life history, population size structure, and the potential for intra- and interspecific interactions. Larval populations of most species comprised an extraordinary size range of individuals at any one time. In many species, this intraspecific size variability was primarily due to developmental asynchrony within generations (e.g., Libellula lydia, Celithemis elisa, Perithemis tenera). Oviposition in these species occurred throughout most of the summer so that the timing of instar development varied considerably among broods. By fall, the largest larvae in these populations were 5 to 10 times the size of smaller conspecifics. In other asynchronous breeders, an even wider size range of co-occurring conspecifics resulted from overlap between generations. In Erythemis simplicicollis and Pachydiplax longipennis this generation overlap was due to the presence of mixed uni- and bivoltine cohorts, whereas in Tramea lacerata and Anax junius, it was due to phenologically separate but overlapping migratory and resident cohorts. In the semivoltine Epitheca princeps, size variability among conspecifics was due mainly to overlap between year classes. Most larvae were similar in size at the same point in time in those species that bred synchronously and were univoltine (Epitheca cynosura, Leucorrhinia intacta). Size ratios of the smallest to largest co-occurring conspecifics in these populations were frequently larger than those commonly thought to facilitate interspecific coexistence. Thus, intraspecific resource partitioning should play an important role in population regulation, as should cannibalism. This intraspecific size variability should also create the potential for mixed competition--predation interactions between the same species. A phenological tradeoff between competition and predation should minimize the efficacy of seaonal segregation as a mechanism for minimizing the intensity of interspecific interaction in this assemblage.
10.2307/1467262| We determined the phenology and life-cycle of a population of the perlid stonefly, Agnetina capitata (Pictet), in Cascadilla Creek, Tompkins County, New York, including the pattern of larval growth throughout the year, the period of adult emergence, and the development of eggs under laboratory conditions. Eggs did not develop at 5C and hatching was negligible at 10C, suggesting that the lower threshold for embryonic development in A. capitata is above those temperatures. Median egg development time significantly decreased with increasing temperature from 15 to 20-25C. Independent of temperature, however, there was considerable variation in the development time within egg clutches. Thus, the delay in hatching of A. capitata eggs is complex, showing characteristics of both quiescence and diapause-mediated dormancy. Changes in larval size were not observed during the winter, suggesting that stream temperatures are too low for growth and development. Last instars first appeared in May, and pharate adults were collected in emergence traps throughout June and July. The distribution of emergence was characterized by two peaks in both males and females. Slight protandry was observed in both emergence peaks, and a decrease in size throughout the emergence season occurred for both sexes. Growth patterns of A. capitata larvae were consistent with a complex life cycle that is completed in at least two years and characterized by multiple developmental pathways (cohort splitting). Delayed hatching within egg-clusters, an extended emergence period for adults, and an oviposition period spread out over the life span of the female lead to an extended larval recruitment period and large variation in larval size in the population. Those larvae that hatch early, soon after the beginning of oviposition during the summer, seem to complete the life cycle in two years; but they emerge later in the season than those that hatched from eggs in the fall or early spring, and emerge after three years from oviposition. 
20491171|We used an infrared video system and O
40792515|We compared spatial patterns of N (NO
1468420|We collected 541 invertebrate specimens in riparian and upland habitats of the South Fork (SF) Eel River, California, USA, representing 12 orders and 55 families, and including adults of both aquatic and terrestrial origin. We fitted a power function to this data set at 4 taxonomic levels: 1) the entire pooled sample, 2) composite samples of aquatic and terrestrial taxa, 3) individual orders, and 4) individual families for which there were adequate data (
10.2307/1467348|The accelerated impact of humankind on freshwater ecosystems over the last few decades is unprecedented and the need for effective cooperation between scientists and organizations for conservation and resource management has never been greater. The river conservation community has expanded its focus from recreational stream segments to promotion of ecosystem-based conservation policies at national and state levels. Scientists are moving beyond documentation of the deterioration of freshwater ecosystems towards application of their knowledge to management and restoration solutions. However, in spite of research, symposia and workshops, and new applied professional journals, much remains to be done. Here we review some of the challenges and opportunities for effective application of ecological information to solutions to environmental problems in aquatic systems. We focus on avenues for enhanced communication and cooperation between the scientific community and organizations for conservation and resource management. Specific recommendations include: (1) maintenance of regular communication between respective organizations through formal liaisons; (2) development of 'State of the Science' papers focusing on key and timely conservation issues (e.g., hydropower, wetlands loss); (3) participation of scientists in selection of alternative management solutions to specific environmental problems, definition of biological criteria in evaluating solutions, and predictions of how the biological system will respond to alternative solutions; (4) review of the scientific content of documents developed by conservation and resource management groups; (5) development of a database that will serve as a clearinghouse of aquatic scientists who have expertise in specific areas; and (6) development of research priorities for specific sites or projects that will directly aid non-governmental organizations in the pursuit of conservation objectives and direct communication of these priorities to the scientific community.
10.2307/1467917|We attempt to define groups of functionally related benthic algal species or guilds to assess if the species richness of such guilds varies across experimentally manipulated nutrient gradients, and to determine the relative contribution of these guilds to total community diversity. Nutrient gradients were established using nutrient-releasing substrata; treatments consisted of Si, N+P, Si+N+P, and controls. Nutrient enrichment significantly altered the biovolume of 27 species (out of a total of 141). Results from one-way ANOVA tests coupled with multiple means range tests categorized these species into four major guilds: three guilds of species which achieved their highest abundance on either Si, N+P, or Si+N+P treatments, and a guild that grew best on controls. This pattern of structuring was corroborated by cluster analysis and principal components analysis. Total community diversity and the relative contribution of guilds to total community diversity was less on N+P and Si+N+P substrata compared with that on Si and the control substrata. This suggests that nutrient enrichment may narrow the conditions amenable to many algal species (nutrient generalists), creating a niche occupied by those taxa sufficiently equipped to benefit under such conditions (nutrient specialists).
10.2307/1467867|Compared to leaf litter, benthic fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) is considered very refractory. FPOM exhibits high carbon to nitrogen ratios, low respiratory rates, and is a relatively poor food source for invertebrates. However, little more is known of the qualitative nature of benthic FPOM, the nature of FPOM processing, or the relationship between benthic FPOM chemical composition and sources of organic matter to a stream system. In this study, qualitative characteristics of benthic FPOM were compared at three sites in the Oregon Cascade Mountains that received either conifer litter, alder leaves, or herbaceous and algal inputs. FPOM from these streams contained approximately 45% lignin and 10-15% cellulose (ash-free dry weight). Lignin content of particles >1 mm was almost 60% whereas in those <0.01 mm it was 30-40%. Based on qualitative differences between known organic matter inputs to these streams, lignin content in FPOM at the conifer site was predicted to be greater than that at the alder site, and to be least at the open site. No seasonal or site related patterns in FPOM lignin or cellulose content were found regardless of the type of canopy cover or aerial allochthonous inputs. FPOM respiration rates were predicted to follow the reverse pattern, highest at the open site and lowest at the conifer site. Respiratory rates at the open site were usually greater than those at the forested sites; but rates were not consistently lowest at the conifer site. Similarities in FPOM lignin and cellulose content and respiration rates among sites suggest that the qualitative characteristics of FPOM are not necessarily regulated by the qualitative characteristics of canopy inputs alone. Additional and as yet unquantified inputs of high lignin-containing allochthonous FPOM, such as soil or wood, may override differences of leaf litter inputs among these three sites.
10.2307/1467544|Benthic, pelagic and littoral habitats are linked by physical processes in lakes. Exchanges between littoral and pelagic regions or between sheltered embayments and open waters can occur when horizontal density differences are generated. The resulting flows have been observed in tropical, subtropical, and temperate lakes as a result of differences in rates of heating due to morphometry or variations in algal abundance and differences in the depths of wind mixing. Laboratory experiments show that such circulations can also occur under beds of floating vegetation. These circulations may be significant for the movement of nutrients within lakes. Whereas mixing induced by wind is often invoked as a mechanism for vertical transport, the depth of penetration of wind-induced mixing may be suppressed if rates of heating are high when wind speeds are high. Consequently, if nocturnal heat losses are high, the convective motions induced by thermal instabilities may be more important than wind mixing for ventilation of deep water with its typically higher concentrations of nutrients and dissolved gases. Even when mixing in shallow waters is induced by wind and by shear instabilities in the diurnal thermocline, mixing may be incomplete when stratification induced by diurnal heating is strong; gradients in nutrient concentrations and in phytoplankton distributions may persist. Resuspension of living and non-living particles from the benthos can reseed phytoplankton to the upper layers and alter rates of nutrient supply or scavenging of pollutants. Resuspension tends to be higher in shallow waters; subsequent horizontal transports convey these materials to the pelagic zone. Assessing the time and space scales for physical, chemical and biological processes facilitates the design of studies to show the coupling of these processes.
4499001|Three-quarters of the worlds crayfish fauna are found in the US and Canada. Small natural ranges, habitat disturbance, and introduced crayfish species threaten many species, and nearly  are imperiled. Naturally small ranges are considered the leading factor for crayfish vulnerability to loss, yet species with small ranges have received little research attention.
10.2307/1467242| A manipulative experiment was conducted to evaluate a biochemical method for using periphyton in water quality assessment. Periphyton assemblages that developed in situ on ceramic tiles placed in a reference site in one stream were transferred into a reference site and a polluted site in each of three streams in eastern Tennessee. Samples of periphyton from each site were analyzed for chlorophyll a content, rate of photosynthesis (by <sup>14</sup>C uptake), and fatty acid composition, 3, 17, and 35 days after being transferred to the sites. Chlorophyll a and photosynthetic rates per unit of chlorophyll at polluted sites were generally lower than at corresponding reference sites. More than 50 different fatty acids were separated and identified in the periphyton phospholipids; 12 of the 50 accounted for more than 90% of the total fatty acids. Periphyton fatty-acid biomarkers revealed differences in the periphyton taxonomic composition between reference and polluted sites. Fatty acid profiles indicated a shift from diatom to green alga-dominated assemblages in reference and chlorine contaminated sites respectively. Individual fatty-acid biomarkers specific for green algae (18:33 or -linolenic acid) and diatoms (20:53 or eicosapentaenoic acid) proved particularly useful in quantifying the periphyton response to chlorine. The use of algal signature fatty acids may evolve into a quantitative automated method for measuring chlorine effect on stream periphyton. 
1468121|We tested the hypothesis that wood influences stream channel morphology, sediment composition, retention, and storage of organic matter by experimentally removing all wood from 2 first-order reaches (ca 90 m length) of 2 neighboring tributaries (Salderrey and Cuchillo streams) in the Agera catchment (Basque Country, Spain). We established 2
41318727|Quantitative biological assessment protocols are needed for monitoring river status and evaluating river rehabilitation efforts. We conducted a standardized macroinvertebrate survey at 100 sites on 38 nonwadeable rivers in Wisconsin to construct, test, and apply an index of biotic integrity (IBI) intended to be such a bioassessment tool. We assigned independent samples to IBI development (
20491168|In the last decades, zebra mussels (
4499049|Aquatic foodweb models for 2 seasons (relatively high- [March] and low-flow [August] conditions) were constructed for 4 reaches on the Truckee River using 
40792494|Connections of a stream to its floodplain are important ecological linkages that affect spatial and temporal dynamics of the basal resources available to primary consumers in streams. Suspended organic material and associated microorganisms (seston) vary in quality seasonally and interannually within streams because of changing inputs from riparian and floodplain sources. Researchers have investigated the quality of different size fractions of material, but these differences have not been assessed with respect to the hydrology and the geomorphic structure of streams. We investigated how quality, represented by the stoichiometric ratio C:N, and stable isotopic signature (
20491172|Creightons Creek, a rural stream in southeastern Australia, has been severely degraded by large-scale sedimentation of sand in the streambed. Our paper highlights the use of whole-stream metabolism measurements, fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis studies, and in situ enzyme mapping to examine the effect of sediment instability on benthic and hyporheic metabolism across seasonal and flow variations in Creightons Creek. Median gross primary production (GPP) and ecosystem respiration (ER
10.2307/1467498| An inexpensive and reliable method for marking individual benthic macroinvertebrates was developed using hand-crafted 2  3-mm plastic tags attached with readily available cyanoacrylate instant glue. Pteronarcys stoneflies retained tags for 6 mo in a circular laboratory stream tank, and up to 81 d under field conditions in a turbulent Rocky Mountain stream. Tag retention in the field probably was limited by ecdysis. Molting periods were encountered when cast exuvia were collected with tags intact. This method has promise for use with many taxa of macroinvertebrates. 
10.2307/1467590|The relationship of allozyme genotype to survivorship of Stenonema femoratum (Say) (Ephemeroptera:Heptageniidae) exposed to copper was tested. Mayflies were exposed to 1.6 mg/L copper sulfate for 126 hr, and individual times to death (TTD) were recorded. All individuals were then analyzed electrophoretically at three polymorphic loci: glucose phosphate isomerase (GPI); phosphoglucomutase (PGM); and malate dehydrogenase (MDH). TTD was significantly shorter in two GPI genotypes, although one of those genotypes was extremely rare. Reduction in genetic variability by differential elimination of sensitive genotypes may reduce the ability of impacted populations to recover from additional impacts or adapt to slowly changing environmental conditions. Periodic genetic sampling may be a sensitive method for monitoring the stability of natural populations.
41319682|Surveys of freshwater mussel populations are used frequently to inform conservation decisions by providing information about the status and distribution of species. It is generally accepted that not all mussels or species are collected during surveys, and incomplete detection of individuals and species can bias data and can affect inferences. However, considerably less attention has been given to the potential effects of species misidentification. To evaluate the prevalence of and potential reasons for species misidentification, we conducted a laboratory-based identification exercise and quantified the relationships between mussel species characteristics, observer experience, and misidentification rate. We estimated that misidentification was fairly common, with rates averaging 27% across all species and ranging from 0 to 56%, and was related to mussel shell characteristics and observer experience. Most notably, species with shell texturing were 6.09 less likely than smooth-shelled species to be misidentified. Misidentification rates declined with observer experience, but for many species the risk of misidentification averaged >10% even for observers with moderate levels of experience (56y). In addition, misidentification rates among observers showed substantial variability after controlling for experience. Our results suggest that species misidentification may be common in field surveys of freshwater mussels and could potentially bias estimates of population status and trends. Misidentification rates possibly could be reduced through use of regional workshops, testing and certification programs, and the availability of archived specimens and tissue samples in museum collections.
4095661|New York City (NYC) receives >99% of its drinking-water supply from streams, rivers, and reservoirs north and northwest of the city (east or west of Hudson River [EOH or WOH, respectively]). As part of a large-scale enhanced water-quality monitoring project (the Project) in NYCs drinking-water-supply watersheds, 60 stream and 8 reservoir sampling sites were established in the water-supply area (30 WOH and 30 EOH) and sampled from 2000 to 2002. Our study describes watershed characteristics (including climate and hydrology, land use, human population, and known point-source discharges) at each study site and provides an analysis of differences in land use quantified at 3 scales: 1) watershed, 2) riparian (30 m on each side of entire stream network upstream of a site), and 3) reach (same as riparian, but truncated 1 km upstream of the study site). Regression analysis was used to determine relationships among scales, and principal components analysis was used to describe spatial differences in watershed characteristics across the study region. EOH sites are on smaller streams than WOH sites because the WOH region is much larger than the EOH region. EOH sites had smaller mean annual area-specific discharges than WOH sites, reflecting differences in precipitation and in watershed hydrologic retention that were related to surficial geology and the presence of wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs. Population densities, point-source discharges, and flows from those discharges were higher in EOH watersheds than in WOH watersheds. Landuse values in the EOH watersheds ranged from 87% forest to 57% urban. Agricultural land use exceeded 16% in only one watershed. Landuse values in WOH watersheds indicated either largely forest (several sites near 98%) or agriculture and grassland (many near 25%, largely in pasture). Urban landuse values were never >11%. Values for most landuse categories were strongly correlated (most
10.2307/1467495|We determined the distance travelled by drifting nymphs of the mayflies Baetis and Cinygmula to add to existing knowledge of factors influencing drift distance, and to investigate the influence of drift-exiting behavior upon drift magnitude and periodicity. Individuals were released into the water column of a trough at 0.5-m intervals above the exit point, and numbers remaining in suspension over each release distance were fit to a previously developed model which describes return to the substrate according to a negative exponential function. Drift distance increased with increasing current velocity (range studied: 5-55 cm/s) and with decreasing body size (range studied: ca. 0.1-1 mg dry wt) according to log-linear functions. At higher velocities (35 and 55 cm/s), nymphs of both species drifted much shorter distances alive than dead, indicating active exiting from the drift. Drift distances of live nymphs scarcely differed between day and night, which contradicts the suggestion that greater drift abundances at night are caused by disorientation in darkness and consequently greater drift distances. Furthermore, comparisons using nymphs collected from the drift vs. the benthos, and subsequently fed or starved, also revealed no effect of treatment on drift distance, counter to expectations if drifting individuals were intrinsically weaker or less healthy than their benthic counterparts. Thus, although behavioral ability to exit the drift clearly exists in a number of invertebrate taxa, neither the occurrence of drift nor its diel periodicity was explainable on the basis of drift exiting behavior.
20491136|Factors affecting the reproductive success of freshwater mussels in lotic systems are poorly understood. Gravidity, fecundity, and fertilization success of
1468321|A tenet of the flood pulse concept, the
10.2307/1467883| We used field and laboratory studies to assess the influence of warm temperatures on life history, population dynamics, and secondary production of the freshwater amphipod, Hyalella azteca (Saussure) in three Tyhpa stands of a eutrophic, subtropical lake. Our results were compared with those from temperate habitats. Mean egg development period of laboratory females (11 d) was 2-4 d longer than for temperate populations but mean fecundity (laboratory = 3.91; field = 2.48) was comparable. Birth rates of field females were low (0.01-0.06 per capita/d and 0.07-0.25 per mature female/d) with lowest rates during the summer when water temperatures were 25-34C. Annual mean density, mean standing stock, and annual production estimates from Lake Thonotosassa (12,354 m<sup>2</sup>, 2.46 g/m<sup>2</sup>, and 26.9 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) were markedly higher than those seen in temperate studies. However, among-site variation in Lake Thonotosassa was large. Our annual production: biomass ratio (P/B) was 10.9 and exceeded that of temperate populations, but cohort P/B was 3.9 and comparable. The Lake Thonotosassa population of H. azteca was multivoltine with a cohort CPI of 129 d whereas temperate populations usually are univoltine with CPI intervals >365 d. Subtropical temperature regimens, continuous reproduction and recruitment of amphipods, and year-around abundance of Typha and associated epiphytic algal communities appear to be the factors responsible for high densities and production in this subtropical lake. 
41318742|Parasites can regulate host abundance and influence the composition and structure of communities. However, hostparasite interactions might be context-specific if environmental conditions can alter the outcome of parasitism and disease. An understanding of how hostparasite interactions might change in different contexts will be useful for predicting and managing disease against a background of anthropogenic environmental change. We examined the ecology of
1467981|The multiscale distribution of macroinvertebrate assemblages may correspond to the hierarchical arrangement of river systems because geomorphological processes manifest characteristic environmental conditions at different scales. Macroinvertebrates were sampled according to a nested hierarchical design incorporating 4 geomorphologically derived scales: catchment, zone, reach, and riffle. Analysis of Similarity, mean similarity dendrograms, and nested analysis of variance were used to determine the scale(s) at which macroinvertebrate assemblages differed. Macroinvertebrate assemblages were similar among riffles within a reach, but were dissimilar at the zone and catchment scales. There also was a regional-scale pattern of macroinvertebrate distribution that was larger than the geomorphologically derived catchment scale. Subsequent partitioning of macroinvertebrate data into regions revealed a relationship between macroinvertebrate distribution and the catchment and zone scales of river system organization. Consideration of the hierarchical organization of river systems from a purely physical perspective may fail to encompass scales relevant to the biota, indicating that biological information should be included as a primary hierarchical component in multiscale stream studies.
10.2307/1467634|The effects of interaction between nutrient availability and grazing intensity on the structure of benthic algai assemblages were investigated in an ephemeral stream. Small (250 ml) enclosures containing substrata releasing either: 1) no nutrient, 2) 0.5 M KH<sub>2</sub> PO<sub>4</sub> or 3) 0.5 M NaNO<sub>3</sub> were exposed for 19 d to one of five densities of the snail Goniobasis ranging from 0 to 160 snails/m<sup>2</sup>. Algal standing crop (total cell density and community biovolume) on coverslips inside each enclosure decreased with increased grazing pressure in control and nitrate-enriched environments, but increased at low grazing pressure in the phosphate-enriched environment. Responses among constituent populations differed for three reasons: 1) stalked and loosely attached diatoms were more susceptible to snail grazing than firmly attached, prostrate algae; 2) some species were stimulated by phosphorus enrichment and/or grazing while others were not; 3) algal species differed in their response to interactions between grazing and nutrient enrichment. Two alternative hypotheses may explain this interaction: 1) grazers stimulate the growth of understory species by removing overlying cells; 2) excretion of nitrogenous compounds by grazers enhances the effects of phosphorus enrichment alone. Although diversity peaked at intermediate grazer densities in unenriched and nitrate-enriched environments, no significant change was found in phosphate-enriched environments, where the community was dominated either by grazer-sensitive populations that increased faster than they were grazed, or by grazer-resistant algae.
1468478|Geographical stratification may provide a useful framework for stream management programs, yet most studies testing the utility of such stratifications have been conducted in temperate regions. We studied the correspondence between regional delineations (5 ecoregions, 11 subecoregions), environmental characteristics, and benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages in 156 boreal headwater streams in Finland, using a combination of principal components analysis, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, and discriminant function analysis (DFA). Both stream characteristics and macroinvertebrate assemblage structure showed a closer correspondence to ecoregions than to subecoregions, a pattern partly attributable to the smaller number of classes at the ecoregion level. Based on environmental variables, DFA classified correctly 84.0% of the streams by ecoregion and 74.4% by subecoregion. For macroinvertebrate assemblages, 64.7% of the streams were correctly classified at the ecoregion, and 51.9% at the subecoregion level. Arctic-alpine and north boreal ecoregions supported the most distinct benthic assemblages. There were significant differences among ecoregions in mean species number, with lowest species richness in the middle boreal and highest in the south boreal streams. However, no clear latitudinal gradients in local species richness were detected. Relative abundances of functional-feeding groups also exhibited regional differences. Shredders dominated the middle boreal brown-water streams, whereas scrapers attained their highest abundances in the arctic-alpine and north boreal clear-water streams. Despite some congruence among ecoregions and macroinvertebrate assemblages, regional delineations alone do not provide a suitable background for stream biomonitoring programs. A combination of regional delineations and local characteristics probably provides a better framework for the classification of boreal headwater streams, and for the prediction of their benthic fauna.
10.2307/1467801| To examine the combined effects of light and grazers in structuring periphyton in a subalpine stream, we conducted a field experiment in St. Louis Creek (elevation 3000 m), a 2nd-order Rocky Mountain stream (Colorado, USA). Quarry tiles were placed in the stream for 60 d to colonize with periphyton and then moved into 36 stream channels in which light and grazers were manipulated. Light treatments were high (100% of ambient), intermediate (40% of ambient), and low light (5% of ambient). A grazing mayfly, Rhithrogena robusta, was maintained inside channels at high (288/m<sup>2</sup>), low (96/m<sup>2</sup>), or zero densities. After 22-23 d of exposure, mayfly grazing significantly reduced algal biovolume under all light regimes, although species assemblages differed between light treatments. As light levels changed, some algae showed different responses to grazing. Hydrurus foetidus (Chrysophyta), for example, was more abundant on grazed substrata relative to non-grazed controls under high light, but it declined in abundance when grazed under intermediate light. Light and grazers also had an interactive effect on periphytic biomass; as light increased, grazers caused greater depletions in periphytic ash-free dry mass. Results suggest that, in subalpine streams, light may be instrumental in establishing periphytic structure and in modifying the impact that grazers have on algae. 
10.2307/1467508|The contribution of autochthonous carbon to a small stream by the epizoic red macroalga Boldia erythrosiphon was determined from December 1985 through April 1986 in Little Schultz Creek, Alabama. Boldia grew almost exclusively on the snail species Elimia clara and E. cahawbensis. A mean of 323 snails/m<sup>2</sup> was found in the stream, 49% of which had the alga attached. Elimia clara was nearly four times as abundant as E. cahawbensis and Boldia was significantly more associated with the former than with the latter snail. The differential distribution of the alga may be due to behavioral differences, E. clara preferring erosional sites with higher current rather than depositional sites. Boldia on snails contributed a mean of 37 mg C m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> from January through April 1986 and a total of nearly 2 g C/m<sup>2</sup> for the season. The latter value is one third of the seasonal primary production of epilithic algae on cobble measured in a previous study, and, when added to it, changes the annual pattern of autochthonous production in this stream. The productivity of the macroalga illustrates the importance of animals in providing substrata for algae in streams. In addition to the presence of snails, a combination of factors including total light input, the chemical nature of substrata, differential grazing pressure, and substratum availability may affect colonization and growth of Boldia.
40792576|Streams are potential hotspots for retention and removal of NO
20491181|Predictive modeling is used increasingly often in freshwater bioassessment. These models are routinely applied across broad geographical areas, yet the influence of spatial extent on model performance has not been assessed directly. We examined the influence of changing geographical extent on the performance of River InVertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS)type predictive models of benthic macroinvertebrates in boreal headwater streams representative of reference conditions. Separate models were constructed for 2 hierarchical extents: within ecoregions (middle boreal and north boreal) and across ecoregions. We assessed the accuracy and precision of the models using root mean squared error (RMSE) of the observed/expected (O/E) ratio of the number of predicted taxa. We compared the RMSE of the within-ecoregion models to that of the across-ecoregions models. We tested the models using 2 thresholds for probability of species occurrence (P
10.2307/1467401|The benthic macroinvertebrate community of a third-order coastal stream in northern California was examined in mid May (end of the wet season) and late August (near the end of the dry season in the prevailing Mediterranean climate of the region) over a 7-yr period in which there was substantial year-to-year variability in precipitation and, consequently, stream discharge. Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Diptera were the dominant components of the macrobenthic community, accounting for 93% of total individuals and 62% of the 81 taxa collected in mid May, and 96% of total individuals and 64% of the 69 taxa collected in late August. In mid May, significant reductions in species richness and Simpson's diversity were observed during a year of extreme drought and in years with above-average wet season rainfall. Macroinvertebrate density decreased and relative abundance of Chironomidae increased as wet season rainfall increased. In late August, year-to-year variability in community parameters measured was substantially reduced. Drought conditions favored proliferation of a few tolerant taxa (e.g., the caddisfly Gumaga nigricula). An understanding of the influence of abiotic conditions on biotic patterns can be useful in separating the effects of perturbation from natural variability.
1468118|Perturbations in ecosystems consist of a sequence of 2 events: the disturbance, marked by the application of the disturbing forces, and the response shown by the biota to the damage inflicted by the disturbance. The disturbance must be effectively characterized, without confounding it with the response, for progress to be made in the study of the disturbance ecology of streams. A disturbance may take the form of a pulse, a press, or a ramp, and the consequent trajectory of the response may be a pulse, a press, or a ramp.
41319675|Low-flow disturbances are predicted to increase in frequency and intensity because of climate change and extensive human water withdrawal, but the effect of decreased flow on aquatic insect communities is not well understood. I explored the resistance of aquatic insects to reduced flow by creating an experimental low-flow disturbance that diverted 40 to 80% of the water in 3 replicate streams for 2 summers. I sampled the aquatic insect community in control and treatment reaches before and during the 3-mo water diversions. I used a trait-based approach to analyze the data because traits have the potential to increase mechanistic understanding and predictive capabilities. The analysis focused on 6 traits: desiccation resistance, maximum crawling rate, armoring, size at maturity, rheophily, and habit. Community trait composition underwent strong seasonal shifts, but few consistent responses to reduced flow were observed. The 2 trait states that did appear to confer increased resistance were high crawling rate and armoring. These trait states can provide protection from predators. Thus, biotic interactions might be important during low-flow disturbance.
10.2307/1467828|Experiments were conducted in a small northern Michigan lake to assess the effects of grazing by the snail Physa integra on periphyton communities. Periphyton was allowed to colonize glass microscope slides in enclosures for 26 d prior to the introduction of snails at three densities. Snails were allowed to graze for 21 d before the periphyton was collected and analyzed. Physa integra significantly reduced the biovolume, species richness, and diversity of periphyton. Diatoms were relatively more abundant and green algae relatively less abundant at low grazer densities when compared with controls and periphyton at high grazer densities. Grazers reduced the physiognomic diversity of periphyton which led to a community dominated by prostrate diatoms. Seventeen algal taxa were significantly reduced in relative abundance by grazers. Synedra and Mougeotia were the most abundant taxa of this group. Eunotia pectinalis var. minor, a prostrate chain-forming diatom, was least affected by grazing and experienced a significant increase in relative abundance in communities exposed to grazers. Oedogonium had a significantly higher relative abundance under high grazer densities than under either the control or low grazer density conditions. We conclude that Physa integra reduces algal densities, species richness, species diversity, and physiognomic complexity and leads to a community dominated by grazer-resistant taxa (Eunotia pectinalis var. minor and Oedogonium sp.).
1467982|Clear, quantitative biological standards are needed for stream protection. Three hundred ninety-seven sites in Wisconsin were used to develop and test stream macroinvertebrate indices of biotic integrity (IBI) designed to provide such standards for the upper Midwestern United States. The IBI development approach was unique in 1) selecting base assemblage metrics a priori, 2) using watershed land cover and local habitat to quantify human influence, 3) weighting local- and watershed-scale variables to characterize human influence in a biologically meaningful way, and 4) weighting macroinvertebrate metrics to characterize the assemblage in a way that detects human influence. Canonical correlation analysis provided IBI models by identifying the strongest relation between a set of macroinvertebrate metrics and a set of environmental condition measures. Metrics related to assemblage composition, structure, and function represented the macroinvertebrates, including organic pollution tolerance, sediment tolerance, species richness, proportion or number of EphemeropteraPlecopteraTrichoptera, Amphipoda, Isopoda, Diptera, and Chironomidae taxa, and proportion that feed by shredding, scraping, and gathering. Environmental condition measures included proportions of urban, forage crop, row crop, forest, open-water, and wetland land cover at the watershed scale, and riparian condition, bed and bank condition, and habitat heterogeneity at the local scale. The Driftless Area and Northern Forest ecoregions were unique and warranted separate models, whereas the Central and Southeast ecoregions were merged into one model. Partial regressions identified the relative influence of variables at the watershed and local scales. Model testing with independent data indicated the appropriateness of classification into the 3 regions, and that the IBIs could predict human influence well. The IBI models show promise for land-cover planning, pollution monitoring, and developing biological criteria for stream and watershed protection.
09-169R|Dispersal rates and the diversity of the regional species pool strongly affect community assembly in habitat patches. Incorporating these elements mechanistically into a model of community assembly requires adoption of a metacommunity paradigm. We developed a hierarchical model of community assembly for stream insects that incorporates regional effects (distance to and generic richness of other stream reaches) and local effects (water quality and community composition). We tested our model with a unique data set detailing changes in stream-insect community composition over 6 sampling periods across a 27-y period of watershed recovery from anthropogenic effects.  and  richness increased greatly over the time period, whereas  richness declined strongly. Generic richness of individual stream reaches was significantly related to dispersal distance and generic richness of surrounding immigrant pools in preceding years. However, the strength of the relationship declined over time indicating that distance to potential colonists played a major role only early in community assembly. Water quality, characterized by an ordination of pH, temperature, conductivity, dissolved O
10.2307/1467689|Increased experimentation is essential if we are to understand the biotically rich hyporheic zone and how it influences processes in other parts of lotic systems. Unique challenges face experimenters because the hyporheic zone is both extremely complex hydrologically and relatively inaccessible and difficult to manipulate. I discuss five major obstacles that impede experimental progress in hyporheic research and I suggest corollary experiments or technical developments that are critical to our future research agenda. The first obstacle is that a conceptualization of the hyporheic zone, in which there are clearly definable boundaries that apply across all streams, is unlikely because of significant variations in geology and hydrology between drainage basins. How this zone is delineated may depend on the experimental question and we should "exploit" cross-system differences to motivate experiments. Second, developing methods of obtaining deep streambed samples in an undisturbed fashion, from defined positions within the streambed, and evaluating the effect of our experimental intervention on the process under study requires serious effort. Third, evaluating the impact of bed movement on hyporheic processes and quantifying or controlling for this movement in experiments will require new or modified techniques. Fourth, developing methods for quantifying and experimentally manipulating subsurface flows should be an essential part of research to determine how these flows influence system and community-level processes. This will require adaptation of existing techniques for measuring subsurface flows, so that they are useable at a variety of spatial scales, and simulation of subsurface flows in artificial streams and in-stream chambers. Fifth, the nature and extent to which a hyporheic component or ecological process is influenced by surface vs. groundwater inputs must be quantified. This will require the ability to separate surface from groundwater effects by means of experimental manipulation or design.
10.2307/1467843| Six stations on cut-off braided channels of the Rhne River differing in substrate grain size, distance from the main channel, overflowing frequency, and riparian forest protection, were studied over five years to compare effects of high discharge and floods and subsequent recovery by aquatic vegetation. Less frequently disturbed stations have finer substrate than the more disturbed ones. In the latter, competition processes should not have time to take place, because of flood frequency, so the occurring pioneer species should allow faster recovery from flood disturbance. Vegetation cover (by species) and environmental variables were surveyed from 1988 to 1992, 2-4 times per year. In two fine-substrate stations subjected to floods, the vegetation exhibited no directional change in species composition and abundance following flood events, because these stations are located far from the Rhne River and are sheltered by riparian forest. In the third fine-substrate station, a major flood had a considerable, unexpected, indirect and long-lasting effect: it caused a lowering of the water table, and terrestrial plants progressively replaced the aquatic ones that dried up. In the three stations that are close to the main river and have coarse substrates, vegetation cover was reduced after the major floods. Rate of post-flood recovery was most rapid at stations where flood scouring frequency was highest. 
10.2307/1467813|Temporary fresh waters are defined as bodies of fresh water that experience a recurrent dry phase of varying length that is sometimes predictable in both its time of onset and duration. The aquatic insects that live in these habitats are strongly influenced by 2 main groups of constraints, physicochemical and biological factors. Taxa particularly well-represented in temporary running waters are the Ephemeroptera, Hemiptera, Coleoptera, Trichoptera, and tipulid and chironomid Diptera. With the exception of Ephemeroptera, all these groups are common also in temporary lentic waters, but the latter also support many species of Odonata, together with culicid, ceratopogonid and ephydrid Diptera. In general, however, the diversity of aquatic insects is lower in temporary than in permanent waters. Seasonal succession of species is commonplace in temporary waters, affecting food web structure. Adaptations to drought are reviewed, and traits common to the most successful taxa include a highly flexible life cycle, temperature-linked development, possession of a diapausing or otherwise protected egg, and high powers of dispersal. A trend towards terrestrialisation of immature stages is noted amongst at least some members of even strongly aquatic taxa. Several directions for future research are discussed including study of the controlling influence of the biological environment on the fauna and the former's interaction with physicochemical influences, temporal variation in the structure of food webs, and genetic analyses of populations. A recommendation is made for greater quantification in data collection, particularly on seasonal changes in species abundance, their life histories, and trophic relationships, as this will allow greater opportunity for modelling the community dynamics of these ecologically distinct habitats. Finally, the concept that temporary waters constrain their faunas is exposed as being based more on human perception than on fact.
1468480|We compared macroinvertebrate growth rates and standing stock in the absence and presence of meat from Pacific salmon (
4095681|Spatially patchy and temporally varied cycles of timber harvest across a landscape may have subtle effects on stream conditions that are difficult, but important, to assess. The objective of our study was to examine the relationship between benthic diatom composition and timber harvest in coastal Oregon watersheds. Physical habitat conditions, water chemistry, and periphyton composition were characterized for 46 sites from 2 subbasins with different timber harvest intensities (0.3 km
40792622|The
10.2307/1467243|Diacyclops dimorphus, new species, was collected from clean sand sediments of the Blackwater River, State of Florida, USA. The new species differs from congeners in that the female has all rami of the swimming legs biarticulate, but the male has most rami biarticulate and the leg 4 exopodite triarticulate. Only two other species of Diacyclops show comparable extreme reduction of the swimming legs. These are Diacyclops virginianus and Diacyclops trajani (a new name proposed for Speocyclops minutissimus sensu Petkovski 1954). The swimming leg articulation patterns of all species of Diacyclops are reviewed. This is the first report of consistent sexual dimorphism in swimming leg articulation in Diacyclops. Sexual dimorphism in the swimming legs rarely occurs in the subfamily Cyclopinae. We suggest that preferential reduction in endopodites of posterior legs of smaller cyclopines allows the female genital double somite to remain relatively large. Many interstitial cyclopine copepods possess distinctive morphological features. They are small, have a relatively large genital double somite, and produce relatively large eggs. Typically, their body appendages (antennule, antenna, mouthparts, and swimming legs) are short with relatively few segments, spines, and setae.
41318736|The literature regarding freshwater and marine exchanges of organic matter (OM) focuses predominantly on the unidirectional delivery of allochthonous and autochthonous material from freshwater to the marine environment. Another ecologically significant exchange occurs when anadromous organisms move into coastal and interior watersheds and bring marine-accrued OM and its incorporated marine-derived nutrients (MDN). We use the example of Pacific salmon streams to discuss bidirectional transfers of OM in the upstream and downstream directions with specific reference to the role of flocculation. A fish-floc feedback loop has recently been presented as a mechanism that allows transfer of salmon OM to the gravel-bed matrix in the form of flocs. In the proposed fish-floc feedback loop, the OM source is salmon, but the OM source will change with fish species. Once fish-based flocs enter the gravel bed they can be stored or used by benthic organisms. A salmon disturbance regime that includes redistribution of gravel, fine sediment, and biofilm during redd construction and release of salmon OM to the stream is integral to the fish-floc feedback loop because it provides the inorganic fine sediment and OM required for floc formation. The MDN subsidy provided by returning salmon is important for natal watershed functioning as illustrated by a conceptual OM feedback loop that links these freshwater and marine exchanges. Retention of floc-bound OM in the gravel bed afforded by settling flocs allows slower downstream transfer of nutrients en route to the ocean and a correspondingly increased period for uptake in food webs downstream.
1468283|We tested whether stable surface stones serve as invertebrate refugia in a New Zealand gravel-bed stream. Two-hundred stones were marked in situ in a systematic grid across 20 transects (4060 cm between stones, 1 m between transects). Six days prior to a spate, we sampled invertebrates on 24 unmarked stones. Twelve were randomly chosen among well-embedded stones, the others among stones of similar size lying loosely on top of the bed. (Previous work had shown the former to be more stable than the latter during high-flow events.) As soon as possible after the spate, we sampled another set of stones. Ten were marked stones that had remained stable during the spate, whereas 12 were chosen at random among loose stones. Nineteen days after the spate, we sampled a final set of 8 stable and 12 unstable stones in the same way. Taxon richness, area-standardized total densities of invertebrates, and densities of Chironomidae,
09-022|The effects of wildfire can alter the structure of stream insect assemblages. Post-fire shifts to dominance by
10.2307/1468454|Larvae representing Metachela Coquillett and Neoplasta Coquillett, 2 genera of aquatic Hemerodromiinae (Diptera:Empididae), are differentiated, described, illustrated, and keyed for the 1st time. Our results were facilitated by rearing associations of larvae, pupae, and adults; morphology of larvae; and comparison of fragment sizes of ribosomal DNA extracted from adults and larvae of Nearctic Hemerodromiinae. Larvae of Neoplasta are more robust, possess longer abdominal prolegs, and possess more prominent proleg crochets compared to larvae of Metachela. Fragment size of ribosomal DNA is diagnostic at the generic level, clearly differentiating adults of Metachela, Neoplasta, and Chelifera Macquart, and allowing differentiation of larvae of Metachela and Neoplasta.
09-119|The mayfly fauna of Madagascar is highly diverse and largely endemic. Many species remain undescribed, and many species are known from only the larval or adult life stage. The high biodiversity in Madagascar and in other areas has led to an increasing reliance on DNA-based approaches to taxonomy, i.e., to define species boundaries and to associate different developmental stages. We used the general mixed Yule-coalescent (GMYC) model to combine population- and species-level sequence variation of mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA) to detect species boundaries in Baetidae mayflies (Ephemeroptera). Starting with a database of 240 sequences (57 species), significant clustering of newly sequenced larvae allowed us to establish 1 new species and 1 new combination and to associate adult and larval stages for both. A molecular phylogeny using additional nuclear (18S) and mtDNA (
1468131|The effect of loticlentic interactions on the phytobenthic community was studied in the Colorado River below Glen Canyon Dam (GCD), Arizona. Major compositional changes in river phytobenthos occurred following high snowmelt inflows that filled the Lake Powell reservoir and resulted in high, steady discharges from GCD.
1467974|The transport of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) in streams is an important process that links stream reaches, but until recently little was known about the distances traveled by fine particles in streams or the mechanisms governing their transport, deposition, and resuspension. Within the past decade, a number of studies have measured FPOM transport distances using either natural stream particles or a variety of artificial particles as FPOM surrogates. The purpose of our study was to compare estimates of FPOM transport distances in streams using: 1) radioactively labeled natural FPOM, and 2) corn pollen as an FPOM surrogate. We compared the particle types with simultaneous releases at 3 locations in Bloomington Creek, Idaho, and in a streamside flume in Pennsylvania. Mean transport distances in the stream and in the flume ranged from 49 to 637 m for corn pollen, compared with 23 to 1164 m for natural FPOM. Particle deposition velocities, which adjust for the effects of water depth and velocity on transport distance, had narrower ranges: 0.094 to 0.31 mm/s for pollen and 0.051 to 0.25 mm/s for natural FPOM. Pollen and FPOM transport distances were not significantly different at 2 of the stream sites, whereas corn pollen transport was significantly shorter at the 3
20491175|Wetlands in the central Platte River basin provide numerous ecosystem services but have been diminished and degraded by agricultural practices and development. Wetland restoration is increasingly common in this region, but the success of restorations is virtually unknown. We sampled macroinvertebrates during spring 2003 and 2004 in restored (516 y old) and natural slough wetlands to assess restoration success. Simple measures (e.g., total abundance, biomass, diversity) were all similar in restored and natural wetlands. Communities were similar in natural and restored wetlands, but we observed some taxonomic differences. For example, abundances of
10.2307/1467782|We demonstrate the importance of omnivory and the importance of sublethal predator effects in the dynamics of a littoral zone food web. Using outdoor tanks (1.8 m diameter, 0.4 m depth), we examined possible cascading trophic effects of predation risk by fish (largemouth bass [Micropterus salmoides]) through omnivorous crayfishes (three Orconectes species) on benthic macroinvertebrates and macrophytes. Even in the absence of predation by bass on crayfish, crayfish mortality was 50% greater in tanks with bass relative to tanks without bass. Consistent with reduced crayfish numbers and reduced feeding by surviving crayfish in the presence of bass, macrophyte cover was lower in the absence of bass. Similarly, abundance of eight of 11 macroinvertebrate taxa was lower (three significantly so) in the absence of bass. Thus, the impact of crayfish on lower trophic levels was reduced by sublethal effects of predatory bass, partly consistent with the trophic cascade model. However, as omnivores, crayfishes directly affected more than one trophic level, detritivorous/herbivorous macroinvertebrates and macrophytes, and thus produced effects inconsistent with the trophic cascade model. Reduced macrophyte grazing by crayfish may therefore be one mechanism by which biomanipulation (addition of predatory fishes) often results in increases in macrophyte abundance, a response usually attributed solely to decreased shading by phytoplankton.
4095663|Organic matter (OM) in streams that provide drinking water is a potential energy source for bacterial regrowth in distribution systems and a precursor for disinfection byproducts. Baseflow concentrations of OM were measured over a 3-y period in 60 streams divided evenly between water-supply regions east and west of the Hudson River (EOH or WOH) in New York State. A baseline of OM concentrations in the 2 regions was generated, and land use/cover variables were related to those baseline concentrations. Dissolved organic C (DOC), biodegradable DOC (BDOC), and particulate OM (POM) reflected regional differences in land use and point-source discharges. Three-year mean concentrations for these variables and for total organic C (TOC) were significantly lower in the WOH than in the EOH by factors of 1.5 to 2.3. Size fractionation of POM showed similarities between regions with >70% of particles in the 0.5- to 10-m size class. DOC made up most of the TOC in both regions, and DOC:POC ratios ranged from 1.7 to 54.4. Stepwise multiple linear regressions revealed that agriculture and forest land uses explained most of the variation in OM concentrations in the WOH, whereas wetlands and point-source discharges, primarily associated with wastewater treatment plants, explained most of the variation in OM concentrations in the EOH. Despite the potential problems from OM for drinking water quality, OM is a natural and important component of stream ecosystems, so its total elimination from watersheds is neither advisable nor possible. Our data from watersheds in the WOH region with high percentages (>97%) of forested land use and from small to mid-sized watersheds in the EOH with no point-source discharges provide lower limits for OM concentrations and targets for best management practices.
40792667|In Pacific Northwest (USA) streams, historical levels of marine-derived subsidies of C, N, and P from spawning salmon and steelhead are either greatly diminished or no longer present. A novel nutrient enrichment form, pasteurized salmon carcass analogue (SCA), has been developed as a management tool to increase freshwater productivity. We analyzed macroinvertebrate assemblages in 4 central Idaho (USA) streams to explore the relative influence of reach-scale SCA treatments on macroinvertebrate assemblages. We stratified study streams into upstream (control) and downstream (treatment) reaches and applied a single SCA treatment in mid-September to the downstream reaches of 2 treatment streams. We measured chemical, physical, and biological variables in all study streams and used nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination of macroinvertebrate communities to illustrate relationships to foodweb and environmental variables. Macroinvertebrate assemblages differed significantly among streams (
09-114|Ecosystems generally are not stable over long periods of time and are subject to disturbances of different frequencies and intensities. As a result, natural communities usually are not in equilibrium, and temporal snapshots can show different stages of community assembly. Nonequilibrium is especially common in temporary aquatic systems where desiccation continuously resets the development of communities and hydroperiod is an important determinant of species richness and community structure. We investigated effects of disturbance regime on community assembly of aquatic invertebrates in a cluster of 36 temporary rock pools in central South Africa. Pools were assigned to 4 categories based on their long-term disturbance regime and were sampled 4 times during 1 inundation. Disturbance modulated the relative importance of deterministic and stochastic processes driving community assembly and reduced both  and  diversity. Premature desiccation truncated community development. Initial communities were dominated by resident large branchiopods (fairy shrimp and clam shrimp). Arrival of flying colonists, including many predators, caused a drastic change in community composition and initiated a new successional phase dominated by cladocerans. For residents, the link between local environment and community structure was strongest early during inundation and decreased during community assembly. For flying colonists, variation in arrival time and habitat selection led to a better match between communities and environment later during inundation. We conclude that the combination of colonizationextinction dynamics and niche partitioning in space and time determines metacommunity structure in this extreme type of aquatic habitat.
10.2307/1467264|Many studies on cool, forested streams have shown that removal of riparian canopy leads to higher incident radiation, blooms in algal and macroinvertebrate populations, and concomitant increases in salmonid abundance. In warm, high-elevation desert streams, however, an open canopy may not increase salmonid density. Our seven study reaches on 3rd-order tributaries of the John Day River in eastern Oregon included riparian areas ranging from denuded, heavily grazed streambanks to intact conifer forest. Average summer solar inputs to these sites varied from 165 to 2230 megajoules/m<sup>2</sup>, and stream temperatures were influenced by the density and extent of canopy. Densities of steelhead trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) and sculpin (Cottus supp.) decreased significantly with greater incident radiation and higher stream temperatures, although many warm-water cyprinids increased in abundance in unshaded sites. Periphyton standing crops (g ash-free dry mass/m<sup>2</sup>) closely tracked solar inputs and was, in turn, strongly positively correlated with biomasses of total invertebrates and of grazers. Collector, shredder, and predator biomasses, and numerical abundances of all invertebrate groups, did not change with canopy density. The abundances of chironomids and baetids were unrelated to increases in light or algal resources, in contrast to studies in Cascades and Coast Range streams where irruptions of these taxa occurred in canopy openings. In our streams the large-bodied caddisfly Dicosmoecus accounted for the higher total invertebrate biomass observed in exposed sites. These insects composed 55-96% of the total biomass in open reaches but only 0-1.4% in the three most shaded sites. Increases in total invertebrate biomass with increasing light levels or periphyton were not observed when Dicosmoecus were removed from the analysis. Dicosmoecus are consumed infrequently by juvenile trout or other small fish species common in John Day tributaries; consequently, extensive openings in the canopy appear to produce few advantages to upper trophic levels in these streams.
10.2307/1467816|Seasonal stream habitats in New Mexico supported 10 species of winter-emerging stoneflies. Winter precipitation in combination with low winter temperatures created a seasonal moisture surplus and seasonal streamflow in this semi-arid region. Study area streams were dry for long periods in spring and autumn. Two different types of seasonal (ahyporheic) habitats were identified. Small high mountain streams fed by seasonal snowmelt runoff (type M) were inhabited by Capnia decepta, Eucapnopsis brevicauda, Isocapnia vedderensis, Capnia californica, Capnura wanica, Mesocapnia werneri, Taenionema jacobii, and Capnura fibula. Mesocapnia arizonensis and M. frisoni seemed to specialize in low-elevation watercourses fed by winter rains and rising water tables (type L). Adaptations for survival during spring and autumn periods of no streamflow, desiccation, or flash flooding include small size, rapid development, and diapause during egg or larval stages.
10.2307/1467239|Zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) are now a common component of benthic communities in the lower Great Lakes, but information regarding North American predators remains scant. I measured predation by crayfish (Orconectes propinquus) on different size classes of zebra mussels in aquarium experiments. Crayfish showed a strong preference for small (3-5 mm) mussels, although larger individuals (8-10 mm, 12-14 mm) were also eaten when presented simultaneously. Feeding rates on different mussel size classes were affected by crayfish size and sex, although results varied between experiments. Survival of zebra mussels was enhanced between 3 and 30% when crayfish were offered alternative macrophyte foods (Potamogeton, Vallisneria); however, size selective predation patterns on mussels remained virtually unchanged in the presence of alternative foods. Time-lapse videographic studies revealed that both rejection rate and handling time increased with mussel size. Despite high predation rates on small mussels, crayfish attacked medium and large mussels more often than small individuals. Results of this study indicate that predation by O. propinquus on D. polymorpha will be limited primarily to small- and medium-sized mussels.
4095666|Quantitative sampling of benthic macroinvertebrate communities from 60 sites in New York Citys drinking-water-supply watersheds was undertaken in 2000, 2001, and 2002 as part of a large-scale enhanced water-quality monitoring project (the Project). Sampling yielded 543 macroinvertebrate taxonomic units, most of which (including Chironomidae) were identified to the genus/species level. Our goals were to investigate the effect of level of taxonomic resolution on statistical macroinvertebrateenvironment relationships, the effect of including rare taxa on among-site similarity and macroinvertebrateenvironment relationships, and the correlations between the common and rare components of the total community at each site. Mean site richness ranged from 90.8 to 101.2 taxa for sites west of Hudson River (WOH) and 62.2 to 78.5 taxa for sites east of Hudson River (EOH). Species-level identifications provided the greatest separation of sites in multivariate space, but genus- and family-level identifications discriminated between most- and least-impacted sites, particularly in the EOH region where anthropogenic impact was greatest. Of the 543 taxa, 175 (32%) were found at 3 sites, and nearly  of the taxa within a given site were occasional (found once in 3 y). Numerically rare taxa (defined as either <1% or <0.3% relative abundance within each site) accounted for 42 to 75% (WOH) and 37 to 73% (EOH) of mean site richness. Ordinations of data sets including or excluding rare taxa revealed similar impact gradients, and the % of spatial variance explained by environmental factors was similar with and without rare taxa included. Common taxa contributed noise to site-similarity patterns in the WOH region, and rare taxa provided information that was redundant with information provided by common taxa in the EOH region.
10.2307/1467278|Tube building is an important and characteristic behaviour of larvae of many chironomid midges (Diptera:Chironomidae). In laboratory experiments, differences were found in the tube building of larvae of 3 midge species (Cricotopus sylvestris (Fabricius), Psectrocladius limbatellus (Holmgren), and Tanytarsus sp.). Tanytarsus sp. built a single, robust tube close to those of conspecifics; P. limbatellus built a few, less robust tubes, which were evenly spaced; and C. sylvestris built many more, shorter tubes. Cricotopus sylvestris also used less of the substratum within feeding territories for tube building, and was more likely to abandon tubes than the other species. These contrasts in tube building illustrate the diversity of this behaviour, which is likely to be an important feature of ecosystem engineering within aquatic systems where midges are found.
40792624|Over the last 25 y, stream ecosystem theory has expanded to include explicitly the vertical dimension of surfacegroundwater linkages via the hyporheic zone and below alluvial floodplains. Hydrological exchange between the stream and hyporheic zone mediates transport of products from the biogeochemical activities within the sediments.
09-093|The genetic structure of the freshwater fish
20491135|We evaluate the current state of knowledge concerning the ecosystem- and community-level importance of N
10.2307/1467355|Tatshenshini Wild was established to coordinate an international campaign to preserve the Tatshenshini River and Wilderness, located in British Columbia on the Alaska border. The Tatshenshini River, referred to as North America's 'wildest' river, has exceptional biological diversity, with ecosystems ranging from maritime to interior tundra. The Tatshenshini Wilderness is threatened by copper mining, associated access roads, and a 240 km stretch of slurry and oil pipelines. Acid waste generated from this project could have devastating effects on the entire catchment. Potential environmental damage to terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems has been largely ignored by the developers, Geddes Resources. Tatshenshini Wild is networking with 51 major organizations throughout the United States and Canada to protect the Tatshenshini. The organization has generated intense public pressure, which has resulted in rejection of the initial mine plan by the British Columbian and Canadian Governments. Scientific research is needed to support legislative action to protect the wilderness as a World Heritage Site. Scientists are encouraged to conduct research in the area to increase baseline data and assess the impact of environmental disturbance.
41319687|The decline of freshwater mussels in the southeastern US emphasizes the need to evaluate the current status of mussel populations. We used the Robust Design, which is a capturerecapture sampling design, to estimate demographic parameters (apparent survival and temporary emigration) and capture probabilities of
10.2307/1467783|The colonization rates of insects onto disturbed animal-free sediment were measured at profundal and littoral stations in a Canadian Shield lake. Sediments were exposed in containers to potential colonizers for up to one month in the early autumn. Most of the colonizing taxa at both stations were larvae of Chironomidae (Diptera). A simple model provided a reasonable fit to the colonization dynamics of many of these taxa. The colonization rates of profundal chironomids were very slow or negligible, and densities on the introduced sediments remained far below those on surrounding sediments at the end of the experiment. Larvae of the phantom midge Chaoborus punctipennis colonized profundal sediments rapidly as a consequence of their diel vertical migrations between the water column and the sediments. Littoral taxa varied widely in the rate at which they colonized the sediments; some taxa reached densities measured on surrounding, non-disturbed sediments within a few weeks. Species living on the sediment surface appeared to colonize the containers most rapidly. The colonization rate of a taxon was directly related to its abundance in the surroundings. Estimated apparent steady state densities of colonizing taxa were either equivalent to or higher than densities on surrounding sediments.
20491133|Watershed urbanization decreases diversity and taxonomic richness of aquatic insect communities, and headwater streams are particularly susceptible to degradation from urbanization. Patterns of taxon loss between urban headwater communities and communities in adjacent downstream, higher-order reaches might indicate which processes are controlling taxon loss and the extent to which unique headwater taxa are lost after urbanization. We compared insect communities in urban and rural watersheds and investigated if community similarity between headwater streams and adjacent higher-order main-stem reaches was greater in urban than in rural watersheds. We sampled insect communities in 3 urban and 3 rural watersheds in Marylands Piedmont region during 3 seasons. Mean taxonomic richness was 4.3 greater and the Shannon diversity index was 1.8 greater in rural than in urban headwater streams. Simpsons index was 1.9 greater in urban than in rural headwater streams. The Jaccard similarity index calculated between headwater and main-stem communities was 1.6 greater for urban sites than rural sites during autumn, and the proportion of headwater taxa shared with the main-stem community was 1.8 greater for urban than rural sites. Redundancy analysis also indicated significantly greater similarity between urban headwater and main-stem communities than between rural headwater and main-stem communities. As expected, urbanization decreased diversity, and the communities remaining in urban headwaters were mostly subsets of the communities in the main-stem streams. This result suggested that taxa unique to headwaters were at the greatest risk of local extirpation after watershed urbanization. A significant interactive effect of landuse type and the longitudinal position of a reach along the headwater on taxonomic richness and the Jaccard index suggested that patterns of taxon loss partially depended on the proximity of a headwater reach to the main-stem stream. Overall, the results suggested that water- and habitat-quality degradation were not the only effects of watershed urbanization that determined the composition of insect communities in urban headwaters.
10.2307/1468167| Temperature is known to be an important mechanism affecting the growth and distribution of stream insects. However, little information exists that describes how variable temperatures are among streams of similar size, especially in physically heterogeneous landscapes. We measured summer daytime temperature and the structure of riffle benthic insect assemblages from 45 montane streams in California. Summer stream temperature was nearly randomly distributed across large-scale geographic gradients of latitude (6) and elevation (2000 m). The lack of geographic trends in summertime stream temperature appeared to be caused by the strong relationship between local channel morphology and summer water temperature. Mean daytime water temperature was most strongly related to the % of the channel present as pools, which did not vary systematically with either latitude or elevation. We used multiple multivariate regression analysis, non-metric multidimensional scaling (NMDS), and graphical techniques to both quantify differences in insect assemblage structure among streams and to determine the degree to which assemblage structure was related to temperature. NMDS analyses were conducted on 3 similarity matrices based on: 1) presence and absence of all aquatic insect taxa encountered during the study, 2) densities of the 16 most numerically abundant taxa, and 3) population biomasses of the 16 most common taxa. All 3 analyses showed that variation in assemblage structure among streams was significantly related to temperature, although assemblage structure was most strongly related to sampling date--a consequence of sampling over a 98-d period. Temperature probably influenced assemblage structure in 2 ways: 1) by influencing developmental rates of individual taxa and overall assemblage phenology, thus affecting the relative abundances of taxa found on a specific sampling date, and 2) by excluding taxa unable to tolerate certain temperature ranges. Because of the strong dependency of assemblage structure on temperature and the lack of strong geographic trends in temperature among these streams, much of the measured variation in assemblage structure appeared to be unrelated to latitude or elevation. These results have important implications for both our understanding of natural biogeographic patterns of lotic organisms and our ability to detect and model the effects of climate change and other thermal alterations on stream ecosystems. 
40792629|The role of allochthonous organic matter in lotic ecosystems has been an important research topic among aquatic ecologists since the seminal work by Lindeman was published in 1942. Since 1986, studies on organic matter budgets, ecosystem metabolism, and decomposition published in
10.2307/1467547|A small number of ancient lakes (mostly >10<sup>6</sup> y old) scattered around the globe contain an extraordinary percentage of the world's documented freshwater biodiversity. Endemic benthic invertebrates and fish in most of these lakes today face a variety of anthropogenic threats, including damaging fishing activities, water pollution, species introductions and translocations, climate change, and watershed disturbances. Lake Tanganyika, one of the oldest and most diverse of the ancient lakes, provides a model for studying the effects on endemic faunal diversity from watershed disturbances caused by deforestation. Increased erosion rates around the northern portion of the lake are associated with substantially lower diversity levels for both benthic invertebrates and fish. Disturbance processes in the biologically complex littoral region of this lake that are related to this excess siltation include reductions in light penetration (affecting algal habitat and herbivory), reductions in habitat heterogeneity, and reduced connectivity between benthic habitat patches. Paleoecological data for readily fossilized taxa may be used in Lake Tanganyika to determine background levels and variability in diversity and the historical relationship between human activities in the watershed and changes in benthic community structure. Biogeographic and paleoecologic studies of endemic ostracodes demonstrate that many taxa have extremely patchy distributions which are consistent with metapopulation models of organization. The extremely high diversities encountered in Lake Tanaganyika and other ancient lakes may be dependent on nonequilibrium interactions between patchily distributed species, which undergo periodic but uncorrelated extinctions and recolonizations of appropriate habitat patches. Conversely, excess sedimentation along rocky coastlines may reduce habitat patch interconnections and lead to local extinctions, even in areas that are not directly affected by damaging siltation. Paleoecological data may be used by aquatic conservation biologists to determine the history of this and similar problems and, more generally, to obtain a dynamic view of diversity change in lakes through time.
1468348|The hydrologic processes of advection, dispersion, and transient storage are the primary physical mechanisms affecting solute transport in streams. The estimation of parameters for a conservative solute transport model is an essential step to characterize transient storage and other physical features that cannot be directly measured, and often is a preliminary step in the study of reactive solutes. Our study used inverse modeling to estimate parameters of the transient storage model OTIS (One dimensional Transport with Inflow and Storage). Observations from a tracer injection experiment performed on Uvas Creek, California, USA, are used to illustrate the application of automated solute transport model calibration to conservative and nonconservative stream solute transport. A computer code for universal inverse modeling (UCODE) is used for the calibrations. Results of this procedure are compared with a previous study that used a trial-and-error parameter estimation approach. The results demonstrated 1) importance of the proper estimation of discharge and lateral inflow within the stream system; 2) that although the fit of the observations is not much better when transient storage is invoked, a more randomly distributed set of residuals resulted (suggesting nonsystematic error), indicating that transient storage is occurring; 3) that inclusion of transient storage for a reactive solute (Sr
4095683|We assessed the potential effects of urbanization on bioavailability of dissolved organic C (DOC) in stream ecosystems, by quantifying bacterial extracellular enzymatic activity (EEA). We measured activities of 6 enzymes by incubating water samples with 4-methylumbelliferyl substrates from streams across an urbanization gradient east of Melbourne, Australia. A principal components analysis (PCA) ordination separated streams according to their relative urbanization, as indicated by effective imperviousness (proportion of each catchment covered by impervious surface directly connected to streams by pipes). Activities of leucine aminopeptidase and esterase were higher in streams in more urbanized catchments than in less-urbanized streams, where moderate activities of a diverse range of enzymes were observed. High relative contributions of leucine aminopeptidase and esterase to overall enzyme activity in urban streams stressed the increased importance of peptides as a C source for heterotrophic bacteria and nonspecific extracellular hydrolytic activity. In contrast, high contributions of -N-acetyl glucosaminidase and -xylosidase in less-urbanized streams highlighted the significance of microbial detrital material as a C source and processing of plant-derived xylooligosaccharide substrates in these environments. Our results suggest a shift in organic C bioavailability across streams of contrasting urbanization, despite all streams having roughly similar DOC concentrations. We propose that relative EEA rates show promise as an ecological indicator of stream health across an urban gradient.
10.2307/1467668|Effects of ambient levels of snail grazing on rates and direction of benthic algal succession were investigated in experimental chambers located near two lakes. Benthic algal environments were manipulated by introducing snails (15 individuals/m<sup>2</sup>) to flow-through experimental systems (for 26-28 d) where clay tiles were colonized with algae from littoral lake water from Douglas Lake, Michigan, and Kentucky Lake, Kentucky. We found that algal succession was not always evident in ungrazed conditions; but when successional changes were evident, many different growth forms were observed among early and late succession species. Early succession species were typically non-motile unicellular or colonial growth forms, whereas late succession species were motile unicellular or filamentous diatoms and cyanobacteria. Grazing by the snail Elimia livescens arrested succession of non-diatom algae by selectively removing the overstory of filamentous cyanobacteria. However, grazing by E. livescens enhanced succession among diatoms by selectively grazing the early succession diatoms and leaving small motile late succession species. Whether grazing enhanced or arrested succession, or changed the direction of succession, was dependent upon growth forms of early and late succession algal species, which varied among habitats and corresponding species assemblages.
10.2307/1467587| Field experiments were conducted to examine effects of macroinvertebrate removal frequency on community development on bricks with similar food resource levels (chlorophyll a levels and diatom composition). The experiments were conducted during summer and fall to examine effects of seasonal differences in animal abundances. For each experiment macroinvertebrates were removed from groups of bricks at intervals of 3, 9, or 27 days or were not removed for 54 days. Insect removal frequency had no significant effect on macroinvertebrate abundance in summer when overall animal abundance and richness were low. During fall, when overall abundance was 3 greater, there were significantly fewer animals on bricks with a 3-day removal interval. Baetis tricaudatus represented 65% of all invertebrates in summer, but declined in relative abundance to about 25% in fall. In contrast, the Chironomidae increased from 6% of the assemblage in summer to comprise over 30% in fall, suggesting that differences in the composition of dispersal modes influenced the patterns of colonization observed. We suggest that an algal resource is important in the colonization dynamics of macroinvertebrates by acting as a food source and/or habitat templet. Our experiments illustrate that macroinvertebrate colonization and community development on rocks is influenced by seasonal changes in animal density and composition. 
10.2307/1468385| The life history and ecosystem significance of a recently discovered species of Ironoquia (Trichoptera:Limnephilidae) were examined in a riparian slough of the central Platte River, Nebraska, USA. Monthly benthic samples were collected for 1 y and adult emergence was monitored to examine I. plattensis life history in this harsh, intermittent habitat. Ecosystem significance of this caddisfly was assessed by estimating larval secondary production and consumption of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM), biomass exported from the slough during larval migration onto land, and adult emergence production from the riparian prairie where pupation occurred. The life cycle of I. plattensis appeared intimately linked to the hydroperiod, with larval migration to land and adult emergence coinciding with drying and inundation of the slough, respectively. Total larval production in a 20-m reach of slough, adjusted for average wetted area during sampling intervals, was 429-536 g ash-free dry mass (AFDM)/y, depending upon the method of calculation. Biomass that left the slough via larval migration to land was estimated at 109 g AFDM (23% of larval production), and total adult emergence was 69 g AFDM (16% of larval production). Turnover rate of larval biomass was 10-12/y. CPOM consumption estimates indicated that larvae in the study site consumed 8690 g AFDM/y, 13% of the annual average CPOM standing stock in the site. Results demonstrate that this leaf-shredding trichopteran is a productive component of this prairie wetland system, representing an abundant invertebrate food resource for aquatic and terrestrial predators and facilitating decomposition processes. However, its distribution along the central Platte River may be limited because of habitat destruction and its adaptation to a specific hydrologic regime. 
4095662|Stream inorganic chemistry was sampled under summer baseflow conditions from 2000 to 2002 at 60 sites as part of a large-scale, enhanced water-quality monitoring project (the Project) across New York Citys drinking-water-supply watersheds. The 60 stream sites were evenly divided between regions east and west of the Hudson River (EOH and WOH, respectively). EOH sites had generally higher ionic concentrations than WOH sites, reflecting differences in land use and geology. Within each region, variability in inorganic chemistry data between sites was far greater than annual variability within sites. Geology was an important factor controlling underlying baseflow chemistry differences within and between regions. However, after taking into account geological controls, anthropogenic land uses primarily defined ion and nutrient baseflow chemistry patterns at regional and watershed levels. In general, watershed-scale landscape attributes had either the strongest relationships with analytes or had relationships with analytes that did not differ fundamentally from relationships of riparian- or reach-scale landscape attributes. Individual analyses indicated no dominant watershed-scale landscape attribute that could be used to predict instream inorganic chemistry concentrations, and no single ion or nutrient was identified as the best indicator of a given anthropogenic land use. Our results provide a comprehensive baseline of information for future water-quality assessments in the region and will aid in examining other components of the Project.
4499018|The contribution of rare taxa to bioassessments based on multispecies assemblages is the subject of continued debate. As a result, users of predictive models such as River InVertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS) disagree on whether to exclude locally rare taxa from the
40792669|Flow variation associated with hydropower production causes periodic exposure of zones along the banks of regulated rivers. These zones have reduced algal biomass and lower productivity. We investigated whether algal assemblages in regulated rivers differed in tolerance to aerial exposure because understanding such tolerance could be used to alter water releases to improve downstream productivity. In field experiments, we tested algal tolerance to aerial exposure in 3 assemblages: green filamentous and cyanobacterial assemblages in Thailand and a mixed (filamentous green + cyanobacteria) assemblage in New Zealand. Algae-bearing stones were exposed at night, during the day (in sun or shade, with or without simulated rain), or continuously, or were continuously submerged (with a handling control). Exposure reduced cyanobacterial chlorophyll
4499013|Translocations are used increasingly to conserve populations of rare freshwater mussels. Recovery of translocated mussels is essential to accurate assessment of translocation success. We designed an experiment to evaluate the use of passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags to mark and track individual freshwater mussels. We used eastern lampmussels (
10.2307/1467904|It is often of interest in ecological research to quantify the feeding of study animals. Approaches used previously with grazing aquatic insects have been either labor-intensive (algal cell counts of gut contents), lacking in sensitivity (AFDM, relative gut fullness), or involve radioactive tracers (dual isotope method). A method developed and applied by marine biologists to study zooplankton feeding rates uses the amount of plant pigment in the gut as a feeding index. We have modified this technique to assess feeding by larvae of a grazing mayfly, Baetis bicaudatus (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae) in a western Colorado stream. Gut pigments include chlorophyll from ingested algae, which is rapidly degraded to phaeophorbide and passes unassimilated through the gut, thereby acting as a tracer of feeding activity. Our experiments showed that the optimum dissection and pigment extraction procedure entailed macerating whole Baetis individuals and extracting the gut pigments for 24 hr in 90% ethanol. Pigment levels (chlorophyll a and phaeopigment a) were quantified on a Turner Model 112 fluorometer and expressed as ng total pigment per animal. The technique was reliable using individual mayflies as the sample unit. Storage of intact animals in extraction bottles with a small amount of solvent for 8 hr before processing did not result in degradation of pigment, which added flexibility to the procedure. We foresee applications of this approach in studies of relative feeding rates (daily, seasonal, phylogenetic patterns) and feeding under experimental conditions involving manipulation of factors such as predation, competition, food availability, and the physical environment.
1468351|We conducted 2 experiments to examine how sorting, shape, and size of sediment grains affected drift and mortality of the mayfly
40792632|The presence, abundance, composition, and growth of periphyton are controlled or influenced by 5 broad classes of environmental variation: disturbances, stressors, resources, hydraulic conditions, and biotic interactions. In turn, periphyton communities affect water chemistry, hydraulic conditions, habitat availability, and foodweb dynamics. This review focuses on responses of periphyton communities to environmental variation. A specific objective of the review is to identify robust periphytonenvironment relationships and insightful concepts. Contributors to
4095542|Invasion of littoral zones by adventive macrophyte species can facilitate major changes in the ecology of lakes. In Lake Wanaka, a large alpine New Zealand lake, the macrophytes
10.2307/1468174| We measured spatial and temporal patterns of inorganic nitrogen (N<sub>i</sub>) concentrations and fluxes in surface water flowing into, within, and leaving an Alabama wetland between January 1993 and November 1994. Nutrient concentrations were extremely variable both spatially and temporally and NH<sub>4</sub>-N accounted for 75-98% of all N<sub>i</sub>. The wetland was a sink for NO<sub>3</sub>-N, because concentration and total mass were consistently lower in the stream downgradient from the wetland than at the upstream site. In contrast, NH<sub>4</sub>-N concentrations increased downstream on 15 of the 23 sampling dates, although reduced discharge out of the wetland often resulted in a net retention of NH<sub>4</sub>-N. Within the wetland, concentrations of N<sub>i</sub> were low and relatively homogeneous among sites during cool, high-flow periods. During low-flow periods, NH<sub>4</sub>-N concentrations and site-to-site variance increased. Episodic increases in NH<sub>4</sub>-N concentrations were common in marsh areas, but nutrient pulses were dampened at downgradient open-pond sites. Porewater had significantly more N<sub>i</sub> than surface water and was also dominated by NH<sub>4</sub>-N (often >1000 g/L). Interstitial concentration gradients resulted in diffusive transport of NH<sub>4</sub>-N to the surface, and likely contributed to transient increases in NH<sub>4</sub>-N concentration in marsh habitats. Removal of N<sub>i</sub> added to benthic chambers in the open pond was extremely rapid; 550-600 g N/L were removed from the water column in 24-48 h. Although potential uptake rates were rapid, actual rates appear to be insufficient to cause the wetland to be a consistent N trap over time; the Talladega Wetland Ecosystem may vary from a net N<sub>i</sub>-sink to an N<sub>i</sub>-source at different times of the year or from 1 year to the next. 
20491204|We analyzed nutrient data from a probability survey of 1392 wadeable streams across the 48 conterminous states of the US and from intensified survey data in 921 streams in the Pacific Northwest (PNW) to examine different methods of setting nutrient criteria and to develop a nutrient stream typology. We calculated potential nutrient criteria for total P (TP) and total N (TN) by 3 methods (ecoregion population 25
10.2307/1467402|We investigated the influence of stream regulation on the dietary composition, life histories, and production of four mayfly species (Drunella grandis, Ephemerella infrequens, Paraleptophlebia heteronea, and Baetis tricaudatus) at three sites in the Upper Colorado River. Sites (unregulated, intensely regulated, and recovery) were selected based upon degree of regulation (i.e., upstream, 0.4 km downstream, and 4.0 km downstream from a deep-release reservoir). Although levels of food abundance (diatom density and sedimentary detritus) varied between sites, the dietary compositions of B. tricaudatus (primarily diatoms) and P. heteronea (detritus) did not change. However, D. grandis and E. infrequens consumed diatoms downstream from the reservoir whereas their diet was strictly detritivorous at the upstream site. The number of degree days and mean annual water temperatures at the downstream sites were greater than at the free-flowing unregulated site. Baetis tricaudatus responded to regulated conditions by higher rates of development, altered voltinism, and extended emergence. Ephemerella infrequens and P. heteronea were univoltine at each site. However, development of E. infrequens and P. heteronea was poorly synchronized and emergence was extended at both downstream sites. Drunella grandis was univoltine and well synchronized with a short emergence period at each site. Life history flexibility, in rates of egg development, growth, maturation, and emergence, at the population level may be determined by a lack of dependence by individuals upon temperature or photoperiod cues to synchronize the developmental process. Annual production estimates at downstream sites were higher for all four species than at the upstream site. Annual production of D. grandis (15.38 g/m<sup>2</sup>) at the recovery site and of E. infrequens (15.89 g/m<sup>2</sup>) at the regulated site are the highest production estimates recorded for mayflies.
10.2307/1468022|Analysis of genetic variation among populations of stream invertebrates provides a measure of the consequences of effective dispersal, and can be used to determine the extent of movement within and between streams and to infer the likely mechanisms involved. In our recent studies of rainforest stream invertebrates, we have found considerable genetic differentiation among populations of fully aquatic taxa, indicating limited in-stream movement on a very small scale. Adult flight appears to be the principal mechanism of dispersal for aquatic insects; however, analysis of the genetic structure of larval populations of some species also suggests that in-stream movement is limited to a small spatial scale. Furthermore, detailed analysis of the genetic structure of larval populations suggests that recruitment at the reach scale is the result of only a few adult matings and most likely from oviposition by only a few females. We propose that dispersal capability and the stochastic effects of recruitment are key determinants of observed spatial and temporal variation in community structure in some streams.
10.2307/1468376| The spatiotemporal patterns and ecological significance of the retention of coarse particulate organic matter and large woody debris have been intensively studied in perennial rivers and streams but are virtually unknown in ephemeral systems. We examined the influence of 2 features characteristic of ephemeral systems, downstream hydrologic decay and in-channel tree growth, on the distribution, transport, and retention of woody debris following a flood having a 2.6-y recurrence interval in the ephemeral Kuiseb River in southwestern Africa. A total of 2105 pieces of wood were painted at 8 sites along the river channel to measure retention patterns. The flood had a peak discharge of 159 m<sup>3</sup>/s at the upper end of the study area, decaying to <1 m<sup>3</sup>/s by 200 km downstream. Downstream export of wood from marking sites totaled 59.5% (n = 1253). Transport distances ranged from 1 to 124 km, and 34.8% (n = 436) of the exported wood was recovered. Marked wood retained within marking sites was significantly longer than exported wood (p < 0.001, t-test). Once in transport, there was little correlation between wood length and distance traveled (r = 0.11, correlation analysis, n = 369). Length influenced the site of retention; material retained on debris piles was significantly longer than that stranded on channel sediments (p < 0.001, t-test). In-channel growth of Faidherbia trees significantly influenced wood retention; 83.7% of marked wood not moved by the flood was associated with debris piles on Faidherbia trees. Similarly, 65% of the exported wood retained within downstream debris piles was associated with Faidherbia trees. In contrast to many perennial systems, we observed a general increase in wood retention downstream, peaking in the river's lower reaches in response to hydrologic decay. Debris piles induced sediment deposition and the formation of in-channel islands. Following flood recession, debris piles and their associated sediments provided moist, organic-rich microhabitats, which were focal points for decomposition and secondary production, mimicking patterns reported from the channels of perennial streams and rivers. The ecological significance of retentive obstacles and associated organic debris is a feature common to all fluvial ecosystems, irrespective of their hydrologic regime. 
20491152|Freshwater mussel larval parasitism of fish is unique among bivalves. The relationship is primarily phoretic rather than nutritive; only the smallest glochidia and the haustorial larva grow substantially while on the host. Growth of the smallest larvae suggests a lower functional size limit of 150 m for the juvenile stage. Most Ambleminae, the most diverse North American clade, infect host gills by attracting feeding fish. Many species of Pleurobemini and some Lampsilini release conglutinates of eggs and larvae that resemble host food items. Many Lampsilini and a few Quadrulini use mantle modifications to attract host fish to the female. The mantle of some Quadrulini forms a posterior chamber that holds glochidia for immediate release in response to host fish. In many Lampsilini, mantle flap lures and a protrusible marsupium promote attack by the host fish and direct extraction of glochidia from the marsupium by the host. Host extraction of glochidia from the brooding female might have favored the evolution of long-term brooding in Lampsilini because glochidia need not be released by the female to encounter the host. A remarkable derivative of the host extraction strategy evolved in
10.2307/1467382|We compared the aquatic hyphomycete assemblage in a small headwater stream, where both shredder abundances and production had been dramatically reduced by the insecticide methoxychlor, with the aquatic hyphomycete assemblages in two reference streams containing high abundances of insect shredders. Concentrations of conidia being transported in the water of the treated stream were higher than those in the reference streams during much of the year (8 of 13 samples taken every 4 wk). The species composition (both number of species and the percent each contributed to the total) of conidia in transport was similar among the three streams. Aquatic hyphomycete assemblages on maple leaves colonized at 4-wk intervals over an annual cycle exhibited a similar pattern in that fungi sporulated at higher frequencies in the treated stream than in the reference streams, but the fungal species composition was similar in the three streams.
40792654|Lakes can play a large role in structuring the chemical and physical templates of streams, yet they often are overlooked when stream function is evaluated. We examined how lakes within stream networks affect organic matter decomposition. We used a cotton-strip assay to evaluate cellulose decomposition potential (CDP) as loss of cotton-strip tensile strength in streams upstream and downstream of 4 mountain lakes in a lake district in the Sawtooth Mountains, Idaho. In addition, we used this assay to determine decomposition potentials along a longitudinal gradient in 1 streamlake network. Decomposition coefficients (
40792575|Stable H isotope ratios (D/H, expressed as D) hold promise as an additional tool for elucidating food sources for consumers in aquatic ecosystems. We tested the applicability of D as a food source tracer in streams of New Brunswick, Canada. First, we analyzed D and 
10.2307/1467247|Montane, tropical streams in Puerto Rico are dominated by decapod crustaceans. The most ubiquitous freshwater shrimp, with a distribution ranging from mangrove swamps to the highest-elevation pools, is Atya lanipes, a scraper/filterer. A large predatory shrimp, Macrobrachium carcinus, is much less abundant but dominates the top of the stream foodweb. As part of our long-term ecological research, we have observed a general negative relationship between Atya abundance and the presence of the large predatory shrimp. In a series of laboratory and field experiments, we showed that this relationship was primarily due to avoidance responses by Atya to the predator species. Furthermore, our experiments showed that both chemical and mechanical/tactile cues of predator presence determined the among-pool distribution of Atya within streams. Although chemical cues alone elicited a relatively weak response, the combination of chemical and tactile cues resulted in very strong movement responses. If the prey were confined to pools with predatory shrimp, the prey significantly decreased their overall movement and spent substantially more time in crevices. If given the opportunity, prey shrimp emigrated out of areas that had predatory decapods.
10.2307/1467351|The Wilderness Society is a national environmental organization in the United States dedicated primarily to protection of public lands. Because of growing concern over aquatic ecosystems and biodiversity, the Society is involved in a number of freshwater conservation projects. In the Florida Everglades, the Society is part of an environmental coalition that has succeeded in expanding the national park to help restore natural water flows and is seeking legislation to begin a major redesign of the region's canal system. In the Pacific Northwest, the Society is using its geographic information study to examine the impact of land use on salmon habitat and populations. Based on evidence of rapidly declining salmon populations, environmentalists are taking legal action to prevent further degradation of aquatic habitats in the Northwest. Scientific research, testimony, and advice are increasingly needed by environmental advocates seeking to influence public policy.
10.2307/1467597|Despite the ubiquitous presence of microscopic herbivores such as protozoa in aquatic ecosystems, research on benthic herbivory has largely focused on the role of macroscopic grazers. The present study shows the potential for protozoan herbivores to affect the structure of benthic algal assemblages through selective grazing. The abundance and feeding preferences of three common algivorous protozoans, the ciliates Chilodonella sp. and Trithigmostoma cucullulus and the sarcodine Pelomyxa sp., were determined in a productive, third-order stream and in stream-side channels which contained different densities of two macrograzers and algal assemblages with different physiognomies and species composition. Although the species composition of the ingested algal contents of individual micrograzer cells varied, all three micrograzer populations exhibited selectivity in their feeding on dominant diatom species. Selectivity varied among microherbivore species and with the abundance of indigenous macrograzers. Although the smallest of the three microherbivores (Chilodonella) appeared to be limited to grazing smaller diatom species, selectivity by the two larger species was not strongly related to size or growth form of diatom prey. Selective feeding was still prevalent when the three microherbivore species were considered together as a guild, indicating the potential for an impact on diatom assemblage structure. Although initial predictions of grazing rates of herbivorous protozoa on benthic diatoms suggest that such impacts can be substantial, more detailed studies of protozoan production potentials and microherbivore-algal interactions will be required to confirm or reject these preliminary estimates.
10.2307/1468150| Due to the thermal buffering of their environment, aquatic invertebrates are less likely than their terrestrial counterparts to face temperatures substantially below 0C. Aquatic invertebrates may not be able to avoid internal freezing by supercooling (remaining unfrozen at temperatures below the freezing point of their body fluids), however, because when their body temperatures reach the freezing point of body fluids, these organisms will likely be in contact with external ice, which may induce formation of internal ice (i.e., inoculative freezing). In this study, a variety of winter-collected, aquatic invertebrates (a clam, Sphaerium sp.; an isopod, Lirceus fontinalis; a mayfly, Stenomena femoratum; a belostomatid, Belostoma flumineum; 2 dytiscids, Ilybius oblitus and Agabus disintegratus) and, for comparison, a terrestrial beetle (Hippodamia convergens) were studied with respect to their low temperature tolerance. No species appeared to lower its freezing point appreciably by accumulating colligatively active solutes in body fluids, and all aquatic species supercooled moderately (-5 to -7C), but significantly less than the terrestrial beetle (-16C), before freezing when chilled in a dry environment. However, when chilled in contact with external ice, all animals froze at their melting points or just below (as low as -2C for the beetles), showing that they are susceptible to inoculative freezing. All aquatic species readily survived exposures to sub-zero temperatures when supercooled, but succumbed to the same conditions when inoculated by external ice. Survival of low temperatures by temperate zone aquatic invertebrates appears to depend upon thermal buffering provided by the aquatic environment, slow progress of ice formation in bodies of water at high sub-zero temperatures, avoidance of contact with external ice, and tolerance of high sub-zero temperatures when freezing does not occur in the animals themselves. 
10-002|The origin of organic C supporting zoobenthic communities in 8 boreal lakes with different concentrations of dissolved organic C (DOC) was assessed by stable-isotope analysis. Profundal zoobenthos was depleted in
40792663|Individuals in most natural populations of predators vary in size, and size differences among individuals often result in cannibalism. Cannibalism is an extremely common phenomenon in the animal kingdom, particularly among generalist predators that engage in intraguild predation (IGP). However, few studies have specifically addressed the effects of cannibalism on IGP. The aim of my study was to investigate how trophic and behavioral interactions between 2 size classes of an intraguild (IG) predator influenced the survival and behavior of IG prey and a shared prey resource. I tested for these effects with larval odonates by exposing a shared prey resource (
10.2307/1467345|We examined the role of nutrients in structuring algal periphyton communities in 12 softwater lakes varying widely in acidity by a) evaluating species composition on unenriched substrata in relation to water chemistry, and b) measuring the growth responses of dominant species within the communities of each lake to enrichment with eight combinations of N, P, and C. Species composition on substrata deployed for 5-6 wk in each lake was strongly related to pH and alkalinity, and relatively unresponsive to differences in either dissolved inorganic N (DIN) or total P in the water column, as determined using Canonical Correspondence Analysis. The limiting nutrient for at least some species, determined from their growth responses to nutrient enrichment, was in contrast closely related to water column nutrients. Low ratios of dissolved inorganic C (DIC) to DIN in the most acidic lakes were associated with an increase in the number of C-limited species, and with shifts from N limitation to C limitation of a few prevalent taxa. The N-fixing cyanophyte Nostoc commune was one of very few species to be frequently limited by the same nutrient (P) regardless of lake type. Although at least a portion of the periphyton community is clearly nutrient limited in these lakes during midsummer, moderate variation in the concentrations of water-column nutrients may be insufficient to promote large-scale changes in species composition because of the considerable attenuation of nutrient availability to cells within the periphyton mat.
4095712|The role of predators (particularly top predators such as fish) in structuring stream communities has been debated for 2 decades. Much of the debate may have been caused by the lack of a conceptual framework for evaluating predator effects in stream communities. First, I propose a general conceptual model of the factors (abiotic, such as stream permanence and disturbance regime; biotic, such as predation) that can influence community structure, and the conditions in which these various factors would be expected to be important.
10.2307/1468250|Although theoretical and empirical studies show that spatial heterogeneity has important effects on the dynamics of populations and the structure of communities, there has been little rigorous quantification of terms like "patchiness" or "spatial heterogeneity" in studies of lotic systems. In order to compare the spatial heterogeneity of different systems and understand the causes and consequences of that heterogeneity, we must first be able to quantitatively measure it. Spatial heterogeneity has many aspects that change with the scale of our observations, so we need a battery of descriptive measures that explicitly consider the scale-dependence of ecological pattern. Response variables exhibiting similar frequency distributions (i.e., similar overall variability) can have very different spatial distributions; consequently, descriptions of spatial heterogeneity require spatial data, i.e., data related to geographic locations (maps). We review statistical techniques for quantitatively describing aspects of heterogeneity in spatial data, emphasizing the decomposition of heterogeneity into different scales of variation (trends, overall variability, and spatial dependence or autocorrelation). Gradients in spatial data can be evaluated using trend analyses (e.g., regressions), whereas the spatial structure of variation around trends can be evaluated using geostatistical methods. The central concept of geostatistics is spatial dependence, which is the degree to which values of a response variable differ as a function of the distance (lag) between sampling locations. Semivariograms plot variation among samples separated by a common lag versus lag, and can be objectively decomposed by piece-wise regression techniques to estimate the strength and scales of spatial dependence. A variety of other methods can be used to quantify spatial heterogeneity from categorical and numerical maps depending on the question of interest and the underlying structure of the spatial data (e.g., methods derived from fractal geometry and information theory, nearest neighbor analysis, spectral analysis, Mantel's test). Spatial heterogeneity in stream organisms is driven by local variation in environmental conditions, by interactions between individuals of the same or different species, and by the effects of organisms on their abiotic environment. By applying geostatistical methods to spatial data collected from field experiments, stream ecologists can evaluate the effects of biotic and abiotic factors on the spatial arrangement of organisms in streams. We present examples of data obtained from experiments examining how consumers affect, and respond to, spatial heterogeneity in their resources. The results indicate that consumer-resource feedbacks should be considered when modeling the causes and consequences of spatial heterogeneity in streams.
10.2307/1467761| Various studies report changes in phosphorus and nitrogen concentrations in surface waters after wildfires; however, we have found no reports which include nutrient data collected during actual wildfire activity. We had an opportunity to collect water chemistry data from several streams as a large (15,500 ha) intense firestorm passed through their watersheds. Phosphorus and nitrogen concentrations increased from 5 to 60 fold over background levels within the first two days of the fire with maximum recorded concentrations for dissolved nutrients reaching as high as 135 g/L soluble reactive phosphorus, 261 g/L ammonium, and 61 g/L nitrate + nitrite. Total phosphorus and total nitrogen levels increased up to 206 g/L and 349 g/L respectively. Nutrient concentrations declined to background levels typically <5-10 g/L within several days to several weeks. Experimental evidence suggests that the primary source of phosphorus was from leaching of ash deposited directly into the streams during the firestorm while the primary source of nitrogen appeared to be from diffusion of smoke gases into the stream waters. 
4499052|Lengthmass equations are valued for their efficiency and reliability because many animals, including aquatic macroinvertebrates, show predictable correlations between mass and linear body dimensions. Our paper explores overlooked aspects of lengthmass applications, including relationships for adult aquatic insects, intraspecific variation, and spatiotemporal context. We analyzed the lengthmass relationship in 5 species of adult dragonfly (Anisoptera: Libellulidae) during 2 collection periods (early and late summer flight) at 3 study locations in northern Mississippi, USA. Despite narrow ranges in body and wing length, and given that dragonflies gain postemergence mass without associated changes in skeletal size, both body and wing length showed potential for estimating individual dry mass (
1468037|We examined the decomposition of 3 riparian leaf species (alder, birch, and willow) in a boreal woodland stream during winter. Based on initial leaf quality, we expected willow leaves to decompose at a slower rate than alder and birch leaves. We also expected alder and birch leaves to be colonized by fungi and macroinvertebrates more rapidly and in higher numbers and/or biomass than willow leaves. We also assessed how closely shredder life cycles are related to leaf litter availability in this stream. Alder and birch had fast processing rates (
20491159|The roles of systematics in the field of conservation biology are well understood and accepted for many organisms. However, the role of systematics and taxonomy has not been reviewed in the context of species protection and management of freshwater gastropods. We provide a thorough review of the relevant theoretical literature in systematics and taxonomy and illustrate with recent examples of species delineation and taxonomy in North American freshwater gastropods that these fields play key roles in the practical designation of conservation management units. We summarize some aspects of the biology of freshwater gastropods that can confound taxonomic and management efforts. Based on our review, we recommend that effective conservation plans include the systematic research necessary to recognize unique organismal lineages as primary conservation management units. This strategy must be combined with consistent and rigorous nomenclature, taxonomy, and dissemination of research findings so that all parties have access to the highest quality information.
10.1899/09-150.1|Bioirrigation by tube-dwelling macrozoobenthos species causes an advective flow of overlying water through the burrow lumen. Particle image velocimetry (PIV) and color tracer measurements were used to measure flow velocities. The volumetric flow rate was calculated based on measured velocities and visual observation of larval body movements. Investigations were done with
10.2307/1467709|Nutrient-releasing artificial substrata were deployed in streams draining clearcut and forested watersheds to evaluate resources potentially limiting to populations of benthic algae. Nitrogen, phosphorus, and calcium were released singly and in combination in the two streams that differed primarily in light availability. Periphyton were harvested after one- and two-month exposure periods and analyzed for chlorophyll. The two-month substrata were additionally analyzed for algal community structure. Algal periphyton in the clearcut stream accumulated more chlorophyll and biovolume than in the forested stream across all nutrient treatments. Algal community structure was significantly different between streams but not between nutrient treatments. Algal physiognomies were also significantly different between streams with filamentous green algae dominating the clearcut stream and erect diatoms dominating the forested stream. Light appears to limit algal accumulation in the forested stream and there is evidence that some populations in the clearcut stream may be nutrient limited. Adequate light also resulted in a more architecturally diverse community.
09-125|We tested whether the functional structures of Mediterranean and temperate western European fish communities responded similarly along environmental gradients. The species pools of the 2 regions were quite different, with few species common to both regions. Each species was assigned to 1 trait for each of 6 guilds considered. We aggregated occurrences or densities of the species sharing the same traits and then computed 26metrics describing the functional structure of fish assemblages. For each metric, we fitted and then compared 3 nested models. The 1
40792635|Aquatic ecosystems are almost invariably connected to other ecosystems because the dominant force of water movement facilitates physical, chemical, and biological exchanges among ecosystems. In this sense, we define an
10.2307/1468248|The geographic distribution of streams on earth can be associated with terrestrial vegetation, slope, and latitude, among other factors. Classifying flowing water habitats by associated vegetative cover is useful because factors such as downstream transport of organic carbon (C), sediments, nutrients, and other dissolved or suspended materials are influenced heavily by the vegetative characteristics of the watershed. Global datasets with 1-degree spatial resolution were analyzed to characterize both volume of runoff and number of mapped rivers associated with each of 14 classes of vegetation, and how runoff is influenced by latitude and slope. The vegetation classes (land cover) were ranked in decreasing order with respect to runoff. About 30% of the global runoff originates from broadleaf evergreen forest, followed by wooded C<sub>4</sub> grassland (14.8%), cultivated land (8.9%), coniferous forest and woodland (8.3%), ice (7.8%), wooded C<sub>3</sub> grassland (6.0%), mixed coniferous and broadleaf deciduous forest (5.4%), C<sub>3</sub> grassland (5.3%), tundra (4.5%), high latitude deciduous forest and woodland (3.9%), broadleaf deciduous forest and woodland (2.3%), C<sub>4</sub> grassland (1.7%), shrubs and bare ground (1.4%), and desert and bare ground (0.5%). Numbers of mapped rivers followed a similar pattern, except that broadleaf evergreen forests did not dominate, and tundra habitats were much more important. Counts of intermittent rivers were generally highest in the areas with the lowest runoff. River counts are likely to be less reliable than runoff estimates because they rely upon the subjective judgment of cartographers. Equatorial and northern temperate regions accounted for the greatest proportion of total runoff. A weak positive relationship occurred between slope and runoff. This analysis may assist investigators in determining how well their results can be extrapolated beyond regional scales.
4499020|Selection of reference sites is a critical component in the process of developing and applying biological indicators of ecological condition. Some evidence suggests that despite its importance the rules by which reference sites are selected have not always been evaluated critically to assure that the sites represent least-disturbed conditions. We present a comparison of physical and chemical disturbance measures and biotic indices at handpicked reference sites provided by resource agencies and at sites selected by a probability design from a 12-state survey of western streams and rivers. In most cases, the distributions of disturbance measures and biotic index scores were essentially the same for both types of sites; that is, only a subset of the handpicked reference sites represented least-disturbed conditions. We recommend that all agencies that use reference sites critically review those sites with a set of explicit criteria, using field-collected data as well as mapped information.
41318734|Exudates are ubiquitous in marine and fresh waters. They include Extracellular Polymeric Substances (EPS; including mucus, slimes, and biofilm matrices), silk, and chitin. EPS have many uses for the organisms that produce themattachment, locomotion, feeding, and protection. They also act as glues to bind other materials, including the egesta within fecal pellets. Silk, an exudate produced only in fresh waters, is used in tube construction, to make nets used in feeding, and as a means of attachment. Chitin is the basis of the peritrophic matrix that surrounds the gut contents of some invertebrates and may act as a binding surrounding their fecal pellets. EPS are found free in the water column and in and on the substratum, as well as in close contact with the organisms that exude them. Free EPS have an essential role in particle formation and aggregation, processes that have been studied primarily in marine systems. Like EPS, silk is highly adsorptive and is found free within substrata, but rarely in the water column. Understanding the role of exudates requires collaboration between marine and freshwater biologists, physical geographers, and chemists, especially those working on surface processes and colloids. The results of these collaborations should expand our understanding of the many vital roles played by exudates in aquatic ecosystems.
10.2307/1468028|Modifications of lower watersheds such as water abstraction, channel modification, land-use changes, nutrient enrichment, and toxic discharge can set off a cascade of events upstream that are often overlooked. This oversight is of particular concern since most rivers are altered by humans in their lower drainages and most published ecological investigations of lotic systems have focused on headwater streams. Factors contributing to ecological processes or biophysical legacies in upper watersheds often go unacknowledged because they occur at disparate geographic locations downstream (e.g., gravel mining, water abstraction, dams) with significant lag times. This paper considers examples of how alterations to streams and rivers in their lower reaches can produce biophysical legacies in upstream reaches on levels from genes to ecosystems. Examples include: 1) genetic- and species-level changes, such as reduced genetic flow and variation in isolated upstream populations; 2) population- and community-level changes that occur when degraded downstream areas act as population "sinks" for "source" populations of native species upstream or, conversely, as "source" populations of exotic species that migrate upstream; and 3) ecosystem- and landscape-level changes (e.g., nutrient cycling, primary productivity, regional patterns of biodiversity) that can occur in headwater systems as a result of downstream habitat deterioration and hydrologic modifications. Finally, a case study from my own research illustrates the importance of careful consideration of downstream-upstream linkages in formulating research questions, designing experiments, making predictions, and interpreting results. The effects of dams and associated water abstraction in lowland streams of Puerto Rico has forced my colleagues and me to re-evaluate the results of ecological research that we have conducted in highland streams over the past decade and to redirect our research to consider downstream-upstream linkages.
20491177|For many years the
1468282|Substratum heterogeneity is a large source of variability in periphyton production, but the influence of substratum on periphyton response to experimental manipulations is rarely measured. Using laboratory and whole-lake experiments, we compared area-specific primary production of periphyton on wood (epixylon) and sediment (epipelon), and tested whether periphyton on the 2 substrata responded differently to water-column fertilization. In the laboratory, natural periphyton assemblages on wood or sediment were exposed to 1 of 6 treatments in a fully factorial (light [250, 70, or 10 mol m
10.2307/1468057|Through use of a closed, circulating system, we examined the effects of low oxygen on the behavior and survival of juvenile Elliptio complanata, a common freshwater clam. Clams exposed to low oxygen exhibited increased stress behavior, extending their siphons, gaping, and surfacing more often than clams exposed to higher concentrations of oxygen. Stress levels rose with exposure time and led to increased mortality in a long-term study. Low oxygen in sediments may limit juvenile survival through direct mortality and indirectly through behaviors that can lead to increased mortality. Knowledge of the limitations may prove useful in clam reestablishment programs and for regulation of management practices near existing clam beds.
40792656|Small headwater streams are abundant components of the riverine landscape where critical biochemical processes occur that provide clean water, energy, and nutrients to downstream reaches. Disturbance to these systems as a result of human land use has the potential to affect downstream health. Rates of metabolism and organic matter processing were measured in 22 small forested headwater streams in 2 regions of Tasmania, Australia, to evaluate the effects of forestry disturbance. Twelve of these streams had been subjected to recent clearfell-burn-and-sow (CBS) harvest. Benthic metabolism was measured in small in situ chambers (production ranged from <0.001 to 21.845mgCm
1468071|The study of snail herbivory has typically stressed the importance of autotrophic components in periphyton to snail nutrition despite growing evidence of the role of microbial food webs, specifically the roles of heterotrophic bacteria as a food resource to higher trophic levels. Snails of the family Pleuroceridae are the most dominant and ubiquitous grazers found among small, low-order, carbonate streams in the Valley and Ridge physiographic province of Alabama. Two snail species,
10.2307/1468461|The stable isotope stream tracer model (SISTM) calculates the expected <sup>15</sup>N content in various stream ecosystem N compartments over distance and time during and after <sup>15</sup>N additions to streams. SISTM is a steady state compartment model that predicts  <sup>15</sup>N values based on N stocks and fluxes and the experimental rate of <sup>15</sup>N addition. Predicted  <sup>15</sup>N values are compared with observed  <sup>15</sup>N values from a field tracer addition to evaluate our understanding of the N cycle. We demonstrated the use of this tool with information collected from field measurements and a 6-wk <sup>15</sup>N-NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> addition to the Kuparuk River, Alaska, during the summer of 1991. SISTM was used to run a series of model calibrations that reflected increased information as the experiment progressed. Results of an a priori calibration (using pre-1991 data) yielded a predicted NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> uptake length (S<sub>w</sub>) of 5.2 km compared with the observed S<sub>w</sub> of 0.84 km, and underestimated the  <sup>15</sup>N values of biota in all cases. When discharge and NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> concentrations measured during the 1991 experiment were added (model calibration Update 1), the predicted S<sub>w</sub> dropped to 0.44 km, indicating that the modeled fluxes overestimated the rate of NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> removal by the stream bottom. Adding N stocks and fluxes measured during the tracer addition (Update 2) did not improve predicted S<sub>w</sub>, indicating faulty assumptions in our a priori calibration. The observed isotope data were used to estimate the form (NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup> vs NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>) of N taken up by primary producers and to improve our representation of the epilithon compartment (Update 3). Including this information brought the predicted S<sub>w</sub> to 0.71 km compared with the observed 0.84 km, and resulted in a reasonable correspondence between predicted and observed  <sup>15</sup>N values over the 6-wk addition. SISTM can be used as a framework to 1) summarize N-cycle information prior to a tracer addition, 2) generate testable predictions for field isotope studies, 3) improve our understanding of the N cycle using the field isotope data as constraints on flux estimates, and 4) explore hypothetical N-cycle characteristics. The combined modeling and field tracer experiment approach efficiently provided a synoptic view of the N cycle in streams and rivers.
40792573|N and P often limit primary and secondary production in ecosystems, but they also can cause eutrophication and negatively influence sensitive species above a certain level or threshold point. Aquatic biodiversity can have negative threshold relationships with water-quality variables at large scales, but the specific mechanism(s) driving these threshold relationships are not well established. We hypothesized that resource quality (i.e., C:P) might partly drive primary consumer (grazer and detritivore) richness thresholds by altering competitive interactions among species with differing resource demands, but might have less influence on predator richness. We estimated total N (TN), total P (TP), and turbidity thresholds for macroinvertebrate richness across trophic levels and feeding groups in Central Plains (USA) streams. We also determined if mean taxon body C:P of groups with diversity losses were negatively related to TP, a pattern that would suggest that eutrophic communities were dominated by a few species with high dietary P demands. Primary consumers were more sensitive to TN and TP (threshold mean = 1.0 mg N/L and 0.06 mg P/L) than secondary consumers (threshold mean = 0.09 mg P/L), a result supporting the resource quality hypothesis. Turbidity reduced richness regardless of feeding mode (threshold mean = 4.7 NTU), a result suggesting that turbidity and nutrient thresholds were driven by different factors. The TP-richness threshold could be driven partially by changes in food quality because the mean body C:P of shredding and collector-gathering taxa declined as TP increased (threshold mean = 0.07 and 0.75 mg P/L, respectively). Mean scraper C:P was not related to TP, a result indicating other factors might be responsible for the scraper richness threshold. Our results suggest that changes in resource quality could contribute to large-scale losses in biodiversity in nutrient-enriched lotic ecosystems. Within shredder and collector-gatherer macroinvertebrate feeding groups, P-rich food might allow faster growing taxa with high body P demands to out-compete slower growing taxa adapted to lower quality food resources. This pattern suggests that biotic integrity is directly linked to nutrients in streams and that toxicity, low dissolved O
10.2307/1467864|The effects of macroalgae on stream invertebrates were studied in riffle zones in a coastal southern California stream. Dense growths of macroalgae (Cladophora glomerata, Nostoc sp.) were experimentally removed at different times of the year and in different years, and the insect communities which developed were compared with those in unmanipulated controls. Marl precipitated by algae was also removed in one experiment. The presence of macroalgae was associated with greater total densities and taxon richness of invertebrates, and nearly all taxa responded significantly to algal removal on at least some dates. Insects formed most of the community and were classified according to three categories of macroalgal effects on benthic densities: 1. Negatively affected by macroalgae (and marl) due to competition for space--e.g., Blepharicera (strong response to both algal taxa); large Simulium (strong with Cladophora, weak with Nostoc). 2. Positively affected due to structural habitats created by algae--e.g., Micrasema, Rhyacophila and Hydropsyche (all strong); Tinodes (weak-Nostoc); Rheotanytarsus (strong-Nostoc). 3. Positively affected by both macroalgal structure and associated food resources (macroalgae or epiphyton)--e.g., Baetis and Chironomidae (strong-Cladophora, weak-Nostoc); Hydroptila, Ochrotrichia, and Euparyphus (strong-Cladophora); and endosymbiotic Cricotopus (strong-Nostoc). Natural disturbances will indirectly affect invertebrate distributions and abundances by affecting the distributions and abundances of macroalgae.
10.2307/1468170|Black fly larvae occur in many lotic habitats but often dominate the benthos of lake-outlet and brownwater (humic) stream communities. Water in these habitats contains abundant dissolved organic material (DOM). Amorphous material commonly found on black fly labral fans was formerly but erroneously thought to be an endogenously produced glycoconjugate that aided particle capture. We hypothesized that architecture of the labral fans may cause in situ flocculation of DOM, which is then directly ingested. Half-grown Simulium vittatum Zetterstedt and S. piperi Dyer & Shannon larvae were held for 84 h in stir-bar-driven rearing chambers containing filtered water with or without 3.0 mg/L brewer's yeast and with or without 20.0 mg/L DOM (an aqueous extract of moss). Water was partially replaced every 6 h. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was used to examine particulate material from test water collected on membrane filters and to study labral fans of selected larvae from parallel experiments. Other larvae were longitudinally sectioned and stained with Alcian Blue, which detects glycoconjugates. Concentrations of DOM (determined by ultraviolet spectroscopy) and fine particulate organic matter (measured by filtration) in chambers did not change over 84 h. Larvae in control and DOM-only trials displayed aggregative behavior typical of severely food-limited simuliids, whereas larvae in yeast-supplemented trials were haphazardly arranged. Control larvae exhibited little or no growth (increase in mean body length). Larvae in both DOM and yeast-supplemented treatments grew significantly more than control larvae, achieving growth rates of 4.0-17.0%/d (DOM-only), 11.3-14.8%/d (yeast-only), or more. Guts of larvae from all treatments stained positively, indicating that they contained glycoconjugates. Filters and labral fans examined by SEM contained yeast cells but not bacterial cells. However, labral fans also lacked evidence of adhering glycoconjugates. Small quantities of amorphous material consistent with flocculated DOM were observed on filters. Simuliid larvae can grow in a medium containing only allochthonously derived DOM. Although evidence is inconclusive, we speculate that DOM is precipitated on labral fans and ingested. Under natural conditions, DOM may be a direct and significant food source for simuliid larvae.
1467990|Dissolved inorganic N (DIN) and soluble reactive P (SRP) have been used by some to indicate the trophic status of waters, and concentration ratios (DIN:SRP) to indicate nutrient deficiency. The utility of such measurements should be questioned, particularly based on well-known problems associated with determination of the concentration of SRP, which is commonly assumed to represent PO
40792641|The year 2010 marks the 25
4095686|Nutrient spiraling in theory and application provides a framework for comparing nutrient retention efficiency of urban streams to relatively unaltered streams. Previous research indicated that streams of the southwestern USA deserts are highly retentive of N because of N limitation, high productivity, and high channel complexity (in particular, extensive transient storage associated with the hyporheic zone). Most southwestern urban streams have extensively modified channels and experience N loading from urban runoff and inputs of NO
10.2307/1467385| Egg development was investigated for Hexagenia limbata (Serville) from Southern Indian Lake (SIL) in northern Manitoba, Canada. The SIL population is located near the northern range limit of H. limbata, and some important differences in hatching dynamics were seen in comparison with southern populations. Hatching success and egg development time were related to temperature, as reported in the south, but the developmental threshold temperature for the SIL population was near 8C, 2 lower than previously reported. Storage of the eggs at 8C resulted in slow but measurable development rather than low-temperature quiescence as expected, leading to inconsistent degree-day estimation among temperature treatments. Following storage at 8C, both egg development rate and hatching success increased with increasing temperature. However, hatching success was improved by increasing the time the eggs spent in storage, ranging from only 50% hatch in unstored eggs to >90% hatch in eggs stored for 6 mo. In addition, a bimodal hatching response was seen in the eggs; about half of the eggs deposited by individual females hatched immediately under favourable conditions, and the remainder hatched after exposure to cold (4C). A lower developmental threshold than previously reported and a previously undescribed egg diapause may enable Hexagenia limbata to persist near the northern extent of its distribution. 
09-097|When 2 populations are mixed for whatever reason, the outcome can be difficult to predict. In 1993, 2 populations of an atyid shrimp (
10.2307/1467218|Streambed temperature patterns were measured in three riffles of a northern Michigan (USA) warmwater river using 95-cm long stainless steel temperature probes. In riffles with uniform small particle substrata, patterns suggested that streamwater infiltration occurred at the head of riffles, affecting substrate temperatures as much as 50 cm deep. At the downstream end of riffles, cool water was much nearer the streambed surface. Temperature patterns were very irregular when large rocks occurred in and on the bed. These data also suggest that streambed temperature patterns may be a useful tool in determining the presence and extent of hyporheic zones and in determining longitudinal and physical stream characteristics likely to indicate where hyporheic zones exist.
1468431|We sampled 8 sites (riffles) in a parent stream and its major upstream tributary in northern Michigan to quantify environmental heterogeneity or gradients to identify spatial determinants of 5 species of larval hydropsychid caddisflies. Abundance patterns of species varied at both small (microhabitats) and intermediate (sites) spatial scales, as did key determinants of abundance. Substrate size and type were important in affecting species microdistributions. A selectivity index (
40792655|Changes in community structure and life-history traits of benthic invertebrates were examined along a longitudinal intermittence gradient in an alluvial river. The gradient was characterized with modeled and measured hydrologic, chemical, and physical environmental variables. The invertebrates were collected in the Selwyn River, southeastern New Zealand, at multiple sites in each of 4 river sections with distinct hydrological conditions (perennial-losing, ephemeral, intermittent, perennial-gaining). Values of hydrological metrics for each site were generated with an empirical model developed for the Selwyn River. The metrics included 4 that characterized intermittent flow (flow permanence, flow duration, drying frequency, distance to nearest perennial site). Most invertebrate richness and density metrics were significantly higher in the perennial-losing and perennial-gaining sections than in the ephemeral and intermittent sections. A principle components analysis (PCA) separated invertebrate samples from the 4 sections along 2 primary factors. Nine of 13 hydrological metrics, including the 4 intermittence metrics, were correlated with the PCA site scores. Linear regressions indicated that most taxon-richness metrics and some density metrics were related to flow permanence, flow duration, or both. Based on the regression analysis, we predicted that 1.9 taxa/m
10.2307/1467240|This study characterized the relationship between juvenile rainbow mussels (Villosa iris) and the sediment they inhabit. Dye studies in a feeding chamber, video recordings of feeding, and gut content analysis were used to determine mechanisms of feeding, the primary food source, and the origin of substances taken up by 1-14-d-old juveniles. Within 20 min of placement, 98.5% of the juveniles were able to burrow in the sediment. Although juveniles burrowed <1 cm into the sediment, they were not exposed to the overlying water. Exposure to sediment comes not only through direct contact, but also through filtration of interstitial water and sediment-associated fine particulate organic matter. Juveniles fed on bacteria and bacterial-sized particles as well as algae. Their predominant food source appears to vary with age. Pedal-locomotory and pedal-sweep feeding behaviors are used to facilitate movement of particles into the pedal gape. Pedal-locomotory behaviors were used more frequently in the presence of detrital particles while pedal-sweep feeding was most frequently observed in a tri-algal suspension.
10.2307/1467204| To understand the efficiency of interstitial habitats in the elimination of organic matter as it moves from surface water to groundwater (bank filtration), we studied spatial and temporal variations of sediment organic matter concentration, biodegradable (BDOC) and refractory (RDOC) fractions of the dissolved organic carbon, bacterial abundances, and microbial enzymatic activity in the first metre of sediment of the Rhne River immediately downstream of a large city. The study area was fed most of the year by the surface water inflow (downwelling area), because of groundwater pumping wells located  80 m from the river. Decreasing gradients from surface water to deep sediments and from the river to the shore were observed in most of the cases for the four variables. The decrease in RDOC concentrations did not vary seasonally (this decrease is probably due to physical process, such as adsorption on fine mineral particles), whereas decreases in BDOC concentrations only occurred when microbial enzymatic activities were high; BDOC is rapidly assimilated by microbial communities. Physical and biological processes together make this first metre of sediment an efficient filter for organic matter. 
4095645|We developed an Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) for the Interior Plateau Ecoregion (IPE), USA, which assessed effects of human disturbance on the biotic condition of stream diatom communities. We selected 7 metrics from 59 diatom attributes at reference and impaired sites (training sites), based on significant differences between site groups using the MannWhitney
10.2307/1468052| The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of substrate complexity on community structure of macroinvertebrates in littoral zones of lakes. Artificial substrates were used to simulate characteristics of structures commonly placed on the lake bed along shorelines. Cement balls in a wire basket simulated rock riprap, whereas concrete patio blocks simulated retaining walls; the samplers had nearly equal surface areas. Samplers were placed in the littoral zones of 3 dissimilar lakes in Wisconsin, and in front of 3 types of shorelines: rock riprap, vertical retaining wall, and natural shorelines. Colonization periods were 40-45 d starting immediately after ice-out. Significantly greater numbers of organisms colonized basket samplers (1947  155 / m<sup>2</sup> mean  1 SE) than block samplers (951  73 / m<sup>2</sup>). Taxa richness was significantly higher on baskets (31  1) versus blocks (22  1). Hydra, Turbellaria, Oligochaeta, Crustacea, Ephemeroptera, and Odonata were significantly more abundant on baskets than on blocks. Mollusca, Hydrachnida, and Chironomidae showed a strong trend toward greater abundance on baskets. Only Trichoptera was equally abundant on both samplers. Neither abundance nor richness differed significantly among shoreline types, but a trend of higher values for both variables was observed along rock riprap. The results were consistent with the hypothesis that the more complex, 3-dimensional artificial substrate, with its greater substrate heterogeneity, surface complexity, and interstitial space, will support a more diverse and abundant macroinvertebrate community in lakes compared to the less complex, 2-dimensional artificial substrate. Shoreline management practices that reduce habitat complexity may reduce local invertebrate diversity. 
10.1899/09-162.1|Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are abundant in stream-dwelling aquatic insects and might be essential for their growth and survival. We conducted a controlled study designed to clarify fatty acid (FA) assimilation and metabolism by net-spinning caddisfly larvae (
10.2307/1467729| Life history characteristics of the stream mayfly Euthyplocia hecuba (Hagen) (Polymitarcyidae:Euthyplociinae) were studied over a 4-yr period in two tropical streams (Ro Tempisquito and Quebrada Marilin) draining primary evergreen forest in northern Costa Rica. Larvae burrow in the substratum of the stream, living under small to large cobbles that are firmly embedded in the stream bottom. Euthyplocia hecuba is sexually dimorphic and one of the largest mayflies of Central America, with maximum larval size of 149 mg (dry mass) for females and 35 mg for males. Mature female and male larvae are about 40% larger in Q. Marilin relative to R. Tempisquito. Subimagoes emerge about 1 h before dawn (0400 h); the molt to the imago (or true adult stage) occurs 20 min later. Adult emergence and reproduction occurs mainly between June and November. Females mate and then oviposit in riffle areas just before dawn, with the time period gradually changing from 0446 and 0507 h in June to 0508 and 0529 h in October. We found that size of adult males and females gradually declined during the emergence period. Fecundity averaged 984 in October (range 364-2851), with eggs being very large for a mayfly (0.46  0.4 mm; 0.017 mg dry mass). The proportion of adult biomass allocated to eggs (reproductive effort) averaged 0.51 but varied according to female size. Median egg development time was 113, 55, and 31 d at 15, 20, and 25C. The hatch success of eggs was >90% at 15 and 20C, only 68% at 25C, and 0% at 10 and 30C. First instar larvae are relatively large for a mayfly, having a head width of 0.11 mm and a body length of 1.30 mm. Seasonal changes in larval size distribution suggest that larval development takes 22 mo to complete and may involve a developmental quiescence or diapause during the first year. A 2-yr life history appears to be the most parsimonious hypothesis given a 2-mo egg development time, the occurrence of two size cohorts of larvae throughout most of the year, and the temporal pattern of maximum and average larval sizes over the course of the sampling period. Our data suggest that seasonality in the developmental dynamics of larvae underlies both the seasonal emergence and decline in dry mass of both adult males and females during the emergence period. The data provide the first evidence for semivoltinism in a tropical mayfly. 
10.2307/1468365|The structure and production of a benthic insect assemblage were assessed over a 12-mo period in a neotropical stream draining the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica. Two stream habitats, riffles and pools, were sampled monthly. Benthic assemblage composition was similar to that reported for other areas in Central America and was dominated by the orders Ephemeroptera (Tricorythodes, Leptohyphes, Thraulodes, Baetis?), Coleoptera (Elmidae), and Diptera (mainly Chironomidae). Collector-gatherers were the dominant functional-feeding group and very few shredders were found. Annual habitat-weighted secondary production was highest for Tricorythodes (87.07 mg ash-free dry mass [AFDM] m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) and Chironomidae (74.47 mg AFDM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>). Total habitat-weighted secondary production was 363.65 mg AFDM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>. Riffles supported the highest abundance, biomass, and secondary production of benthic insects. This study provides the 1st estimates of secondary production for a neotropical stream. Abundance, biomass, and secondary production in the study stream were low in comparison to results obtained in subtropical and temperate regions. However, annual production to biomass (P/B) ratios were high (range 5-103), indicating rapid population turnover. Monthly assessment of assemblage structure showed that benthic abundance increased with the number of days since the last large rainstorm (>50 mm/24 h). In addition, habitat-weighted abundance was negatively correlated with stream discharge. The abundance of macroconsumers (e.g., fishes and benthic shrimps) that potentially reduce food resources and prey upon insects might in part be responsible for the low abundance, production, and proportion of insect shredders in the study stream. Results suggest that other organisms (i.e., macroconsumers, microbes) are filling the functional roles that are normally assumed by benthic insects in temperate regions. Therefore, energy is potentially flowing through pathways other than insects from primary producers and detritus to upper trophic levels. In addition, precipitation and subsequent high discharge are major factors determining the structure of benthic communities in the study stream. Our results support the hypothesis that the structure and production of the benthic insect assemblage in this neotropical stream are the result of interactions between the physical environment (e.g., discharge and habitat type) and macroconsumers.
10.2307/1467724|The adult male, adult female, pupa, and larva of a new genus (Tempisquitoneura) of midge (Diptera:Chironomidae) are described and illustrated from specimens collected and reared from Corydalus (Megaloptera:Corydalidae) in northwestern Costa Rica. Larvae and pupae of the midge live attached to the Corydalus larvae. The genus belongs in the Corynoneura group of the subfamily Orthocladiinae, but its relationship to the two other described genera in the group (Corynoneura and Thienemanniella) will remain unclear until more Neotropical members of this group are described and analyzed in all life stages.
1468288|The nutritional requirements of sediment-feeding invertebrates are poorly understood. Therefore, growth experiments with larvae of the midge
1468437|The trophic basis of production and energy flow through macroinvertebrate communities was determined at 3 sites differentially impaired by urbanization and agricultural activities on the plains section of the Cache la Poudre River, Colorado, USA. Site 1 received minimal impact from human activities and had the lowest annual secondary production (26.0 g ash-free dry mass [AFDM] m
4095747|Salinization has been disturbing increasing numbers of inland waterways, and new analytical tools are needed to survey water quality and to assess the impact of salinization. Researchers have developed new protocols that reduce the number and type of samples required to reduce the cost of existing assessment methods. Our study contributes to this effort with the primary objective of identifying a single, unique river-bottom substrate that could be sampled to detect the impact of rising salinity on macroinvertebrate assemblages. We hoped to define a new concept of
40792658|Biological recovery of aquatic ecosystems from acidification damage is a slow process. In lakes near the massive Cu and Ni smelters in Sudbury, Canada, the delays might be caused by residual metals, habitat damage, altered predatorprey interactions, or other persistent ecological stressors. Assessments of benthic invertebrate communities in 24 Sudbury lakes were conducted to evaluate the relative importance of these delaying factors. At the time of sampling, all lakes had chemically recovered to a pH >6.0, but they varied widely in the duration of time above this threshold and in current metal concentrations, watershed contributions of organic matter, littoral habitat composition, and fish community composition. A model developed with redundancy analyses (RDA) of 4 groups of environmental variables (i.e., water chemistry, fish communities, physical lake descriptors, and littoral habitat) accounted for 74.9% of the variance in benthic invertebrate community metrics across these environmental gradients. Fish species richness, duration of pH recovery, and % boulder habitat were the most significant variables and explained 22%, 9%, and 8% of the variance in benthic invertebrate community metrics, respectively. Damaged systems clearly need sufficient time to recover from severe disturbances. However, our study suggests that remediation techniques, such as manipulation of predatorprey interactions through fish introductions, might speed the recovery of benthic invertebrate communities.
1468122|We examined particulate organic matter (POM) storage and retention in aquatic macrophyte beds (
20491126|The evolutionary relationships of the surface genera of shrimps of the family Atyidae from the Caribbean were inferred using mitochondrial 16S ribosomal DNA and cytochrome oxidase I gene sequences. The genetic divergence among the 4 Caribbean genera (
4095692|Undoing harm caused by catchment urbanization on stream channels and their resident biota is challenging because of the range of stressors in this environment. One primary way in which urbanization degrades biological conditions is by changing flow patterns; thus, reestablishing natural flow regimes in urban streams demands particular attention if restoration is to have a chance for success. Enhancement efforts in urban streams typically are limited to rehabilitating channel morphology and riparian habitat, but such physical improvements alone do not address all factors affecting biotic health. Some habitat-forming processes such as the delivery of woody debris or sediment may be amenable to partial restoration, even in highly disturbed streams, and they constitute obvious high-priority actions. There is no evidence to suggest, however, that improving nonhydrologic factors can fully mitigate hydrologic consequences of urban development. In the absence of effective hydrologic mitigation, appropriate short-term rehabilitation objectives for urban channels should be to 1) eliminate point sources of pollution, 2) reconstruct physical channel elements to resemble equivalent undisturbed channels, and 3) provide habitat for self-sustaining biotic communities, even if those communities depart significantly from predisturbance conditions. Long-term improvement of stream conditions is not feasible under typical urban constraints, so large sums of money should not be spent on unrealistic or unreachable targets for stream rehabilitation. However, such a strategy should not be an excuse to preclude potential future gains by taking irreversible present-day development or rehabilitative actions.
40792574|The ability to classify the biological condition of unsurveyed streams accurately would be an asset to the conservation and management of streams. We compared the ability of 5 modeling methods (classification and regression trees, conditional inference trees, random forests [RF], conditional random forests [cRF], and ordinal logistic regression) to predict stream biological condition (very poor, poor, fair, or good) based on benthic macroinvertebrate Index of Biotic Integrity data taken from the Maryland Biological Stream Survey. Predictor variables included land use and land cover (e.g., impervious surface, row-crop agriculture, and population density) and landscape measures (annual precipitation and watershed area). We included 1561 sites on small nontidal streams in the Maryland portion of the Chesapeake Bay watershed. We used 1248 sites (80%) as a training data set to build models and 313 sites (20%) as an independent evaluation data set. RF and cRF models most accurately predicted observed integrity scores in the evaluation data set, but we selected the cRF as the best model because of weaknesses in the RF model (e.g., biased variable selection). Percent impervious surface was the most important variable in the cRF model, and the probability that a site was in very poor or poor biological condition increased rapidly as % impervious cover increased up to 20%. When applied to predict stream biological conditions in all 7908 small nontidal stream reaches in the study area, the cRF model predicted that 33.8% were in fair, 29.9% in good, 22.7% in poor, and 13.6% in very poor biological condition. Our analyses can be used to manage and conserve freshwater and estuarine resources of Maryland and the Chesapeake Bay watershed. Model predictions for unsurveyed streams can help target field studies to identify high-quality streams deserving of conservation and impaired streams in need of restoration.
10.2307/1468447|Estimation of invertebrate biomass is a critical step in addressing many ecological questions in aquatic environments. Length-dry mass regressions are the most widely used approach for estimating benthic invertebrate biomass because they are faster and more precise than other methods. A compilation and analysis of length-mass regressions using the power model, M (mass) = a L (length)<sup>b</sup>, are presented from 30 y of data collected by the authors, primarily from the southeastern USA, along with published regressions from the rest of North America. A total of 442 new and published regressions are presented, mostly for genus or species, based on total body length or other linear measurements. The regressions include 64 families of aquatic insects and 12 families of other invertebrate groups (mostly molluscs and crustaceans). Regressions were obtained for 134 insect genera (155 species) and 153 total invertebrate genera (184 species). Regressions are provided for both body length and head width for some taxa. In some cases, regressions are provided from multiple localities for single taxa. When using body length in the equations, there were no significant differences in the mean value of the exponent b among 8 insect orders or Amphipoda. The mean value of b for insects was 2.79, ranging from only 2.69 to 2.91 among orders. The mean value of b for Decapoda (3.63), however, was significantly higher than all insects orders and amphipods. Mean values of a were not significantly different among the 8 insect orders and Amphipoda, reflecting considerable variability within orders. Reasons for potential differences in b among taxa are explained with hypothetical examples showing how b responds to changes in linear dimensions and specific gravity. When using head width as the linear dimension in the power model, the mean value of b was higher (3.11) than for body length and more variable among orders (2.8-3.3). Values of b for Ephemeroptera (3.3) were significantly higher than those for Odonata, Megaloptera, and Diptera. For those equations in which ash-free dry mass was used, % ash varied considerably among functional feeding groups (3.3-12.4%). Percent ash varied from 4.0% to 8.5% among major insect orders, but was 18.9% for snails (without shells). Family-level regressions also are presented so that they can be used when generic equations are unavailable or when organisms are only identified to the family level. It is our intention that these regressions be used by others in estimating mass from linear dimensions, but potential errors must be recognized.
1468065|Hydrologic and chemical characteristics were determined for both riparian and hyporheic subsurface flow along a 100-m reach of a sandy-bottom tributary of the Rio Icacos in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico. Hydrologic data (vertical hydraulic gradient and hydraulic conductivity of streambed sediments) and the topographic and morphological features of the watershed indicated diffuse inputs of groundwater from the near-stream riparian zone along this site. Cumulative groundwater discharge, determined by tracer dilution techniques, was 1.5 L/s or 10% of the total stream discharge. Spatial heterogeneity in hydrologic and chemical properties of riparian and hyporheic sediments was large. Hydraulic conductivity explained much of the variation in NH
41319686|The stream-dwelling larvae of the caddisfly
10.2307/1467232|Six physical and hydrological variables were used to assess environmental stability at sites on 10 contrasting streams in the Southern Alps of New Zealand. Five of the streams were spring-fed and initially designated "stable", and the others, which were predominantly catchment-fed, were designated "unstable". At each site, depth, current velocity, and water temperature were measured monthly for 19 mo, and the distances moved by marked stones in three size groups were determined over 18 mo. Stone invertebrate communities were sampled at each site at three monthly intervals. Tractive force measurements and the Pfankuch stability index were also calculated. Monthly depth and current variability, temperature range, Pfankuch stability scores, and substrate movement were all greater at the five "unstable" sites, but the rank order of sites obtained with each measure was not consistent. Tractive force was the only stability measure that did not differ significantly between "stable" and "unstable" streams. Principal components analysis (PCA) was used to combine values for all six variables into single multivariate instability scores (PCA scores for Axis 1). These scores were strongly correlated with all individual stability variable scores with the exception of those for tractive force. We suggest that the effects of environmental stability on community structure should be assessed using a measure that is representative of all the physical characteristics at a study site, and we believe the multivariate instability score goes some way towards achieving this. Such a procedure, however, does not negate the use of individual measures for examining specific environmental relationships as well. Although differences in the persistence of some community characteristics could be detected using the initial "stable/unstable" groups, others could only be seen when plotted on a more continuous scale using the multivariate instability scores. Persistence of the dominant invertebrate taxa was high at all sites, but persistence of the entire fauna was higher at the stable sites.
20491158|North American freshwater gastropods remain an understudied, yet critically imperiled, fauna. As part of a larger discussion on freshwater mollusks in this special issue, we review 4 specific areas of concern regarding freshwater gastropods and discuss how best to address those concerns in the context of conservation. Areas of concern include freshwater gastropod conservation strategies, taxonomy and systematics, ecological research, and conservation challenges. We illustrate how each of these topics relates to conservation efforts and discuss opportunities to improve our baseline knowledge of freshwater gastropod taxonomy, ecology, and conservation. We emphasize throughout that effective conservation strategies require the participation of as many affected and interested groups, from local communities to governmental agencies, as possible for successful implementation and management. We offer suggestions for the direction of cooperative conservation with regard to freshwater gastropods.
41318740|The ecological effects of spawning runs of native Pacific salmon (
10-063|Freshwater unionid mussels are among the most endangered groups of organisms in the world. They develop indirectly via a host, usually a fish, and this dependence appears to limit the reproduction and distribution of freshwater mussels.
40792519|Loss of riparian vegetation surrounding streams can affect instream biota by altering stream characteristics, such as terrestrially derived detrital inputs and instream productivity. Omnivorous crayfish can be a dominant component of stream biota and are considered a keystone species because of their ability to forage at multiple trophic levels. Resource shifts caused by changes in riparian canopy have the potential to influence crayfish diet and growth. We investigated the effects of changes in canopy cover on the crayfish
1468354|The form and extent of the galleries created by burrowing invertebrates influence sediment structure, bioturbation, and the fluxes of nutrients and contaminants between the sediment and the water column. An important burrowing insect in soft sediments is the phantom midge
4095742|Allozymes were used to examine population genetic structure and species boundaries in the clonal, obligately parthenogenetic
1468271|Many tree species demonstrate altered foliar chemical composition when grown under elevated CO
10.2307/1467343| Annual production for the odonate Telebasis salva (7.9 g dry weight [dw] m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, 2 SE = 1.2) was found to be an order of magnitude higher in the thermally constant (21  4C) ecosystem of Montezuma Well, Arizona, than production for multi-species damselfly assemblages in other aquatic ecosystems. Telebasis salva was univoltine in Montezuma Well; larval development took 270.1 d in the laboratory (21C). Both production (2.1 g dw m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) and mortality (62.2%) were highest for individuals 2-3 mm in body length. Mean annual biomass was 0.78 g dw /m<sup>2</sup>, annual P/B ratio was 10.0, cohort P/B was 7.5, and annual energy production for T. salva was 1.58  10<sup>5</sup> J m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Density, standing stock biomass, and production of T. salva were higher in the top 50 cm of the littoral water column than in the 50-100 cm stratum. Densities of a major prey (Hyalella montezuma, Amphipoda) and predator (Belostoma bakeri, Heteroptera) of T. salva nymphs were also estimated. Macroinvertebrate community production, trophic structure, and energy transfer in Montezuma Well are presented. Constant warm water temperature, abundant food, absence of fish, and high predation by invertebrates contribute to the high production rates of T. salva in Montezuma Well. 
1468274|Biological assessment of river health often involves making comparisons between the biota observed at a site and the biota expected to occur in the absence of damage. Our study aimed to determine whether observed-to-expected (O/E) ratios of macroinvertebrate taxa showed a monotonic (doseresponse) relationship and were correlated with pollution levels along a gradient of trace-metal contamination. The study was conducted on the Molonglo River, Australia, which exhibits a clear gradient of trace-metal contamination, resulting from previous mining activities. Macroinvertebrate samples were collected from riffle habitats at 16 test sites and 5 sites representative of reference conditions. The sites O/E taxa ratios, generated by a regional predictive model, ranged from 0.21 (severely impaired) to 1.13 (equivalent to reference). Physical and chemical variables measured at each site included Cd, Cu, Pb, and Zn concentrations in the water and sediment. A factor analysis reduced 19 physical and chemical variables (e.g., location and scale, water chemistry, habitat characteristics) to 5 factors that accounted for 82% of the total variation in the physical and chemical data. Stepwise multiple linear regression revealed that 70% of the variation in O/E taxa ratios among sites could be explained by Factor 1 (
1468104|Benthic invertebrates from 44 reference streams throughout the state of Missouri were examined for their concordance with established regionalization systems, both aquatic and terrestrial. Invertebrate assemblages coincided nicely with Pfliegers established aquatic faunal regions system, expanding its generality to more than fish assemblages. Our benthic invertebrate and Pfliegers fish assemblages coincided well with both Baileys ecological sections and Omerniks ecoregions. Subregionalization using Pfliegers subregions and Baileys subsections further reduced unexplained variation and is recommended for use wherever possible. The concordance of the aquatic fauna and terrestrial features implies the possibility of coordinated regional management among different natural resource disciplines.
09-146|N is a critical element for all living things, including the flora and fauna in aquatic ecosystems. However, N exists in many forms, and some organisms might preferentially use one compound over another. We used
10.2307/1467356|Within a few months of its founding in 1870, the tradition of science-based advocacy in the American Fisheries Society (AFS) was established. The American Fish Culturist's Association, as it was then called, lodged protests with the U.S. State Department and Canada against obstructions in the St. Lawrence River that restricted the migration of salmon. Prompt response was obtained. In addition to resource advocacy, as a professional society our mission encompasses scientific development and professional service objectives. Throughout its history the Society has done an excellent job of building fisheries science through gathering and disseminating information, recognizing educational, scientific, and technical accomplishments, and establishing standards for the fisheries profession. The result of our science-based advocacy has been less distinguished--we have documented the decline of fish populations and the loss of supporting fish habitats as human population expansion and attendant resource development has occurred. In recognition of this failure, 92% of the Society's membership surveyed in 1986 gave medium or high priority to more active participation by AFS in developing environmental policy. The Society has since increased its advocacy and lobbying activities. We support agency fishery program budgets, develop legislation, and comment on legislative initiatives of others. We have formed a coalition of fishermen to conserve habitat; sponsored the Mississippi Interjurisdictional Cooperative Resources Agreement; and launched the Fisheries Action Network. We recognize that if AFS is to participate in bringing about a reversal of the declines cited above, the Society must put scientific facts into a context of environmental ethics and shared community values to effectively and clearly communicate the fishery consequences of decisions on the management of land and water resources.
4499012|Sand is a common substratum in many streams, especially in lacustrine geologies, but has been less studied as a habitat for invertebrates than other substrata such as gravel and cobble. We hypothesized that benthic organic matter (BOM) content would influence the abundance and community structure of macroinvertebrates in sand habitats. Levels of coarse BOM (no = 0, low = 1%, high = 5% organic matter, as dry mass) were manipulated in 45 colonization chambers (volume = 539 cm
10.2307/1467903| A compact, versatile flume for studying the influence of hydrodynamic factors on the behaviour of benthic invertebrates is described. A range of lotic micro-environments can be simulated under controlled and replicable conditions by tailoring the velocity profile at the entrance of the test section. A specially designed diffuser composed of an array of adjustable horizontal rods allows tailored flow (e.g., zone of high shear stress, adjustable velocity gradient and turbulence level) to which organisms can be exposed. Water velocities of up to a maximum of 81.5  0.6 cm/s, with a turbulence intensity of 0.8% can be achieved. Simultaneous observations of flow and organism behaviours can be done by means of standard flow visualization techniques. Compact (72 cm long  22 cm high  10 cm wide; volume 10 L) and easily transportable, this flume is an inexpensive "desk-top" version of larger, more bulky systems, without sacrifice of performance and versatility. 
4095567|Extreme events (hurricanes, floods, and droughts) can influence upstream migration of macroinvertebrates and wash out benthic communities, thereby locally altering food webs and species interactions. We sampled palaemonid river shrimp (
20491201|We examined the effects of different regionalization schemes on the performance of River InVertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS)-type predictive models in assessing the biological conditions of streams of the US for the National Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA). Three regionalization schemes were considered: a single national predictive model (MOD1), separate predictive models for each of the 9 WSA aggregated Omernik level III ecoregions (MOD9), and 3 predictive models roughly corresponding to the western US, the Appalachian Mountains, and the Central and Coastal Plains (MOD3). The goal of the WSA was to assess stream condition at the national scale and at the scale of WSA aggregated ecoregions, so we compared the performance of the ratio of the observed number of taxa to the expected number of taxa (O/E) index estimated using different regionalization schemes at both of these spatial scales. We assessed model performance with a randomized resampling procedure, in which we set aside 10% of the reference sites, calibrated the model with the remaining sites, and applied the model to the set-aside sites. Performance statistics for the set-aside reference sites were accumulated over 10 iterations. When summarized at the national scale, mean model predictions of O/E for set-aside reference sites from the 3 different regionalization schemes were all reasonably close to 1. When summarized by the 9 aggregated ecoregions, MOD1 and MOD3 predictions of O/E differed systematically from 1 in certain aggregated ecoregions. Over all 9 ecoregions, the magnitude of these differences was significantly greater than observed with MOD9 predictions. Results from our analysis suggest that O/E values at test sites should be interpreted with respect to mean and SD of O/E of reference sites from the same region to minimize the effects of systematic biases in the predictions. RIVPACS-type predictive models also should be calibrated at a spatial scale similar to the scale at which summary statistics are reported.
10.2307/1467960|The extent of temporal variation in ecosystem metabolism was determined in a 6th-order, gravel-bottomed, prealpine river (mean discharge 4.6 m<sup>3</sup>/s), which is subject to disturbance by bed-moving spates. Daily integrals of gross primary production and ecosystem respiration were measured for 447 d between May 1992 and November 1994 based on single station diel oxygen curves. In 1993 gross primary production averaged 2.5 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>d<sup>-1</sup> and ecosystem respiration averaged 3.5 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>d<sup>-1</sup> (maximum daily rates observed in summer were 12.6 and 11.7 g O<sub>2</sub> m<sup>-2</sup>d<sup>-1</sup>). During the investigation, 32 bed-moving spates (peak discharge >28 m<sup>3</sup>/s) occurred. Bed-moving spates distinctly depressed primary production and ecosystem respiration. Spates shifted ecosystem metabolism toward heterotrophy (decreased P/R) because gross primary production was more affected than ecosystem respiration. Recovery rates of gross primary production were high in summer and low in winter. Recovery of ecosystem respiration showed less distinct seasonal variation. Energy flow through the system was calculated as the sum of gross primary production and ecosystem respiration. Upper (maximum energy flow) and lower (resistant energy flow) boundaries were estimated, within which energy flow varied. The ratio of maximum to resistant energy flow, which ranged from 6.1 to 9.6, indicated that resistance to spates was small, at least after extended periods free of spates (5-8 wk).
1467995|Parasites can alter the behavior, life history, and morphology of their host. Many trematodes parasitize freshwater pulmonate snails, resulting in a reduction or the elimination of reproduction in those individuals. However, parasite effects on freshwater snail behavior are unclear. I measured trematode infection rates, size, and covered habitat use of the freshwater pulmonate snail
10.2307/1467267|Transport patterns of bacteria in streams depend largely on processes of detachment from and attachment to surfaces. Stream substrata are coated with various microorganisms, including bacteria, embedded in a matrix of extracellular material. These complex communities, called biofilms, may be disrupted by movement and feeding activities of macroinvertebrates causing bacterial cells to detach. Laboratory experiments were conducted to assess the role of stream macroinvertebrates in detachment of bacteria from biofilms. Marked bacteria that had a rare combination of antibiotic resistances were used in microcosms as tracers of bacterial exchanges. The role of macroinvertebrates in movement of bacteria from leaves to water was investigated by including either mayfly, stonefly, or dragonfly nymphs or glass shrimp in microcosms. The presence of macroinvertebrates did not alter bacterial exchange between habitats. There were considerable variation among replicates for some macroinvertebrate treatments, indicating invertebrates may cause large, catastrophic releases of bacteria from biofilms on leaves or fecal pellets. Alternatively, invertebrates may not be directly involved in these releases if pulses of bacteria result from disintegration of fecal pellets. The effect of invertebrate density on exchange was measured by varying mayfly nymph density. No significant differences among densities were detected. The ability of macroinvertebrates to serve as vectors for transfer of bacteria between leaf packs was also investigated. Although transfer by invertebrates was detected in some experiments, transfer was not consistently observed.
4499046|We compared the accuracy, precision, and efficiency of 2 timesaving techniques to a standard laboratory procedure for processing benthic samples used to estimate secondary production. In the coarse-sieve technique, production was quantified from invertebrate biomass collected in a 2-mm sieve and corrected for retention probabilities of individual organisms. In the sieve-fractionated technique, production per sieve was quantified from the total biomass and average body mass of organisms collected in a geometric series of 9 sieves. Production estimates for the entire assemblage (coarse-sieve:
10.2307/1468140| We followed periphyton succession for 120 d in an artificial stream system to: 1) document an increase in cell densities and associated decrease in irradiance to the base of developing periphyton mats; 2) determine the vertical location of motile and nonmotile diatom species within the mat associated with these changes; and 3) determine the viability of diatom cells at the base of the mat compared with those of the same species at different vertical locations within the mat. We developed a novel method for producing thin cross-sections of intact periphyton mats to document the vertical distribution of algal species in horizontal 0.1-mm strata from the base of the mat to the canopy. Results demonstrated that the adnate nonmotile diatom Achnanthidium minutissimum exploited the substratum during early succession when the mat was relatively thin and without a canopy, and the population retained live cells at the base of the mat throughout the 120-d experiment, demonstrating a high tolerance to low light levels. Gomphonema angustatum also was positioned at the base of the mat and was common during early stages of succession, but viable cell densities declined sharply by day 37 when increasing cell densities reduced irradiance at the mat base by 90% (to ca 8 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>). The only highly motile species studied, Nitzschia palea, was distributed throughout the vertical profile of the periphyton mat and its live cell densities did not change throughout the study, suggesting that it moved into resource-rich microhabitats and avoided stress. The vertical distribution of a tychoplanktonic chain-forming diatom species appeared to be related to the physical architecture of the developing mat and not to resource limitations within the mat. Our data suggest that diatom species differ in their tolerance to resource-limiting conditions in developing periphyton mats, and these differences affect autecological characteristics. 
4095734|Secondary and tertiary wastewater treatment is common in developed countries, but little is known about the responses of lotic ecosystems to contemporary wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) discharge. We examined the effects of WWTP discharge on various ecosystem components and functions of 2 morphologically and chemically impacted lowland streams near Berlin, Germany. We sampled one reach upstream and one reach downstream of a WWTP in each stream during each of 5 sampling campaigns. Discharge of treated wastewater resulted in increased concentrations of total organic C, total N, and total P in the sediments and in elevated macrophyte and benthic invertebrate biomasses. However, adverse effects of the WWTPs on the benthic invertebrate communities were small compared to effects reported in previous studies. This difference was a result of the higher purification efficiency of modern WWTPs, but also of significant structural degradation and eutrophication of the streams that already had impoverished the invertebrate community upstream of the WWTPs. Whole-stream community respiration (CR
10.2307/1467363|This study was conducted to characterize periphyton biomass, productivity, and algal species composition, and to examine how these parameters changed seasonally over the course of two years in Walker Branch, a temperate forest stream. Seasonal variations in several factors potentially controlling periphyton (irradiance, streamwater nutrient concentrations, temperature, and the incidence of severe storms) were large. However, there was no consistent seasonal variation in herbivore (snail) density, which was high (> 1000 animals/m<sup>2</sup>). Regression analysis was conducted to determine the influence of potential controlling factors on periphyton biomass and productivity. Seasonal changes in periphyton biomass were small and only weakly related to irradiance (-), snail density (-), and temperature (+). Biomass was lowest in early spring and highest in summer in 1989; but during the following year, biomass was similar year-round. Seasonal variation in primary productivity was also relatively small, but was positively related to inorganic nitrogen concentration and was highest during summer. Although there were some small seasonal changes in algal species composition, more striking was the fact that Stigeoclonium sp. (primarily grazer-resistant basal cells) dominated year-round, forming >45% of total algal biovolume. The lack of strong seasonal variation in periphyton biomass and productivity and the observed dominance by a grazer-resistant alga appeared to be primarily the result of the high and relatively constant density of snails. The lack of a relationship between periphyton biomass and productivity also suggested an overriding effect of snails, which can consume increases in productivity when they occur. These findings suggest that in streams where herbivore density is high, periphyton productivity and biomass may remain relatively constant, despite seasonal fluctuations in potentially limiting physical and chemical variables. Although high densities of snails were probably the primary cause of the lack of large seasonal variation in periphyton biomass, productivity, and species composition, strong asynchrony in several growth-limiting factors, such as nutrients and irradiance, may also have limited seasonal changes in periphyton, implying that multiple factors were important.
40792581|The relationships among urbanization, stream hydraulics, and aquatic biology were investigated across a gradient of urbanization in 30 small basins in eastern Wisconsin, USA. Simulation of hydraulic metrics with 1-dimensional unsteady flow models was an effective means for mechanistically coupling the effects of urbanization with stream ecological conditions (i.e., algae, invertebrates, and fish). Urbanization, characterized by household, road, and urban land density, was positively correlated with the lowest shear stress for 2 adjacent transects in a reach for the low-flow summer (
10.2307/1467265|An experiment was designed to test the importance of the potential interaction (inhibition or enhancement) between slow and fast decaying leaf species on processing rates in a stream and its floodplain. The decomposition of water oak (Quercus nigra) and sweetgum (Liquidambar styraciflua) in single-species packs was compared with water oak plus sweetgum in mixed-species packs within three habitats (stream snags, floodplain pools, and elevated floodplain surfaces) at three sites in coastal plain streams. Fast-decaying sweetgum leaves did not enhance the rate of oak decomposition. Sweetgum leaves in mixed packs decomposed more slowly than single species packs in seven out of nine comparisons. Increases in bacterial density on leaves were depressed in mixed-species packs relative to single-species sweetgum packs. Fungal hyphae could not be observed in mixed or single-species packs. The effect of oak leaves on sweetgum leaves was affected by frequency and period of inundation. Macroinvertebrate shredders were rare or absent from most leaf packs collected from stream snags and floodplain pools. Over 40% of leaf packs placed in the stream contained no shredders, while another 28% contained <0.001 g shredders/g leaf dry weight. Therefore, shredders were too rare to influence overall leaf processing rates. These studies suggest that microbial processing accounts for most leaf decomposition and oak leaf leachate is shown to be inhibitory to microbial processing of sweetgum leaves.
4499000|The lengths of marked specimens of the freshwater mussel, Eastern Elliptio (
4095743|The duration and timing of egg development is crucial to the survival of invertebrates in glacier-fed rivers. The relationship between egg development and environmental conditions was investigated in 3 mayfly species,
41318765|We quantified fish assemblages in 20 streams containing mill dams in various physical conditions (dams intact, partially breached, or relict with normal flows) in Alabama, USA, during the period from 2006 to 2008. We used a backpack electroshocker to sample three 150-m reaches per stream: 500 to 1000m downstream of the dam, 0 to 100m downstream of the dam, and 100m upstream of the impoundment. Species- and trait-based analyses revealed slightly different, but often complementary, information about fish assemblages. Fish species richness and benthic conditions differed longitudinally among reaches in streams with dams. In streams with breached dams, species richness, but not trait richness, was lower in upstream reaches than in downstream reaches. Overall, species and trait richness were correlated with benthic-habitat variables in streams with relict dams and were significantly correlated with water physicochemical variables in streams with intact and breached dams. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordination failed to resolve any discernable site groupings based on species abundance data, and indicator species analysis revealed 1 indicator species,
10.2307/1467916| The drag (a force imparted into the mean direction of flow on a submerged object by fluid flowing around it) on single larvae of the black fly Simulium vittatum Zett. in a thin, growing boundary layer was measured using a modified analogue ammeter connected to a variable voltage power supply. The average drag on a single larva of S. vittatum ranged from 2.70 10<sup>-5</sup> Newtons at 10 cm/s to 4.24 10<sup>-4</sup> N at 90 cm/s. The drag was similar whether the larva was attached to an ovoid wire or to a piece of cover slip. Drag on larvae with abducted labral fans was as much as two times the drag on larvae with adducted fans. Drag on larvae that had bent their bodies to probe the substrate was higher than drag on filter-feeding larvae. The mean (standard error) strength of a dead larva's attachment to its silk pad was 1.2 10<sup>-2</sup> 2.4 10<sup>-3</sup> N, with a range of 4.9 10<sup>-3</sup> N to 2.8 10<sup>-2</sup> N. It is concluded that drag is not strong enough to pull a larva off the substrate under common field conditions. 
4095561|Littoral benthic macroinvertebrate communities in lake reservoirs often are exposed to repeated fluctuations in water level, but little is known of the effects of drawdown on benthic community composition. We compared the taxonomic composition and spatial patterns of benthic macroinvertebrate communities in sediments of littoral areas in a reservoir with >30 y of seasonal drawdowns (Sooke Lake Reservoir [SLR]) and a natural lake with little seasonal change in water levels (Shawnigan Lake [SHL]). Contrary to our predictions, macroinvertebrate density and biomass usually were greater in SLR than in SHL. In SLR, densities and biomasses of macroinvertebrates, especially chironomids, were higher below the drawdown exposure zone than in the upper littoral area. Chironomids with r-selected survival strategies (i.e., smaller size) or desiccant-resistant stages appeared well suited to the fluctuating environment of littoral zones in reservoirs. Orthocladiinae, Chironomini, Tanytarsini, and Tanypodinae dominated at sampling sites immediately below the drawdown exposure zone in SLR, whereas only Orthocladiinae dominated at deeper sites. Warm water from an expanded epilimnion apparently extended the distribution of Diamesinae farther from shore in SLR than in SHL. Chironomini generally were the dominant macroinvertebrate taxon in SHL, and the relative biomass of Diamesinae increased with depth. Distributions of oligochaetes and nematodes extended farther from shore in SLR than in SHL. These contrasting benthic macroinvertebrate communities indicate that variable drawdown regimes could have significant impacts on benthic food webs and the transfer of energy and nutrients to the pelagic area.
10.2307/1468055|Larvae of the net-winged midges possess 6 ventral suckers that are used for maintaining position in torrential habitats and for walking. Although the structure and function of these suckers are well known, reports about the locomotory behavior of blepharicerid larvae remain contradictory. Using video macroscopy and digital image processing, the locomotory behavior of Liponeura cinerascens minor, L. cinerascens cinerascens, and Hapalothrix lugubris was investigated. Observations were conducted in a high-speed flume at 1.4 m/s and 2.0 m/s (except for L. cinerascens cinerascens). Six basic locomotion patterns were quantitatively described and analyzed: 1) straight forward movement, 2) backwards movement, 3) slow sideways movement, 4) rapid sideways movement, 5) re-orientation, and 6) foraging. In addition, a defensive behavior sometimes preceded the rapid sideways movement. Movement speed ranged from 0.1 mm/s (foraging behavior) to 0.96 mm/s (rapid sideways movement). Movement patterns of all locomotion types, except foraging, seem to be stereotypic (i.e., constant) in reference to all suckers, whereas foraging behavior is primarily governed by the cephalic division. The results indicate that some types of locomotion differ between H. lugubris and Liponeura spp. During all types of locomotion, the larvae remained attached most of the time by at least 2 suckers. This minimal number apparently allows maximal mobility and speed, yet guarantees mechanical stability and safe attachment.
1468299|We examined how the intensity of benthic grazing affects the C:P stoichiometry of epilithon in an oligotrophic lake at the Experimental Lakes Area in northwestern Ontario, Canada. Caddisflies were enclosed over natural epilithon to compare epilithic C:P ratios along a grazer gradient (0, 1, 4, and 9 individuals/700 cm
10.2307/1467848|The magnitude, direction, and temporal aspects of invertebrate movements between two headwater stream channels and their hardwood forest floodplains were determined over one year. There was a net output of numbers of individuals from the floodplains to the channels, whereas there was a net input of biomass to the floodplains. The effect of these movements on the trophic functioning of the floodplains probably was minimal because net numbers exported amounted to <1% of the annual mean density of floodplain invertebrates and the net biomass imported was <4% of the annual mean biomass and <1% of the annual invertebrate production of the floodplains. Invertebrate movements occurred through both drift and crawling. Drift accounted for the majority of individuals moving to the floodplain, but most of the biomass moved onto the floodplains by crawling across the channel-floodplain boundary. Most individuals moved between the channels and floodplains during February-April, the numbers drifting being positively correlated with discharge, whereas movement by crawling was primarily keyed to habitat shifts associated with life history events of species of Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Megaloptera.
1468109|Classification of waterbodies is a necessary step for aquatic biological assessment. Geographic classes, such as physiographic provinces, marine biogeographic provinces, and ecoregions are frequently used as a classification framework for conducting bioassessments. An alternative to such a priori classification of waterbodies is to
10.2307/1467885|Resh et al. (1988, "J. N. Am. Benthol. Soc." 7:433) assert that lotic ecosystems are unique in that disturbances are necessarily "unpredictable" events. Acceptance of this "predictability clause" in the definition of disturbance introduces problems that influence our ability to identify, describe, and discuss important aspects of disturbance in streams. I focus on four specific aspects of Resh et al.'s treatment of predictability, particularly as it relates to hydrologic disturbance (e.g., spates) First, Resh et al. offer only purely statistical criteria for identifying hydrologic disturbance, an approach that has important limitations for characterizing predictability of the disturbance regime. I suggest adoption of more physically based measures of disturbance (e.g., flow at which movement of bed is initiated) to which specific ecological responses can be determined. Second, lotic species are assumed to be "adapted" to predictable hydrological events, despite the general absence of supporting empirical evidence. I suggest that this assertion be reframed as a testable hypothesis. Third, defining disturbances as necessarily unpredictable can result in a tautology, in which biological response to disturbance and predictability of disturbance are expressed in terms of one another. Fourth, a more explicit distinction between ecological and evolutionary time scales of response to disturbance allows predictability to be properly considered as a separate (and non-tautological) component of the disturbance regime. In sum, disturbances (including predictable ones) always have ecological effects; however, the magnitude of ecological response to a particular disturbance may be constrained by evolutionary (historical) adjustments of the biota if the disturbance regime is characterized by high predictability.
1468352|We determined fungal biomass and production associated with decaying leaves over an annual cycle in 2 streams that differed in water chemistry to obtain an indication of the variability of these parameters. Basin Creek is a softwater stream with a pH of 6.3 and relatively low concentrations of inorganic N (94 g N/L) and P (3 g P/L), whereas Hendrick Mill Branch is a hardwater stream with a pH of 8.2 and somewhat higher concentrations of inorganic N (139 g N/L) and P (6 g P/L). Both streams received similar annual leaf litter fall (379422 g/m
10.2307/1467775| Export of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) from three headwater streams was studied continuously over a period of 8 (one stream) to 9.5 years (two streams) at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina. Annual CPOM export among years varied by factors of 9.2 to > 16 , much greater than the 3.5 to 5.0  variation in annual stream discharge. Annual export was poorly correlated with annual discharge and was more a factor of storm frequency and magnitude. Over 63 to >77% of all CPOM export occurred during the largest 20 storms. Export during individual sampling intervals was strongly related to maximum discharge during the interval (r<sup>2</sup> 0.43-0.54, p<0.001) for all streams throughout the study. Total leaf export and leaf export per unit maximum discharge were greatest during the autumn and lowest during the spring and summer months in all streams. Export of woody debris was more seasonally variable than that of leaves in two of the three streams. Although allochthonous CPOM is the greatest source of organic matter inputs to these streams (>86%), CPOM represented only 1.8-3.8% of total organic matter export, indicating that CPOM retention is high in these small, high-gradient streams. Most export occurs in the form of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) and dissolved organic matter (DOM), or respired CO<sub>2</sub>. Stream retentiveness was further illustrated by movement of marked artificial "leaves" and "sticks", which displayed maximum downstream movement of 42 m/yr for "leaves" and 10 m/yr for "sticks". Surprisingly, export as a percent of inputs was greatest for woody debris. This is probably attributable to both underestimates of woody litter inputs and slower decomposition rates for woody debris, resulting in greater standing crops and availability of woody debris for transport during storms. For three of the eight years of study, one stream (C 54) received seasonal treatments with an insecticide that drastically reduced invertebrate populations. Large increases in leaf litter standing crop were observed following three years of treatment compared with untreated streams. However, CPOM export from the treated stream did not increase significantly compared with untreated streams. During treatment the CPOM:FPOM ratio of exported particulate organic matter was over twice that of untreated streams, or C 54 during periods when the stream was not treated. This increase was primarily a result of massive reduction in FPOM export, rather than large increases in CPOM export. Although storms removed large amounts of CPOM from the wetted perimeter of all streams during 1989 and 1990, most removed material was retained within the narrow riparian zone, and not exported to downstream reaches. Movement and exchange of CPOM between the wetted perimeter and adjacent riparian zones in these high-gradient streams demonstrates similarities with streams draining lowland regions with extensive floodplains. 
1468485|The recent return of burrowing mayfly nymphs (
41319685|Most caddisfly larvae build cases of silk and a variety of collected materials. Multiple functions, including protection from predators, resistance to entrainment by high flows, and improved respiration, have been suggested for caddisfly cases. We investigated the functional role of cases built by
4499037|We examined the relationship between land use in the watershed and nutrient release by mayflies in streams in southcentral Ontario (Canada). Mayfly excretion rates and molar ratios of dissolved organic C (DOC), NH
4499011|During the past 30 y, periphyton has been recognized as a key component in the benthos of lake littoral zones. However, the role of meiofauna-sized organisms living in the periphyton and mechanisms regulating and influencing those communities largely have been neglected, and the process of community development and colonization pathways of periphytic meiofauna are unknown in lakes. We studied these processes on littoral hard substrates in an oligotrophic lake. We manipulated the access of meiofauna to artificial hard substrates for a period of 57 d in a field experiment. In one treatment, the direct colonization pathway via active crawling was prohibited by elevating substrates into the water column. Development of the meiofaunal community was compared between elevated and nonelevated (control) treatments. In addition, relationships among the meiofaunal communities on the substrates in the field experiment and those in sediment traps and on natural hard substrates were examined. Periphyton biomass (chlorophyll
4095643|Landuse change alters the quantity and supply of stream energy resources from allochthonous (catchment-derived) to autochthonous (stream-derived) sources. This alteration has prompted the need for better understanding of C and N pathways through stream food webs. We added stable
10.2307/1468450|Short-term ultraviolet-B (UV-B) radiation was administered in the laboratory to mayfly nymphs (Diphetor hageni), midge larvae (Corynoneura taris), and snails (Elimia clavaeformis and Physella gyrina) to determine relative susceptibility of UV-B stress. Invertebrate response was a function of the total amount of UV-B received (dose, kJ m<sup>2</sup>), and the fluence rate at which UV-B was administered (irradiance, W / m<sup>2</sup>). Reciprocity did not hold for organisms tested in this study; effect of a given dose was dependent on irradiance. Invertebrates received a gradient of cumulative doses between 0 and 30 kJ / m<sup>2</sup> UV-B while simultaneously receiving UV-A and photosynthetically active radiation. UV-B wavelengths were weighted with the DNA action spectrum to obtain biologically effective doses between 0 and 0.214 kJ / m<sup>2</sup> UV-B<sub>DNA</sub>. This dose gradient was repeated at 3 different UV-B irradiances (1.6, 2.0, and 2.7 W / m<sup>2</sup>). Total dose, irradiance, and organism size all contributed to UV-B mortality. Mayfly nymphs and midge larvae had similar UV-B thresholds, and the lethal dose at which 50% of the organisms died (LD<sub>50</sub>) decreased with increased irradiance. For instance, LD<sub>50</sub>s for the midges were 17.2, 15.2, and 10 kJ / m<sup>2</sup> at 1.6, 2.0, and 2.7 W / m<sup>2</sup>, respectively. Both snails were relatively resistant to UV-B. The prosobranch snail Elimia showed no mortality at any of the UV-B doses administered in this study. A size-class experiment using the pulmonate snail Physella suggested that organism size also affects its ability to cope with UV-B stress: small snails (1.2  0.1 mm, <tex-math>$\overline{\text{x}}$</tex-math>  1 SD) were 5 times more likely to die from UV-B exposure than medium (5.1  0.3 mm) or large (7.8  0.6 mm) snails. Our experiments demonstrated that benthic invertebrates are differentially susceptible to acute UV-B stress, which could lead to alterations in invertebrate assemblages where UV-B levels are high.
10.2307/1467478|This study reports on the life-history traits of a stream population of the clam Musculium partumeium. The population displays two generations per year: a spring-born generation (SG) which reproduces twice (fall and following spring) and a fall-born generation (FG) which reproduces once in the spring. Traits for FG and SG generations are, respectively: maximum shell length, 5.1 and 6.1 mm; annual reproductive output (number of young born per average adult), 16 and 38; larval growth rate, 0.15 and 0.08 mm/wk; larval mortality, 67 and 48%; intrinsic rate of increase (r) 0.011 and 0.019/day. Compared with values for other populations of M. partumeium, our results were generally intermediate between those displayed by permanent pond populations (with 2 generations/year) and those of ephemeral pond populations (1 generation/year). This species appears to display a wide range of phenotypic plasticity in life-history traits.
10.2307/1467438| Suspension feeders capture a wide range of materials from water currents, and the type of food subsequently ingested varies with the catching device and with the animal's ability to be selective. Black fly larvae are examples of non-selective suspension feeders that ingest particulate and dissolved organic matter (POM and DOM). The DOM includes colloids originally produced as mucopolysaccharide (exopolymer) exudates from cells. Colloidal exopolymer particles (CEPs, those <1 m in size) may be free in the water column, attached to each other or to surfaces of bubbles, or bound with other particles to form aggregates. CEPs, and their adsorbed coatings, may be important in the nutrition of animals that capture and ingest them. In this "Perspective" I consider some of the roles of CEPs in the biology of suspension feeders and in the biology of aquatic systems as a whole. 
40792489|Ontogenetic stage and density of consumers can affect the intensity of their roles within a community. These roles can be further complicated in a heterogeneous environment, where a consumer might have disparate effects in different microhabitat types. We conducted an enclosure experiment in a small temperate stream to test the differential ecological roles of adults and juveniles of the signal crayfish (
10.2307/1467484|The demographic response of Hyalella azteca (Amphipoda) to predation by the darter Etheostoma spectabile (Percidae) was studied using semipermeable enclosures in a naturally fishless spring pool. The enclosures were constructed with a fence mesh size that allowed prey, but not predators, to move into and out of the enclosures. The responses of the population in the unenclosed (fishless) area of the pool were also monitored. Darters fed selectively on larger amphipods leading to an increase in the proportion of smaller individuals in the fish enclosures. Population density, sex ratio and fecundity of amphipods were not affected.
1468102|Understanding the influence of geographic factors in structuring fish assemblages is crucial to developing a comprehensive assessment of stream conditions. We compared the classification strengths (
09-096R|Downstream drift of benthic invertebrates is one of the defining characteristics of lotic environments. We collected 90 drift samples from adjacent sand-bed and riffle sections in a Mediterranean river during low flow conditions. Our goal was to compare drift fluxes (densities and instantaneous drift) and model the drift response across the velocity gradient in each habitat. Velocity distributions did not differ significantly between the habitats, but bedload transport rates and suspended sediment concentrations were significantly higher in the sand-bed habitat, where substrate was finer and less stable than in the riffle habitat. Benthic invertebrate densities differed by an order of magnitude between the habitats, with low and relatively homogeneous densities in the sand-bed. However, mean drift density did not differ significantly between the habitats. Quantile regression indicated that the upper limits of the drift response across the velocity gradient differed between habitats. Sample values below these upper limits suggest that substrate stability and benthic density act to constrain drift in some locations. Instantaneous drift was much higher in the sand-bed than in the riffle habitat, with up to 42% of the benthos present in the drift at any given moment. The taxonomic composition of benthic and drift samples suggested that animals from the riffle contributed to drift in the sand-bed habitat. The high loss rates in the sand-bed habitat suggest a rapid turnover of animals, supported by invertebrates arriving from the upstream riffle.
09-178R|Climate change is expected to have strong effects on mediterranean-climate regions worldwide. In some areas, these effects will include increases in temperature and decreases in rainfall, which could have important implications for biological assessment programs of aquatic ecosystems. We used a consistently collected, 20-y benthic macroinvertebrate data set from 4 sites along 2 small northern California streams to examine potential climate-change effects on aquatic communities. The sites represented unique combinations of stream order and flow intermittency. The North Coast benthic macroinvertebrate index of biotic integrity (B-IBI) developed for northern California streams was not influenced by temperature extremes (cool and warm) or precipitation extremes (wet and dry). Other common indices and metrics used in biological monitoring studies, such as the ratio of observed to expected taxa (O/E), % Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) individuals, and total richness were unaffected by temperature and precipitation variability. For future monitoring of climate-change effects on small streams, we developed a local climate-change indicator that is composed of the presence/absence of 9 macroinvertebrate taxa, identified to genus level. This indicator detected significant differences between years that were grouped based on temperature, precipitation, and a combination of temperature and precipitation. It also detected significant differences between groups in an external data set including 40 reference sites throughout the San Francisco Bay area, a result that suggests this indicator could be used at larger spatial scales in this region. Two biological trait categories found in large, long-lived organisms decreased with increasing temperature and decreasing precipitation at the most intermittent site. This result indicates that climate change might selectively affect taxa with certain traits. The robustness of the North Coast B-IBI and other common indices and metrics to temperature and precipitation variability demonstrates their continued applicability for examining water quality under future climate-change scenarios, but suggests that they probably will not be good indicators for detecting climate-change effects. The effects of climate change in mediterranean-climate streams can be monitored effectively within the framework of existing biological assessment programs by using regional indicators based on specific taxa identified to the generic level and information on their species traits.
10.2307/1467509|Four densities of a snail (Juga silicula) and a caddisfly (Dicosmoecus gilvipes) were introduced into separate laboratory streams, and their effects on algal biomass and community structure were monitored for 32 d. Tiles in an ungrazed control stream were covered by thick algal mats by day 32, and were composed primarily of Scenedesmus spp., Characium, and a variety of diatoms. Biomass and community structure of algal assemblages in the stream with the lowest density of snails were very similar to those in the control stream. In the other streams with snails, an inverse relationship developed between algal biomass and snail density after day 16. By day 32, the algal assemblages in the streams with high snail densities were dominated by adnate diatoms (e.g., Achnanthes lanceolata), and basal cells and short filaments of Stigeoclorium tenue. In contrast to the streams with snails, algal biomass was relatively low in all streams with caddisflies. The differences in algal biomass and structure between the streams with the lowest and highest densities of caddisflies were much smaller than those between streams with the lowest and highest densities of snails. On day 32, the taxonomic and physiognomic structure of the algal assemblages in all the streams with caddisflies resembled that in the streams with higher densities of snails. Scanning electron micrographs showed that even at the highest densities, neither snails nor caddisflies could completely remove the algal assemblage. It is concluded that grazing can substantially influence algal growth form and assemblage physiognomy in lotic ecosystems.
10.2307/1467798| Water quality and periphyton were sampled along a nutrient-enrichment gradient in the northern Everglades to develop correlative relationships between periphyton taxonomic composition and changes in water chemistry. A controlled phosphorus-enrichment experiment was conducted concurrently to develop causal relationships between periphyton changes and phosphorus enrichment. Periphyton changes along the gradient were most strongly related to changes in total phosphorus (TP), but also were correlated with other potentially limiting nutrients (e.g., nitrogen, iron). Interior marsh stations (water column TP = 5-7 g/L) were dominated by calcareous periphyton mats composed of the cyanobacteria Scytonema hofmanii and Shizothrix calcicola (27-70% of total biovolume) and an abundance of diatom epiphytes (11-49% of total biovolume). This assemblage was replaced at stations having slightly elevated phosphorus concentrations (TP  10 g/L) with a periphyton assemblage dominated by filamentous green algae including Spirogyra and Mougeotia (80-99% of total biovolume) and containing few diatom epiphytes (<6% of total biovolume). These same taxonomic shifts occurred in response to experimental enrichment (0-12.8 g P m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) of interior marsh plots with phosphorus, thus confirming that these periphyton changes were due to phosphorus enrichment by human activities. Periphyton assemblages at marsh stations where phosphorus concentrations were highest (TP = 42-134 g/L) were not reproduced experimentally, suggesting that environmental factors other than phosphorus may determine periphyton taxonomic composition in highly enriched areas of the marsh. The periphyton assemblage is a critical component of the Everglades ecosystem and changes documented here in response to phosphorus enrichment constitute a significant ecological impact on this ecosystem. 
1468090|We sampled 7 populations of zebra mussels along a latitudinal gradient in the Mississippi River. We scored 6 allozyme loci for all individuals using cellulose acetate gel electrophoresis and estimated heterozygosity of, and genetic variation among, populations. There were relatively large genetic differences among populations at the leucine aminopeptidease (
09-164|In a previous study, we found that underlying geology, acidic precipitation, and acidic mine drainage (AMD) associated with coal extraction in the Monongahela River basin, West Virginia, interact to produce discrete water-quality types among streams, including: high-quality reference, soft, hard, transitional, and severely impaired AMD types. In this study, we tested the prediction that this discrete impairment template would produce correspondingly discrete benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages. Furthermore, we posited that unique macroinvertebrate genera would serve as strong indicators of each water-quality type. Macroinvertebrate assemblages were strongly influenced by stream water chemistry, and tests of compositional similarity identified statistical links with water-quality types. However, assemblage composition was highly variable within and among water-quality types, a finding that provides greater support for continuous than for discrete structure. High variability in assemblage composition among streams of the same water-quality type could not be explained by differences in physical habitat or by variation in water chemistry. Benthic invertebrate assemblages also exhibited significant nestedness, but only AMD assemblages were clear subsets of reference-type assemblages. Furthermore, indicator species analysis found relatively few genera that were indicators for specific water-quality types, but they were strong for reference streams (e.g.,
10.2307/1467425|The freshwater ectoproct Stephanella hina, previously believed endemic to eastern Asia, is reported from northeastern North America. The characteristics of the colony, polypide, and statoblasts of the North American population agree closely with Japanese S. hina. The morphology of the statoblasts, particularly the floatoblast as revealed by scanning electron microscopy and light microscopy, shows substantial differences from the otherwise similar genus Hyalinella (Plumatellidae). It is concluded that on the basis of the general morphology of the statoblasts, colony wall, and polypide, Stephanella stands alone within the Plumatellidae as a monotypic genus. If weight is given to morphological characteristics of the floatoblast, S hina shows a closer relationship with the genus Plumatella than it does to Hyalinella.
41318757|Island biogeography theory can be used to explain patterns of species richness on various types of habitat islands, including freshwater lake systems. Mollusk production in these systems also has been linked to various water-chemistry variables, such as pH, alkalinity, hardness, and specific conductance. We examined how mollusk diversity patterns were related to geographical and limnological factors in insular lakes of the Beaver and Manitou Archipelagos in Lake Michigan (Laurentian Great Lakes), USA. The strongest correlations observed were with shoreline development (
20491225|Despite the prevalence and importance of intermittent streams, few studies have examined their use by crayfishes. We documented persistence in an intermittent stream and use of the hyporheic zone by 2 imperiled crayfishes,
1468066|Input, standing crop, and export of coarse (>4 mm
10.2307/1467869|A phylogeny of the families of Trichoptera is reviewed to provide a basis for understanding the probable evolution of feeding tactics and case or retreat constructions by larvae. At least 48 hierarchically inclusive homologues are known, mostly from larval, pupal, and adult morphology. Their resulting phylogeny indicates that Rhyacophilidae, Hydrobiosidae, Glossosomatidae, and Hydroptilidae are more closely related to Philopotamidae, Hydropsychidae, and their allies than to Limnephilidae, Leptoceridae, and their allies. This phylogeny implies that the ancestral caddisfly larva was probably a tube-dwelling detritivore, inhabiting humus and detrital mats near the shores of lentic or lotic-depositional habitats. This ancestor evolved into a tube-case-making detritivore and scraper in the ancestor of Integripalpia and into a retreat-making collector-gatherer in the ancestor of Annulipalpia. All other larval feeding and case-making tactics evolved from these ancestral habits.
09-172|Substrate stability is a key determinant of stream invertebrate community composition, but its measurement can be problematic. Stream ecologists often use different approaches and techniques to quantify bed stability, and this variability makes comparison among studies difficult. We examined the link between 6 reach-scale measures of substrate stability and invertebrate community metrics in 12 New Zealand mountain streams. The strength of the link varied with the method used to define substrate stability. We used morphological budgeting to measure spatial patterns and volumes of scour and fill. We found that as erosion of sediments increased, invertebrate diversity declined exponentially. In particular, increases in the volume of scour reduced taxonomic richness, whereas deposition of coarse sediments was less relevant for invertebrate communities. Overall, the distance travelled by in-situ-marked tracer stones was most strongly linked with all invertebrate community metrics, whereas the bottom component of the Pfankuch Index related very well to diversity. Both metrics showed near-linear declines in diversity with decreasing stability. In contrast, the link between invertebrate communities and the proportion of bed area affected by entrainment was weak. Therefore, we propose tracer-based indices and the Pfankuch bottom component as the most suitable measures for research involving invertebratesubstrate-stability relationships. Measures derived from in-situ-marked tracer stones reflected only entrainment and transport of particles. In contrast, the bottom component of the Pfankuch Index encompassed the widest range of bed-stability characteristics but is prone to observer bias. An objective method that combines the efficiency of the Pfankuch Index with the characteristics measured using tracer stones could serve as a powerful explanatory tool in stream ecology.
40792504|Landuse changes might alter N cycling in tropical aquatic ecosystems, but understanding of N cycling in tropical streams is limited. We measured actual and potential denitrification rates during the dry season in Ro Las Maras, a 4
10.2307/1468169|The pattern of assemblages for species of black flies (Diptera:Simuliidae) among 18 small (mean width <3.25 m) streams in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming, was analyzed using Monte Carlo simulations. Of specific interest was the amount of species co-occurrence among physically similar streams located in a small geographic area. Results indicate that black fly assemblages among similar streams were largely unpredictable in terms of species co-occurrence. There were no significant correlations between Jaccard's coefficient of similarity and distance between pairs of stream sites, indicating that faunal similarity among sites was not a function of the distance between them. Results are consistent with non-equilibrium community-structure theory. We also suggest that success at predicting black fly species assemblages in other studies is the result of correctly identifying different species pools associated with different stream types.
20491230|Densely spawning salmon (
20491207|Inferences drawn from regional bioassessments could be strengthened by integrating data from different monitoring programs. We combined data from the US Geological Survey National Water-Quality Assessment (NAWQA) program and the US Environmental Protection Agency Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA) to expand the scope of an existing River InVertebrate Prediction and Classification System (RIVPACS)type predictive model and to assess the biological condition of streams across the western US in a variety of landuse classes. We used model-derived estimates of taxon-specific probabilities of capture and observed taxon occurrences to identify taxa that were absent from sites where they were predicted to occur (decreasers) and taxa that were present at sites where they were not predicted to occur (increasers). Integration of 87 NAWQA reference sites increased the scope of the existing WSA predictive model to include larger streams and later season sampling. Biological condition at 336 NAWQA test sites was significantly (
10.2307/1467778|We investigated the fate of organic matter and inorganic nutrients derived from spawning runs of chinook salmon in tributary streams to Lake Superior during fall and winter 1990. Upstream-downstream comparisons and experimental introduction of carcasses were used to determine how salmon carcass decomposition influenced several stream ecosystem components, including total phosphorus, total nitrogen, soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP), NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, NH<sub>4</sub><sup>+</sup>, periphyton biomass, and fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) in transport. Total phosphorus, SRP, and periphyton biomass were higher in a river reach that received a spawning run of an estimated 1200 fish than in an upstream reach that lacked spawning salmon. No upstream-downstream gradient in these components occurred in a river that did not receive a spawning run. Total phosphorus, SRP, and periphyton also were elevated where we experimentally introduced salmon carcasses, in the absence of a natural salmon run. Stable isotope analyses revealed that salmon-derived nitrogen was incorporated into grazing mayflies, and to a lesser extent into filter-feeding caddisflies. Salmon-derived carbon was not incorporated into these macroinvertebrates. These results show that salmon carcasses can be an important source of nutrients in streams even when runs are relatively small.
40792496|Microbes are important in stream ecosystem processes and ubiquitous in stream environments, but limitations of study techniques have left most of these microbial communities poorly described. In stream ecosystems, fungal and bacterial communities play critical roles in leaf decomposition and release energy and nutrients to higher trophic levels of the food web. Our research examined microbial communities in Fossil Creek, Arizona, USA, to elucidate effects of litter quality and abiotic habitat characteristics on early microbial colonizers of leaves. High- and low-quality leaf litter was placed in the creek at 5 study sites with heterogeneous environmental conditions (including differing stream morphology, water flow, water chemistry, and travertine deposition). Microbial assemblages that colonized the decomposing leaves were characterized using terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis and clone library comparisons. Our study revealed differences in microbial community structure along environmental gradients and, to some extent, between high- and low-quality litter in Fossil Creek. Leaf decomposition rates were strongly influenced by both litter quality and abiotic site characteristics, but microbial communities were more strongly influenced by site than by litter quality. Bacterial and fungal communities differed with incubation times: bacterial diversity increased between 2-d and 8- to 9-d incubations, whereas fungal diversity decreased. Fungal community diversity was negatively correlated with decomposition rates after incubation in the creek for 2 d when the community still included nonaquatic fungi, but this relationship did not exist after longer incubation. Bacterial community diversity was not related to litter quality or decomposition rates.
10.2307/1467430|The objective of this study was to quantify subsurface nitrogen fluxes between a riparian forest and a 4th-order mountain stream, McRae Creek, for each season of the year and during storms. A network of wells was installed on a gravel bar and a portion of the adjacent floodplain between 1989 and 1992. Water samples were collected to monitor dissolved nitrogen concentrations. Advected channel water and ground water were enriched in nitrogen relative to the stream; thus, subsurface flow was a net source of nitrogen to the stream in all seasons of the year and during both base-flow periods and storms. Estimates of the flux of advected channel water and the discharge of ground water were combined with changes in mean nitrogen concentrations along subsurface flow paths to estimate nitrogen inputs to the stream. Discharge of ground water from the conifer-dominated flood-plain was the largest source of nitrogen added to the stream: however, more than 50% of this nitrogen was dissolved organic nitrogen. In contrast, two-thirds of the nitrogen from the alder-dominated gravel bar was inorganic. Net nitrogen fluxes from the gravel bar to the stream were lowest during the summer when water table elevations were low. Net fluxes of nitrogen from the gravel bar to the stream were largest during the fall, especially at peak flow during storms when interstitial water in the gravel bar was enriched in NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>. The estimated annual flux of nitrogen from the riparian forest to McRae Creek was 1.9 g/m<sup>2</sup> of streambed, of which 1.0 g/m<sup>2</sup> was inorganic. Estimated net annual flux was large relative to the estimated input of nitrogen in litterfall, or the nitrogen required to support estimated rates of primary productivity.
10.2307/1467915| Abundance and growth of Ephemerella subvaria, E. invaria, and Isoperla signata nymphs were examined at five riffle sites near a surface-release hydroelectric power plant on the Sturgeon River in northern Michigan. Abundance (51/m<sup>2</sup>) and growth of E. invaria nymphs were similar at sites above and below the plant. Growth of I. signata nymphs was similar at all sites, but nymphs were 6 more abundant (46/m<sup>2</sup>vs.7/m<sup>2</sup>) below the power plant. Ephemerella subvaria nymphs grew more slowly, but were 4 more abundant (136/m<sup>2</sup>vs.33/m<sup>2</sup>), below the power plant. Growth rates of E. subvaria increased as distance below the plant increased, but at 10 km below the power plant growth rates were still lower than those above the plant. The presence of macrophytes and the release of seston from the reservoir resulted in high densities of invertebrates immediately below the power plant. Releases of warm reservoir surface waters by the power plant in autumn suppressed the growth rates of E. subvaria nymphs near the plant, but apparently had no observable effect on growth rates of the other species examined. 
40792569|We reviewed global P export and its controlling factors from 685 world rivers. We used available continuous (runoff, rainfall, catchment area, % land use, and population density) and discrete (runoff type, soil type, biome, dominant land use, dominant type of forest, occurrence of stagnant water bodies in catchment, and Gross Product per Capita [GPC]) variables to predict export of P fractions. P export (kg P km
10.2307/1467928|The effect of substrate type and potential refuge on the vulnerability of four stream-living insect prey to two insect predators was studied by comparing predator capture success on each substrate in laboratory stream chambers. Prey were two Ephemeroptera, Baetis tricaudatus (Baetidae) and Ephemerella subvaria (Ephemerellidae), Simulium vittatum (Diptera:Simuliidae), and several species of Hydropsychidae (Trichoptera). Single prey taxa or mixed prey species were exposed to the predators Agnetina capitata (Plecoptera:Perlidae) and Nigronia serricornis (Megaloptera:Corydalidae). Substrate treatments were: very coarse sand, gravel-pebble, artificial turf, and, when testing for the protectiveness of hydropsychid retreats, gravel with additional sand. In single and mixed-prey experiments, mayflies, especially Baetis, were more vulnerable than other prey. When given no choice of prey, both predators captured prey on all substrates. Substrate significantly affected the vulnerability of three taxa, but in different ways for different predators. Turf allowed the capture of more Baetis by Nigronia, but fewer Baetis and Ephemerella by Agnetina. On gravel, hydropsychids were vulnerable to Agnetina; additional sand, however, allowed the construction of more or stronger retreats, reducing vulnerability. The same protection resulted from a 24-hr retreat-building period before exposure to Agnetina. With a choice of prey, Nigronia captured Baetis on all substrates, Ephemerella and Simulium on turf and gravel, and hydropsychids only on gravel. Agnetina with mixed prey took significantly more Baetis on all substrates but did not catch Ephemerella on turf. The swimming of Baetis probably contributed to its high vulnerability; the crawler (Ephemerella) and clingers (Simuliium, hydropsychids) were less conspicuous, or, in the case of Simulium, out of reach on the walls or ceilings of the chambers. The two predators also differed in their ability to forage on turf and sand. Agnetina was less successful in catching prey on turf whereas Nigronia had no difficulty. On sand, however, Agnetina was just as effective as on gravel whereas Nigronia captured only swimming prey on sand when a choice was available. These contrasting results are attributed to differences in the predators' antennae and agility. Therefore, substrate influences vulnerability not only by providing direct shelter but also by affecting the ease with which a predator can sense or pursue prey on particular substrates.
4499033|Floodplains of unregulated rivers alternate between aquatic and terrestrial phases, resulting in temporary aquatic habitats. If aquatic invertebrates are to take advantage of such habitats, they must be capable of rapid colonization and growth. Aerial immigration is one means of colonization and may include active dispersal by reproductive and nonreproductive adult insects and passive dispersal of other invertebrates. The aquatic invertebrate assemblage that could develop from aerial colonization during the time of a flood was investigated with floating colonization trays containing natural detritus and water on the water surface of a southeastern USA floodplain during 5 flooded periods in a year. Density and biomass of aquatic invertebrates that resulted from aerial colonization were measured after 17 d. Minimum growth rates and potential secondary production of several chironomid taxa were measured based on increases in larval size during this time period. Egg-mass collection trays, similar to colonization trays, were placed in the floodplain to estimate an egg-laying flux of chironomids (egg masses m
1468186|We examined the effect of nutrient addition on rates of decomposition, ergosterol concentrations (as a measure of fungal biomass), and rates of fungal sporulation associated with yellow poplar (
1468093|Cyprinids (
10.2307/1468336|In situ oxygen consumption rates can be used to evaluate respiratory costs of organisms in the natural environment. We determined the in situ oxygen consumption rates of freshwater gastropods by using an assay of the coenzymes involved in the electron transport system (ETS). This assay may be used to estimate in situ and in vitro metabolic rates of individuals when direct monitoring of oxygen consumption is not practical. The relationship between ETS activity and measured oxygen consumption was determined for individuals of 3 common Lake Michigan snail species: Elimia livescens, Stagnicola woodruffi, and Physella integra. The snails were exposed to various temperature conditions to stimulate a wide range of oxygen consumption. After 14 d of acclimation to the experimental conditions, oxygen consumption rates were measured daily. After 5 d, the snail tissue was removed from the shells, flash frozen, and stored in liquid nitrogen until the ETS assay could be performed. Oxygen consumption was highly correlated with ETS activity for all 3 species (p < 0.001). The in situ oxygen consumption rates of these snails can be evaluated using the calibration of oxygen consumption to ETS activity.
10.2307/1467948|Our study developed an approach to biological assessment that would document effects of pollution on benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages in Florida streams. The primary objectives were: (1) to classify streams for assessment of benthic assemblages and (2) to develop biological metrics and aggregated indices for biocriteria and assessment. Reference sites were selected throughout Florida (with the exception of the southernmost area, known as the Southern Florida Coastal Plain ecoregion) and sampled by biologists from the Florida Department of Environmental Protection. These sites were sampled during a summer index period (1 July through 30 September) from 1992 through 1994. Streams were classified using invertebrate species composition. Three geographic stream classes (bioregions) that were based or aggregations of subecoregions were determined from this analysis: the panhandle, peninsular Florida, and the northeastern portion of Florida. Stream types based on water source (i.e., calcareous or non-calcareous) were not useful as stream classes. From an initial suite of 32 macroinvertebrate metrics, 8 metrics were useful in composing the Stream Condition Index (SCI) for Florida for all 3 bioregions. Scores (5, 3, or 1) were developed for these metrics to allow for aggregation into an index. Aggregating the metrics into the SCI provided a biocriterion that improved discrimination between impaired and unimpaired sites over use of individual metrics.
40792630|Systematics, or taxonomy, is the study of the diversity of life on Earth. Its goals are to discover and describe new biological diversity and to understand its evolutionary and biogeographic origins and relationships. Here we review the contributions to the field of systematics and taxonomy published over the last 25 y in
1468101|The usefulness of ecoregions and catchments (hydrologic units) as bases for classifying aquatic vertebrate assemblages in western Oregon was compared using samples collected by electrofishing from 137 wadeable stream sites distributed evenly throughout the region. The classification strengths of these regionalizations were also compared with neutral-model classifications that were based either on intersite proximities in geographic distance or on intersite similarities in the sampled vertebrate assemblages. The strength of each classification was assessed by the extent to which average within-class assemblage similarities exceeded the average similarity between classes. Mean similarity dendrograms were used as a concise graphical comparison of between- and within-class similarities for alternative classifications, whether they were specified a priori or constructed by clustering. For each a priori classification, a permutation test of the
10.2307/1467546| Food webs of tropical, temperate, and arctic lakes can be characterized by the carbon and nitrogen stable isotope ratios of their constituent organisms. After assigning trophic levels using  <sup>15</sup>N, a broad range of  <sup>13</sup>C is observed at the primary consumer level in nearly all lakes. The range of  <sup>13</sup>C is on the order of 20  in tropical lakes Kyoga and Malawi and lakes with low dissolved inorganic carbon in temperate Canada, but is narrower in shallow lakes of the Canadian arctic. This broad range exists in ecosystems in which terrestrial inputs and/or aquatic macrophytes are often minimal. The isotopically light end of the range results from phytoplankton photosynthesis whereas the isotopically heavy end represents benthic algae photosynthesizing within an unstirred boundary layer. This range is successfully predicted by an application of a simple isotopic model for photosynthetic fractionation, originally developed for aquatic macrophytes, which uses boundary layer thicknesses reported for benthic algal communities. When benthic photosynthesis becomes light-limited in very turbid lakes of the Mackenzie Delta, then phytoplanktonic carbon dominates the diet of the primary consumers. The organisms on the primary consumer trophic level appear from their  <sup>13</sup>C values to harvest preferentially either planktonic or benthic algal carbon but, in temperate and arctic lakes, higher consumer levels are increasingly omnivorous. Therefore top aquatic predators often have a narrow range of  <sup>13</sup>C. In temperate and arctic lakes these top predators have a  <sup>13</sup>C near the midpoint of the range at the primary consumer level, which would result from nearly equal dependence on planktonic and benthic algal carbon. This equal dependence would not be predicted from the relative magnitude of planktonic and benthic algal photosynthesis as currently estimated in these systems. 
1467975|Organic matter retention is an integral ecosystem process affecting C and nutrient dynamics and biota in streams. Influences of discharge (Q), reach-scale channel form, and riparian vegetation on coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) retention were analyzed in 2 headwater streams in northeastern Oregon.
1468438|The Mississippi River has been highly modified for much of its length, with dredging, channelization, and an extensive levee system disrupting historical connections to inland and coastal floodplains. There are currently many large- and small-scale efforts to restore these historical connections in the Mississippi River basin, often with particular emphasis on restoring fish spawning habitat and the high fisheries productivity of the floodplain systems. To investigate how stable isotopic indicators might be useful in showing fish use of restored floodplain habitats, 118 common, benthic-feeding fish were collected from the lower Mississippi River system in Louisiana. Chemical analyses of amounts and isotopic compositions of C, N, and S in fish tissues showed that fish living in different rivers and floodplain estuaries had distinctly different chemistries that reflected fish use of different habitat types. For example, inland swamp floodplains in the Atchafalaya Basin produced fish with lower 
10.2307/1467877| Dependence of the invertebrate and fish community on terrestrial versus aquatic carbon sources in southern Ontario streams was studied using stable carbon isotope analysis. Algal carbon was significantly more <sup>13</sup>C depleted (-35.5) than terrestrial carbon (-27), but high variability in algal  <sup>13</sup>C precluded use of a quantitative mixing model.  <sup>13</sup>C values at the unforested sites show a dependence of invertebrates on primarily autochthonous carbon.  <sup>13</sup>C values of many taxa at the forested sites also show a substantial dependence of invertebrates on algal carbon during the spring. Fish appear to derive more carbon from terrestrial sources than do aquatic invertebrates at both the forested and unforested sites. Carbon isotope analysis has the potential to elucidate carbon pathways in streams only when local conditions cause algae to be <sup>13</sup>C depleted relative to terrestrial carbon. 
1467980|Many epigean stream invertebrates periodically occupy hyporheic sediments and may exploit epilithic biofilms and particulate organic matter (POM) as food in surface and subsurface habitats. We compared the taxonomic composition and density of biofilms coating shaded and unshaded surface sediments in a New Zealand stream with those coating hyporheic (1530 cm depth) sediments in the same reach, and investigated whether larvae of the cased caddisfly
4498992|The reaeration coefficient (
4095573|The Cinaruco River, an oligotrophic ecosystem in the Venezuelan llanos (savanna), has strong seasonal hydrology and supports large populations of ecologically diverse fishes. The relative contributions of autochthonous and allochthonous production sources that support high stocks of secondary consumers are undetermined in this river. We used excitationemission fluorescence spectroscopy and absorption spectra of dissolved organic matter to infer degradation of leaf material originating from the surrounding gallery forest. During the low-water period, a large fraction of fluorescent organic matter contained in leaves degraded quickly in river water and was an important allochthonous contribution of C to the system. However, the fluorescence signature of dissolved organic matter in lagoons was different from that of the main river channel during the falling-water period, suggesting that other sources of C were present. Allochthonous organic matter clearly fueled microbial respiration during the falling-water period, but our in-water experiments using lightdark bottle methods indicated that autochthonous production was an important supplementary C source in shallow nearshore waters. During the low-water and falling-water periods, water-column primary production in nearshore waters ranged from 150 to 500 mg C m
10.2307/1467417| The relative gut fullness of stream invertebrates occurring in the water column and on the stream bed were compared over 24 hr in a hardwater stream. Guts of drifting philopotamid and hydropsychid caddisfly larvae were significantly more empty to -full than those of larvae in the benthos, during both day and night. Compared with those in the drift, a greater proportion of individuals of Gammarus pseudolimnaeus on the stream bed had full guts at night and during the day and a greater proportion of nymphs of Baetis vagans on the stream bed had guts -full to full during the day. The percentage of larval chironomids with empty guts was greater in the benthos during both the day and night. Guts of animals in the drift tended to be least full during the second half of the night, whereas drift density peaked at dusk. The laboratory-determined activity levels of starved versus fed G. pseudolimnaeus did not differ either in the day or at night. The modal number of legs missing on benthic insects was 0 while amongst insects caught in the drift it was 1-2. We conclude that there is a tendency for hungrier individuals of some species to drift more, particularly at night, although the response is not mandatory and considerable variation is seen between animals. This largely active-entry mode to the drift may be supplemented by the more passive entry of those individuals with one or more missing limbs. Together, these features contribute to the complex array of factors that result in stream drift. 
10-021|A taxonomic perspective of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding is presented here with respect to its use within the freshwater science community. The goals and methods of DNA barcoding and the criticisms leveled at the procedure by the taxonomic community are explained. The major goal of DNA-barcoding efforts is to aid identification of specimens by matching sequences to a sequence library. This goal is achievable, but barcoding efforts must be coupled with a much wider sampling regime and should be done with the full cooperation and collaboration of the taxonomic community. Through collaborative efforts, taxonomists and barcode advocates can build capacity for taxonomy and sequence the vast number of specimens needed to build a truly comprehensive barcode library for use by benthic scientists. Other barcoding goals, such as species diagnosis and biodiversity surveys, are more problematic, but solutions are possible.
09-099|Morphological and genetic data are increasingly used in combination to test taxonomic hypotheses of species status. We compared the morphological and genetic diversity of the spring-dwelling crane fly,
4095660|An enhanced water-quality monitoring project was established in 2000 for streams providing drinking water to New York City (NYC). The projects design considered the history of the NYC source watersheds, and some of the broader issues facing freshwater supply systems in general. NYCs relationship with its watershed has historically been acrimonious and filled with mistrust, a situation that became critical in 1989 when the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued the Surface Water Treatment Rule (SWTR), which required all unfiltered public water-supply systems either to provide filtration or to comply with a stringent set of water-quality, operational, and watershed-control standards. Plans to implement this rule caused further mistrust and lawsuits, which led in 1997 to the NYC Watershed Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), a compromise that was accepted by all the stakeholders. The MOA addressed fundamental issues about: 1) the protection, allocation, and ownership of water resources, 2) the identification and valuation of ecosystem services, 3) the compatibility of environmental protection and economic development, and 4) strategies for bringing together diverse stakeholders in the watershed. One of the provisions of the MOA was to enhance the existing city, state, and federal monitoring programs for NYCs source watersheds. The monitoring project described in this series, which is part of that enhancement, recognizes philosophically that source watersheds and their ecosystems are: 1) the ultimate source of the water, 2) the major source of anthropogenic contaminants in the water, and 3) the primary natural processors of water-borne contaminants. Protecting NYCs source-water areas requires an integrated approach that ties historical and contemporary land use into the design of a large-scale, enhanced, water-quality monitoring project (the Project). The Project set forth 4 primary objectives: 1) to create a quantitative baseline of selected physical, chemical, and biological characteristics of source-water streams and reservoirs for use in assessing future changes in the quality of NYCs drinking water and the integrity of the associated aquatic ecosystems, 2) to include in the baseline factors that are sensitive to temporal variability, are reproducible, and lend themselves to unconfounded analyses among sampling sites and times, 3) to integrate temporal and spatial change in both the level of selected contaminants and the structure and function of biological communities and ecosystems to assess whether impairment impacts the ability of the streams to provide ecosystem services related to water quality, and 4) to provide additional direction and perspective to the overall watershed management plan for the NYC source-water area. All papers in this series cover Phase I of the monitoring project, which involved physical, chemical, and biological measurements made during 2000 to 2002 at 60 stream sites distributed across a 5066-km
10.2307/1467399|Groundwater ecology, especially that dealing with subterranean fauna, developed more slowly than other branches of limnology. In recent years a revival of interest can be seen in Europe and North America. Recent developments in Europe are reviewed. Riverine aquifers can be considered macro-ecosystems. A conceptual model for the Danube aquifer in the alluvial plain of the Vienna Basin is presented. Progress in the study of the ecology of the animal assemblages from superficial alluvial sediments is discussed. 1. The interstitial habitat of the backwaters in alluvial plains of rivers harbours a diverse and abundant fauna; this is exemplified with data from the Danube wetland in the Vienna Basin as well as from the Rhone plain. 2. The use of fixed stand-pipes disposed within a regular grid, combined with the Bou-Rouch method of pumping groundwater, allows a better description of the faunistic assemblages. 3. It is emphasized that some taxocenes, like the crustacean Ostracoda, display on a larger scale (m) a diversity pattern that can be described mathematically using a log linear model. The practical use of groundwater assemblages for monitoring environmental situations is discussed. A modern approach to the ecology of the groundwater fauna is to consider it within an individualistic and historical perspective. It is emphasized that groundwater animals migrate actively within the interstitial space and are able to find their preferred habitat. They can transform their microenvironment too. Within a historical approach the groundwater ecologist has to investigate phylogenetically related species in order to better understand the origin and evolution of the subterranean dwellers, e.g., the degree of adaptation to the subsurface environment. The succession of historical events is important for an understanding of the spatial distribution of the groundwater fauna. The protection of subterranean animals and their habitats has a cultural and practical value. More basic research within a multidisciplinary framework is emphasized as a prerequisite for the achievement of further developments in groundwater ecology.
10.2307/1467449|The influence of in situ substrate conditioning on periphyton colonization and growth was investigated during fall and spring in Walker Branch, a shaded, woodland stream in eastern Tennessee. Ceramic cylinders were conditioned by placing them in the stream under black plastic for >75 d. After conditioning, pairs of conditioned and unconditioned cylinders were placed in a shaded riffle and periphyton development was monitored for 35 (spring) or 40 (fall) d. The only variable measured that was significantly greater on conditioned than on unconditioned cylinders in both seasons was ATP, but significant differences only lasted until day 9. Taxonomic structure of the algae differed among seasons. Achnanthes spp. dominated during the fall experiment and their relative abundances were significantly greater on conditioned than on unconditioned cylinders through day 8 of the experiment, but not after. Meridion circulare dominated early in spring, whereas filamentous cyanophytes were only observed on day 35. Neither these taxa nor the other dominant taxa demonstrated a consistent preference for one substrate type over another. Conditioning never resulted in enhanced densities of algal cells or units during spring, when discharge was high and variable; only rarely did conditioning lead to enhanced algal settlement or growth during fall, when discharge was low and stable. Results from this study suggest that the influence of substrate conditioning on periphyton growth and development is relatively short-term. Conditioning is predicted to have more important consequences on stream structure and function in systems with a high frequency of disturbance, where periphyton communities are continuously set back to an early seral stage, than in systems with a low frequency of disturbance.
41318725|The hyporheic zone is of great interest for stream ecologists because of its role in stream biogeochemical processing. Our study addresses the effects of leaf-litter inputs and varying discharge on surfacehyporheic water exchange and their possible consequences for the hyporheic zone biogeochemistry. Our study was conducted during autumn in Riera de Santa Fe (northeastern Iberian Peninsula), a stream with a well developed deciduous riparian canopy. We placed 15 wells spaced at 5-m intervals longitudinally down the study reach and measured surface and hyporheic nutrient and dissolved O
4499010|The Atlantic Forest of Brazil has been identified as a biodiversity hotspot of global significance. We assessed chironomid (Diptera:Chironomidae) taxa richness in 2 vegetation types in this region: the Atlantic Rain Forest and the Atlantic Semi-deciduous Forest. Taxa were collected from 15 low-order streams across multiple habitats. A total of 191 morphospecies were recognized (125 Chironominae, 28 Tanypodinae, and 38 Orthocladiinae). We estimated chironomid richness using a Bayesian statistical approach. Species-richness estimates ranged from 200 (credibility interval, 195207) to 267 (248288). These results place low-order streams from Atlantic Forest among the most chironomid speciose areas in the world.
10.2307/1467605| Data on species richness and diversity of aquatic insects are presented for 42 streams from four drainage areas in northwestern Panam. 189 taxa were collected, many of which are undescribed species. Nearly 45% of the taxa were found in only one of the drainage areas. Diversities, as measured by alpha of the log series, and similarities, measured by number of expected species shared (NESS), were calculated for 25 sites in the four drainages. Diversities varied widely between streams and broadly overlap alpha diversities found in temperate streams. There was no significant correlation between insect diversity and altitude in the Panamanian streams. Similarity of Ephemeroptera faunas among streams showed two patterns: a relatively homogeneous mountain stream fauna in localities above 300 m elevation, and a much more heterogeneous fauna in lowland streams below this altitude. These patterns were less clear for other aquatic insect orders. The results suggest that variation among streams within a tropical region is as important as any "latitudinal gradient" between tropical and temperate streams. 
41319688|Nutrient limitation plays an important role in shaping community structure and ecosystem processes in aquatic environments. Many types of nutrient diffusing substrata (NDS) have been used to estimate nutrient limitation in lotic systems. However, whether these various NDS methods produce comparable results is unknown. We evaluated the 3 most commonly used NDS methodsclay pots, plastic cups, and periphytometersin a single stream to determine if they gave qualitatively similar results. We also examined the effects of initial nutrient ratios on diffusion rates in all 3 types of NDS and periphyton stoichiometry on clay pots. The largest response in chlorophyll
1468313|Streamriparian ecosystems are landscapes composed of dynamic interacting terrestrial and aquatic patches. Patch composition and configuration affects both the form of transported materials and the amount of nutrient retention and export. We describe spatial patterns of nutrients in the surface water of an arid-land stream using surveys conducted at 3 different scales, ranging from 30 m to 10 km in extent and from 1 m to 25 m in grain. We then relate these patterns to connections with subsurface patches at channel subunit, channel unit, and reach scales. Our objectives were to compare spatial variation in nutrients across scales, to determine the causes of downstream changes in nutrient concentration in terms of intervening patches, and to investigate whether subsurface patches at different scales behaved similarly in terms of net nutrient processing.
10.2307/1467519|Surveys of stream morphology and measurements of particulate organic matter (seston) transport were made in four streams to examine response to forest disturbance. Seston was sampled during baseflows and stormflows in streams draining an 8-year-old clearcut, a 25-year-old clearcut, and two reference watersheds at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in the southern Appalachian Mountains of North Carolina. Surveys of stream morphology indicated that there were fewer debris dams and organic matter accumulations in disturbed streams. Baseflow seston concentrations varied seasonally, ranging from 0.5 to 1.0 mg/L in winter and from 3.0 to 7.0 mg/L during summer. Baseflow seston concentrations did not differ consistently between streams. In all streams, seston concentration increased with increasing discharge during storms and was positively correlated with the rate of change of discharge during rising flows. Seston concentrations decreased during peak flows and gradually declined as discharge returned to baseflow. Average seston concentrations during storms were generally highest in streams draining disturbed watersheds, and export (g AFDW transported/m<sup>2</sup> stream channel) was significantly higher in streams draining disturbed watersheds. Storm transport varied with season, storm intensity, and storm duration. Our results show that baseflow seston concentrations in streams draining disturbed areas may return to normal levels within a few years following disturbance; however, concentrations during storms may remain elevated for many years.
1468187|Stream ecosystems can be strongly influenced by land use within watersheds. The extent of this influence may depend on the spatial distribution of developed land and the scale at which it is evaluated. Effects of land-cover patterns on leaf breakdown were studied in 8 southern Appalachian headwater streams. Using a GIS, land cover was evaluated at several spatial scales, including the watershed, riparian corridor, and subcorridors that extended upstream in 200-m increments for 2 km. Breakdown rate for American sycamore (
10.2307/1468147| To test whether afforestation with eucalyptus affects the amount, quality, and timing of litter inputs, we evaluated the inputs of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) to 2 headwater streams, one flowing through a mixed deciduous forest and one through a plantation of Eucalyptus globulus. Vertical and lateral traps were sampled at least monthly, and the material collected was sorted into 4 main categories: fallen leaves (several species), fruits and flowers, twigs and bark, and debris. The eucalyptus plantation resulted in a reduction of 32% of total litter inputs, and 73% of lateral inputs, compared to the mixed deciduous forest. It also had a less marked seasonal pattern of inputs, and different timing of peak litterfall, the peak in the deciduous forest occurring in autumn, whereas in the eucalyptus plantation the peak occurred in summer. Similarly, leaf diversity was greatly reduced under the eucalyptus, with 98% of the leaf litter mass from 1 species, resulting in broad changes in litter quality. Litter inputs in the eucalyptus plantations contributed 67% less nitrogen and 65% less phosphorus to the stream than in the deciduous forest. Although eucalyptus plantations result in broad changes in organic inputs, no drastic impacts on the structure or function of benthic communities are evident so far in the Agera stream. Nevertheless, caution suggests maintaining the quantity and timing of allochthonous inputs by keeping buffer strips of native riparian forest. 
1467998|The effects of mine drainage on 2 bacterial processes were examined in Rocky Mountain streams affected by mine drainage. Thymidine incorporation into bacterial DNA was measured as an index of bacterial production, and nitrification was examined because it is sensitive to a variety of stressors. These processes, as well as pH, concentration of dissolved Zn, and deposition rate of metal oxides, all of which are influenced by mine drainage, were measured at 37 sites. The concentrations of inorganic nutrients and dissolved organic carbon (DOC), as well as algal biomass (as chlorophyll
4499055|The utility of hydropsychid (Trichoptera:Hydropsychidae) caddisfly larvae for freshwater biomonitoring has been demonstrated, but the major impediment to its implementation has been the lack of species-level larval descriptions and illustrations. A rapid and reliable molecular protocol that also uses morphology is proposed because conventional approaches to associating undescribed larvae with adults have been slow and problematic. Male adults were identified before DNA sequence analyses were used. These identifications established morphospecies boundaries that were mapped on phylograms constructed from 2 independent gene fragments: mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) and large subunit (28S) nuclear ribosomal DNA expansion fragment D2 (D2). Species boundaries were confirmed if they were monophyletic on both molecular phylograms. Larval associations were made with reference to the phylogenetic analyses under 2 criteria: sequence identity across both genes or nested placement within a reference species boundary. A total of 133 individuals belonging to Chinese
1467993|The rate of recolonization of artificially denuded substrata by benthic macroinvertebrates was investigated in 7 southeastern England streams that differed in disturbance frequency and refugium availability. Disturbance frequency and refugia were estimated from observation of substratum movements and shear stress distributions, respectively. Thus, high-refugium sites had a high proportion of low shear stress spots at high discharge, whereas low-refugium sites had a low proportion. Colonization was estimated experimentally using wide-meshed cages containing washed substratum, which remained in the stream for 2 or 7 d. Natural and recolonized benthic assemblages were ordinated, and colonization rate was estimated from Euclidean distances. Macroinvertebrate colonization rate (i.e., mobility) increased with disturbance frequency, but only where refugium availability was low. High-refugium sites had faster colonization than low-refugium sites, irrespective of disturbance regime. Higher mobility in high-refugium sites may reflect lower mortality risk from flow disturbance when the physical habitat is heterogeneous. Our study suggests that high refugium availability may reduce the effect of flow disturbance in streams.
10.2307/1467898| Algal colonization and assemblage development were examined on unglazed ceramic tiles in flow-through troughs over a 42-d period (summer 1987) in the regulated upper Colorado River (2400 m a.s.l.). The unusually constant discharge of the stream, coupled with the trough design, allowed the establishment and maintenance of four controlled current regimes that differed with respect to range of free-stream velocity and associated near-substratum hydraulic conditions: 1) depositional (free-stream current velocity <1 cm/s); 2) slow and hydraulically-smooth (range 14-20 cm/s); 3) fast and hydraulically-smooth (range 36-47 cm/s); and, 4) fast and hydraulically-rough or turbulently mixed (range 15-46 cm/s). Biomass was on average 30-40 higher in the two slow velocity treatments than in the two fast velocity treatments. Chlorophytes, bacillariophytes, and cyanophytes exhibited distinctly different successional trajectories and end-points in all treatments. Ulothrix zonata, established by day 4, was the dominant alga at all velocities for the first two weeks, after which it was replaced by a more diverse assemblage of chlorophytes, except in the Fast-rough regime. Diatoms were common in all treatments, but were only numerically dominant during the latter part of the study. Cyanophytes dominated only in the two lowest current regimes and only at the end of the study. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that physiognomy of algal assemblages also varied across current regimes. The two low velocity treatments were characterized by dense, upright filaments within one week, while three-dimensional assemblage structure in the two high velocity treatments did not develop over the 42-d period. Differences in species composition, successional trajectories and physiognomy across treatments demonstrated that current regime (free-stream velocity and pattern of flow) was an important determinant of algal assemblage structure in the absence of hydrologic and grazing disturbances. 
1468278|The influence of physical factors on the transport and deposition of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM, 53106 m) in streams was investigated using
20491184|Patterns of chironomid species richness were compared between 1 permanent and 1 temporary Mediterranean mountain stream in the same basin. From 1991 to 1995, pupal exuviae were collected at irregular intervals in the permanent stream, but the temporary stream was dry because of a long-lasting drought in the region. From March 1996 to March 2000, pupal exuviae were collected fortnightly in both streams. In contrast to other comparative studies that found more species in permanent than in temporary streams, our 2 streams harbored similar temporal  and  diversity during the 1996 to 2000 study period. This result might be explained by the relatively long time the temporary stream was flowing. In addition, the temporary stream showed higher temporal  diversity than the permanent stream, a result that might be attributable to the greater variability in temperature and substrates in the temporary stream. Spates scarcely affected  diversity and favored colonization by new species in both streams, a result that supports the patch-dynamic concept of streams. A period of >1 y without spates also resulted in colonization by new species in the permanent stream, but led to a pool phase in the temporary stream that reduced  diversity considerably. Overall, both streams had similar chironomid species richness and species rarity and high faunal complementarity. These results support the view that temporary aquatic habitats deserve consideration in conservation plans designed to protect species and their habitats.
10.2307/1468368|The immature stages of Platyneuromus soror (Hagen) (Megaloptera:Corydalidae:Corydalinae) are described and illustrated for the 1st time, and a key to the megalopteran genera of Mexico is provided. Mature Platyneuromus larvae can be distinguished by having both head and pronotum patterned (unpatterned in Chloronia), and by the clear, open, and typically smooth erect secondary macrosetae on the abdominal terga (dark, apparently closed, and typically striated in Chloronia and Corydalus). First-instar larvae of Platyneuromus possess a pair of cervical setae (absent in Corydalus), whereas pupae have the diagnostic postocular flanges of the adults (absent in Corydalus and Chloronia). Nine genera of Megaloptera are recorded in the Neotropics. Larvae of 6 of them are known, larvae of 2 are tentatively associated with the adults, and the larval stage of 1 remains unknown. At the species level, larvae of most Neotropical Megaloptera are still undescribed.
09-100|We used ecological information and current and historic species distribution models for the last glacial maximum (LGM) to develop hypotheses regarding the Pleistocene history of the montane, autumn-emerging caddisfly
40792502|Pacific island stream communities are species-poor because of the effects of extreme geographic isolation on colonization rates of taxa common to continental regions. The effects of such low species richness on stream ecosystem function are not well understood. Here, we provide data on community structure and leaf litter breakdown rate in a virtually pristine stream on a remote island in the eastern Caroline Islands of Micronesia. The Yela River catchment on Kosrae, Federated States of Micronesia, is uninhabited, completely forested, and not traversed by any road. At each of 5 sampling stations along the Yela River we measured physical and chemical variables, characterized the benthic invertebrate community, and estimated the relative abundance of macroconsumers (fishes, shrimps, and snails) using snorkeling surveys and trapping. Benthic invertebrate biomass decreased with stream size and was dominated by macroconsumers (i.e., decapods and gastropods). Benthic insect species richness and density were extremely low, characterized by the complete absence of Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Plecoptera, with nonshredding larval Chironomidae making up 85% of the exceptionally low insect biomass (0.6 mg dry mass/m
1468412|We conducted a series of nutrient manipulation experiments over the first 5 y of
1468280|Patterns of diatom species distribution in relation to total N (TN), total P (TP), and other environmental variables from riffle sites on 2 streams in southern Ontario, Canada, were determined using canonical correspondence analysis (CCA). Relationships with TN and TP were sufficiently strong to develop weighted-averaging (WA) regression-calibration models for inferring stream water concentrations of these nutrients. The models were accurate within 2.4 g/L for TP (apparent
10.2307/1467786|A gas-stripping column with horizontal internal partitions increases the path length and residence time of water within the column. It is therefore more compact and five times more efficient in deoxygenating water than previous designs. A column 128 cm long, using 140 mL/minute of nitrogen gas, removes 97% of the dissolved oxygen from water flowing at 1.0 L/min and 99.5% from a flow of 0.5 L/min. The new design is economical to construct and operate and can facilitate laboratory study of the biological effects of prolonged hypoxia.
1468411|Benthic algal communities were assessed in an agriculturally dominated landscape in the Central Columbia Plateau, Washington, to determine which environmental variables best explained species distributions, and whether algae species optima models were useful in predicting specific water-quality parameters. Land uses in the study area included forest, range, urban, and agriculture. Most of the streams in this region can be characterized as open-channel systems influenced by intensive dryland (nonirrigated) and irrigated agriculture. Algal communities in forested streams were dominated by blue-green algae, with communities in urban and range streams dominated by diatoms. The predominance of either blue-greens or diatoms in agricultural streams varied greatly depending on the specific site. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) indicated a strong gradient effect of several key environmental variables on benthic algal community composition. Conductivity and % agriculture were the dominant explanatory variables when all sites (
40792665|We evaluated several lines of evidence to identify bedded fine sediment levels that should protect and maintain self-sustaining populations of native, sediment-sensitive aquatic species in the western US. To identify these potential criterion values for streambed sediments 0.06mm (fines) and 2mm (sand and fines) diameter, we examined: 1) the range of areal % fines and areal % sand and fines values at 169 least-disturbed reference sites in our sample, 2) sediment tolerance values calculated for a selection of sediment-sensitive aquatic vertebrate and macroinvertebrate taxa for both particle size ranges, 3) quantile regression predictions of the declines in vertebrate and macroinvertebrate Indices of Biotic Integrity (IBIs) at progressively higher ambient levels of streambed sediment from synoptic survey data acquired in 557 mountain stream sampling sites in 12 western states, 4) a literature review of the effects of sand and fines on the survival of salmonid eggs to hatching, and 5) a literature review of studies that quantitatively linked macroinvertebrate response to the pertinent size ranges of streambed sediment in mountain streams. Predicted maximum vertebrate Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) declined 4.4points (SE = 1.0) and macroinvertebrate IBI declined 4.0points (SE = 0.60) for each 10% increase in % fines. Similarly, for each 10% increase in % sand and fines, the predicted maximum vertebrate IBI decreased 3.7points (SE = 0.50) and macroinvertebrate IBI decreased 3.0points (SE = 0.50). Combining all lines of evidence, we concluded that for sediment-sensitive aquatic vertebrates, minimum-effect sediment levels were 5% and 13% for % fines and % sand and fines, respectively, both expressed as areal percentages of the wetted streambed surface. For aquatic macroinvertebrates, minimum-effect levels for the 2 sediment size classes were 3% and 10%, respectively. We encourage managers to consider these biologically based minimum-effect values when developing sediment criteria for mountain streams. Quantifying and comparing both vertebrate and macroinvertebrate assemblage responses to streambed sedimentation informs the criteria-setting process and allows managers to set stream restoration priorities.
10.2307/1467269|We determined the feeding preference of chironomid larvae (Paratanytarsus dubius) by observing dispersal of larvae among patches differing in periphyton composition. Nutrient-diffusing substrates were used to generate four algal patch types, which differed in the abundance of several diatom species and the green alga Stigeoclonium. Patch preference of larvae was negatively correlated with abundance of Stigeoclonium, chlorophyll a concentration, and algal biovolume. Preference was positively correlated only with algal diversity. At a density of 0.66 individual/cm<sup>2</sup> on preferred patches, larvae did not significantly reduce the chlorophyll a content of patches. Chironomid grazing had no effect on taxon diversity of periphyton assemblages. Data on the relationship between periphyton preference and grazer growth and reproduction are necessary to assess the importance of periphyton patch preference in natural populations.
1468475|Nutrient supply and herbivore presence can regulate plant biomass. The relative impact of both of these factors, and their interactions, on periphyton biomass were examined in a quantitative meta-analysis. A literature survey revealed 85 experiments with factorial and replicated manipulation of grazer access and nutrient supply. Two measures of effect sizes were calculated for each experiment, one based on final biomass yields (Hedges
10.2307/1467406|Despite the abundance and ubiquity of water mites, their importance as predators in freshwater communities is seldom investigated. This neglect is likely due both to the perceived difficulty in identifying aquatic mites, and to the lack of easily available information on the feeding habits of these animals. We review the literature on water mite feeding, translating (from German) the only previous compendium of predator-prey relationships, and adding recent reports and unpublished observations. Diets of 38 genera in 21 families are described. Reports of herbivory, detritivory, and saprophagy are dismissed and several trends are noted. Mites that eat insect eggs as adults tend to parasitize the same insect taxa during their parasitic larval stage. Lentic mites can be grouped into egg-specialists, those that concentrate on crustaceans, those that concentrate on insect larvae, and generalists. Lotic mites appear to feed primarily on chironomid larvae. A discussion of the predatory behaviour of water mites follows the compendium.
10.2307/1467636|The five southeastern (United States) crayfish species of the Procambarus subgenus Scapulicambarus (P. clarkii, P. howellae, P. paeninsulanus, P. okaloosae, and P. troglodytes) were compared electrophoretically at 21 loci to evaluate their phylogenetic relationship. Cambarus striatus and P. acutus were also included for outgroup comparisons. Results were summarized in a distance Wagner tree. Two clades were found within Scapulicambarus, one containing P. clarkii and P. troglodytes, and the other containing P. howellae, P. paeninsulanus, and P. okaloosae. The placement of P. okaloosae was contrary to expectations based on morphology, but otherwise the Wagner network was in agreement with previously existing notions of the phylogeny of Scapulicambarus. The mean Rogers genetic distance between Scapulicambarus species pairs was 0.097, indicating a relatively recent origin of the subgenus.
10.2307/1467416|Multivariate analyses were used to examine relationships between each of three biological classifications of mayfly (Ephemeroptera) larvae and environmental variables recorded at 95 river sites encompassing 18 degrees of latitude in northwestern North America. Biological samples, collected by kick net, were classified by family and superfamily, by size, and by morphological/behavioural group. Environmental variables included measures obtained from topographical maps and hydrological features recorded at each site. Results of canonical correlation analyses showed that all three biotic indicators were significantly associated with environmental variables. Morphological/behavioural classification yielded stronger correlations with environmental data than did taxonomic or size classifications. Multivariate curvilinear regression analyses gave equivalent results and showed that, although several relationships were curvilinear, all were monotonic. Environmental variables independently and significantly associated with mayfly relative abundance included river size, velocity, slope, latitude, and conductivity. Use of alternative classification variables can potentially reveal patterns not evident when standard taxonomic units are applied.
40792487|Algal and cyanobacterial composition in biofilms is controlled by several factors, including light, nutrients, substratum, hydrodynamics, and grazing. Another potential determinant rarely taken into account is allelopathy, i.e., negative chemical interactions between competitors. We examined the interaction between abiotic variables (light, nutrients, and salt stress) and allelopathy by analyzing the effects of culture conditions on production of allelochemicals by 2 green algal species (
10.2307/1468337|Rapid bioassessment data using counts of benthic macroinvertebrates from the littoral zones of 5 lakes in south-central Ontario were examined to determine if subsamples of 100 animals provided sufficient statistical power to distinguish these lakes. One-way analysis of variance and power analysis were completed using 17 biological indices based on counts of 100, 200, and 300 animals. Despite the common perception that more is better, the doubled or tripled effort required to sort, identify, and enumerate more animals resulted in very little improvement in our ability to distinguish lakes. Eight of the 17 indices were of limited value for separating the 5 lakes. High correlations, indicating redundancies among the best indices, suggested that 1 or 2 metrics would be sufficient to characterize the lakes. Three indices including % amphipods, % insects, and a multivariate metric representing the 1st axis from a correspondence analysis ordination were the best metrics for separating the 5 lakes. A variant of the commonly used EPT index, composed of the total number of individuals of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera, was also useful for characterizing the lakes. From this comparative analysis, subsamples based on counts of 100 animals are sufficient to distinguish the littoral benthic communities of small inland lakes in south-central Ontario.
1468413|Freshwater mussels and stream substrate were sampled at 30 locations in the Apalachicola, Chattahoochee, and Flint (ACF) river basins. Although >2100 mussels that included 25 species were observed in our sample of 2661 quadrats, only 5 species were sufficiently abundant to provide reliable estimates of the relationship between mussel presence and substrate composition. Among these 5 species, only
4095575|The aim of our study was to determine experimentally the influence of the chemical composition of native leaf species on feeding preferences and growth of the tropical shredder
40792623|The disciplines of geomorphology, hydrology, and hydrogeology have had a marked influence on the evolution of systems thinking in stream ecology. The River Continuum Concept was an explicit attempt to translate the energy equilibrium theory from the physical system of geomorphologists into a biological analog (
40792636|Invertebrate secondary production, or the formation of invertebrate biomass through time, has been estimated in many freshwater benthic habitats. It has been a major research theme for the North American Benthological Society (NABS), and many of its members have made significant contributions to the subject, both before and during the existence of
4095641|The effects of the intensity of seasonal droughts on stream ecosystems were studied in the Fuirosos, an intermittent forested Mediterranean stream. Macroinvertebrate community structure and stream ecosystem metabolism were measured during seasonal summer droughts in 2001, 2002, and 2003. Ecosystem metabolism was profoundly affected by stream intermittency. Organic matter that accumulated during the dry period enhanced ecosystem respiration during the postdrought recovery. Highest biotic diversity was found at low water levels as the stream dried and contracted. Macroinvertebrate community response to drying was stepped and apparently defined by thresholds of transition from drying to cessation of flow and from the dry phase to restoration of flow. Environmental conditions changed markedly with cessation of flow, causing large changes in community structure during 2001 and 2003 (dry years). Drying caused an increase in macroinvertebrate density that peaked in isolated pools soon after flow ceased, but then decreased rapidly because of the physicochemical changes associated with fragmentation of the watercourse. The macroinvertebrate community at the end of the summer dry phase (when flow resumed) differed from the community that had been present before drying began. Differences in community structure during the summer dry period were not as marked in 2002 (a wet year) as in 2001/2003. The influence of drought on the macroinvertebrate community differed across substrata. Drying led to significant changes in density on cobbles and leaves, but not on sand. Few taxa resisted drying, and resilience to drying was the dominant response to disturbance in the Fuirosos.
1468281|Periphyton assemblage data collected from 233 stream site-visits (49 in 1993, 56 in 1994, and 128 in 1995) throughout the Mid-Appalachian region were used to develop a periphyton index of biotic integrity (PIBI) based on 1) algal genera richness; 2) the relative abundances of diatoms, Cyanobacteria, dominant diatom genus, acidophilic diatoms, eutraphentic diatoms, and motile diatoms; 3) chlorophyll and biomass (ash-free dry mass) standing crops; and 4) alkaline phosphatase activity. Thirty-seven diatom genera and 38 non-diatom genera were collected. The relative richness and relative abundance (RA) of these genera were used to calculate the RA metrics of the PIBI. PIBI scores ranged from 48.0 to 85.1 among the 233 site-visits with an overall regional mean (1 SE) of 66.1  0.5. The 10 metrics and the PIBI were correlated with 27 chemical, 12 physical habitat, and 3 landscape variables. Overall, PIBI was inversely correlated with stream depth, stream water color, and Fe. Component metrics were significantly correlated with several chemical (Al, acid neutralizing capacity, Cl, Fe, Mn, N, Na, P, pH, Si, SO
10.2307/1467621|We describe an inexpensive, multi-channel signal conditioner for the automated measurement of dissolved oxygen concentration in up to six chambers. The apparatus has been used successfully to measure in situ photosynthesis and respiration rates of microbial populations on substrata from streams at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory.
10.2307/1467301|Lotic ecologists share a major goal of explaining the distribution and abundance of biota in the world's rivers and streams, and of predicting how this biota will respond to change in fluvial ecosystems. We discuss five areas of research that would contribute to our pursuit of this goal. For mechanistic understanding of lotic community dynamics, we need more information on: 1. Physical conditions impinging on lotic biota, measured on temporal and spatial scales relevant to the organisms. 2. Responses of lotic biota to discharge fluctuations, including the processes that mediate community recovery following resets caused by spates or droughts. 3. Movements of lotic organisms that mediate gene flow, resource tracking, and multilevel species interactions. 4. Life history patterns, with special emphasis on ontogenetic bottlenecks that determine the vulnerability of populations confronting environmental perturbation. 5. Consequences of species interactions for community- and ecosystem-level processes in rivers and streams. Without attempting to be comprehensive in our review, we discuss limits and limitations of our knowledge in these areas. We also suggest types of data and technological development that would advance our understanding. While we appreciate the value and need for empirical and comparative information, we advocate search for key mechanisms underlying community interactions as the crucial step toward developing general predictions of responses to environmental change. These mechanisms are likely to be complex, and elucidation of interacting bilateral, or multilateral, biotic and abiotic controls will progress only with the continuing synthesis of community- and ecosystem-level approaches in lotic ecology.
1468193|The United States Endangered Species Act (ESA) requires a biological assessment of any activity that is authorized, funded, or carried out by a federal agency and likely to affect a federally listed endangered species or its critical habitat. We developed a standardized survey protocol for biological assessments of the effects of bridge replacements on 2 federally listed endangered freshwater mussels,
1468189|In northern California rivers, rapid population growth of the chironomid
1467999|Changes in catchment land cover can impact stream ecosystems through altered hydrology and subsequent increases in sedimentation and nonpoint-source pollutants. These stressors can affect habitat suitability and water quality for aquatic invertebrates. We studied the impact of a range of physical and chemical stressors on aquatic insects, and tested whether the effects of these stressors differed in 3 habitat types: riffles, pools, and banks. Our study was conducted in Piedmont streams in Georgia (USA) where catchment development pressure and the potential for aquatic biodiversity loss are high. We sampled 3 replicates of riffle, pool, and bank habitats within a 100-m reach of 29 streams (11126 km
10.2307/1467302|The major objectives of this paper are to summarize and synthesize what we know about the energetics of lotic systems, to identify some of the major gaps in our knowledge, and in so doing to provide guidance for new research directions. We identify the major abiotic forcing functions and their connections with terrestrial and stream biota. We further identify how forcings and feedbacks loops are likely to affect the biomass and production of biotic components. A review of the literature suggests that there are several major gaps in our understanding of stream bioenergetics. Most importantly, few comprehensive studies of stream bioenergetics integrate all levels of production, and organic matter budgets rarely have been combined with production analyses beyond the primary producers. In addition, secondary production studies in the tropics are largely lacking. Most bioenergetics studies to date have been descriptive, and there is a major need to study those abiotic and biotic factors which control bioenergetics in streams across biomes and latitudes. The importance of floodplains and the role of dissolved organic matter have not been adequately incorporated into our understanding of stream bioenergetics. We need to determine if some generally applicable organismal-environmental relationships can be used to predict energetic characteristics across streams. Major new initiatives are required to answer some of the larger scale questions. Several approaches are possible: (1) synoptic analysis of multiple streams to compare within-region variance with between-region variance, (2) experimental manipulation of entire streams or their catchments to test factors that control bioenergetics, (3) the use of batteries of experimental streams to help isolate cause-effect relationships, and (4) the further development of computer models that incorporate abiotic forcings and bioenergetics.
10.2307/1467499|A new genus Eocosmoecus is erected for two North American species, Drusinus frontalis Banks and Dicosmoecus schmidi Wiggins, most recently classified as the frontalis group of Onocosmoecus; it has become clear that they are not holophyletic with this genus. These two species occur in small spring streams of montane areas in British Columbia, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington; for the most part they are geographically allopatric. Morphological, biological and distributional data are summarized. Judging from morphological evidence, the two species are very closely related, but they are unusual among congeneric Trichoptera in constructing markedly different cases in the final instar: E. frontalis construct cases of wood and bark and live on exposed substrates of wood and rocks; final instar larvae of E. schmidi construct cases of rock fragments and burrow in gravel sediments. In one population of E. frontalis in Oregon, final instar larvae constructed cases of fine rock fragments as in E. schmidi, as well as typical cases of wood. Evolutionary implications of these observations are considered. Keys distinguishing Eocosmoecus, Onocosmoecus, and Dicosmoecus are given for adults, pupae, and larvae.
09-133R1|Ecological thresholds have been applied conventionally to characterize relationships between stressors and biological responses. We demonstrated how ecological thresholds can be used to assess recovery in a system where stressors have been removed. We applied a relatively new statistical approach, the significant zero crossings (SiZer) model, which approximates a response function and its derivatives and then shows how these functions vary across the range of an explanatory variable. We applied the model to a long-term macroinvertebrate data set collected from the Arkansas River, a Colorado stream undergoing restoration from historical mining pollution. SiZer analysis identified distinct threshold responses of benthic communities through time and related these shifts to improvements in water quality. With respect to restoration success, a recovery threshold was observed 10y after clean up was initiated. Recovery trajectories in the Arkansas River were relatively complex, with multiple thresholds, and these responses were strongly influenced by temporal variation in heavy metal concentrations and stream discharge. A unique aspect of SiZer is that it easily handles multiple thresholds and displays significant change points along a predictor variable graphically. In addition, SiZer allows investigators to examine potential thresholds at different levels of resolution and provides a transparent representation of the threshold and how it responds to variability of the data.
09-158R|We analyzed long-term changes in macroinvertebrate communities in a Mediterranean temporary stream in southern Portugal over 15y (19932008) at 10 locations with 3 degrees of physicochemical disturbance (reference, high disturbance, and mild disturbance). We related year-to-year variation of macroinvertebrate communities to long-term (59y) information on precipitation and temperature. Our goals were to: 1) determine the stability of macroinvertebrate communities in the stream, 2) establish the influence of physicochemical disturbance on community stability, 3) assess the influence of climate change on the macroinvertebrate communities, and 4) assess the interactive effects of climate change and disturbance level on macroinvertebrate communities. Community structure varied naturally from year to year, but changes in taxon richness and evenness were much stronger and more unpredictable in disturbed than in other sites. In the long term, the more diverse (reference) and the poorest (disturbed) communities were stable, whereas communities affected by mild disturbance slowly decreased in taxon richness (slope = 0.07,
4095722|Substrate interstices influence the microdistribution and survival of benthic invertebrates. The benefits of interstitial refugium availability were quantified over 4 wk under baseflow conditions that are common to lowland streams in northwestern Europe. Effects on growth, feeding, and behavior of the amphipod
41318754|Urbanization is an important ecological modifier of stream catchments and significantly alters C type and concentration and heavy metal input to aquatic systems. C and heavy metals are important determinants of microbial community structure (population dynamics) and function (physiological processes). Understanding how changes at the landscape scale affect key nutrient-transformation processes (e.g., denitrification) and C metabolism (e.g., methanogenesis) at the micro scale requires simultaneous determination of the structural and functional responses of bacterial communities. We compared total bacterial (16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid [rRNA] gene) and denitrifying bacterial (
10.2307/1467584|The hyporheic zone of three reaches of Sycamore Creek, Arizona consisted of an average 63 cm depth of predominantly sand or fine gravel (0.5-5 mm). Sediments were highly porous (19-23% interstitial space) and interstitial water volume was 3-4 times that of surface water. Spatial distribution of temperature, sediment organic matter, interstitial nutrients, and subsurface oxygen indicate that physical-chemical conditions vary greatly within the hyporheic zone. Much of the observed variability may be due to repeated disturbance by flash floods. Organic matter content of sediment was low (0.08% by weight), variable, and generally declined with depth in shallow portions of the hyporheic zone. Hyporheic water temperature was higher than surface temperature in regions beneath the wetted perimeter in summer. Nutrient concentrations of interstitial water were enriched compared to surface water; ammonium-N, SRP, and nitrate-N were 269%, 174%, and 327% of surface concentration, respectively. Sub-surface velocity was low (0.62 mm/s), but vertical exchanges were pronounced. Interstitial oxygen was high in regions of infiltration (downwelling), and was generally reduced in discharge regions (upwelling), but subsurface patterns were otherwise complex. Vertical linkages between surface and hyporheic zones provide a mechanism for mutual influences. Chief among these are replenishment of interstitial oxygen by downwelling (and enhancement of aerobic respiration), and nutrient enrichment of surface water at upwelling sites.
10.2307/1467542|Mantle biopsy is a means of obtaining tissue samples for genetic, physiological, and contaminant studies of bivalves; but the effects of this biopsy on survival have not been determined. We describe a simple technique for obtaining such samples from unionacean bivalves and how we compared survival among biopsied and control organisms in field experiments. Survival was not significantly different between treatment and control groups. Power estimates for these results were between 0.42 and 0.73. Results were similar among species and among habitats. Mantle biopsy is a technique that allows genetic, biochemical, and contaminant studies of mussel populations when destruction of individuals should be avoided.
20491160|Many North American freshwater mollusks are at risk of extinction. Knowledge of basic ecology and systematics of the pleurocerid and hydrobiid gastropods is lacking. Pleurocerids are most diverse in southeastern USA, and we know that periphyton food limits their growth, and that their grazing, in turn, limits periphyton biomass. However, we know little about the effects of spates and current velocity on pleurocerid populations, and more work is needed to determine whether interspecific competition or significant risk from predation occurs. Hydrobiids are extremely diverse, but many species inhabit only a few springs (especially in arid western USA) and are at risk of extinction. More work is needed on their population and community ecology. Invasions pose a risk to native snail species. For example, the New Zealand mudsnail (
4095718|Aquatic shredders depend mostly on terrestrial leaf litter as a food resource, and differences between the C:N ratio of their food resource and their bodies may affect nutrient excretion and the composition of their feces. Laboratory experiments were used to test how the stonefly
40792638|Benchmarks provide context and are a critical element of all ecological assessments. Over the last 25 y, hundreds of papers have been published on various aspects of ecological assessments, and most of the analyses described in these papers depend on specifying an ecological benchmark for context. Freshwater scientists and managers usually use reference sites (typically sites in natural or least-disturbed condition) to assess the ecological conditions at other sites. Accurate and precise assessments require that assessed sites be matched with appropriate reference conditions. Two general types of approaches have been proposed to predict reference conditions: classifications based on natural environmental settings and models that use continuously variable environmental attributes as inputs. Two types of classifications have been examined: geographic-dependent regionalizations based on general landscape features and geographic-independent typologies that are typically based on combinations of regional and channel features. We examined >1000 papers that addressed some aspect of predicting the reference condition in freshwater ecosystems. We focused on 5 types of benchmarks: ecological, thermal, hydrologic, geomorphic, and chemical. Our review showed that over the last 25 y, researchers have developed increasingly sophisticated methods that can be used to predict reference conditions. Most disciplines have increasingly moved toward site-specific modeling approaches as a way to improve both accuracy and precision of predictions, although typological approaches dominate geomorphic characterizations. Papers published in
10.2307/1467731|We used measures of genetic differentiation at seven allozyme loci to estimate the degree of movement of a stream invertebrate within and between catchments. Populations of Paratya australiensis, a common atyid shrimp, were sampled from three rainforest streams from each of two subcatchments in two adjacent drainage systems in southeast Queensland. Marked genetic differentiation was observed at all loci, suggesting extremely limited movement on a small spatial scale. This result is surprising given the widespread geographic distribution of P. australiensis in Australia, its great abundance in headwater streams in southeast Queensland, and the presence of a planktonic larval stage. Large differences in genetic structure occurred between streams, in some instances between those in the same subcatchment. Even larger genetic differences were seen between samples from streams in different subcatchments, with alternative alleles being fixed at different sites. The greatest differences were not, however, between the two drainage systems as predicted by the stream hierarchy model. This extreme spatial structuring was remarkably stable over a two-year period.
10.2307/1468176|Habitat assessments are an important component of most water quality evaluations in the USA. Habitat assessments are often based on an observer rating the habitat quality of a site by matching specific habitat features to written descriptions. We examined the effect that training has on reducing observer variability by using 2 separate groups of observers to assess the habitat quality at the same sites. One group received training on habitat assessments; the 2nd group conducted the assessment using the written descriptions but without training. The trained group's assessments were less variable than those of the untrained group of observers. We attribute this difference to a greater disparity among untrained observers in the interpretation of individual habitat features. However, after equal training and experience, variability of both groups' habitat assessments was not significantly different at a 2nd stream site. Finally, the variability of the habitat assessments at the 2 sites was not equal, indicating that training at 1 site does not necessarily prepare the observers to evaluate all sites. Thus, training in a range of habitat types is a crucial part of implementing visual-based habitat assessments.
10.2307/1467233|Retention of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) is essential to the efficient use of organic matter in streams supported by allochthonous inputs. To measure retention and to study factors affecting retention, we conducted both long-term and short-term experiments using small dowels as indices of stick retention and pieces of paper as indices of leaf retention. These experiments were done in streams at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory. In general, we found that both types of CPOM were efficiently retained in all streams. Factors that affected CPOM transport and retention were storms, stream size, stream depth, and the abundance of retention structures in the streams. After initial transport, woody CPOM was transported only during storms. Retention was greater in smaller streams and in shallower stream sites. Rocks, boulders, and woody debris were the most important retention structures. In the stream draining a logged catchment, lower CPOM retention was associated with lower abundance of woody debris dams.
1468439|The water and habitat quality of many streams in west-central Mexico are influenced by municipal and industrial effluent, as well as water diversion for irrigation, livestock, and deforestation. Restoration efforts have been hampered by a lack of clear standards against which to judge the degree and trend in environmental degradation. We describe the development and characteristics of a macroinvertebrate-based index of biotic integrity (IBI) designed to provide such standards. Eight metrics chosen a priori comprised the IBI: catch per unit effort, generic richness, % EphemeropteraPlecopteraTrichoptera genera, % Chironomidae individuals, Hilsenhoff Biotic Index, % depositional individuals, % predator individuals, and % gatherer genera. Each metric distinguished sites with minimum or moderate human influence from sites with severe influence. The IBI was developed with data from 27 sites and validated with 6 others. Values from the development data set correlated well with the measures of human influence based on qualitative assessment of habitat and water quality (Pearsons
10.2307/1467574| Natural occurrence of overturned stones and the distribution of moss with respect to stone size and stability were examined in two North Swedish woodland streams. In total, 16.7% of moss-covered stones had obviously been overturned in the last few years. Moss was rare on small stones except for those that were embedded in the surrounding substrate. On large stones (>12 cm), moss was abundant and embedment did not affect the moss distribution here. It is concluded that the stability of substrates markedly affected the distribution of stream moss. In a field experiment, moss-covered stones were overturned to simulate mild spate effects, and the recovery of moss and invertebrates was followed for 14 mo. The treatment reduced ash free dry weight of moss as well as diversity (H) and total abundance of invertebrates. Three out of 16 invertebrate taxa increased their density as a result of disturbance, showing peak densities on the moss-covered underside of overturned stones. All other taxa decreased their density upon overturning, and in these taxa peak densities were found on the moss-covered upper side of control stones. Recovery of moss and invertebrates was still weak 14 mo after the stone overturning. I conclude that overturning of stones has severe and prolonged effects on stream moss and, indirectly, on the benthic invertebrate community. 
20491149|Coupled production between algae and bacteria in stream epilithon was assessed along a nutrient-enrichment gradient in 8 Texas streams with open canopies. Photosynthesis (PS) and bacterial biomass production (BBP) were measured simultaneously using a dual-label radioassay (
40792647|Predation might cause the disparate distributions of fish and shrimp in Puerto Rican streams. Adult shrimp (
4095654|Spatial patterns in macroinvertebrate communities were examined in 4 to 5 rheocrene springbrooks and 4 to 5 nearby rhithral streams in 4 different regions of New Zealand. Physicochemical attributes of springbrooks and rhithral streams were similar, but springbrooks were more stable. Standing crops of periphyton biomass, epilithic C, and organic matter were greater and more variable in springbrooks than in rhithral streams. The number of macroinvertebrate taxa and the total number of individuals were greater at more stable sites. Altitude, habitat stability, and food resource levels were the best predictors of the number of macroinvertebrate taxa, whereas pH, PO
1468107|A total of 694 streams was sampled for benthic macroinvertebrates in the autumn of 1995 as part of the Swedish national stream survey. After removal of sites considered to be impacted, 428 streams were available to test a geographical classification of benthic macroinvertebrates using ecoregions. Cluster analysis, semi-strong hybrid multidimensional scaling, and a permutation test procedure were used to investigate if the 6 main ecoregions of Sweden could be a useful tool to partition the species variance of benthic assemblages. Taxon richness, abundance, and diversity differed between ecoregions, with the main difference occurring in the northern part of the country where the arcticalpine region had lower taxon richness, number of individuals, and ShannonWiener diversity than the southern parts of the country. The permutation test of assemblage composition and the comparison of the flexible  unweighted pair-group method using arithmetic averages (UPGMA) cluster groups with the ecoregion classification also showed significant differences between the arcticalpine and the boreal, boreonemoral, and nemoral regions. Despite this result, the benefit of an ecoregion classification for biomonitoring of streams using macroinvertebrates is not convincing because there is a gradual change in macroinvertebrate assemblage composition from north to south. Benthic macroinvertebrate stream assemblages are structured both by large-scale factors (i.e., on a geographical scale), and by small-scale factors (i.e., on a local scale). Ecoregion classifications alone, therefore, may not sufficiently partition variance in assemblage composition, and a nested approach, including other factors such as altitude, stream size, and catchment characteristics, is probably needed to improve ecoregion classifications and biological assessments that use stream benthic macroinvertebrates.
40792520|Crayfish must locate food resources in a chemically complex environment in which chemicals from various sources interact and mix. We tested the hypothesis that an additional chemical food source of leachate from detritus (dissolved organic matter [DOM]) would affect crayfish orientation behavior toward a fish stimulus. In addition, we predicted that the effect of DOM would differ depending on whether the detritus was produced under ambient (AMB) or elevated (ELEV) CO
10.2307/1468145|Host fishes were identified for 6 species of freshwater mussels (Unionidae) from the Black Warrior River drainage, Mobile Basin, USA: Strophitus subvexus, Pleurobema furvum, Ptychobranchus greeni, Lampsilis perovalis, Medionidus acutissimus, and Villosa nebulosa. Hosts were determined as those that produced juvenile mussels from glochidial infestations in the laboratory. The following mussel-fish-host relationships were established: Strophitus subvexus with 10 species including Cyprinidae, Catostomidae, Fundulidae, Centrarchidae, and Percidae; Pleurobema furvum with Campostoma oligolepis, Cyprinella callistia, C. venusta, Semotilus atromaculatus, and Fundulus olivaceus; Ptychobranchus greeni with Etheostoma bellator, E. douglasi, Percina nigrofasciata, and Percina sp. cf. caprodes; Lampsilis perovalis with Micropterus coosae, M. punctulatus, and M. salmoides; Medionidus acutissimus with Fundulus olivaceus, Etheostoma douglasi, E. whipplei, Percina nigrofasciata, and Percina sp. cf. caprodes; and Villosa nebulosa with Lepomis megalotis, Micropterus coosae, M. punctulatus, and M. salmoides. Fundulus olivaceus served as host for 3 species and carried glochidia for long periods for 2 other species, suggesting that topminnows may serve as hosts for a wide variety of otherwise host-specialist mussel species. Host relationships for the species tested are similar to congeners. Methods of glochidial release, putative methods of host-fish attraction, and gravid periods are described for the 6 species.
10.2307/1468462| Disturbance by floods is believed to be 1 of the fundamental controllers of temporal and spatial patterns in stream periphyton. However, the exact causes of biomass losses are still poorly understood and discharge measures of disturbance often only explain limited variance in periphyton development. We investigated the effects of 2 of the main mechanisms of flood disturbance to periphyton--frequency of high-velocity events and frequency of bed sediment movement--in an effort to better understand disturbance processes and improve the quantification of flood disturbance regimes for studies of stream periphyton. Three sites were selected in headwater streams in each of 4 groups according to a 2-way factorial design of frequency of high-velocity events and sediment stability, giving a total of 12 sites. Periphyton were sampled monthly for 15 mo and analyzed for chlorophyll a. Maximum photosynthetic rates (P<sub>max</sub>), chlorophyll-specific P<sub>max</sub>, community respiration (CR), and P<sub>max</sub>:CR ratios were determined seasonally. Nutrient concentrations were generally low and did not vary as a function of disturbance regime. Peaks in chlorophyll a were usually low reflecting the low nutrients. Chlorophyll was 2-10 higher where bed sediments moved <15/y and with seasonal maxima most often in autumn. Frequency of bed movement, soluble reactive P, and the frequency of velocity perturbations were significant predictors of mean monthly chlorophyll a (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.88). Chlorophyll a and water temperature were major correlates of P<sub>max</sub>, specific P<sub>max</sub>, and CR, and thus the metabolic variables partly reflected changes in biomass among the disturbance regimes. With chlorophyll and temperature removed as covariates, the main factor influencing all metabolic parameters was season. P<sub>max</sub> was 7 higher in summer than in spring when minima occurred, chlorophyll-specific P<sub>max</sub> was 10 higher in summer than in spring, and CR was 4 higher in autumn than in spring. P<sub>max</sub>:CR ratios indicated that the communities were generally autotrophic at times of maximum photosynthesis with the highest ratios in summer (3 higher than winter). The frequency of velocity perturbations also had a significant effect on P<sub>max</sub>:CR ratios with highest ratios at sites where there was a low frequency of high-velocity events. Our results suggest that sediment instability greatly increases disturbance intensity for periphyton. It is therefore essential to assess not just the frequency of floods, but also the degree of bed movement when quantifying disturbance regimes for periphyton in headwater streams. 
10.2307/1467805| The life history, population dynamics, and secondary production of Hyalella azteca (Amphipoda) were studied in a small southeastern wetland pond. Habitat-specific sampling was used to estimate density, biomass, and production in each of 3 habitats (benthic, Nymphaea odorata leaves, and submerged wood). Laboratory experiments at different temperatures (10, 15, 20, 25, and 30C) provided predictive equations for estimating growth rate and egg development times that could be applied to field populations. Size-frequency data from field sampling suggested that H. azteca had 2 major cohorts per year, but reproduction was continuous from spring through fall. Mean annual density and biomass were 904/m<sup>2</sup> and 85 mg dry mass (DM)/m<sup>2</sup>. Daily growth rate was a function of both individual mass and temperature. Annual production of somatic tissues as estimated by the instantaneous growth method (675 mg DM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) agreed well with that using the size-frequency method (714 mg DM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>). Egg production (252 mg DM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>) represented 27% of total production (927 mg DM m<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>). Annual production:biomass (P/B) was 7.8 without eggs and 9.8 with eggs. Habitat-specific estimates of density, biomass, and production were highest in the benthic habitat. The contribution of somatic production from Nymphaea leaves to total amphipod production was low (6.2%), but temporal patterns of production followed trends in leaf abundance. Production on leaves reached 29% in September when leaves were most abundant. Contributions of animals from submerged wood were consistently low (2.9%). Monthly densities and production peaked in May at the start of the summer cohort, decreased throughout summer, and showed a small increase in October at the start of the winter cohort. Although egg production and birth rates were highest in summer months, high death rates were responsible for the late-summer declines in density and production. These temporal trends in production suggest heavy predation or environmental stress, or both, during summer months. 
10.2307/1468363| Hypotheses concerning the factors controlling periphyton biomass are mostly based on experimental evidence. To examine their application under natural conditions, we sampled periphyton and invertebrate biomass in 12 Laurentian streams (Qubec) covering a range of total phosphorus from 5 to 60 g/L. We sampled at open and shaded sites to explore light limitation by canopy cover. Periphyton biomass measured as chlorophyll a or ash-free dry mass was not related to nutrient concentration or canopy cover. Only current velocity and depth explained a significant but relatively small fraction (10% and 20% respectively) of periphyton variation among sites. Grazer biomass and mean grazer size were positively correlated with phosphorus concentration, which explained 48% and 45% of their variation respectively; canopy cover was not significant. These results indicate that, at least in summer under stable flow, grazer biomass rather than periphyton biomass would increase along a nutrient gradient typical in Laurentian streams. The results suggest top-down control of periphyton biomass. 
10.2307/1467935| Analyses of flow data for the Gila (60 years) and Pecos (68 years) Rivers in New Mexico showed that spring flows during snowmelt were significantly increased during El Nio years (periods of elevated sea surface temperature and reduced barometric pressure in the eastern tropical Pacific) and significantly decreased during La Nia years (periods of reduced sea surface temperature and elevated barometric pressure). Over the period of record for these two rivers, mean spring runoff during El Nio years was 2.3-3.2 higher than during medial years and 6.0-7.4 higher than during La Nia years. The results of this study indicate a strong correspondence between El Nio-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomena and stream flow in New Mexico. These results also suggest that, in this region, the increasingly accurate, and remote forecasting of ENSO phenomena, often months in advance of the event, could be used to place future studies of biotic responses to variation in flow on a more predictive basis. Since it has been shown that the ENSO phenomenon affects the weather of large portions of the North American continent and tropical and subtropical regions worldwide, a similar potential for improved study design exists for other regions. 
4499053|Parking-lot pavement sealants recently have been recognized as a major source of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in urban stream sediments in Austin, Texas. Laboratory and field studies have shown that PAHs in sediments can be toxic to aquatic organisms and can degrade aquatic communities. After identifying increases in concentrations of PAHs in sediments below seal-coated parking lots, we investigated whether the increases had significant effects on stream biota in 5 Austin streams. We sampled sediment chemistry and biological communities above and below the point at which stormwater runoff from the parking lots discharged into the streams, thus providing 5 upstream reference sites and 5 downstream treatment sites. Differences between upstream and downstream concentrations of total PAH ranged from 3.9 to 32 mg/kg. Analysis of the species occurrence data from pool and riffle habitats indicated a significant decrease in community health at the downstream sites, including decreases in richness, intolerant taxa, Diptera taxa, and density. In pool sediments, Chironomidae density was negatively correlated with PAH concentrations, whereas Oligochaeta density responded positively to PAH concentrations. In general, pool taxa responded more strongly than riffle taxa to PAHs, but riffle taxa responded more broadly than pool taxa. Increases in PAH sediment-toxicity units between upstream and downstream sites explained decreases in taxon richness and density in pools between upstream and downstream sites.
10-015|Mayflies (Ephemeroptera) are important to the food web of most stream, river, and lake ecosystems and are critical to water-quality monitoring programs. They are widespread and ancient (predate dinosaurs) and have primitive reproductive systems and the shortest adult life spans of all insects. Here we formulate and test the hypothesis that facultative parthenogenesis occurs as a widespread adaptation in most, if not all, mayflies. A rare form of reproduction, facultative parthenogenesis combines the short-term advantages of parthenogenesis, which doubles reproductive output, with the long-term advantages of genetic variation associated with sex. For 7 species of bisexual mayflies, we show that their eggs hatched whether fertilized or not and that unfertilized eggs took longer to develop and hatch. However, once hatched, larvae produced via parthenogenesis grew and developed to the adult in a manner similar to that of larvae produced sexually. In addition, for all study species, female adults produced parthenogenetically were diploid and could reproduce either sexually (producing males and females equally) or parthenogenetically (producing mostly females and some males). Males produced parthenogenetically were viable and occurred either as 1
40792492|Macroinvertebrate organization along a river was examined to relate biological responses to environmental changes observed across 2 discontinuities (a dam and a tributary). Benthic macroinvertebrates and a range of environmental variables were sampled from 4 study segments (above the dam, below the dam, below the tributary confluence, and in the tributary). Substrate was significantly coarser below than above the dam. In contrast, water-quality variables, such as water temperature and dissolved O
10.2307/1467811| A previously unknown species of ctenostome bryozoan occurs in the Little Wabash River at Carmi, White County, Illinois. Unseen in the field, the tiny colonies were discovered by microscopic examination of rock chips collected at the site. Zooids form a network of delicate, uniserial, branching lines across the substrate. Each zooid is attached to the previous one by an elongated, proximal tubular region resembling a stolon. The small zooid size and highly retractable peristome are suggestive of the Family Arachnidiidae, but the campylonemidan lophophore and its 8 tentacles argue for Victorellidae. The absence of a sphincter beyond the esophagus is suggested in the generic name, Sineportella. Conditions at the time of collection included turbulent water with pH 7.8 and conductivity 420 mhos. 
10.2307/1468362| Breakdown, fungal colonization, and nutrient dynamics of green alder (Alnus viridis) leaves were examined in 4 stream types of a glacial alpine floodplain in southeast Switzerland. Standardized leaf packs were enclosed in both fine- and coarse-mesh bags to differentiate between microbial and other processes contributing to leaf mass loss. Fungal biomass was quantified from ergosterol concentrations. Apart from 1 site where shredder consumption of leaves greatly accelerated leaf mass loss, exponential breakdown coefficients (k) ranged from -0.0029 to -0.0064 d<sup>-1</sup>, indicating that leaf breakdown proceeded at a relatively slow but significant rate. Fungal biomass in decomposing leaves attained levels (>500 g ergosterol/g litter dry mass) as high as those found in temperate woodland streams. Sporulation of aquatic hyphomycetes on leaves was detectable in all stream types (up to 700 conidia mg<sup>-1</sup> litter dry mass d<sup>-1</sup>), although it was depressed at the 2 sites nearest the glacier (maximum of 200 conidia mg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>). Species composition and successional trajectories of aquatic hyphomycete assemblages during leaf breakdown showed broadly similar patterns as those reported for streams at lower elevations. Thus, where apparent, the divergence in patterns of leaf breakdown between glacial and temperate woodland streams was gradual rather than fundamental. This result suggests that streams above tree line are capable of processing leaf litter much like their forested counterparts at lower altitudes, and hence share basic functional attributes with streams in other biomes. Glacial alpine streams also provide suitable habitat for aquatic hyphomycetes, the abundance of these fungi probably being controlled primarily by the limited access to suitable resources rather than the physically harsh setting of the alpine environment. 
4095570|Linkages between geology and fish assemblages have been inferred in many regions throughout the world, but no studies have yet investigated whether fish assemblages differ across geologies in Mesoamerica. The goals of our study were to: 1) compare physicochemical conditions and fish-assemblage structure across 2 geologic types in headwaters of the Monkey River Basin, Belize, and 2) describe basin-scale patterns in fish community composition and structure for the benefit of conservation efforts. We censused headwater-pool fishes by direct observation, and assessed habitat size, structure, and water chemistry to compare habitat and fish richness, diversity, evenness, and density between streams in the variably metamorphosed sedimentary geologic type typical of 80% of Belizes Maya Mountains (the Santa Rosa Group), and an anomalous extrusive geologic formation in the same area (the Bladen Volcanic Member). We also collected species-presence data from 20 sites throughout the basin for analyses of compositional patterns from the headwaters to the top of the estuary. Thirty-nine fish species in 21 families were observed. Poeciliids were numerically dominant, making up 39% of individuals captured, followed by characins (25%), and cichlids (20%). Cichlidae was the most species-rich family (7 spp.), followed by Poeciliidae (6 spp.). Habitat size and water chemistry differed strongly between geologic types, but habitat diversity did not. Major fish-assemblage differences also were not obvious between geologies, despite a marked difference in the presence of the aquatic macrophyte,
09-126R1|Understanding the mechanisms that create spatial and temporal patterns of functional diversity in stream networks is a goal of basic research and has implications for effective conservation of freshwater ecosystems. These patterns are likely to be influenced by the combination of temporally variable environmental conditions, movement constraints imposed by network structure, and the trait composition of local communities. We developed a simplified metacommunity model to investigate complex interactions among these factors under lottery competition for local resources, such as establishment sites. We used this model to examine how local and regional community composition varied in 3 scenarios: a null implementation involving only spatial effects, an implementation that combined network constraints with dispersal-trait variation, and an implementation in which a trade-off between multiple functional traits was paired with varying levels of temporal autocorrelation in the intensity of mortality. These simulations clarified the conditions that allow a single functional strategy to exclude others in a dendritic network and demonstrated 2 distinct modes of regional partitioning that can support the persistence of multiple functional strategies within such networks. The results suggested that the emergence of watershed or headwateroutlet partitioning depends on the functional dispersal differences present in the metacommunity and that autocorrelated mortality levels can collapse these regional divisions when they depend on a trade-off between dispersal ability and mortality resistance. We discuss the need to confront the complexity of interacting controls on community composition in rivers and streams and suggest opportunities to move beyond the basic framework we present.
10.2307/1467313| Benthic algae are an important component of the diet of an abundant grazing insect, larval Neophylax aniqua (Trichoptera), in Bear Brook, New Hampshire, even though algal production represents an extremely small portion of the energy entering the stream. Analysis of larval gut contents showed that algae made up half of the food consumed by N. aniqua and supported an estimated 75% of their growth. The average density of algae in this shaded stream between mid-April and mid-July was approximately 4.6  0.6 mg chlorophyll-a/m<sup>2</sup> (1 SE). Algae were more abundant in gravel-covered areas (particle sizes -1 to -4 on phi scale) of stream bottom than in rock-covered areas (particle sizes -5 to -8 on phi scale). 
10.2307/1467600|We investigated the potential impact of predation on life-history traits of aquatic insects by examining various factors affecting the voltinism pattern of Epitheca (Tetragoneuria) cynosura (Say) in Bays Mountain Lake, Sullivan County, Tennessee, USA. We observed the growth of individual Epitheca protected from competition and predation in small (0.03 m<sup>2</sup>) in situ enclosures. Approximately 70% of the larvae followed univoltine development; this contrasts sharply with earlier studies in Bays Mountain Lake where only 25% of emerging imagoes were thought to be univoltine. We also conducted a study of the diets of large sunfish to identify the predator with the greatest potential impact on Epitheca population densities. Redear sunfish (Lepomis microlophus) consumed large numbers of Epitheca during mid-July, and the dragonflies consumed were larger than expected based on size-distributions found in the lake. In fact, those eaten were often from sizes identified as potentially following univoltine development, suggesting that predation from large fish could reduce the success of the univoltine strategy. We also conducted an experiment in small (0.15 m<sup>2</sup>) in situ enclosures to examine competition between small sunfish and Epitheca. We found that while small sunfish had little influence on larval survival, larvae grew more slowly in their presence than in their absence. Thus small sunfish potentially hindered the ability of larvae to develop in a univoltine manner. Lastly, we conducted an experiment in large (24 m<sup>2</sup>) enclosures to test hypotheses generated by the studies above. Small sunfish produced a statistically significant reduction in the ratio of univoltine to semivoltine Epitheca larvae; and both large and small fish decreased the number of successfully emerging univoltine Epitheca. These studies show that in the absence of potentially deleterious biotic interactions, most Epitheca larvae in Bays Mountain Lake follow univoltine development; but competition and predation from sunfish result in lowered success of the univoltine strategy.
10.2307/1467268|We examined the use of radiotracers to determine if <sup>3</sup>H-amino acids (AA) and <sup>14</sup>C-bicarbonate could differentiate grazing by Physella virgata, a pulmonate gastropod, on the bacterial and algal components in periphyton. Large amounts of <sup>3</sup>H-AA became associated with periphyton as a result of adsorption to periphyton, rather than microbial uptake. As a consequence of this abiotic adsorption of <sup>3</sup>H-AA by periphyton, uptake of <sup>3</sup>H by grazers could be due to ingestion of either <sup>3</sup>H-labeled bacteria or detritivory on material to which <sup>3</sup>H-AA were adsorbed. Physella was able to ingest and assimilate adsorbed <sup>3</sup>H-AA directly in the absence of any bacterial uptake of amino acids. In contrast to <sup>3</sup>H-AA, relatively little <sup>14</sup>C-bicarbonate adsorbed to periphyton, and essentially all of the uptake could be attributed to photosynthetic activity. <sup>14</sup>C-bicarbonate is, therefore, a reliable tracer for determining grazing activity on the algal component of periphyton assemblages. Calculated assimilation efficiencies for snails grazing on periphyton to which <sup>3</sup>H-AA was adsorbed (78%) were greater than those of snails grazing on periphyton in which bacteria had incorporated <sup>3</sup>H-AA (50%) or periphyton algae labeled with <sup>14</sup>C-bicarbonate (32%) suggesting that adsorbed organic carbon and detritivory may be important to this snail's nutrition.
10.2307/1467650| We examined the importance of substratum texture and the colonization dynamics of stream macroinvertebrates and algae (measured as chlorophyll a) using artificial substrata and two sampling designs in two ecologically different streams. Rough and smooth clay tiles were used in two short-term colonization studies, which were conducted in a 2nd-order Rocky Mountain foothill stream and a 2nd-order stream in the boreal mixed woodland of Alberta, Canada. At both streams, two sampling designs were used concurrently: (1) simultaneous placement and sequential removal of substrata, and (2) sequential placement and simultaneous removal of substrata. Three hypotheses were tested: there was no difference in the density of macroinvertebrates or quantity of chlorophyll a (1) on rough and smooth tiles, (2) for different colonization periods (1-14 d), and (3) for both sampling designs. Density of most macroinvertebrates and the quantity of chlorophyll a was greater on the rough tiles in both sampling designs and in both streams. Both sampling designs gave consistent results for the effect of texture for most taxa over eight colonization periods. Similar results for the sampling designs and in both streams provide strong evidence for the importance of substratum texture in streams. Some macroinvertebrate colonization patterns indicated early and late colonizers, while other patterns indicated no colonization trend. Several taxa showed similar trends in colonization to the quantity of chlorophyll a on the tiles. But after 1-4 d, when there was little chlorophyll a on the tiles (mean chlorophyll a < 0.1 g/cm<sup>2</sup>), density of total number of organisms and most taxa was greater on rough tiles than on smooth tiles in both sampling designs. In contrast to most macroinvertebrates, Epeorus (Ephemeroptera: Heptageniidae) nymphs were more abundant on smooth tiles than on rough tiles. 
4095549|Adult aquatic insects are important energy subsidies for terrestrial predators, but the effects of terrestrial predators on emerged aquatic insects have been widely neglected. We compared emergence of aquatic insects from predator-free exclosures and open cages to test the hypothesis that riparian arthropod predators can reduce the abundances of emerged aquatic insects. We used emergence traps over the aquatic and terrestrial sides of the shoreline to collect insects that emerged from the water or crawled onto land to emerge. The abundances and taxonomic composition of emerged aquatic insects and riparian arthropod predators changed seasonally. Riparian arthropods consumed 45% of emerged aquatic insect biomass from terrestrial traps in spring and 45% from aquatic traps in summer. The dominant riparian predator at the time of emergence determined the specific predation effect. Stoneflies that emerged into terrestrial traps were significantly reduced when ground beetles were the most abundant predators; caddisflies that emerged into aquatic traps were significantly reduced when spiders were the most abundant predators. Thus, taxon-specific predation by riparian arthropods can affect the taxonomic composition of emerged aquatic insects.
41318741|Anthropogenic N loadings and perturbations of macroconsumer communities impair ecological and economic services provided by streams. Organisms are adapted to natural disturbances, such as flooding and desiccation, but how anthropogenic and natural disturbances interact is poorly understood. We used large outdoor mesocosms to study the effect of
10-030R|Forecasting responses of benthic community structure and function to anthropogenic climate change is an emerging scientific challenge. Characterizing benthic species by biological attributes (traits) that are responsive to temperature and streamflow conditions can support a mechanistic approach for assessing the potential ecological responses to climate change. However, nonclimatic environmental factors also structure benthic communities and may mitigate transient climatic conditions, and these must be considered in evaluating potential impacts of climate change. Here we used macroinvertebrate and environmental data for 279 reference-quality sites spanning 12 states in the western US. For each sampling location, we described 45 environmental variables that spanned reach to catchment scales and that represented contemporary climate drivers, hydrologic metrics, and nonclimatic habitat features, as well as purely spatial metrics. We described benthic community composition at each site in terms of 7 species traits, including those considered sensitive to temperature increases and streamflow changes. All combined environmental variables explained 67% of the total trait variation across the sites, and catchment-scale climatic and hydrologic variables independently accounted for 19%. Sites were clustered into 3 community types based on trait composition, and a classification-tree analysis confirmed that climatic and hydrologic variables were important in partitioning these groups. Sensitivity of benthic communities to projected climate change was assessed by quantifying the proportion of taxa at sites having the traits of either cold stenothermy or obligate rheophily. Regression-tree analysis showed that temperature and hydrologic variables mostly accounted for the differences in proportion of sensitivity traits across the sites. We examined the vulnerability of sites to climate change by superimposing regional-scale projections of late-21
10.2307/1467936|The free-flowing nature of streams in the U.S. has been dramatically altered over the past century, especially through construction of dams. The Nationwide Rivers Inventory (NRI) estimated a total of 5,200,000 km of streams in the contiguous 48 states, but only 2% (<100,000 km) have sufficient high quality features to be worthy of federal protection status. The future of this dwindling number of high-quality streams is in doubt as proponents of development compete with conservation interests. Hydropower projects are projected to be built well into the future with a large increase in small projects (55% more than in 1988) even though the total generating capacity of the U.S. would increase only 0.3%. On the other hand, conservation efforts have resulted in increasing levels of federal protection of streams since the 1960s. "National River" or "Wild and Scenic River" status now provides protection for almost 16,000 km of streams, but only about 10% are found east of the Mississippi River. Analysis of the NRI database showed that the greatest quantity and density of high-quality streams are found in the south-Atlantic states, where streams have the least protection. The greatest number of NRI streams are found in the Coastal Plain and Central Lowland physiographic provinces. The NRI analysis showed only 42 high-quality, free-flowing (no major dams) rivers >200 km remaining in the 48 contiguous states. With continuing threats of exploitation, major conservation efforts are required to preserve these last free-flowing streams.
1468304|Estimating scales of dispersal for benthic macroinvertebrates using neutral genetic markers requires consideration of genetic, demographic, and historical influences on population genetic structure. We used allozyme electrophoresis to investigate the population genetic structure of 3 species of alpine stream insects among major drainages of the Swiss Alps (Rhine, Inn, and Ticino rivers), among streams within each drainage, and within single streams. Within streams we examined reaches that were fragmented by lakes or resevoirs and unfragmented reaches.
10.2307/1468378|Effects of 3 disturbance parameters (% of the streambed in motion at bankfull discharge [P<sub>BF</sub>], catchment-specific discharge [SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>], and frequency of bankfull floods [N<sub>BF</sub>] on aquatic bryophyte richness and community composition were assessed. Relationships between taxonomic richness and P<sub>BF</sub> and SPECQ<sub>BF</sub> were strongly curvilinear, such that richness was low in both stable and highly unstable streams, and in streams of both low and high SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>. Richness was highest in streams with moderate P<sub>BF</sub> and SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>. Interspecific competition may have reduced species richness at stable sites. In contrast, only a few bryophyte taxa were able to grow at unstable sites. Low richness at sites with a low SPECQ<sub>BF</sub> most likely reflects the intolerance of some species to desiccation. Low richness at sites with high SPECQ<sub>BF</sub> may reflect differences in the resistance of different taxa to high discharges. Community composition (expressed as ordination scores), and presence/absence of individual bryophyte species and life forms also differed among streams of different P<sub>BF</sub> and SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>. Thalloid or weft liverworts were common in streams with low P<sub>BF</sub> and high SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>, whereas cushion-forming mosses were common in streams of high P<sub>BF</sub> and low SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>. A conceptual habitat template model for bryophyte occurrences in streams is presented, which shows how communities changed predictably along the axes of P<sub>BF</sub> and SPECQ<sub>BF</sub>.
10.2307/1468168|Processing rates of autumn-shed leaves in aquatic habitats are highly variable. It has been hypothesized that these processing rates may, in part, be regulated by the concentrations of residual tannins in the leaves. Tests of this hypothesis have been inconclusive, and experimental designs may have been compromised by the use of both processing rates and tannin concentrations taken from a variety of sources using highly variable methods, sites, and experimental conditions. Here, processing rates of 48 species of deciduous leaves are measured using uniform conditions, and related to concentrations of leaf tannins, N, P, C:N, lignin, and toughness. The results indicate that condensed tannin, N, C:N, and lignin are significantly correlated with processing rates, although the predictive power of these simple relationships is weak. A multiple regression model using tannins, measured as total phenolics, N, and lignin explained almost 50% of the variation in processing rates, suggesting that the inhibition of processing by tannins is modified by other measures of leaf quality.
40792525|Daily fluctuations of primary production can result in diurnal variations in labile dissolved organic C (DOC) and N (DON) concentrations, but we know little about how biotic uptake of labile DOC and DON changes from day to night. We compared daytime vs nighttime uptake of ammonium (NH
10.2307/1467384| Hexagenia limbata (Serville) and H. rigida McDunnough from Southern Indian Lake, Manitoba, were reared at 10, 15, and 20C to assess temperature effects on growth. Subsequently, H. limbata was reared at two food levels and two or three nymphal densities (depending on size class), while temperature again was varied, to determine whether these factors affected life-history features such as growth, development, fecundity, and mortality. Nymphs of both species grew at 8C, 2 below the published temperature threshold for development. At both limited and non-limited food levels, growth and development rates increased with increasing temperature, but food limitation slowed both growth and development within a temperature treatment and resulted in increased degree day requirements. Nymphs reared at 20C at a non-limiting food level grew into significantly larger and more fecund adults than those reared at 20C at a limiting food level, or at 15C under non-limiting food conditions. Growth and development rates were not affected by rearing density. Thermal requirements observed in the laboratory were near the lower end of those observed in nature, and are probably a reflection of the effect of temperature on development under near-optimal conditions. Growth responses to temperature were similar for the two species. 
40792588|Urbanization is increasing rapidly in tropical regions. Information on the response of tropical streams to urbanization is critically needed, but this information is limited. Here we summarize our current understanding of urban stream ecosystems in Puerto Rico, a tropical island with a high level of industrialization and large urban areas. We focused on 16 tributaries of the Rio Piedras watershed, which drains the San Juan metropolitan area, and 16 tributaries of the Turabo watershed, a rapidly developing suburban area. Urban effects on nutrients and aquatic macroinvertebrates were similar to those described for other geographic regions. PO
10.2307/1467383| We describe a new method for estimating the distance that fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) is transported in streams. Corn pollen (diameter = 87 m,  = 1092 kg/m<sup>3</sup>) was injected into Dry Brook, a 2nd-order stream in Allegany State Park, New York. Loss of pollen from the water column was measured by filtering pollen from 250-mL grab samples, staining with basic fuschin, and counting. Loss rates were fit to an exponential decay function; mean travel distances on three release dates ranged from 122 to 190 m, consistent with predictions of a model that assumes particle loss is proportional to the settling velocity of a particle in still water and the depth of the water column. Pollen, as a seston analog, would provide a comparative tool to measure transport in streams that differ in critical geomorphic and hydraulic characteristics. This technique can be applied to questions on how bed structure and near-bed flow affect retention and transport of seston, and on the importance of still water settling velocities, stream temperature, and biological uptake in determining FPOM travel distances. 
4095548|The Asian clam (
10.2307/1468251|Variability in the spatial and temporal patterns of stream biota has been well documented, yet the causes and consequences of this variability are poorly understood. Most early work focused on how changes in mean environmental parameters over space or time influence the abundance or distribution patterns of biota. We argue for an increased focus on the study of variability in these parameters. To date, only a few lotic studies have used variance as a dependent variable i.e., showing that changes in the variance in some parameter can be related to changes in the mean of that or another parameter. These studies have suggested interesting links between ecological patterns and processes at a variety of scales. The use of variance as an independent variable and its experimental manipulation (i.e., hold the mean of some parameter constant while altering its variance) may also lead to new understandings of how pattern and process are linked. We begin by outlining when and why the study of variance may be important to lotic ecology. Next, we suggest a 3-step process in the use of variance in stream studies: 1) documentation of a pattern with respect to variance; 2) examination of descriptive data to explore potential causes of the pattern; and 3) direct manipulation of variance in experiments. We provide an example of this 3-step process using data from preliminary experiments in a warmwater stream that suggested spatial variability in the abundance of chironomids and copepods could be related to flow variability. We close by suggesting that future directions for the use of variance in stream ecology should attempt to couple scale-dependent physical patterns with biological patterns or processes, develop experimental frameworks to determine if species interactions or other biotic processes vary with scale, embrace statistical methods for determining the relative importance of variance-generating processes, develop methods for the quantification of variance in biologically meaningful ways, and focus on the identification and interpretation of domains of homogeneous variance in streams.
09-118R|Because unionid mussels have a parasitic larval stage, they are able to disperse upstream and downstream as larvae while attached to their host fish and with flow as juveniles after excystment from the host. Understanding unionid population ecology requires knowledge of the processes that affect juvenile dispersal prior to establishment. We examined presettlement (transport and dispersion with flow) and early postsettlement (bed shear stress) hydraulic processes as negative censoring mechanisms. Our approach was to model dispersal using particle tracking through a 3-dimensional flow field output from hydrodynamic models of a reach of the Upper Mississippi River. We tested the potential effects of bed shear stress (
10.2307/1467879| Periphyton succession was studied over 89 d in longitudinally adjacent reaches (a riffle and run) in Sycamore Creek, a spatially intermittent desert stream. Effects of nitrogen limitation were assessed by comparing algal development on clay saucers containing either nitrate-enriched or unenriched agar. We evaluated effects of grazing on periphyton accrual by amending agar in half the substrata from each enrichment condition with an insecticide (Malathion). Early successional (25-d) communities on unenriched substrata were dominated by Epithemia sorex, a diatom capable of N<sub>2</sub> fixation; non-fixing diatoms dominated enriched communities. NO<sub>3</sub>-N enrichment increased algal diversity (H) and delayed late-successional dominance by Calothrix, a heterocystous cyanobacterium. Replacement of diatoms by cyanobacteria was likely facilitated by autogenic changes in nutrient and light conditions within the periphyton and temporal increases in water temperature. Three measures of algal biomass exhibited nearly linear increases in all treatments over the 3-mo study. Enrichment enhanced standing crops of chlorophyll a and ash-free dry mass (AFDM) in both reaches, an effect most pronounced within the first 3-4 wk. Algal populations unable to fix N<sub>2</sub> were stimulated by enrichment but remained in low abundance on unenriched substrata whereas biovolume of N<sub>2</sub>-fixing populations was lower on enriched substrata relative to controls. Malathion reduced the density of only one common grazer, the moth larva Petrophila jaliscalis, which was abundant only in the riffle. Addition of Malathion to enriched substrata in this habitat had no significant effect on net primary productivity or total algal biovolume but resulted in increased chlorophyll a and AFDM, suggesting that Petrophila did influence algal communities, but by a mechanism that remains unclear. Spatial heterogeneity of nutrient supply in this system contributes to maintenance of algal diversity; but over long successional seres diversity declines regardless of enrichment owing to autogenic changes that occur during succession. Our results confirm earlier observations that low nitrogen availability limits accrual of algal biomass following spates and constrains algal community structure in Sycamore Creek. However, highly significant early successional differences in algal standing crop and community structure among enrichment treatments were eliminated or much reduced in mid to late stages of succession. We propose that this temporal change in enrichment response was caused by development of a thick periphyton mat that reduced availability of both water-column or substratum-derived nutrients to algae, and increased reliance on internal nutrient recycling. 
10.2307/1467744| The three caudal lamellae of zygopterous Odonata are often considered to be gills, but this viewpoint is not universally held. Because the genus Lestes possesses the largest proportionate gill size amongst Zygoptera, I selected a member of this genus for the purpose of answering the question: are caudal lamellae actually gills? Large numbers of gilled and gill-less larvae were used in low-O<sub>2</sub> survival and closed-bottle respirometry experiments. When gill removal was necessary, ablation was accomplished only by autotomy. Results demonstrate that caudal lamellae of the lestid damselfly, Lestes disjunctus Selys, can function as gills whatever their other roles. The three lamellae meet all gill criteria: they are large and thin, possess little metabolizing bulk, and are moist, vascular and sometimes ventilated. Lamellae are normally responsible for 20-30% of O<sub>2</sub> intake. As the dissolved O<sub>2</sub> concentration (DO) falls and temperature rises, gills account for more and more O<sub>2</sub> intake and do so up to their proportion of total body surface area (70%). With sufficient DO and at low temperatures (<10C), the respiratory function of gills appears unimportant. Larvae do not regulate O<sub>2</sub> intake well due to their mediocre ventilatory mechanism ("pull-downs"), nor do gills affect larval ability to regulate O<sub>2</sub> intake. Another effect of weak ventilation is that low-O<sub>2</sub> critical points are rather high (2.5-5.5 mg/L at 12-25C). The importance of gills in obtaining DO is further demonstrated by the positive correlation between survival at low DO concentrations and the amount of gill surface area present (0, 1, 2 or 3 gills). With any given amount of gill surface, larvae die at increasingly higher DO concentrations as temperatures rise. At any given temperature the reduction of gill surface results in more DO being required for survival. 
4499003|The effects of measurement errors on biological inferences of stream temperature and bedded fine sediment were investigated. Single variable and multivariate logistic regression models were used to relate the occurrences of different macroinvertebrate genera and observed temperature and fine sediment. Next, a simulation and extrapolation method (SIMEX) was used to adjust regression model coefficients for the effects of measurement errors in the temperature and fine-sediment observations. It was assumed that the persistence of different stream organisms was related to long-term average environmental conditions, so measurement error in this analysis was interpreted broadly as including all the variability associated with estimating long-term averages from single measurements. On average, correcting for measurement error narrowed the breadth of genusenvironment relationships and shifted optimum values toward the mean of the observations. Accounting for measurement error also improved the predictive accuracy of some of the inference models. Inferences of temperature based on single-variable SIMEX models were 28% more accurate than inferences based on naive models that used uncorrected observations. However, inferences of fine sediment based on single-variable SIMEX models were only slightly more accurate than inferences based on naive models. Multivariate models, in which both stream temperature and fine sediment were modeled simultaneously, exhibited the strongest improvement in predictive performance when measurement error was taken into account. The accuracy of temperature inferences improved by 39%, whereas fine-sediment inferences improved by 8%.
20491226|The construction of salmon redds represents a localized but intense disturbance to benthic substrate and associated flora and fauna. Pink salmon (
20491223|Anthropogenically increased sediment loads are one of the most pervasive pollution pressures on surface waters and carry major ecological implications for biota. We conducted an experiment in artificial streams to quantify the response of 4 common macroinvertebrate taxa (
1468185|We examined how community measures (richness, diversity, density), community composition (as measured by ordination site scores), and functional-feeding-group composition of benthic invertebrates were related to stream hydraulics and benthic food resources within the Jacks Fork River in Missouri, USA. Invertebrates were collected in the autumn of 1992 and spring of 1993 from 11 habitats in upper, middle, and lower stream segments encompassing a full range of physical and hydraulic conditions. Community composition, diversity, and relative densities of some of the functional groups were highly correlated with hydraulic variables such as current velocity, Froude number, and Reynolds number and with some measures of benthic organic matter. Ordination also revealed a gradual, longitudinal change in invertebrate community composition that was not related to simple or complex hydraulic variables. Taxa richness, density, and diversity were generally not correlated to this gradient. Overall, variation in community composition within any 1 segment of stream was greater than variation throughout the total stream system, indicating that local factors had the greatest influence on the invertebrate community. Composition was the community property and current velocity was the environmental variable most likely to be correctly extrapolated over space and time within this relatively pristine stream system.
40792637|Effective ecosystem management in the face of human alterations depends on our ability to quantify ecologically significant changes and to discriminate among impact levels and types. We reviewed the literature on biological responses of freshwater biota to human disturbances over the last century. Many of the main methods for assessing ecological integrity originated in Europe [e.g., Saprobien Index, Trent Biotic Index, Biological Monitoring Working Party, River InVertebrate Prediction And Classification System, multiple traits] or in North America [e.g., Index of Biotic Integrity, leaf-litter breakdown, functional feeding groups]. We used bibliometric data to detail the contribution of
40792639|Freshwater habitats occupy <1% of the Earths surface, yet are hotspots that support 10% of all known species, and  of vertebrate species. Fresh waters also are hotspots for human activities that have led to widespread habitat degradation, pollution, flow regulation and water extraction, fisheries overexploitation, and alien species introductions. These impacts have caused severe declines in the range and abundance of many freshwater species, so that they are now far more imperiled than their marine or terrestrial counterparts. Here, we review progress in conservation of freshwater biodiversity, with a focus on the period since 1986, and outline key challenges for the future. Driven by rising conservation concerns, freshwater ecologists have conducted a great deal of research over the past 25 y on the status, trends, autecology, and propagation of imperiled species, threats to these species, the consequences of biodiversity loss for ecosystem functioning, metapopulation dynamics, biodiversity hotspots, reserve design, habitat restoration, communication with stakeholders, and weaknesses of protective legislation. Nevertheless, existing efforts might be insufficient to stem the ongoing and coming multitude of freshwater extinctions. We briefly discuss 4 important challenges for freshwater conservation. First, climate change will imperil both freshwater species and human uses of fresh water, driving engineering responses that will further threaten the freshwater biota. We need to anticipate both ecological and human responses to climate change, and to encourage rational and deliberate planning of engineering responses to climate change before disasters strike. Second, because freshwater extinctions are already well underway, freshwater conservationists must be prepared to act now to prevent further losses, even if our knowledge is incomplete, and engage more effectively with other stakeholders. Third, we need to bridge the gap between freshwater ecology and conservation biology. Fourth, we suggest that scientific societies and scholarly journals concerned with limnology or freshwater sciences need to improve their historically poor record in publishing important papers and influencing practice in conservation ecology. Failure to meet these challenges will lead to the extinction or impoverishment of the very subjects of our research.
41318762|Our paper describes the ecological controls on algal-mat diatom communities in the dynamic stream ecosystems of the McMurdo Dry Valleys in Antarctica. Dry Valley diatom communities are relatively diverse, and nearly  of the taxa found in these mats are considered endemic. Diatom community composition was examined in 5 streams in Taylor Valley during a 15-y cooling period that included a discrete flood event. Two hydrologic variables, total annual discharge and historical variation in discharge, gave the most parsimonious model of among-stream and interannual variation in diatom communities. Algal-mat biomass and chlorophyll
10.2307/1467847| Natural assemblages of stream benthic macroinvertebrates were collected using artificial substrates from a Rocky Mountain stream and exposed for 10 d to a mixture of heavy metals (Cd, Cu, and Zn) in stream microcosms. Metal levels were 0, 1, 5, and 10 where  = 1.1, 12, and 110 g/L Cd, Cu, and Zn, respectively. The 1 treatment was similar to chronic criteria values recommended by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for each metal and total metal levels measured in water at the Arkansas River, Colorado, a US EPA superfund site. Most ephemeropterans and plecopterans were sensitive to metals; however, some taxa within these groups were metal tolerant. Densities of Baetis tricaudatus (Ephemeroptera:Baetidae), Epeorus longimanus and Rhithrogena hageni (Ephemeroptera:Hepatageniidae), and Drunella grandis and D. doddsi (Ephemeroptera:Ephemerellidae) were reduced in the 1 treatment. The response of D. grandis to metals was size-dependent with small larvae being more sensitive than large ones (p = 0.02). Chironomids were generally tolerant to metals. These data show that a metal mixture was extremely toxic to stream macroinvertebrates from a Rocky Mountain stream. Our results were similar to field biomonitoring studies at the Arkansas River and Eagle River, Colorado, that examined the effects of metals on stream macroinvertebrate communities. We suggest that multispecies experiments using indigenous stream organisms be combined with field biomonitoring to rigorously define the biological effects of heavy metals on lotic systems. 
10-045R|Southern Floridas Everglades are at the front line of potential negative effects on aquatic ecosystems from climate change and associated sea-level rise. A diversity of aquatic habitats supports a rich assemblage of aquatic and terrestrial wildlife, including 36 vertebrates and 26 plant species federally listed as endangered, threatened, or candidate species. Anticipated climate-change trends for southern Florida include increased weather uncertainty with more droughts, higher temperatures, and an increased number of more intense storms. Hydrologic regimes, temperature, and CO
10.2307/1467746|Benthic invertebrates from 16 stations within the limnetic (freshwater) zone of the Lower Hudson River were sampled four times from June-September 1983 to assess organism-substrate relationships in the main channel of a large river. Overall, the fauna consisted mainly of Tubificidae and Chironomidae. Limnodrilus hoffmeisteri was by far the most abundant species, contributing 54% and 79%, respectively, to total numbers and biomass Chironomids were the most taxonomically diverse group (40 taxa). The structure and composition of the benthic communities appeared to be determined mainly by physical traits of the substrate. Stations with relatively heterogeneous substrates (sands mixed with silts) contained the richest fauna in terms of both standing crop and taxonomic richness. Not surprisingly, the fewest taxa and lowest biomass occurred in fine, well sorted sand. In silt-clay substrates, the presence of at least some sand appeared critical for the occurrence of several taxa and the abundance of others. As substrate suitability increased, communities contained more taxa, had higher biomasses, and were increasingly dominated by L. hoffmeisteri. This resulted in a strong positive correlation between standing crop and taxonomic richness, and consistent diversity index values over a wide range of taxonomic richness.
10.2307/1467965|Little is known about the burrows of sediment-dwelling insects because these structures are concealed by the sediment in which the animals live. We used X-ray images to reveal and compare the burrowing behavior in the laboratory of aquatic insects from several orders (Diptera, Ephemeroptera, Megaloptera, Trichoptera). Most of the taxa studied constructed U-shaped burrows. Exceptionally, individual caddisfly larvae (Polycentropus sp.) varied greatly in the type of burrow they constructed, i.e., I-, J- and U-shaped burrows were observed. Most taxa begin new burrows from preexisting ones under the sediment surface, obviating the need for the animals to leave the sediment and thereby minimizing their exposure to potential predators. Nymphs of the mayfly Hexagenia limbata exceeded all of the other taxa studied in terms of the depth and length of their burrows and their burrowing rate. Our data suggest that nymphs of H. limbata could be responsible for 98% of the volume of sediment disturbed by littoral insects in our study lake. Observations on 3 species of Chironomus suggest that the rate of burrow construction can differ among congeners. Individuals of H. limbata and Sialis velata burrowed to greater depth in the autumn than in the spring. Our study illustrates the potential of radiographs to study the behavior of burrowing animals, and the range of variability in burrowing behaviors among genera and species of insects.
09-087|Pennyfish,
4498997|The effects of nutrient enrichment on the responses of alpine stream macroinvertebrates to disturbance were studied using 2 field experiments. In experiment 1, individual stones were physically disturbed in 3 different streams at intervals of 0 (i.e., no disturbance), 4, 8, and 16 d over a 32-d period. In experiment 2, nutrients were added to 1 of 2 channels in the same stream, and the same disturbance regime as in experiment 1 was applied in both channels. The stones were collected at the end of each experiment. Periphyton chlorophyll
20491187|We used complementary information collected using different conceptual approaches to develop recommendations for a stream nutrient criterion based on responses of algal assemblages to anthropogenic P enrichment. Benthic algal attributes, water chemistry, physical habitat, and human activities in watersheds were measured in streams of the Mid-Atlantic Highlands region as part of the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program of the US Environmental Protection Agency. Diatom species composition differed greatly between low- and high-pH reference streams; therefore, analyses for criterion development were limited to a subset of 149 well-buffered streams to control for natural variability among streams caused by pH. Regression models showed that TP concentrations were 10 g/L in streams with low levels of human activities in watersheds and that TP increased with % agriculture and urban land uses in watersheds. The 75
10.2307/1468050| Emergence of aquatic insects from freshwater systems can provide information that is useful from both taxon-specific and ecosystem perspectives. Although numerous studies of emergence have been conducted in high-latitude systems, relatively few studies have been done in warm-water systems, particularly in wetlands, where multiple generations and long emergence periods are likely. We used emergence traps in a small beaver-impounded wetland in the southeastern USA to measure density and biomass of emerging insects, and deposition basins to measure adult return and potential export from the system. We focused on 2 major habitats of the wetland: a shallow (0-1.0 m) vegetated zone dominated by the white water-lily Nymphaea odorata and a deeper (>1 m) open-water zone. Insects (primarily Chironomidae) emerged from the Nymphaea zone throughout the year, but peaked in April at 205 individualsm<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> and then declined from mid June to November to 20-50 m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. Emergence from November through January was <latex>$<10\cdot \text{m}^{-2}\cdot \text{d}^{-1}$</latex>. Insects (primarily Chironomidae) did not begin emerging from the open-water zone until late March, but continued emerging through November. Annual emergence in the Nymphaea zone of 16,128 individuals/m<sup>2</sup> and 2.39 g dry mass/m<sup>2</sup> was significantly higher than 4374 /m<sup>2</sup> and 0.59 g/m<sup>2</sup> in the open-water zone. Tanytarsini (primarily Tanytarsus) chironomids accounted for >33% of the emergent biomass in the Nymphaea zone, whereas Chaoborus punctipennis and Cladopelma sp. accounted for 19% and 21% of the emergent biomass, respectively, from the open-water zone. The emerging densities and biomasses of at least 6 taxa were significantly higher in the Nymphaea zone than in the open-water zone, and only Chaoborus was higher in the open water. Depositional trapping showed that deposition of adult insects in the aquatic environment averaged 25% of emerging numbers and biomass. The mayfly Caenis diminuta was common in deposition traps (1253 individualsm<sup>-2</sup> y<sup>-1</sup>), but avoided emergence traps. Both emergent and depositional trapping appeared necessary to quantify terrestrial activities of aquatic insects. Future comparisons of emergence and deposition data with larval production in the wetland will enable us to determine the fraction of production that is represented by emergence and the fraction that returns to the aquatic environment. 
4095644|The term
10.2307/1468012|Well-known concepts in statistical inference and sampling theory are used to develop recommendations for planning and analyzing the results of quantitative surveys of freshwater mollusks. Two methods of inference commonly used in survey sampling (design-based and model-based) are described and illustrated using examples relevant in surveys of freshwater mollusks. The particular objectives of a survey and the type of information observed in each unit of sampling can be used to help select the sampling design and the method of inference. For example, the mean density of a sparsely distributed population of mollusks can be estimated with higher precision by using model-based inference or by using design-based inference with adaptive cluster sampling than by using design-based inference with conventional sampling. More experience with quantitative surveys of natural assemblages of freshwater mollusks is needed to determine the actual benefits of different sampling designs and inferential procedures.
4095679|Catchment characteristics determine the inputs of sediments and nutrients to streams. As a result, natural or anthropogenic disturbance of upland soil and vegetation can affect instream processes. The Fort Benning Military Installation (near Columbus, Georgia) exhibits a wide range of upland disturbance levels because of spatial variability in the intensity of military training. This gradient of disturbance was used to investigate the effect of upland soil and vegetation disturbance on rates of stream metabolism (ecosystem respiration rate [ER] and gross primary production rate [GPP]). Stream metabolism was measured using an open-system, single-station approach. All streams were net heterotrophic during all seasons. ER was highest in winter and spring and lowest in summer and autumn. ER was negatively correlated with catchment disturbance level in winter, spring, and summer, but not in autumn. ER was positively correlated with abundance of coarse woody debris, but not significantly related to % benthic organic matter. GPP was low in all streams and generally not significantly correlated with disturbance level. Our results suggest that the generally intact riparian zones of these streams were not sufficient to protect them from the effect of upland disturbance, and they emphasize the role of the entire catchment in determining stream structure and function.
10.2307/1467353|The Sierra Club is a grassroots environmental organization that pursues its conservation agenda through lobbying, litigation, education, and electoral politics. The Club's major conservation campaigns are strengthened by the science-conservation connection, and include efforts to protect, enhance, and restore aquatic ecosystems such as the Great Lakes and the nation's wetlands. One of the Club's major conservation efforts over the past 20 years has been the campaign to restore Florida's Kissimmee River. After 20 years of effort following completion of channelization, a restoration plan was approved to backfill 47 km of the canal, restoring 130 km<sup>2</sup> of ecosystem, including 90 km of the old river, over 11,500 ha of wetlands, and critical habitat for 300 species of fish and wildlife. The push for restoration, expected to take 10 to 15 years and to cost as much as $422 million, benefitted from cooperation and involvement from scientists and lay-people alike. Research indicated that ecological integrity of the Kissimmee River could be restored only with a holistic approach to the form and function of the former ecosystem. The Kissimmee River restoration campaign is an excellent example of scientists and conservationists using their combined skills to change public policy and to benefit the environment. The Sierra Club's call to NABS members and to other scientists is to not to stop here, but to continue and develop this fruitful relationship in pursuit of common conservation goals.
1467979|We investigated host fishes, timing and modes of glochidial release, and host-attraction strategies for 7 species of freshwater mussels from the Buttahatchee and Sipsey rivers (Mobile Basin), Alabama and Mississippi, USA. We determined hosts as fish species that produced juvenile mussels from laboratory-induced glochidial infections. We established the following primary mussel/host relationships:
40792660|Inputs of terrestrial plant detritus and nutrients play an important role in aquatic food webs, but the importance of terrestrial prey inputs in determining aquatic predator distribution and abundance has been appreciated only recently. I examined the numerical, biomass, and diet responses of a common predator, dragonfly larvae, to experimental reduction of terrestrial arthropod input into ponds. I distributed paired enclosures (
1468433|Larval stages have been associated for all of the known species of
10.2307/1468364| Playas are seasonal wetlands that constitute the principal surface-water features of the semiarid, Southern High Plains, USA. They are shallow pools that usually persist for 2-4 mo following inundation by spring rains. The development of macroinvertebrate assemblages in 10 playas located in West Texas was examined during the summer of 1994. Playas were sampled 3 times at approximately monthly intervals, beginning shortly after initial inundation in early May. All playas were dry within 90 d. Species richness and diversity (Fisher's log-series ) increased significantly over time (p < 0.05). Thirteen of the 16 species representing at least 1% of collected individuals, showed significant differences in abundances over time (p < 0.05). Some taxa increased in abundance (especially insects), whereas others decreased (most crustaceans). Trophic structure of assemblages also changed over time, with a significant reduction in the abundances of detrivores (p < 0.05) and filter-feeders (p < 0.05) occurring concurrently with an increase in the abundance of predators (p < 0.05). The composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages became more similar among playas over time (Ochai's index, p < 0.05), and changes in composition within individual playas tended to decrease with time (p < 0.05). These results suggest a rapid development of macroinvertebrate assemblages in playas, begining with early dominance of crustacean detritivores and filter-feeders (e.g., phyllopods and ostracods), followed by later dominance of herbivorous and predaceous insects (e.g., hydrophilids and notonectids). Increases in species richness, diversity, and similarity in assemblage composition among playas over time are consistent with a pattern of progressive colonization by a finite set of species capable of exploiting these ephemeral habitats. 
10.2307/1468449|We examined in situ the fate of N in the epilithon and a grazer community in the N-limited rocky littoral of Lake Erken, Sweden. The grazer community consisted of the sessile caddisfly larva Tinodes waeneri (L.) plus its gallery. The gallery consisted of a web that is spun by the larva plus the microorganisms (mostly algae) closely associated with the web. We applied <sup>15</sup>N in the field and recorded <sup>15</sup>N uptake and retention time. The galleries took up <sup>15</sup>N faster from the overlying water and retained <sup>15</sup>N 1 wk longer than the surrounding epilithon. These results supported our hypothesis that effective N use through the Tinodes community by recycling may alleviate N limitation and enhance biomass production of the gallery algae.
4095631|Several studies in the past decade have shown that rates of ecosystem processes may be affected by the number of species involved in the processes. However, how products, such as frass and feces, that are derived from those processes indirectly affect other functional feeding groups (FFGs) and whether such effects vary with species number are not well understood. We manipulated presence/absence and species richness of shredding larval stoneflies in laboratory microcosms containing leaf litter to test whether the number of species affected the growth of suspension-feeding black fly larvae. The presence of shredders increased the production of particles (>0.1 mm) and contributed to 30 to 56% higher black fly growth than in the absence of shredders. In addition, species richness and composition of shredders significantly affected black fly growth. Thus, our results show that species richness and composition in one FFG may affect FFGs further down the processing chain, most likely via effects on both quantity and size distribution of products derived from the process.
10.2307/1467510|The chemical composition of algal assemblages in laboratory streams was determined 3 and 27 d after adding snail (Juga silicula) and larval caddisfly (Dicosmoecus gilvipes) grazers. Three days after the herbivores were introduced (day 8 of algal growth), the fatty acid and amino acid profiles among algal assemblages were similar. Substantial differences were noted after 4 wk (day 32 of algal growth), however, especially with respect to the 16:0, 16:1, 16:3, 18:3, and 20:5 fatty acids. On day 32, algal assemblages subjected to zero or 125 snails/stream (66/m<sup>2</sup>) had higher levels of glycine, leucine, isoleucine, tyrosine, and the 16:3 and 18:3 fatty acids than assemblages exposed to 500 snails/stream (250/m<sup>2</sup>), 50 caddis/stream (25/m<sup>2</sup>), or 200 caddis/stream (100/m<sup>2</sup>). On the other hand, assemblages subjected to high grazing pressure (i.e., 500 snails/stream, 50 and 200 caddis/stream) had higher levels of alanine, glutamic acid/glutamine, and the 16:0, 16:1, and 20:5 fatty acids than algae exposed to zero or 125 snails/stream. These data provide detailed information on the food quality of lotic algae and may serve as a starting point for future research in this field.
10.2307/1467424| Streams near Mt. St. Helens, Washington, differ in degree of watershed disturbance caused by the 1980 eruption. Summer densities of tailed frog tadpoles (Ascaphus truei) varied considerably both within and between several of these streams. Differences in density among streams were most clearly associated with differences in extent of forest in the basin. Streams in basins with little forest had maximum temperatures near 20C and few Ascaphus. In completely or partially forested basins, maximum stream temperatures were <18C, and tadpole densities were relatively high. Variation in density within streams was associated with substrate size, substrate embeddedness, and current speed. In many watersheds near Mt. St. Helens, Ascaphus is apparently locally extinct or nearly so. Reestablishment of populations in these watersheds may require several decades because of (1) the time required for habitat recovery and (2) the poor dispersal abilities of adults. 
20491132|Naturally parasitized fish were collected and examined for glochidial infestations to evaluate host use by 2 mussel species, the yellow lampmussel (
10.2307/1467959|The open-channel oxygen method for estimating stream metabolism avoids many of the problems associated with chamber techniques, but its uncertainty has not been rigorously quantified. Uncertainty in open-channel estimates of photosynthesis (P) and respiration (R) can be estimated by use of a Monte Carlo approach incorporating uncertainty in each of the terms (reaeration rate coefficient, range of temperature oscillation, midpoint temperature, travel time, metabolic rate, and precision of instrument calibration) affecting error in estimates of P and R. The distributions derived from the Monte Carlo simulations provide confidence limits for estimates of P and R. Use of this approach along with simulation of a range of stream conditions indicates that: 1) given equivalent metabolic rates and physical conditions, estimates of R are subject to greater uncertainty than are estimates of P, especially in high-gradient streams, and 2) uncertainty can be minimized by special attention to the precision of measurement for factors affecting the saturation concentration of oxygen. Reasonable confidence limits (95% CL within 30% of mean) can be achieved for estimates of P where daily photosynthetic rates exceed L<sup>-1</sup>d<sup>-1</sup>, but in turbulent streams (k<sub>20<sup></sup></sub>=100/d), rates of R must be nearly 15 mg L<sup>-1</sup>d<sup>-1</sup> to achieve similar precision.
10.2307/1468009| The larvae of Macrothemis aurimaculata and M. inequiunguis are described and illustrated. A redescription of M. celeno is also provided. Macrothemis aurimaculata can be separated from other species in the genus because it has reduced or vestigial dorsal protuberances on abdominal segments VII-IX. Macrothemis inequiunguis can be differentiated by the presence of 7 setae on the labial palp, in contrast to 6 in other species. Both species inhabit streams in areas with slow-moving water. Macrothemis celeno closely resembles M. inacuta and M. pseudimitans. Some features to separate larvae of Macrothemis from its close relative Brechmorhoga are given. A key for identification of all the described larvae of Macrothemis is provided. 
10.2307/1467325|The population dynamics and life histories of two subtropical, viviparid prosobranchs were studied in a small, slow-flowing bayou (alluvial plain river) near Baton Rouge, Louisiana, USA. In Viviparus subpurpureus, year-old males inseminated females. Although some females matured as 1-yr-olds, most brooded their young over winter, released them at an age of 2 yr, and died shortly thereafter. Campeloma decisum had essentially the same life cycle. Minimal densities, approximately 100 to 300 /m<sup>2</sup>, occurred in the spring, before embryo release. Densities of Campeloma decisum peaked earlier, but at lower levels (600 to 800 /m<sup>2</sup>) than in Viviparus subpurpureus, where the peak density in early fall was 1700 /m<sup>2</sup>. These densities are high in comparison to temperate populations of viviparids. Sex ratios were biased towards females in both species, and females also reached greater shell lengths, shell masses, and body masses (p < 0.01). Campeloma decisum reached greater shell lengths and body masses, and females produced larger broods (p < 0.01) and larger embryos (p < 0.01) as well. These subtropical populations have shorter life cycles than north-temperate populations, but pronounced sexual dimorphism still occurs.
1468040|Many forest stream food webs have leaf litter as the primary food resource, but instream primary production can also be quantitatively important, in part because it is more easily assimilated. We estimated the trophic basis of invertebrate production in 2 streams at Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest: Bear Brook (BB), a 2nd-order closed canopy stream, and Main Hubbard Brook (HB), a 5th-order open-canopy stream. We combined secondary production measurements for 1 y with gut content analyses to estimate the fraction of total secondary production derived from various food sources. Secondary production was low in both streams: 4.2 g ash-free dry mass (AFDM) m
10.2307/1468049| Microcrustaceans are common in the meiobenthos of many freshwater habitats including wetlands. Quantification of their functional roles, including determination of secondary production, has lagged behind our understanding of macrobenthos because microcrustaceans are small animals with nearly continuous reproduction and often short generation times. Such noncohort populations necessitate independent estimates of growth to quantify secondary production. Growth rates of 3 benthic microcrustaceans from a forested floodplain swamp in Alabama were measured on a diet of natural food at temperatures of 10, 15, 20, and 25C, which span much of the annual range. For Chydorus brevilabris (Cladocera:Chydoridae), somatic growth rates were as high as 20%/d at all temperatures, and total growth rate (including egg production) was roughly twice the somatic growth rate in the larger size classes. For reproductive-sized individuals, eggs represented >60% of the growth within an instar and >60% of an individual's lifetime production. Multiple regression using individual size and temperature as independent variables explained 76% of the variation in somatic growth rates and 49% of the variation in total growth rates. Somatic growth rates were also measured for Physocypria pustulosa (Ostracoda:Cyprididae) and Cypridopsis vidua (Ostracoda:Cypridopsidae). The ostracod species had lower somatic growth rates than the chydorid, but growth rates of all 3 taxa increased with temperature and decreased with increasing size. Somatic growth rates for ostracods were <20%/d in most size classes, and multiple regressions, using individual mass and temperature as independent variables, explained 50% of the variation in somatic growth for Cypridopsis vidua and 33% for Physocypria pustulosa. Growth rates measured in this study under natural conditions suggest that freshwater meiofauna can have higher annual turnover rates (i.e., >15) than is generally assumed. 
10.2307/1467949|The goal of biological monitoring is to evaluate the effect of human activities on biological resources. In this study, we linked human activities across landscapes to specific changes in assemblages of benthic macroinvertebrates in streams that drain those landscapes. We used data from 2nd- to 4th-order streams in southwestern Oregon to test approximately 30 hypotheses about how macroinvertebrates respond to several common human actions, especially logging and associated road construction. We found 10 attributes of macroinvertebrate assemblages to be reliable indicators of disturbance. Data from a subsequent year confirmed those results. We used simple graphical methods to evaluate land-use data and to relate the data to observed responses of invertebrates. We constructed a multimetric index (benthic index of biological integrity, or B-IBI) from component metrics that distinguished disturbed stream sites from minimally disturbed sites. Using an independent data set, we found that B-IBI scores were significantly lower for streams whose watersheds were more degraded by human activities. We also tested rapid bioassessment protocol (RBP) III as modified by Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. RBP III failed to detect differences among sites that B-IBI did detect Because biologists continue to debate the relative merits of a multimetric vs. a multivariate approach for interpreting biomonitoring data, we also used principal components analysis (PCA) to explore patterns in our multidimensional data. We chose PCA based on species abundance because it has been the most common technique used by state and federal agency biologists to interpret biomonitoring data. PCA failed to detect clear differences in our data set (e.g., between most and least disturbed sites). We suggest that multivariate statistical analyses are most appropriate for exploratory analysis when the investigator has limited knowledge of an ecological system and wants to generate testable hypotheses. We demonstrate that sufficient information about the natural history of stream invertebrates is available to support more direct tests of how invertebrates respond to human disturbance. The components of a good multimetric index are founded on tested hypotheses and thus provide a sound scientific assessment of a stream site. We argue that a method that incorporates ecological information is more suitable for biomonitoring than one relying on statistical algorithms.
41318753|The main purpose of our work was to elucidate factors responsible for the geographical differences in leaf-litter decomposition rates in Spanish oligotrophic headwater streams. Decomposition experiments with alder (
41318730|A major effect of urbanization on streams is the input of stormwater (SW) runoff from impervious surfaces. This water may contain excess nutrients, heavy metals, and other organic contaminants. These inputs are potential stressors or stimulants for algae, invertebrates, and fish within the aquatic community. We conducted a controlled experiment in mesocosms (1300-L tanks) to evaluate the effect of SW quality on different trophic levels. SW runoff was collected before it entered Little Black Creek, which is a tributary draining an urbanized subcatchment in western Michigan. The captured runoff was used to create the following treatments: 0% SW (control,
40792664|Increased need to quantify adult insects emerging from streams as a part of foodweb and ecosystem studies has placed new demands on techniques used to sample adults. The population sampled must be better understood to establish the scope of inferences that may be drawn from emergence data. We used data from 2 different studies to compare the structure of insect assemblages represented by benthic samples and emergence-trap samples and to compare adult insect assemblages collected in emergence traps placed at mid-channel vs streambank locations. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) ordination showed that some components of the benthic assemblage were underrepresented in the emergence-trap samples and others were underrepresented in benthic samples. These differences were mainly caused by taxa that emerged by crawling out on the stream bank (e.g., Plecoptera) or whose larvae reside in habitats, such as stream margins, that are underrepresented with traditional benthic sampling (e.g., Dixidae). The flux of insects into traps placed mid-channel did not differ significantly from the flux into traps placed along the stream bank. Taxa collected by mid-channel and streambank traps overlapped considerably, but midchannel traps tended to collect proportionally more Trichoptera, Ephemeroptera, and Diptera, whereas streambank traps collected proportionally more Plecoptera. Our results can be used to improve trapping designs for future assessments of aquatic insect emergence in studies of insect behavior and life histories and as part of foodweb and ecosystem research.
10.2307/1467727| The Neotropical genus Chloronia (Megaloptera:Corydalidae:Corydalinae) contains 12 previously described species. In this paper, Chloronia convergens and Chloronia zacapa, new species from Ecuador and Guatemala, respectively, are described and illustrated. Chloronia convergens is compared with the widespread C. mirifica Navs, to which it appears most closely related; and C. zacapa is compared with C. absona Flint from Costa Rica, both of which share several unique and highly modified traits in the male genitalia. A key for adult males of all 14 currently recognized species is included, with the addition of new characters for the separation of C. mexicana Stitz and C. pallida (Davis). New distribution records are given for C. pallida in Mxico and for C mirifica in Ecuador. 
10.2307/1468452|The feeding preferences and performance of a freshwater macrophyte-feeding chrysomelid beetle (Galerucella nymphaeae) were assessed in laboratory experiments. Populations of Galerucella had a relatively narrow diet breadth, preferring species of Nuphar, Polygonum, and in 1 case Brasenia, while largely ignoring the remaining macrophytes offered in assays. However, because of interpopulation variation in host preferences, the species G. nymphaeae should be considered polyphagous. Distant populations from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Indiana, and North Carolina collected from Nuphar spp. all readily consumed Nuphar spp. and Polygonum spp., but beetles from a site in south Michigan collected from P. amphibium or from Brasenia schreberi treated Nuphar as a low-preference host. The performance of Galerucella in no-choice assays was clearly related to the behavioral preferences of the larvae: larvae performed well on 3 macrophyte species that they willingly consumed, but performed poorly when they refused to consume alternative host plants and presumably starved to death. It is unknown if the starved beetles could have performed well physiologically if they had eaten alternative hosts. Performance was also related to the quality of host plant, given that beetles collected from Nuphar luteum or N. advena reached a larger adult mass on N. luteum than on N. advena. The feeding preferences of Galerucella were largely non-plastic within a single generation, although there were sometimes behavioral differences among clutchmates raised on different host plants. Morphometric and preliminary allozyme data suggest the North American populations used in this paper are conspecific, but they probably represent a different species than European G. nymphaeae. The intraspecific variation of our North American G. nymphaeae in host preferences and performance suggests that at least 2 different ecotypes occur in North America.
09-120R|Spatial complexity in metacommunities can be separated into 3 main components: size (i.e., number of habitat patches), spatial arrangement of habitat patches (network topology), and diversity of habitat patch types. Much attention has been paid to lattice-type networks, such as patch-based metapopulations, but interest in understanding ecological networks of alternative geometries is building. Dendritic ecological networks (DENs) include some increasingly threatened ecological systems, such as caves and streams. The restrictive architecture of dendritic ecological networks might have overriding implications for species persistence. I used a modeling approach to investigate how number and spatial arrangement of habitat patches influence metapopulation extinction risk in 2 DENs of different size and topology. Metapopulation persistence was higher in larger networks, but this relationship was mediated by network topology and the dispersal pathways used to navigate the network. Larger networks, especially those with greater topological complexity, generally had lower extinction risk than smaller and less-complex networks, but dispersal bias and magnitude affected the shape of this relationship. Applying these general results to real systems will require empirical data on the movement behavior of organisms and will improve our understanding of the implications of network complexity on population and community patterns and processes.
4499007|Dissolved inorganic N fluxes, including nitrification and denitrification rates, were measured in situ under dark and light conditions using epilithic biofilms from a 6
10.2307/1467851| The life histories of Ameletus celer and A. similior were compared at Ford Creek and Elbow Creek, two sites in the same drainage system that differed in their annual temperature regimes. We used electrophoresis to identify very small larvae and to determine parasitism by a mermithid nematode. Ameletus similior had an overwintering egg diapause and a univoltine summer cycle at both sites. Ameletus celer eggs appeared to take about 1 yr to hatch and larvae took a further year to develop at the warmer site but 2 yr at the colder site. Both species were parasitized by a mermithid nematode, the prevalence of parasitism reaching 10% in the A. celer population at the colder site. Parasitism had the effect of prolonging larval life by 2 mo, and parasitized mayflies laid no eggs, even if they survived to adulthood. Temperature and larval size had significant effects on growth rates in the laboratory but larvae of both species of mayfly grew at the same rate at each temperature between 0.6C and 18C. The number of day-degrees at the colder site was sufficient to allow the smaller A. similior to mature in one year, but not the larger A. celer. Extension of physiological time to complete the life cycle at the colder site could not be satisfactorily explained by delayed development, a thermal minimum above 0C, a nonlinear relationship between temperature and growth rate, placement of recruitment within the thermal cycle, food supply, or parasitism. However, some extension of the life cycle in A. celer may be achieved by increase in final size. 
20491173|The approaches that researchers use to generate knowledge typically vary with the state of knowledge within a discipline: description of phenomena during early phases, documentation of patterns and explanatory proposals during intermediate stages, and tests of causal hypotheses and theory building during mature stages. Ideally, the approaches used will result in the most efficient maturation of knowledge given the current state of knowledge. However, this idea has seldom been examined for freshwater benthic science, a habitat-based discipline. We evaluated the research approaches used by recent authors of papers published in the
40792659|Benthic diatom assemblages respond to changes in water quality, and this response is evidenced by shifts in taxonomic composition. As a result, several taxon-based indices have been developed for monitoring purposes. Some authors have suggested that diatom body size might provide a simpler method for bioassessment than taxonomy-based approaches. Moreover, current knowledge of algal ecology suggests that the slopes and intercepts of density size distributions should vary with environmental characteristics. However, results from studies of the relationship between algal size and trophic variables including P have been mixed. Our objectives were to examine normalized density size distributions and richness size distributions of benthic diatoms in streams along a gradient of agricultural land use to determine whether the size distributions changed in relation to environmental variables. Benthic diatoms from 29 streams in eastern Canada were identified and average body size measurements were obtained for each taxon. Normalized density size distributions and richness size distributions were plotted, and slopes and intercepts were compared among sites using general linear models (GLMs). Despite taxonomic differences in the assemblages, slopes of the normalized density size distributions did not differ among the 29 sites, and distribution shape and intercepts for the richness size distributions did not differ among sites. The intercepts of the normalized density size distributions were significantly different among sites, and this variation was attributed in part to the effect of several environmental variables including N and P. However, this difference in intercepts represented a change in density across all size classes, rather than a size-specific change. Environmental variables did not explain a significant amount of the variance in the shapes of density or richness size distributions. These results suggest that the slopes of lotic benthic diatom size distributions do not differ in response to environmental variables including P. Thus, benthic diatom body size should not be used as a proxy for nutrient status in environmental monitoring.
40792503|Approximately 0.5 million km of tropical stream channel are modified by catchment deforestation annually, but the consequences of this process for community structure are poorly understood because of a dearth of data from tropical regions. We compared the algal communities of epilithic biofilms from 3 tropical rainforest streams draining Ranomafana National Park (RNP) in eastern Madagascar and 3 open-canopy streams draining RNPs deforested peripheral zone. Forest and open-canopy streams differed in canopy cover and mean water temperature but did not differ in substrate composition or major nutrient chemistry. We recorded 137 algal taxa, of which 45% can be considered endemic or potentially endemic. Deforestation had significant effects on algal community structure. Complete separation between forest and open-canopy streams was observed in nonmetric multidimensional scaling ordinations based on species cell densities, species presenceabsence, and cell densities of algal growth forms. Forest streams were characterized by higher species richness and cell densities of motile and solitary growth forms (e.g.,
10.2307/1467434| The mayfly Cloeodes hydation (Baetidae, Ephemeroptera) inhabits ephemeral, rain-filled rock pools as well as pools, springs, and brooks of longer duration in savanna woodlands of the northern Pantanal region, Brazil. Larvae have the ability to tolerate repeated exposure to air for up to 9 h at a time, as confirmed by laboratory experiments. This tolerance is apparently advantageous in the highly dynamic, unpredictable habitat conditions, especially when pools are successively wet and dry almost daily during the end of the rainy season. Survival of larvae depended on the presence of sediment, and was always followed by moulting. Inducible and repeated moulting showed that numbers of moults and instars were not always indicative of development. We present data on C. hydation abundance in 2 rock pools throughout 1 y. From these data, larval development was estimated to require between 19 and 25 d (24-29C). 
10.2307/1467920|The larva and pupa of Cochliopsyche vazquezae Flint are described, representing the first complete description of these stages for the genus. The larva is characterized by the possession of a prominent patch of setae on the anterolateral margin of the head capsule and by a marked concavity in the postgenal region, giving a "hollowed out" appearance to the posterolateral aspect of the head. Pupae bear a similar group of setae below and mesad of the eye. Notes on the biology and habitat of C. vazquezae in Costa Rica are given.
1468476|We tested the hypotheses that groundwatersurface water exchange regimes affect spatial distribution of algal biomass and Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) taxa in main-channel riffle habitats of 2 northwestern Montana rivers flowing through alluvial flood plains. We used a stratified random design to sample riffles with contrasting groundwatersurface water exchange regimes, but with similar bedform, current velocity, and substrata grain size. We examined general patterns of exchange between river channel and hyporheic zone waters by measuring vertical hydraulic gradients (VHG) and hydraulic conductivities using mini-piezometers. Riffles near the upstream limit of each flood plain were characterized by strong, hyporheic recharge (VHG, downwelling), whereas riffles throughout the lower half of each flood plain were characterized by weak, dispersed hyporheic discharge (+VHG, upwelling). There were no differences in mean seston concentrations between riffles on either flood plain within any season. Although mean algal biomass was not significantly different across seasons, maximum biomass was generally higher in upwelling zone riffles (+VHG) than in downwelling zone riffles (VHG). Variation in algal standing crop in upwelling riffles was 30% greater than in downwelling riffles. There was no difference in mean EPT density between upwelling and downwelling sites. However, there were species-specific responses to differential hyporheic exchange, which were correlated with differences in algal biomass and VHG. The results of our study suggest that hyporheic exchange patterns influence physical habitat structure of main-channel riffles, and affect the distribution and abundance of algae and EPT macroinvertebrates in these habitats.
4095652|The use of species traits to characterize the functional composition of benthic invertebrate communities has become well established in the ecological literature. This approach holds much potential for predicting changes of both species and species assemblages along environmental gradients in terms of traits that are sensitive to local environmental conditions. Further, in the burgeoning field of biomonitoring, a functional approach provides a predictive basis for understanding community-level responses along gradients of environmental alteration caused by humans. Despite much progress in recent years, the full potential of the functional traits-based approach is currently limited by several factors, both conceptual and methodological. Most notably, we lack adequate understanding of how individual traits are intercorrelated and how this lack of independence among traits reflects phylogenetic (evolutionary) constraint. A better understanding is needed if we are to make the transition from a largely univariate approach that considers single-trait responses along single environmental gradients to a multivariate one that more realistically accounts for the responses of many traits across multiple environmental gradients characteristic of most human-dominated landscapes. Our primary objective in this paper is to explore the issue of inter-trait correlations for lotic insects and to identify opportunities and challenges for advancing the theory and application of traits-based approaches in stream community ecology. We created a new database on species-trait composition of North American lotic insects. Using published accounts and expert opinion, we collected information on 20 species traits (in 59 trait states) that fell into 4 broad categories: life-history, morphological, mobility, and ecological. First, we demonstrate the importance of considering how the linkage of specific trait states within a taxon is critical to developing a more-robust traits-based community ecology. Second, we examine the statistical correlations among traits and trait states for the 311 taxa to identify trait
4095731|Freshwater invertebrate conservation faces 5 important challenges. First, 10,000 species of freshwater invertebrates around the world may already be extinct or imperiled. Second, human pressures on freshwater resources are intense and will increase in the coming decades, putting yet more species at risk. Third, scientific knowledge about freshwater invertebrates, although substantial and useful for many groups, is far less than for the vertebrates for which much of contemporary conservation biology was designed. Even the best-known freshwater invertebrates that have achieved legal protection are perhaps 1% as well studied as the typical vertebrate. Fourth, because freshwater ecosystems are downhill from and embedded in their watersheds, freshwater conservation usually has to manage entire watersheds rather than small local sites where imperiled species occur. Fifth, society spends only modest amounts of money for freshwater invertebrate conservation. The median expenditure in Fiscal Year 2003 for freshwater invertebrate species on the US Endangered Species List was only US$24,000, and only a small minority of imperiled species is listed and receives even this modest attention. Considering these serious challenges, I believe that we need to think deliberately about the best approaches for conserving freshwater invertebrate biodiversity. The best solution may be to move away from a species-based approach that is largely derived from a terrestrial model towards broader, regional approaches that try to satisfy legitimate human needs for fresh water while preserving as much biodiversity as possible.
1468303|Research on North American prairie stream communities has lagged behind other regions. We examined the ecosystem significance of the macroinvertebrate community of riffle/run habitats in Kings Creek, a 2
41319684|In this experimental study, conducted in coastal Oregon USA, we examined how small increases in summer water temperatures affected aquatic insect growth and autumn emergence. We maintained naturally fluctuating temperatures from 2 nearby streams and a 3
10.2307/1467578|Diel periodicities of mate attraction and flight activity were examined for three caddisfly species (Insecta:Trichoptera) that use female sex pheromones to attract conspecific males: Dicosmoecus gilvipes (Hagen) (Limnephilidae), Gumaga nigricula (McL.) (Sericostomatidae), and Gumaga griseola (McL.). Live females of D. gilvipes attracted males during the night, with 58% of the males being captured in the first hour after sunset. Live females of G. griseola attracted 97% of the males during the hour before sunrise whereas live females of G. nigricula attracted 85% of the males 2-4 h after sunrise. For all three species, the periodicity of male response to female pheromone was the same as the periodicity of male response to live females. In laboratory chambers, male and female D. gilvipes flew during the mate attraction period but generally not at other times. Male flight for G. nigricula and G. griseola was generally most intense during periods of mate attraction, and was reduced during non-attraction periods. In contrast, females of both Gumaga species were relatively sedentary during periods of mate attraction. The presence of circadian rhythms that govern the periodicity of flight was demonstrated for all taxa and sexes except females of D. gilvipes. Light intensity and air temperature influenced the amount of flight activity but not flight periodicity. The temporally brief and coordinated activities of these short-lived adults may serve to conserve metabolic resources, contribute to their reproductive success, and maintain reproductive isolation.
10.2307/1468143| We sampled Doe Run, Kentucky to search for habitat-mediated differences in the abundance and size distribution of a pleurocerid grazer, Elimia semicarinata, predicted by the literature. Adult density was 3 greater in a slow-flow, sunny habitat, than in faster flowing or shaded habitats where densities were similar. Adult size was greatest in slow-flow habitats, and smallest in habitats with faster current velocities. In comparison, juvenile densities were greater in habitats with faster current velocities. Linear regressions indicated that both adult density and size were negatively related to current velocity, but that juvenile abundance was positively related to current velocity; none of the variables were significantly affected by light levels. Periphyton biomass (both chlorophyll a concentration and ash-free dry mass) was generally greater in slow-flow, sunny habitats, and lower in habitats with faster current velocities, suggesting current velocity may indirectly affect snail size distributions by altering food resources. Differences in gastropod size and density were maintained among habitats even though a field experiment suggested rapid colonization rates in all habitats. An experiment with in situ flow baffles revealed that the number and size of snails colonizing flow refugia increased only in habitats with faster current velocities. Taken together, our results suggest that adults may select flow refugia, while juveniles avoid them, and that pleurocerid population dynamics are influenced by current velocity directly by shear stress, or indirectly by effects of current velocity on periphyton biomass. Future studies of grazer-periphyton interactions should take such complexities into account. 
1468123|Fluorescently labeled spores of the clubmoss
1468355|Secondary production estimates from several Rocky Mountain streams were used to test hypotheses about the effects of chronic metal contamination on insect populations and ecosystem processes. Quantitative samples of chemistry, habitat, and benthic insects were collected monthly during the ice-free period (MayNovember) from five 2
10.2307/1468332| We tested 4 current hypotheses about how trout predation and habitat structure affect lentic invertebrate assemblages. The hypotheses were 1) trout predation affects larger-bodied species and individuals more strongly than small ones, 2) brook and cutthroat trout affect invertebrates differently because of species-specific feeding preferences, 3) the effects of predation by both trout species are less pronounced in structurally complex habitats than in simpler ones, and 4) physical habitat is more important than predation in structuring benthic communities. These hypotheses were tested by comparing how abundance and individual size of both benthic and pelagic invertebrates varied among 47 mountain lakes that differed in both the presence of trout and bottom substrate complexity. We created a 3  3 factor, replicated natural experiment by sampling lakes that differed in their trout stocking history and bottom type. Trout treatments included no fish, cutthroat trout only, and brook trout only. Bottom types included sand, cobble, and vegetation. Densities of large benthic (e.g., caddis larvae, Hemiptera, and amphipods) and planktonic (Chaoborus and some Diaptomidae) taxa were 3- to 7-times less abundant in lakes with trout than without. Trout also appeared to reduce the mean body size of the 2 most common zooplankton taxa (Daphnia rosea and diaptomid copepods) by 25%, although mean size of benthic taxa was unrelated to the presence of trout. Three taxa (Lumbriculus, Daphnia rosea, and cyclopoid copepods) had substantially higher abundances in the presence of trout, implying that trout benefit some taxa by altering the flow of resources to different components of the food web. Differences in benthic and pelagic assemblages between lakes with brook and cutthroat trout were subtle. Abundances of benthic invertebrates varied up to 54-fold among the 3 habitat treatments, with highest abundances in macrophytes. However, differences in habitat did not appear to mediate effects of trout predation on benthic invertebrate assemblages. 
40792566|Wetland or stream drying can be a severe disturbance for aquatic animals, but the severity of a drying disturbance is context dependent. We used a controlled drying experiment to investigate the resistance of populations of 2 crayfish species (
41319691|Stream ecosystems receive and transport nutrients from terrestrial ecosystems and are important sites of N retention and removal in catchments. Many streams experience high anthropogenic N loading, which can overwhelm N retention and removal mechanisms and cause large downstream fluxes. Small, headwater streams are important sites of N retention, but the role of streams in larger catchments or as discharge increases is less clear. We evaluated how NO
10.2307/1467722|Streamwater chemistry in six streams draining adjacent, undisturbed catchments of volcanic origin in northwestern Costa Rica was monitored between 1990 and 1993. The catchments ranged from 0.36 to 3.2 km<sup>2</sup> in area, and from 600 to 1300 m in elevation. Rainfall averaged 2.4 m/yr at 600 m but was unmeasured and probably much greater at higher elevations. Runoff among the catchments ranged from 1.4 to 4.3 m/yr, with approximately 84% occurring during the May-December rainy season. Within individual streams, concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup>, total dissolved phosphorus (TDP), and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) increased with streamflow while Ca<sup>2+</sup>, Mg<sup>2+</sup>, and Na<sup>+</sup> decreased with streamflow. K<sup>+</sup> showed little response to streamflow. Among streams, flow-weighted mean concentrations of NO<sub>3</sub><sup>-</sup> (0.12-0.30 mg/L), DOC (0.63-1.79 mg/L), and TDP (0.008-0.029 mg/L) were intercorrelated and varied inversely with annual runoff. DOC concentrations were low compared with data from other tropical streams. Annual exports (kg ha<sup>-1</sup>yr<sup>-1</sup>) for these solutes were relatively uniform among catchments, suggesting that differences in runoff explain much of the stream-to-stream differences in solute concentrations. Cation exports were also relatively uniform among five of the streams, but were distinctly higher in the remaining stream, which is also enriched in SO<sub>4</sub><sup>2-</sup> and Cl<sup>-</sup>, and may receive water from a geothermal source.
10.2307/1467781| Photosynthetic activity and nickel sorption by stream periphyton were examined in relation to light intensity. Ceramic tiles supporting moderate levels of periphyton were placed in laboratory microcosms and exposed to nickel ion and <sup>14</sup>C-labeled sodium bicarbonate. Sorption of nickel increased hyperbolically as light intensity increased from zero to 300 mol quanta m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-1</sup>; this response was similar to the photosynthesis-irradiance relationship for periphyton collected from the same site. Nickel sorption with light was up to 76% greater than nickel sorption in the dark. Dark-related nickel sorption was likely attributable to sorption by hydrous iron and manganese oxides and to passive biotic sorption. These results suggest an important relationship between nickel sorption and photosynthesis, which may be a result of active uptake, adsorption through cation exchange, or nickel precipitation. 
10.2307/1467932|Radular structure and grazing effects of six snail species were examined to determine if differences in radular morphology might be related to resource partitioning through the selective removal of attached algae. Nutrient-releasing clay pots were incubated inside grazer exclosures in Douglas Lake, Michigan, for 25 days to generate a uniform growth of attached algae. The pots were collected, gently rinsed of loose material, and placed in laboratory aquaria. Five individuals of each snail (Physella gyrina, P. parkerii, Lymnaea emarginata, L. stagnalis, Helisoma anceps, and Elimia livescers) were each allowed to graze on a separate piece of clay pot. Algae on grazed and ungrazed substrata were examined using SEM and light microscopy. All snails visibly reduced algal density, leaving clearly defined grazing trails. The prosobranch Elimia livescens was significantly less effective (p < 0.05) than all pulmonates in removing attached algae. There were no significant differences among pulmonate species in grazing effect. The results indicate that variations in radular structure may be relatively more important in determining different grazing capabilities between prosobranchs and pulmonates, rather than between closely related species of the latter. If food resources are limiting to snails in this system, factors other than selective ingestion, e.g., behavioral differences, may also be operating to reduce competition.
40792578|Headwater streams dominate natural landscapes and provide essential functions for downstream waters. However, because of minimal legal protection, they often are piped or buried to accommodate urban growth. Urbanization also alters stream base flows. The combined impact of these factors on channel location is unknown. We assessed the effects of urbanization on the location and length of ephemeral, intermittent, and perennial streams. We randomly selected 150 of 6686 potential channel origins in Hamilton County (Cincinnati), Ohio, USA, for field assessments, and mapped 122 ephemeral, 74 intermittent, and 45 perennial flow origins in these channels. On average, 1:100,000- and 1:24,000-scale US Geological Survey maps underestimated channel length by 85% and 78%, respectively. Mean catchment areas for ephemeral and intermittent flow origins were smaller in forested (0.66 ha and 3.60 ha, respectively) than in urban areas (5.13 ha and 6.79 ha, respectively). These values indicate 93% and 46% county-wide losses of ephemeral and intermittent channel length, respectively, with urbanization. In contrast, the mean catchment area for perennial flow origins was larger in forested (48.12 ha) than in urban (31.22 ha) areas, resulting in a 22% gain in perennial channel length with urban development. Increased perennial channel length was partially explained by reduced forest cover, a result suggesting that reduced evapotranspiration can significantly increase stream base flows. Most variation (5974%) in catchment area of ephemeral, intermittent, and perennial flow origins was explained by catchment relief, with higher relief corresponding to smaller catchments. Urbanization can decrease (e.g., via reduced infiltration) or increase (e.g., via lawn irrigation and septic tanks) the permanence of flows, thus confounding any overall effect of urban land cover on hydrologic permanence. Site-specific differences in physiography (e.g., bedrock, springs) and landscape management (e.g., stream impoundments) suggest that field surveys are necessary for accurate stream delineation. These results highlight the extensive effects of urbanization on the presence and hydrologic permanence of headwater streams, raise issues with current jurisdictional policy in the US, and emphasize the need to examine the cumulative effects of headwater stream loss on downstream ecosystems.
10.2307/1467380|Studies were conducted at three locations in the Lower Salmon River, Idaho (USA) and at one Upper Salmon "calibration" site to extend results of previous research (headwater through 5-6th-order [1-814 links] streams) to an 8th-order (15,000 links) river. Transported organic matter (TOM) generally increased downstream. Coarse TOM was prevalent only in the upper 50 km of the system, and ultrafine was the predominant particulate component throughout the system. Stored (benthic) organic matter (OM) was highest in the headwaters and showed a progressive downstream decrease. The headwaters were highly retentive of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) but much less so of the fine and ultrafine fractions. Transported and stored OM approached a balance only in the lowermost (deeper) reaches of the river system. Analyses of the components of ecosystem metabolism revealed that gross primary production and respiration (R) both showed a general downstream increase. Overall, the net metabolism measurements showed that R was predominant in the upstream reaches, autotrophy prevailed in the middle reaches, and R was again predominant at the farthest downstream site. Insect functional feeding-group patterns apparently were altered in their relative abundances from that predicted by the River Continuum Concept by lower than expected deciduous CPOM-loading in the headwaters and high sediment transport into the mid-reaches from a major tributary (East Fork). Although shredders were prevalent in headwater reaches, they were less abundant than predicted. Gatherers were dominant in the upper reaches and filterers in the mid-sized reaches above East Fork. Scrapers increased progressively downstream in relative abundance. Spiraling and retention measurements revealed a general downstream increase in the rate of movement of OM; turnover length of carbon increased progressively downstream. The ratio of mean water velocity: rate of downstream movement of OM indicated that the export of organic carbon was reduced 3500-fold in headwaters relative to that of mean water velocity whereas the lower reaches behaved more like a conduit with carbon atoms passing through at a rate comparable to water velocity. In spite of the cold and arid climate in which the Salmon River Basin is located and the low allochthonous input from deciduous plants, the data generally support the basic premises of the River Continuum Concept.
4095721|The salt marshes of the Empord wetlands are subjected to both physical variability, caused by hydrological fluctuations, and nutrient variability. We assessed which of these sources of variability most influenced nematode assemblages in 5 basins in the wetlands. One of these basins was permanently inundated, but the hydroperiods of the others were variable. Taxonomic composition and the Maturity Index, which is based on the ecological characteristics of nematodes (r- or K-strategists), were used to describe the assemblages. Variation decomposition analysis showed that nematode assemblages of the Empord wetlands were more influenced by physical variability (18.2% of explained variation), caused by changes in variables such as conductivity and granulometry, than by nutrient variability (3.4% of explained variation). The Maturity Index of the assemblages was related to hydrological disturbance, but not to eutrophy. Cluster analysis based on taxonomic composition separated the permanent basin from the temporary basins. Nematode diversity and genus richness were significantly higher in the permanent basin than in the temporary basins. We conclude that the Maturity Index is valid for assessing hydrological disturbances in fluctuating Mediterranean environments, whereas assemblage parameters such as diversity and richness may not be because they responded to water permanence but not to other environmental factors associated with hydrologic variability.
10.2307/1468138| Although the responses of pelagic algae and invertebrates to gradients of nutrient enrichment are well known, less is known about the responses of benthos to such gradients or how benthic and pelagic responses may interact. We performed a 9-wk experiment in 2000-L mesocosms in the field to test for the effect of water-column nutrient enrichment on phytoplankton, algae on sediments (epipelon) and hard surfaces (plastic strips), as well as pelagic and benthic primary consumers. The experimental design consisted of 4 nutrient enrichment rates (0, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 g P L<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, together with N to yield an N:P ratio of 20:1 by weight). Nutrient enrichment induced significant increases in chlorophyll a in phytoplankton and attached algae, but not epipelon. Zooplankton biomass was significantly higher in enriched mesocosms than in controls over the initial 4 wk of enrichment, but the effect was not sustained over the course of the experiment. Densities of sediment-dwelling, and hard-substrata-associated invertebrates were higher in enriched treatments relative to controls. Emergence of benthic insects also increased with enrichment. Size and species composition of benthic macroinvertebrates differed between enriched treatments and controls. Our results suggest that nutrients added to the water column were quickly converted into benthic biomass, likely reducing pelagic responses to enrichment. 
10.2307/1468010|Alien species (those carried outside their original ranges by human activities) have strongly affected the distribution and abundance of mollusks in many North American fresh waters. The best known of these aliens in North America is the zebra mussel (Dreissena polymorpha), which has nearly extirpated native unionid clams from infested lakes and rivers by fouling their shells and outcompeting them for food. Zebra mussels also have reduced populations of native sphaeriid clams, and both increased and reduced populations of snails. The effects of the other well-known alien bivalve in North America, Corbicula fluminea, are surprisingly poorly known. Corbicula probably caused some populations of native bivalves to decline, but other native populations seem to coexist with Corbicula. Several plausible mechanisms of interaction between Corbicula and the native biota have been proposed, but not demonstrated. Other aliens, including the recently arrived snail Potamopyrgus antipodarum, probably compete strongly with native freshwater mollusks under some circumstances. Several alien species, such as round goby and some sunfishes and crayfishes introduced outside their native ranges in North America, are effective predators on native mollusks and have strong effects on their distribution and abundance. Other aliens (particularly aquatic plants) affect mollusks by altering the food base or the physicochemical environment. Alien species can affect water quality, cycling of contaminants, and performance of biological indices of water quality. Because of ineffective control of aliens in North America, they may be an increasingly important factor in molluscan distribution as new species arrive from other continents and established species spread throughout the continent.
1468322|BRIDGES is a recurring feature of J-NABS intended to provide a forum for the interchange of ideas and information between basic and applied researchers in benthic science. Articles in this series focus on topical research areas and linkages between basic and applied aspects of research, monitoring, policy, and education. Readers with ideas for topics should contact Associate Editors, Nick Aumen and Marty Gurtz.
20491154|Freshwater mussel (Superfamily Unionoidea) communities are important components of food webs, and they link and influence multiple trophic levels. Mussels filter food from both the water column and sediment with ciliated gills. Differences in cilia structure and arrangement might allow mussel species to partition food resources. Mussels are omnivores that feed across trophic levels on bacteria, algae, detritus, zooplankton, and perhaps, dissolved organic matter. Living mussels and their spent shells provide or improve habitat for other organisms by providing physical structure, stabilizing and bioturbating sediments, and influencing food availability directly and indirectly through biodeposition of organic matter and nutrient excretion. Effects of mussel communities on nutrient translocation and cycling depend on mussel abundance, species composition, and environmental conditions. Nutrient-related mussel effects influence multiple trophic levels. Healthy mussel communities occur as multispecies assemblages in which species interactions are probably very important. Food limitation and competition among species have been documented, but so have positive species interactions, and rare species have been shown to benefit energetically from living in species-rich communities. Effects of mussel species on ecosystem services and food webs vary across spatial and temporal scales, and the relative importance of competition and facilitation might change at different scales.
4095740|The invasive North American amphipod
10.2307/1468144|The relationship between microcrustacean assemblage structure and flow habitat was investigated in 9 streams with differing hydraulic characteristics. A series of partial canonical correspondence analyses was used to relate species abundances of microcrustacea to geographical, chemical, hydraulic, and seasonal variables. Once the influence of geography (latitude) on species distributions was removed, the environmental variables accounted for almost 38% of the variation in the combined (all seasons) data set. Circumneutral streams had greater species richness and higher abundance of cosmopolitan species than more acidic streams. The microcrustacean assemblages were distinguished further on the basis of stream hydraulic character. Previous research had categorised the 9 streams into Type I, II, or III depending on the fraction of stream bed retaining low shear stress at high discharge (declining from Types I to III). Taxa that are largely epibenthic in habit tended to be most abundant in Type I streams. These taxa may use as habitat the extensive low shear stress areas present in these streams, enabling their survival even at high discharge. Conversely, taxa that are largely interstitial in habit tended to be most abundant in Type II and III streams. The distribution of interstitial taxa may reflect conditions within the substratum rather than at the surface. The differences in microcrustacean assemblage structure were largely species-specific; the Harpacticoida were the only group to show a consistent pattern in relation to stream hydraulics.
10.2307/1467389|Artificial substrata are increasingly used to study periphyton, but their ability to reproduce natural substrata remains controversial. Although many studies have made contemporaneous comparisons of periphyton assemblages on artificial and natural substrata at one or a few sites, no broadly based comparison exists. We therefore surveyed the literature to establish conditions under which artificial substrata satisfactorily mimic both the quantity and the quality of natural periphyton assemblages. In general, epilithon was underestimated by the artificial substrata; epiphyton was overestimated, but less severely. These trends were significantly affected by the time available for colonization of the artificial substrata before sampling, site trophy, ambient temperature, and whether the study was conducted in a lake or in running water. Neither the composition of the substratum nor its orientation appeared important. Natural diatom assemblages were usually well simulated by those on artificial substrata, whereas both epilithic and epiphytic green and bluegreen algae were severely underrepresented on the artificial substrata. Since artificial substrata often misrepresent both the quantity and the quality of natural periphyton, they should be used with more caution, especially in intersite and interseason surveys.
10.2307/1467743| Four nutrient enrichment bioassay experiments were conducted in Sycamore Creek, Arizona, during summer and autumn 1983. In two experiments, nitrogen and phosphorus were added alone and in combination while in the other experiments nitrogen was added singly. In experiments involving enrichment of both nutrient-diffusing substrates (clay flowerpots) and streamwater overlying tile/gravel artificial substrates, nitrogen enrichment significantly enhanced rates of chlorophyll a accrual, primary production, and nitrogen uptake. Addition of phosphorus either singly or in combination with nitrogen did not result in significant responses of these parameters; thus ambient concentrations of phosphorus were above limiting levels, even when excess nitrogen was supplied. Nitrogen additions stimulated periphyton growth when background nitrate-N concentrations were 0.055 mg/L. We propose that nitrogen limitation is common in the desert Southwest since concentrations lower than this and atomic nitrogen to phosphorus ratios <16 occur in most (82% and 87%, respectively) previously surveyed southwestern streams (n=92). Temporal patterns of chlorophyll a accrual suggest that availability of nitrogen limited the rate of algal increase, but not the ultimate periphyton standing crop. If true, this hypothesis predicts that algal recolonization rates should vary depending on nitrogen supply. In desert streams, flood disturbances reduce algal standing crops to near zero, but postflood recovery periods may be quite long. Nitrogen limitation in desert streams thus may exert strong influence on rates and patterns of algal recolonization following floods. 
20491222|Capture and quantitative analysis of the motion of organisms is a powerful tool that can be used in diverse biological fields including physiology, behavior, kinematics, and ecology. A number of high-end commercial motion capture and analysis systems that offer a wide array of features and image capture and analysis capabilities are available. However, few, if any, such systems are low cost and could be used for projects with small budgets or by researchers interested in collecting pilot data before upgrading to an expensive motion capture and analysis system. Our paper describes a low-cost (<$US1000, not including the cost of the computer) motion capture and analysis system that simultaneously captures live video from 5 digital video cameras (Unibrain Fire-i FireWire [IEEE 1394]) using standard security camera software (SecuritySpy 1.3.1). The video analyses are carried out using a combination of standard spreadsheet software (Microsoft Excel) and a freeware image-analysis program (NIH Image J), with one of the available particle-tracking plugins. Tests using New Zealand mudsnails (
40792583|We examined the influence of land use/land cover (LULC) on macroinvertebrate assemblages and environmental conditions in streams draining 18 small watersheds in the Southern Outer Piedmont ecoregion in Georgia, USA, over a 24-mo period of record. Specifically, we analyzed relationships among LULC categories (i.e., % impervious surface [IS], pasture, silviculture, and deciduous/evergreen forest) and hydrological, physicochemical, and benthic habitat variables, and macroinvertebrate metrics. Macroinvertebrate metrics were related primarily to % IS and % deciduous forest cover, with lowest biotic integrity (species diversity, taxon richness, biological stream condition index) found in high % IS watersheds. Biotic integrity declined with decreasing % forest cover throughout the seasons, and multiple regression models and partial correlation analysis revealed that physicochemical and benthic habitat variables explained more variation in macroinvertebrate metrics throughout the seasons than did hydrological variables at most sites. Based on nonmetric multidimensional scaling, heavily urbanized sites were strongly separated from all other sites in terms of assemblage structure. Total ordination distance among seasonal samples from the same sites increased as % forest cover increased. This pattern might have arisen because urbanized streams had high abundances of a few tolerant, persistent taxa and lacked many ephemeral taxa found in less disturbed systems. The influence of anthropogenic LULC on macroinvertebrate assemblages appears to be consistent throughout the year and reduces seasonal changes in assemblages. LULC-associated differences among assemblages are strongly associated with changes in physicochemistry and benthic habitat conditions that probably are mediated by hydrological alterations associated with altered LULC in the watersheds of this region.
10.2307/1468466| Selection of a representative stream reach is implicitly or explicitly recommended in many biomonitoring protocols using benthic invertebrates. We evaluated the adequacy of sampling a single stream reach selected on the basis of its appearance. We 1st demonstrated the precision of our within-reach sampling. Then we sampled 3 or 4 reaches (each 20 mean width) within an 8-16 km segment on each of 8 streams in 3 ecoregions and calculated 4 common metrics: 1) total taxa; 2) Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera taxa; 3) biotic index; and 4) Shannon's diversity index. In only 6% of possible cases was the coefficient of variation for any of the metrics reduced >10% by sampling additional reaches. Sampling a 2nd reach on a stream improved the ability to detect impairment by an average of only 9.3%. Sampling a 3rd reach on a stream additionally improved ability to detect impairment by only 4.5%. We concluded that a single well-chosen reach, if adequately sampled, can be representative of an entire stream segment, and sampling additional reaches within a segment may not be cost effective. 
1468315|Native unionid mussel populations have recently declined throughout North America as a result of zebra mussel (
4498993|Delivery of water, sediments, nutrients, and organic matter to stream ecosystems is strongly influenced by the catchment of the stream and can be altered greatly by upland soil and vegetation disturbance. At the Fort Benning Military Installation (near Columbus, Georgia), spatial variability in intensity of military training results in a wide range of intensities of upland disturbance in stream catchments. A set of 8 streams in catchments spanning this upland disturbance gradient was selected for investigation of the impact of disturbance intensity on hydrodynamics and nutrient uptake. The size of transient storage zones and rates of NH
1468111|We examined the ability of 5 a priori landscape classifications (3 sizes of catchments, ecoregions, and life zones) to partition observed variation in the composition of stream invertebrate assemblages. Analyses were based on 254 unimpaired sites from montane streams in California and 1912 sites from several regions of the United States. Estimates of classification strength (
41318724|We examined latitudinal patterns of generic richness in stream insects across the Mackenzie River system in northern Canada. We focused on low- to mid-order tributaries flowing into the river and spanning 11 of latitude. Physical-habitat characteristics and water chemistry were examined as factors affecting diversity both at the local and regional scale. No overall latitudinal trend was found in richness, but trends were apparent at the order level. Local generic richness of Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera declined toward the north, Trichoptera generic richness was lowest in the middle of the latitudinal range, and Diptera generic richness increased with latitude. Most orders of aquatic insects followed the expected decline in richness with increasing latitude, but the family Chironomidae was an exception, probably because of their ability to tolerate subarctic environmental conditions and because of the relative absence of potential predation and competition from other invertebrates. Streams were characterized along principal component axes corresponding to stream size and terrain, substrate, water source, and turbidity. Most groups were slightly more diverse in larger streams. Ephemeroptera and Plecoptera had higher richness on coarse substrates, and Trichoptera had lower richness in streams in the Norman Range that possessed unique hydrology and water-chemistry characteristics because of the presence of taliks. Chironomid richness was positively correlated with latitude and stream size. Latitudinal gradients in regional diversity largely followed the trends in local richness, but all taxa had small regional numbers of genera near the middle of the latitudinal range, and a decline in overall aquatic insect richness between the south and north was more apparent at the regional scale. We conclude that regional environmental factors control the maximum richness that can be expected in a locality at a given latitude, whereas local environmental factors control the number of taxa present at a site. Spatial gradients in benthic insect richness are likely to affect the applicability of biomonitoring metrics that use groups whose richness varies with latitude.
1468356|Benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages, environmental variables, and associated mine density were evaluated during the summer of 2000 at 18 reference and test sites in the Coeur dAlene and St. Regis River basins, northwestern USA as part of the US Geological Surveys National Water-Quality Assessment Program. Concentrations of Cd, Pb, and Zn in water and (or) streambed sediment at test sites in basins where production mine density was 0.2 mines/km
4499034|Macroinvertebrate secondary production was estimated for 2 reaches in each of 3 adjacent forested headwater streams. We had 3 objectives: 1) to compare macroinvertebrate secondary production and community structure both within and among streams to examine the spatial extent of variability, 2) to explore important habitat variables related to secondary production, and 3) to compare our secondary production values to values from other headwater streams in deciduous forests. Principal components analysis separated study streams on the basis of small differences in substrate composition, organic-matter standing crops, and instream wood, but geology, riparian tree species composition, and fine benthic organic-matter standing crops were similar among streams. Secondary production varied among streams (range 1.2 to 3.3 g ash-free dry mass m
20491164|We evaluated the effects of periphyton elemental composition on the rate and ratios of N and P excretions by heptageniid mayfly larvae (Ephemeroptera). We predicted that excretion N:P ratios would relate primarily to mismatches between periphyton N:P and mayfly N:P. We immersed periphyton grown in a stream above (inlet: high N) and below (outlet: low N) a lake in P-amended or control (no P) water for 12 h to increase periphyton P content and reduce periphyton N:P. We then measured release rates and ratios of N and P from
40792517|We examined the relationships between channelization, environmental characteristics, and plant communities in 4 streams (Betz, Clry, Lunain, and Ecole Rivers) southeast of Paris, France, with the goal of assessing stream health. Seventeen 100-m-long reaches, each divided into a pool/riffle sequence, were monitored in 2006. Each reach had 0 to 3 channelization structures (i.e., embanking, resectioning, and other man-made structures). Redundancy analysis and mean-comparison tests done at 2 spatial scales (reach scale and pool/riffle sequence scale) indicated that channelization significantly affected flow velocity, depth, substrate type, and number of pools/riffles (4 of 24 variables considered). Physical characteristics of the streams were significantly more affected by channelization than were chemical characteristics. Moreover, different channelization structures affected the streams differently. Resectioning and embanking reduced flow velocity and the number of riffles and increased the number of pools. However, man-made structures either accelerated (downstream) or reduced flow velocity (upstream). Channelization strongly affected floristic richness on the basis of biological type (vascular plants, bryophytes, macroalgae) and ecomorphological type (hydrophytes, helophytes) at the pool/riffle sequence scale. Channelization led to taxonomic shifts and loss of biodiversity. Vascular plant taxa such as
10.2307/1467707|Larvae of Stenacron interpunctatum (Ephemeroptera:Heptageniidae) were observed feeding under naturalistic conditions using macroscopic video techniques. The stereotypic feeding behavior is depicted as a cycle consisting of stages of coordinated movement of the entire suite of mandibulate mouthparts. Depending on experimental conditions this behavioral cycle was modified to enable individuals to brush loosely accreted material from the substratum, gather detritus from deposits, or passively filter detritus from the current. Larvae were most successful in feeding on loose particles of detritus. When presented with attached algae, larvae would attempt to brush the material from the substratum using the labial and maxillary palps with little success in removing tightly accreted material. Feeding observations combined with field and laboratory data on gut content and microhabitat distribution data suggest that S. interpunctatum larvae are opportunistic collectors (gatherers).
10.2307/1467344| The reproductive ecology of the freshwater, unionid mussel Elliptio complanata was studied by mapping a 6-m  7-m segment of a population found in a uniform area of the sandy littoral zone of Lac de l'Achigan, Qubec. The contents of the marsupia were examined in mussels collected between spawning and larval release. Although unrelated to spatial aggregation, the number of ova carried by mussels varied with body size in a manner that suggests extremely late maturation followed by reproductive senescence in the largest mussels. Egg production was 1-2 orders of magnitude greater than that of other poikilotherms of equivalent mass. Fertilization success was strongly correlated with spatial aggregation, with complete fertilization failure found at local densities of <10 mussels /m<sup>2</sup>, >50% successful when local densities were >18 mussels /m<sup>2</sup>, and 100% successful only in patches where local densities exceeded 40 mussels /m<sup>2</sup>. Fertilization failure is probably frequent at mussel densities found in most lakes. Our data suggest that perturbations altering the density, aggregation, or size distribution of mussel populations may have serious consequences for the maintenance of viable populations. 
09-121R|The insect orders Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) are particularly important for freshwater ecological and biomonitoring studies, but difficulties in their identification to species level impede research. DNA barcoding provides a solution to this problem by linking newly collected specimens to a reference library of authoritatively identified specimens. Here, we consider the ways in which patterns of intraspecific and interspecific genetic divergences in the barcode region can provide rapid insights into the taxonomic identity, morphological features, and geographical distributions of species. Our study led to a >5 increase in the EPT fauna, including 68 caddisfly, 37 mayfly, and 7 stonefly species, recorded from Churchill. DNA barcoding also aided detection of rare taxa, allowed identification of otherwise unidentifiable life stages, revealed several potentially new species of caddisflies and mayflies, and suggested the presence of cryptic species. The new insights into this fauna and the strong congruence between morphological and molecular characters affirm the utility of DNA barcoding for rapid characterization of the diversity of EPT faunas. We also explore the phenology and habitat preferences of Churchills trichopterans and demonstrate that comprehensive sampling is important for documenting biodiversity through DNA barcoding.
1468429|Nutrient uptake length is an important parameter for quantifying nutrient cycling in streams. Although nutrient tracer additions are the preferred method for measuring uptake length under ambient nutrient concentrations, short-term nutrient addition experiments have more frequently been used to estimate uptake length in streams. Theoretical analysis of the relationship between uptake length determined by nutrient addition experiments (S
40792491|Unionid mussels are among the largest and longest-lived invertebrates in shallow benthic communities, where they often make up most of the biomass. However, they spend their juvenile stages and extended periods of their adult lives buried in the sediments and emerge from the sediments only during part of the year. I tested whether the magnitude and timing of emergence of
1468129|Qualitative sampling is recommended over quantitative sampling when the objective of a mussel survey is to find rare or endangered species. Although advice on how to conduct quadrat surveys is available, there is little information on the influence of sampling effort on the effectiveness of timed searches. We conducted timed searches for mussels at 28 sites on 5 rivers in southwestern Ontario using 4.5 person-hours (p-h) of sampling effort/site. The survey period was divided into 3 equal time intervals, and the number of species and individual mussels collected within each interval were recorded. Increasing the sampling effort dramatically improved the detection of rare species. Sampling for 1.5 p-h, which is the level of effort commonly used in timed search surveys, would have resulted in < of the rare species being found and would have underestimated species richness by an average of 37%. Seventy percent of encounters with 3 federally endangered species took place during the 2
1468481|The biochemical composition of lake and stream sediments was analyzed and compared to growth and survival of detritivorous larvae of the midge
20491197|The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conducted a Wadeable Stream Assessment (WSA) of all wadeable streams and rivers in the conterminous US between 1999 and 2005. The assessment was led by the EPA Office of Water, in cooperation with EPA regions, states, tribal nations, and the EPA Office of Research and Development (ORD). The WSA was implemented as 2 large-scale regional surveys of streams and rivers. Both studies used EPAs River Reach File (RF3) as the basis for the sample frame. The Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) Western Pilot Study, conducted by ORD in cooperation with EPA Regions 8, 9, and 10 and 12 western states, assessed all streams and rivers in the 12 western states (EMAP-West). A stratified, unequal probability survey design (50 sites/state and additional sites in 5 intensive study areas) was used to select sites from all streams and river segments coded as perennial in RF3. The unequal selection depended on Strahler order, aggregated Omernik level III ecoregion, and special study region. The WSA study used the EMAP-West wadeable streams (WSA-West) and implemented a new design for the remaining 36 eastern conterminous states (WSA-East). The WSA-East design was an unequal probability survey design with unequal selection depending on Strahler order, Omernik Level II ecoregion, and EPA region. RF3 includes 5.29 million km of rivers and streams, of which 39% (2.07 million km) are coded as perennial. The WSA sample frame included 2.84 million km of streams (54% of the total length in RF3), of which 2.24 million km were in WSA-East and 0.60 million km were in WSA-West. Each selected site was classified on the basis of wadeability and the presence of flowing water. The estimated length of wadeable streams and rivers in the 48 conterminous states was 1.30  0.025 (SE) million km (45.7  1.1% of the stream length in the sample frame). Of this wadeable stream length, 78.6  1.0% (1.02 million km) was estimated to be appropriate for sampling. Nationally, 11.5  0.8% and 5.2  0.6% of this length could not be sampled because of access denial or physical inaccessibility, respectively. The proportion of length affected by access denial was higher in Southern Plains, Northern Plains, and Xeric West aggregated ecoregions, whereas stream length affected by physical inaccessibility was greatest in the Western Mountains aggregated ecoregion. Improvements in the sample frame (RF3 and its successors National Hydrography Database [NHD] and NHD-Plus) would reduce field costs for national surveys.
4498995|Leaf-litter assays have advanced understanding of decomposition processes in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Some shortcomings inherent in the technique may be overcome through use of a cotton-strip assay. Key assumptions for using cotton strips as proxies for natural leaves are: 1) decomposition rates of the 2 materials are related, and 2) the materials decay in a similar way when exposed to the same environmental conditions. These assumptions were tested by comparing cotton-strip decomposition (loss of tensile strength and mass) and leaf decomposition (mass loss) across different floodplain habitats of the Tagliamento River (northeastern Italy). Patterns of loss of cotton-strip tensile strength and leaf mass were broadly comparable across river channels, ponds, and terrestrial sites. Differences between river channels and ponds were greater for loss of cotton-strip tensile strength than leaf mass, indicating that, in some situations, loss of cotton-strip tensile strength may be more sensitive to differing environmental conditions than loss of leaf mass. Loss of cotton-strip mass was less sensitive than loss of either tensile strength or leaf mass. Although combined data from all floodplain sites and additional sites in Swiss streams yielded a curvilinear relationship between loss of cotton-strip tensile strength and mass, the slope was extremely steep in the range of 20 to 30% mass loss (corresponding to 0 to 95% loss in tensile strength), indicating that inferring one variable from the other is unreliable. Leaf mass loss was significantly correlated with loss of tensile strength in fine- and coarse-mesh bags in ponds and in coarse-mesh bags in terrestrial sites. However, these correlations were relatively weak (
10.2307/1467536| This review summarizes the state of knowledge regarding herbivory in stream ecosystems by quantitatively analyzing the results of 89 experimental studies published between 1972 and 1993. Our primary objective was to determine if general patterns exist among stream ecosystems in the type and strength of interactions occurring between herbivores (grazers) and their primary food source, periphyton. We conducted two types of meta-analyses of the published literature: (1) analyses of the proportion of studies showing significant effects for three types of interactions (effects of grazers on periphyton, effects of periphyton on grazers, and effects of grazers on other grazers and benthic animals) and (2) analyses of factors influencing the magnitude of effect that grazers had on periphyton. For effects of grazers on periphyton, we also determined (1) if the likelihood of observing significant effects varied with the spatial and temporal scale at which experiments were done and (2) if the magnitude of effect by grazers on periphyton abundance varied with spatial and temporal scale, grazer taxon, grazer abundance, and periphyton accrual based on the difference in treatments with and without grazers. Grazers held at ambient densities usually reduced periphyton biomass (70% of experiments) and altered algal taxonomic or physiognomic structure (81%) relative to grazer removal treatments, whereas grazers had slightly lower effects on periphyton productivity (usually <70% of experiments, depending on productivity measure). Experiments conducted in laboratory streams and at two spatial scales in the field (few or single habitat units and stream reaches or basins) were equally likely to report significant effects of grazers. Both short-term (4 wk) and longterm (>4 wk) experiments also were equally likely to report significant effects of grazers on periphyton. However, the magnitude of effect grazers had on periphyton biomass varied with the amount of periphyton accrual, grazer taxon, and grazer population biomass. Grazer effects also were higher for longer studies conducted under laboratory conditions than for shorter studies conducted in the field. A high proportion of the experiments that manipulated periphyton abundance significantly affected grazer densities and growth. Reduction in periphyton abundance usually reduced grazer density and growth. Experimental manipulations of dominant grazers typically had strong and usually negative effects on densities and growth of other species of benthic animals, either from direct (e.g., interference) or indirect (e.g., resource exploitation) mechanisms. Results of these analyses suggest that stream herbivores regulate their food resources as or more frequently than herbivores in other ecosystems, and strongly contradict the view held by many ecologists that stream communities are regulated primarily by abiotic factors. Although publication bias (i.e., the tendency for journals to publish positive results) appears minimal, we cannot yet generalize from these results to the entire universe of stream ecosystems because (1) most studies were conducted during summer base flow conditions and (2) results do not adequately represent interactions during the more physically stressful conditions that occur during periods of flooding, drought, or extreme cold. If rapid progress in the development of general stream ecosystem theory is to occur, we believe (1) future studies should be explicitly designed within the context of general ecological questions, (2) as much background information as possible describing environmental conditions should be collected, and (3) journals should permit and urge inclusion of tabular data describing both experimental conditions and treatment means and variances. 
10.2307/1467829|Leaf litter breakdown was examined in a Rocky Mountain stream in Utah during fall 1976 and winter 1977. Leaf mass loss, changes in macroinvertebrate community structure, and patterns in community respiration were measured on pairs of leaf packs removed from the stream every 2-3 d. Colonization of the leaf packs by macroinvertebrates was rapid. The dominant organisms during the initial colonization were shredders. Highest total oxygen consumption occurred during the initial colonization phase. Macroinvertebrate density, invertebrate biomass, and oxygen consumption adjusted for remaining leaf mass all showed a dramatic increase in variance associated with the final phase of decomposition (<20% leaf material remaining). The final phase of breakdown may have the most interesting biological interactions owing to the high variability in leaf biomass and long residence times that directly affect the utility of the leaf pack as habitat and food.
10.2307/1467464| We describe the design and field-testing of a pre-positioned 1-m<sup>2</sup> electrofishing sampler with a novel electrode configuration. The sampler produces relatively uniform voltage gradients (0.36-7.00 mean volts/cm: water conductivity = 100 MHO, 153 VAC, 600 W) that are sufficient to stun fish and are largely restricted to the sampling frame. Voltage gradients averaged 0.1 mean volts/cm 10 cm outside the frame regardless of water conductivity and declined exponentially with increasing distance from the frame. We compared the effectiveness of our sampler with adjacent kick-seine samples in the upper, middle, and lower regions of a riffle in Green River, Kentucky, using stratified random sampling. Species rank concordances were statistically similar regardless of method or habitat; both methods yielded similar information on benthic species composition. Statistically similar estimates of benthic fish abundance and number of benthic fish species were derived regardless of habitat or method. The frame sampler was more precise than kick-seining for estimates of fish density only in the upper riffle, a habitat characterized by relatively shallow water and small, more uniform substrate than found in other sampled habitats. Fewer frame samples (9) than kick-seine samples (17) were required to characterize species richness of the benthic fish fauna. In each habitat, more benthic species were collected using electrofishers than with kick-seines; Shannon's species diversity and evenness were larger when estimated from electrofishing samples than kick-seine samples in each habitat. We conclude that our sampler allows repeatable, equal-effort sampling of benthic species from well-defined sampling areas, small enough to allow fine-grained measurement of microhabitat. Importantly, this is achieved without producing voltage gradients strong enough to bias adjacent samples. 
10.2307/1467796| Leaf decay and fungal biomass accrual was measured for maple (Acer rubrum), tulip-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), and rhododendron (Rhododendron maximum) leaf packs in an Appalachian stream over 8 mo. Packs were placed in 2 stream sites along a longitudinal gradient at the Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory in North Carolina: a 1st-order headwater stream and a 4th-order stream. Decay was measured as percent mass loss over time, and fungal biomass was estimated using ergosterol. Tulip-poplar decayed faster than maple, and rhododendron decayed the slowest of the 3 in both sites. Decay was faster in the 4th-order stream for tulip-poplar and rhododendron leaves, largely because of differences in stream geomorphology. Fungal biomass showed no trend along the longitudinal gradient. Average fungal biomass (as dry mass [DM] per ash free DM [AFDM]) of aquatic hyphomycetes during the study period was 42 mg DM/g AFDM on tulip-poplar and 11 mg DM/g AFDM on maple leaves in these streams. These estimates are on the lower end of the range for the few fungal biomass estimates from streams and are attributed to low nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations (2-4 g NH<sub>4</sub>/L, 2-18 g NO<sub>3</sub>/L and 1-2 g P/L). Peak fungal biomass for tulip-poplar and maple leaves occurred on the 1st through 7th days (120 mg DM/g AFDM and 40 mg DM/g AFDM respectively). This biomass was not correlated with aquatic hyphomycete sporulation on tulip-poplar and was attributed to terrestrial fungi within the senescent leaves. Rhododendron leaves had little or no ergosterol associated with them, yet decayed to less than 20% initial mass after 8 mo. The decay of this species during the 1st 8 mo is therefore probably due to physical abrasion, shredding activity, or oomycete and bacterial decomposition. A model of fungal biomass dynamics in a 1st-order stream is presented and suggests that fungal carbon accrual can reach as much as 0.05 g C m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> which would adequately meet the carbon ingestion demand of shredding invertebrates in this stream from October to January (0.05 g C m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>). 
1468076|Predatorprey interactions are often studied by examining either predator or prey behavior. This focal species approach ignores complexity that may determine the outcome of encounters. We used a dual species analysis to characterize how crayfish size (prey) influenced behavioral interactions between fish (predators) and crayfish. This interaction is particularly important in structuring energy flow patterns in aquatic communities. Fish and crayfish behavior were quantified after small (<30 mm carapace length) or large (>30 mm carapace length) crayfish (
20491220|Channel reconfiguration is a popular but controversial approach to river restoration, and ecological responses to channel reconfiguration have not been rigorously assessed. We compared physical-habitat variables, taxonomic and functional-trait diversities, taxonomic composition, and functional-trait abundances between 24 pairs of upstream (control) and downstream reconfigured (restored) reaches in 3 catchment land uses (urban, agricultural, rural) across the North Carolina Piedmont. We asked how environmental filters and functional species traits might provide insight to biological responses to restoration. Taxonomic and functional-trait differences between control and restored reaches suggest that restoration affected aquatic assemblages only in agricultural and rural catchments. Our results highlight 2 important aspects of channel reconfiguration as a restoration practice. First, responses to restoration differ between agricultural/rural and urban catchments, possibly because of modified hydrological regimes caused by urbanization. Second, we find evidence that channel reconfiguration disturbs food and habitat resources in stream ecosystems. Taxa sensitive to disturbance were characteristic of control reaches, whereas insensitive taxa were characteristic of restored reaches. Abundances of traits related to reproduction (voltinism, development, synchronization of emergence, adult life span), mobility (occurrence in drift, maximum crawling rate, swimming ability), and use of resources (trophic and habitat preferences) differed significantly between control and recently restored reaches. Our results suggest that taxa in restored habitats are environmentally selected for traits favored in disturbed environments. Our work suggests how functional-trait approaches could benefit the practice of river restoration when used to target restoration activities and to develop informed expectations regarding recovery following restoration activities.
4095741|Temporal patterns of abundance, biomass, and production of 3 populations of
10.2307/1467507|This study had two objectives: (1) to compare seasonal and spatial patterns of water-column dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and sediment interstitial DOC (IDOC) concentrations at a headwater spring seep, and (2) to explore interactions between sediment organic matter content, benthic bacterial biomass and production, water column DOC concentration, and sediment IDOC concentration and composition (high versus low molecular weight components). For the first objective, sediment organic matter content, IDOC concentration (sampled from small wells by dialysis or by pipet), water column DOC concentration, and benthic bacterial biomass were measured at a spring seep in Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, Macon Co., North Carolina USA, for two years. For the second objective, organic matter content was increased or decreased in experimental sediments. The same variables listed above were measured within three weeks of sediment manipulation and again after five and a half months. Benthic bacterial production was measured one week after sediment manipulation. Results indicate benthic organic matter is a source of IDOC, the concentration of which depends on sediment organic matter content, the relative proportion of high and low molecular weight IDOC compounds, and the exchange of interstitial and water column DOC. High molecular weight IDOC (>50,000) accumulates in sediments in proportion to sediment organic matter content. Low molecular weight IDOC (<50,000) concentrations are lower than high molecular weight IDOC concentrations and are independent of sediment organic matter content. However, low molecular weight IDOC concentrations are generally greater than water column total DOC concentrations. Low molecular weight IDOC concentrations are greater during the dormant season than during the growing season.
20491215|We evaluated how benthic algal assemblages that vary in composition, richness, and other diversity metrics remove NO
10.2307/1467266|The leaf pack method has been used extensively as the standard protocol for tracking the in-stream processing of leaf detritus. However, a major deficiency of the method has been that it does not directly measure the processed condition of natural, multispecies accumulations of leaves. The method reported here allows mass loss of leaf detritus to be related to leaf toughness. Studies of dry-mass loss and leaf toughness of black cherry (Prunus serotina) leaves were conducted in summer 1992 in Linesville Creek and Powdermill Run (Pennsylvania, USA), and during fall/winter 1992-1993 in Powdermill Run. Leaf toughness was measured with a digital force-gauge penetrometer. Penetrometer measurements determined the peak force (nearest 0.001 Newton) necessary to drive a steel rod through the leaf tissue. In all studies, dry mass loss was best explained by a linear regression model and leaf toughness loss by a negative exponential regression model. The natural logarithm of mean toughness per leaf pack predicted percent mass remaining per leaf pack exceptionally well in both streams (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.90-0.95). These results suggest that leaf toughness can be used to determine in-stream processing rates of natural leaf detritus if dry mass-toughness relationships are established.
4095563|Effective catchment management in the face of landuse alteration depends on our ability to quantify ecologically significant changes and to discriminate among varying levels of impact. We compared the efficiency of traditional structural indices of change (species composition) with functional measures based on species traits (including life-history, trophic, and morphological features) in an analysis of grassland streams along a gradient of agricultural development (ungrazed native tussock, grazed tussock, extensively grazed pasture, and intensive dairy and deer farming). Streams were categorized in relation to overall agricultural intensity, and separately in terms of increasing nutrient concentrations and fine sediments on the streambed. Only 5 of 60 individual species demonstrated a significant separation across the landuse gradient, whereas 14 of 53 trait categories did so. Traits associated with population resilience (short generation time, asexual reproduction) became more prevalent with more intense agricultural pressure, reflecting predicted increases in intensity and frequency of stream disturbance. We observed a shift away from a tendency to lay unattached eggs at the water surface of the stream, reflecting the increasing likelihood of smothering by sediment, as well as increases in highly flexible and streamlined body shapes. Principal components and correspondence analyses involving species or trait composition all were able to discriminate landuse practises, but more of the overall between-landuse variance was accounted for by trait composition than species composition. All biological measures (species or trait composition) were correlated with both nutrient concentrations and sedimentation. Nutrient concentrations were better related to species and trait-category densities, whereas sedimentation was related to trait-category relative abundances. Overall, species traits successfully complemented traditional structural measures by helping to differentiate the consequences of landuse intensification in grassland stream communities. Rather than simply recording a loss or reduction of species, our functional approach was able to identify sensitive life-history characteristics linked to the functioning of ecosystems, thereby facilitating the development of targeted management actions.
40792571|Many streams and rivers in the Pacific Northwest of the US are inherently oligotrophic, and primary production in these ecosystems is assumed to be nutrient-limited. In many of these streams, reductions in the amount of marine-derived nutrients delivered by spawning salmonids could be exacerbating the degree of oligotrophication. To test whether primary producers are nutrient-limited, nutrient diffusing substrate (NDS) experiments were used to measure algal responses to amendments of N, P, and a combination of N and P (N+P) in 13 Salmon River basin streams in central Idaho, USA. Thirty-eight experiments were conducted between 2003 and 2006 to determine whether nutrient limitation varied among streams and over time within individual streams. Primary producers in most streams showed some form of nutrient limitation. Thirty-nine percent of our experiments suggested N and P colimitation, 18% suggested N limitation, 11% suggested primary N and secondary P limitation, and 32% did not indicate limitation by either N or P. The type of nutrient limitation within individual streams varied with time, and the relative importance of N or P changed seasonally or annually in 7 of the 13 streams. Algal accrual rates on control and treatment substrates were most strongly predicted by water temperature, light, and ambient concentrations of N and P. Among all of the experiments, algal accrual rates were greater on N substrates in streams with lower ambient N concentrations and greater ambient P concentrations. Our results suggest that a combination of N and P typically limits primary producers in these streams. Our efforts to characterize current nutrient limitation in these streams will be of value to managers considering nutrient additions as a tool to improve stream productivity to benefit threatened and endangered salmonids.
4095717|Sediments in the backwaters of the Upper Mississippi River (UMR) are highly organic and provide an optimal environment for N removal. We monitored an 8.6-ha UMR backwater site near La Crosse, Wisconsin, for nearly 3 y to assess temporal variability, seasonal trends, and the factors regulating denitrification. We measured rates of unamended denitrification (DEN) and denitrification enzyme activity (DEA) rates at ambient temperature and DEA at 30C (DEA30). Seasonal mean (1 SE) DEN rates ranged from 0.041  0.015 to 0.47  0.23 g N cm
20491124|Nutrient diffusing substrates (NDS) are an important tool for evaluating periphyton nutrient limitation. The rate at which nutrients are released from NDS depends on both the initial nutrient concentration and the length of time that NDS are in place. Whether temperature also affects nutrient release rates from NDS is unclear. However, this information is important because temperature effects on release rates could confound experimental results for NDS-based experiments testing rates of accumulation of periphyton biomass when stream water temperature is variable. We measured N and P release rates from NDS vials with 3 initial concentrations (0.05, 0.1, and 0.5 mol/L) of nutrients at 3 temperatures (4, 15, and 21C) for 21 d. Release rates of both nutrients were greater for vials with higher nutrient concentrations and for vials at warmer temperatures. For all concentrations, release rates decreased log linearly with time, a result that might have important implications for patterns of colonization and subsequent interspecific interactions within the periphyton community. In our opinion, temperature-caused differences in release rates are not biologically important because the differences were much smaller (3%) than expected changes in periphyton maximum growth rates over similar temperature ranges (300%). Our results suggest that seasonal and site-related differences in temperature will not significantly affect nutrient release rates within the range of temperatures we tested, but researchers should consider nutrient concentration carefully when planning studies using NDS.
40792526|Various components of island stream faunas, including caridean shrimps, fish, and gastropods, undertake obligate amphidromous migration, whereby larvae are released in upstream freshwater reaches, drift downstream to estuaries or marine waters, then migrate upstream as postlarvae to freshwater adult habitats. Longitudinal migration from estuaries to headwaters is well documented for many amphidromous species, but the degree of among-river marine dispersal is poorly known for most species. We need better understanding of the potential for marine dispersal in population processes of amphidromous species, particularly recolonization and population recovery in impacted lotic systems, such as those on Puerto Rico, because some theories of dispersal for species with marine larvae predict high rates of self-recruitment. We tested population genetic predictions for widespread marine larval dispersal and self-recruitment to the natal river for 11 amphidromous species, including shrimps, fish, and a gastropod, in Puerto Rico. Population genetic analysis of mitochondrial DNA data showed high rates of gene flow among rivers and indicated that marine dispersal determines the population genetic structure of all 11 species. Difficulty in recruiting to oceanic currents promotes closed population structures in some marine species, but larvae of amphidromous species entrained in downstream river flow might be delivered more readily to ocean currents. Population recovery processes occurred at the island scale rather than at the river scale, but further studies are needed to identify whether population recovery processes are likely at larger spatial scales (e.g., among islands). River management strategies should maintain environmental flows that allow larval export, maintain longitudinal dispersal pathways over dam spillways and via subterranean passages, and maintain open and healthy estuaries.
10.2307/1468256| We present results from a spatially explicit model that makes predictions about how physical habitat heterogeneity mediates algal-grazer interactions. We simulated the responses of mean algal biomass and variability in the distribution of algae to 2 levels of physical habitat heterogeneity (1 vs. 15 boulders) under 2 velocity regimes (slow vs. fast riffles). Algal growth occurred locally in a spatially explicit grid where local current was specified for each of the 60  30 grid cells. Grazer movement and foraging were simulated using an individual-based model, in which the direction and rate of movement of individual grazers were determined at each time step in relation to local current and algal standing crop. Model parameterization was based on field observations, laboratory experiments, and literature review. In each of the 4 simulations, algae were first allowed to grow in the absence of grazing to near carrying capacity. Neither habitat heterogeneity nor riffle velocity regime had a significant effect on the mean biomass or spatial variability of algae. Next, algae were exposed to 3 simulated grazer densities and the subsequent effects on algal biomass and patchiness were determined after prolonged contact. We performed replicate simulation runs to allow statistical inferences to be drawn about differential responses of algae to the various "treatments." As expected, mean algal biomass declined in proportion to grazer density. Higher habitat heterogeneity resulted in reduced algal biomass for low and intermediate grazer densities, but only in the slow riffle. Otherwise, the effects of specified grazer densities did not vary between slow and fast riffles. Variability in algal biomass distribution was measured in 2 ways. First, a spatially explicit index of relative patchiness showed a gradual increase under low grazer density but a transient peak followed by decline under moderate and intense grazing pressure, a pattern observed for both slow and fast current regimes. In the slow riffle alone, heterogeneity and grazer density interacted to influence algal patchiness. A second, non-spatially explicit index of variability in algal biomass, the coefficient of variation, increased as grazer density increased regardless of current regime. Higher variability in the distribution of algal biomass tended to be associated with greater habitat heterogeneity, especially in the slow riffle. The simulations suggested that spatial heterogeneity and ambient current velocity regime mediate algal-grazer interactions. The extent to which grazers crop biomass and create spatial variability in the distribution of algal biomass may depend not only on grazer density but also on the interaction between grazer density, physical habitat heterogeneity, and stream velocity. Given this complexity, empirical approaches to understanding algal-grazer interactions in spatially and temporally heterogeneous stream systems are likely to be greatly augmented by modelling, which allows different environmental conditions and grazer foraging behaviors to be simulated. 
10.2307/1467223|A sampler designed to provide simultaneous density estimates of benthic invertebrates found in soft sediments and invertebrates on aquatic macrophytes is described. The sampler consists of a bottom-mounted detachable grab, connected to a box sampler with levered, spring-loaded jaws for cutting macrophytes. The sampler is triggered from above the water, and it simultaneously compartmentalizes mud in the grab and phytomacrofauna in the water column above. Even active aquatic invertebrates are captured by the rapid deployment and triggering of the sampler. Comparison with SCUBA diver clipping of macrophytes indicates that the box sampler component is at least as precise and, for many species, more accurate. The grab component of the sampler differs little in construction from a normal Ekman grab and has similar accuracy.
20491129|Benthic secondary production plays an important role in the population, community, and ecosystem dynamics of lakes. However, whole-lake estimates of benthic secondary production are rare, and very little is known about intralake patterns in production. We measured benthic secondary production for the dominant macroinvertebrate taxa in Crampton Lake, a 26-ha north-temperate lake at the border of Wisconsin and Michigan, USA. Production was estimated by the sizefrequency method for each taxon at each depth where it occurred. Confidence intervals for production estimates were determined by bootstrapping. A small number of taxa were responsible for most benthic secondary production, and most taxa were not highly productive. Thus, we observed a log-normal rankproduction relationship. This relationship might be common in other lakes. However, production was not strongly related to abundance, a result that suggests that even rare taxa might contribute substantially to secondary production. Whole-lake benthic secondary production averaged 4.4 g dry mass m
10.2307/1467493|Resistance, resilience, and patterns of succession were evaluated for periphyton and macroinvertebrates of Sycamore Creek, Arizona, between 1984 and 1987. During this period, 35 flash-flood disturbances occurred, ranging in magnitude (peak discharge) from 0.2 m<sup>3</sup>/s to 58 m<sup>3</sup>/s; peak discharge of the largest flash floods exceeded base flow by 3-4 orders of magnitude. Macroinvertebrates and algal assemblages dominated by diatoms were more resistant, i.e., showed less change in response to spates, than macroalgae (filamentous Chlorophyta) and cyanobacterial mats, but resistance of all groups declined with increasing disturbance magnitude. Biota showed little resistance to events large enough to move substrata. Twenty sequences of postflood succession were analyzed to characterize resilience and patterns of recovery. Resilience was very high compared with other streams and other ecosystems, because of high rates of biotic production in this desert stream. Resilience of periphyton (as indicated by recovery of total chlorophyll a) was highest in summer and autumn, while macroinvertebrate resilience (in terms of density or biomass) did not differ among seasons. In many sequences, recovery curves of macroinvertebrate and algal standing crops were linear or asymptotic; however, macroinvertebrates declined precipitously during later stages of five successional sequences, primarily because of declines in the dominant collector-gatherers. These organisms reproduce continuously and have short life cycles, so declines cannot be explained by synchronous emergence. We propose instead that declines are caused by food quality limitation. Sustained high rates of macroinvertebrate consumption and use of autochthonous detritus are possible only if bacterial conditioning (and immobilization of nitrogen) can increase the N content of this material, which is halved with each gut passage. During many sequences, bacterial conditioning is probably limited by nitrogen, which is known to limit autotrophic processes in this stream. This suggests that productivity at higher trophic levels may be influenced by availability of a limiting nutrient not only to primary producers but to microconsumers.
4095639|Meiofauna are potentially capable of controlling microphytobenthic biomass. Grazing by copepods in high densities has been hypothesized to lead to successional changes in algal assemblages toward less-edible algal species with consequent effects on copepod survival and growth. In our study, adult
10.2307/1467880|We tested the hypothesis that modest increases in discharge and nutrients, like those occuring during spates, could have a positive effect on benthic algae in streams. Patterns in orthophosphate (PO<sub>4</sub>-P), total phosphate (TP), nitrate (NO<sub>3</sub>-N), and total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN) concentrations in stream waters showed that nutrient concentrations could increase during and after spates. In-stream nutrient concentrations were correlated to indicators of spates in an agricultural basin more than in a forested catchment. Nutrient and current concentrations were manipulated in experimental stream channels to simulate a subscouring spate, i.e., a spate during which organisms are not removed from substrates. Increasing PO<sub>4</sub>-P and NO<sub>3</sub>-N concentrations in the water for 12 h had little immediate effect on algal biomass but did increase phosphorus concentrations in periphyton. This increase in periphyton-P did not stimulate algal growth. Doubling current from 10 to 20 cm/s for 24 h had no effect on benthic algal biomass during the 24-h manipulation. Increasing current increased periphyton-N in high nutrient conditions but decreased periphyton-N concentrations and algal growth rates in low nutrient conditions. Changes in periphyton chemistry provided valuable information for development of hypotheses to explain responses of algae to environmental manipulations. Our results suggest that subscouring spates will probably inhibit algal growth in nutrient-poor streams, but could stimulate algal growth in nutrient-rich streams.
20491145|The concept of landscape legacies has been examined extensively in terrestrial ecosystems and has led to a greater understanding of contemporary ecosystem processes. However, although stream ecosystems are tightly coupled with their catchments and, thus, probably are affected strongly by historical catchment conditions, few studies have directly examined the importance of landuse legacies on streams. We examined relationships between historical land use (1944) and contemporary (20002003) stream physical, chemical, and biological conditions after accounting for the influences of contemporary land use (1999) and natural landscape (catchment size) variation in 12 small streams at Fort Benning, Georgia, USA. Most stream variables showed strong relationships with contemporary land use and catchment size; however, after accounting for these factors, residual variation in many variables remained significantly related to historical land use. Residual variation in benthic particulate organic matter, diatom density, % of diatoms in
41318731|Acid mine drainage (AMD) is a legacy of historical coal mining that affects several thousand stream kilometers around the world by contributing high loads of acidity, SO
10.2307/1467314| Localized high densities of the mayfly nymph Heptagenia criddlei McD. occur in Oak Creek, Arizona during the summer. We examined the effects of different grazer densities of H. criddlei on diatom cell density and community structure in a laboratory stream over selected time periods ranging from 1 d to 4 wk. Insect densities at 800-1000 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup>, 2800-4100 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup>, and 7100-7700 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup> of periphyton cover were compared with ungrazed control channels. Our observations show that localized differential grazer densities are important in determining the abundance, composition, and physiognomy of lotic diatom communities. At grazer densities of 800 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup> there were no notable differences in diatom abundance and diatom assemblages between grazed and ungrazed systems throughout a 4-wk period. However, major differences were noted after 10 d at 2800 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup>, 3 d at 4100 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup> and within 24 hr at grazing densities 7100 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup>. At grazer densities 2800 nymphs/m<sup>2</sup> the overall density of diatoms declined and the relative proportions of larger upright diatom species to smaller adnate diatom species decreased through time with increased grazing pressure. Adnately attached diatom taxa like Cocconeis placentula var. euglypta (Ehr.) Cl. and Epithemia adnata (Ktz.) Breb. showed greatest resistance to grazing, while diatoms with smaller cell dimensions like Achnanthes minutissima Ktz. were next most resistant to grazing by Heptagenia. 
10.2307/1467964| Growth of filamentous bacteria (Sphaerotilus sp., Leptothrix sp.) on aquatic insects was evaluated for its usefulness as a bioindicator of detrimental nutrient levels in streams. Field measurements of insect abundance, nutrient concentrations, and incidence/degree of bacterial growth on insects upstream and downstream of livestock pastures were made in 2 Virginia, USA streams. Laboratory studies were conducted to determine the effect of bacterial growth on insect survival. Elevated concentrations of dissolved nutrients (0.13-0.35 mg/L orthophosphate, 1.29-2.13 mg/L nitrate) downstream of pastures were associated with growth of filamentous bacteria, which colonized the gills and body surface of aquatic insects. Significantly lower densities of insects (up to 66% less) occurred at downstream sites. In laboratory studies, 100% mortality of heavily infested mayflies (>25% of body covered, including gills) occurred within 30 d, whereas >85% of individuals without bacterial growth survived and grew normally. The pattern of mortality in the laboratory closely paralleled the differences in density observed in the field. Bacterial growth on aquatic insects appears to be a reliable bioindicator of nutrient enrichment, and the degree of infestation associated with reduced insect survival can be quickly detected in the field or laboratory using a hand lens (10-15 magnification). This bioindicator shows promise as a significant addition to EPA Rapid Bioassessment Protocols because simple visual assessment of benthic samples may be sufficient to identify a cause for impaired macroinvertebrate communities. Bacterial growth should be useful for detecting nutrient impacts in streams as well as evaluating the success of management practices to control nutrients from point or non-point sources. 
41318748|The North American spiny-cheek crayfish,
10.2307/1467397|The dynamic and hierarchical nature of lotic ecosystems may be conceptualized in a four-dimensional framework. Upstream-downstream interactions constitute the longitudinal dimension. The lateral dimension includes interactions between the channel and riparian/floodplain systems. Significant interactions also occur between the channel and contiguous groundwater, the vertical dimension. The fourth dimension, time, provides the temporal scale. Lotic ecosystems have developed in response to dynamic patterns and processes occurring along these four dimensions. An holistic approach that employs a spatio-temporal framework, and that perceives disturbances as forces disrupting major interactive pathways, should lead to a more complete understanding of the dynamic and hierarchical structure of natural and altered lotic ecosystems.
20491182|Surface coal mining with valley fills has impaired the aquatic life in numerous streams in the Central Appalachian Mountains. We characterized macroinvertebrate communities from riffles in 37 small West Virginia streams (10 unmined and 27 mined sites with valley fills) sampled in the spring index period (MarchMay) and compared the assessment results using family- and genus-level taxonomic data. Specific conductance was used to categorize levels of mining disturbance in mined watersheds as low (<500 S/cm), medium (5001000 S/cm), or high (>1000 S/cm). Four lines of evidence indicate that mining activities impair biological condition of streams: shift in species assemblages, loss of Ephemeroptera taxa, changes in individual metrics and indices, and differences in water chemistry. Results were consistent whether family- or genus-level data were used. In both family- and genus-level nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordinations, mined sites were significantly separated from unmined sites, indicating that shifts in community structure were caused by mining. Several Ephemeroptera genera (e.g.,
10.2307/1467865| Mayflies were grown in artificial airlift streams on the bank of the Ogeechee River, Georgia, to estimate their productivity rates. Natural conditions were simulated in the streams by (1) providing flowing water pumped from the river as a natural food source, and (2) immersing the streams in large ambient temperature tanks to sustain diel temperature patterns. Early instars of Stenonema spp., Baetis spp., and Tricorythodes sp. were introduced into streams and their development was followed through late instars or to emergence. The daily instantaneous growth rate (g) was 0.265 mg mg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> for Baetis, 0.123 for Stenonema, and 0.162 for Tricorythodes during summer months (mean daily temperature = 27.5C). These rates allow Baetis to complete development in about 19 d in these warmwater rivers, Stenonema in about 41 d, and Tricorythodes in about 31 d. Each of these taxa is capable of completing several generations over a 6-mo period in which stream temperatures are >20C. Calculation of instantaneous growth rates (or larval development times) of fast-growing insects in critical to estimation of their production. Approximations of 6-mo production/biomass (P/B) ratios range from 22 for Stenonema to 48 for Baetis. According to our analyses, mayflies in warmwater systems have considerably shorter development times and higher biomass turnover rates than most previous studies in streams have shown. 
20491183|International trade frequently moves mollusks around the globe, thereby increasing their opportunity to cause ecological and economic damage. Recent genetic studies have confirmed the identity of South American applesnails (
20491195|In 1972, the US Congress enacted the Clean Water Act (CWA) to protect US water resources. A critical section (305[b]) of the CWA calls for periodic accounting of the success or failure of efforts to protect and restore US waters. Over the years, several groups have reviewed the available data and concluded that they do not adequately describe the condition of US waters. The Wadeable Streams Assessment presents the first set of results from what will be a long-term partnership between the US Environmental Protection Agency, the individual states, tribal nations, and other federal agencies. The goal of this partnership is to fill critical information gaps that remain a deterrent to our ability to determine whether our policies and investments have resulted in improvement of US water resources.
10.2307/1467625|Males of a new species of microcaddisfly, Oxyethira (Holarctotrichia) itascae, (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) from the Lake Itasca region of northern Minnesota are described and illustrated. This represents the first new species of Trichoptera described from the State in nearly twenty years. Fifteen other Oxyethira species are known from the State, including O. (Dampfitrichia) verna Ross and O. (Oxyethira) ecornuta Morton, new records for Minnesota and the United States, respectively.
4095658|In June 1995, heavy rains caused severe flooding and massive debris flows on the Staunton River, a 3
09-049R|We examined whether presence of vegetation and seasonal changes in flow affected N chemistry and denitrification rates within sandbars of a 7
10.2307/1467759|We examine environmental survey data to reveal partial aspects of the longitudinal structure and function of a Mediterranean river. The study area is the Ter River which experiences various disturbances (spates, pollution, reservoirs) that result in discrete patches along the river. In this paper, we use physico-chemical data to measure and interpret the dynamics of these patches through time and space. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) of the physico-chemical variables revealed longitudinal chemical structure (FI) and temporal variation in chemical composition due to discharge fluctuations (FII). We found that the chemistry of headwater regions is more constant than lower reaches since this river is heavily perturbed by human activities downstream. The chemistry of lower reaches is more time dependent. Temporal and spatial variation are not independent because both processes transform external energy into changes in ecosystem structure.
1468113|This paper summarizes and synthesizes the collective results that emerged from the series of papers published in this issue of J-NABS, and places these results in the context of previously published literature describing variation in aquatic biota at landscape spatial scales. Classifications based on landscape spatial scales are used or are being evaluated for use in several countries for aquatic bioassessment programs. Evaluation of the strength of classification of different approaches should provide insight for refinement of existing bioassessment programs and expedite the development of new programs. The papers in this series specifically addressed the degree to which descriptions and classification of landscape features allow us to account for, and thus predict, variation in the composition of biota among individual sites. In general, we found that although landscape classifications accounted for more biotic variation than would be expected by chance, the amount of variation related to landscape features was not large. Thus, large-scale regionalizations, if used alone to specify expected biotic conditions, will likely have limited use in aquatic bioassesments, where it is critical to specify expected conditions as accurately and precisely as possible. Landscape classifications can play an important additional role, however, by providing an initial stratification of site locations to ensure that different landscape features are adequately represented in a sampling program. In general, we believe a tiered classification based on both reach-level and larger-scale landscape features is needed to accurately predict the composition of freshwater fauna. One potential approach entails use of landscape classifications as a means of refining or augmenting classifications based on local habitat features, which appear to account for substantially more biotic variation than larger-scale environmental features. These results have significant implications for how assessment and monitoring programs at local, state/province, and national levels should be designed.
41319689|Urban land use has increased dramatically over the past few decades. Urban streams are distinguished from forested or agricultural streams, in particular, by their more variable and unpredictable hydrologic pattern. The resulting high variability in nutrient loading is likely to alter the elemental composition of primary producers and, ultimately, to change the elemental composition of other foodweb components. Ecological stoichiometry is a useful framework for improving our understanding of the mass balance of multiple key elements in ecosystems. To this end, the CNP of key foodweb components were measured in Oxley Creek, an urban catchment in southeastern Queensland, Australia. Ten stream reaches were sampled to explore the spatial variation of CNP of abundant taxonomic groups across the catchment. Four of these sites were sampled weekly (for 8wk) to examine temporal variation in elemental composition. Our results suggested that spatial and temporal variation in elemental composition of primary producers and some animal taxa were highly dependent on local (i.e., site) conditions. This local dependence makes determination of catchment-wide drivers of stoichiometric variability difficult, but our results do suggest that site-based influences in urban streams can generate substantial variability in the CNP content of in-stream biota. In the context of other studies that have been undertaken principally in forested streams, this application of ecological stoichiometry promises to further our understanding of the effects of urbanization on stream food webs and the stability of elemental flow.
10.2307/1467219|The effects of grazing on algal assemblages by three different stream herbivores, the mayfly Centroptilum elsa, the snail Juga silicula, and the caddisfly Dicosmoecus gilvipes, were studied during a 48-d experiment in six laboratory streams. Compared with ungrazed control streams, grazing by Centroptilum (500/m<sup>2</sup>) modified algal community structure slightly but had little effect on periphyton biomass and chlorophyll a. Grazing by Juga (350/m<sup>2</sup>) reduced periphyton biomass and chlorophyll a by nearly 50%, but increased the rate of primary production by up to 25%. Juga also prevented significant accumulation of cyanophytes and some diatom species. Grazing by Dicosmoecus (200/m<sup>2</sup>) reduced periphyton biomass and chlorophyll a to less than 5% of the ungrazed levels, but primary production declined by only 50%. Only adnate algal cells and short filaments persisted on substrates grazed by Dicosmoecus. Algal export rates were increased by all three herbivores. Modification of algal growth patterns by both consumption and dislodgement, and dampening of temporal fluctuations were key mechanisms by which these herbivores altered periphyton communities. Primary production was stimulated by low rates of grazing by Juga in the laboratory streams, possibly as a result of increased light intensity in lower strata of the periphyton or removal of senescent algal cells. Algal assemblages displayed both community-level responses (e.g., biomass, production) and species-level responses (e.g., taxonomic composition) that should be considered in other studies of stream herbivory.
4095674|Low organic matter supply and reduced spatiotemporal heterogeneity severely constrain biodiversity in groundwater. At the aquifer scale, spatial variation in the groundwater recharge rate is considered a key factor in generating groundwater patches with distinctly different food supplies and spatiotemporal heterogeneity. Our study addressed the role of groundwater recharge in sustaining biodiversity in a phreatic aquifer by testing differences in the density and species richness of invertebrate assemblages among 11 reference sites and 13 sites artificially recharged with storm water. The vertical distribution pattern of invertebrate assemblages was examined using well clusters at one shallow water-table recharge site and one nearby reference site. Groundwater recharge elevated dissolved organic C (DOC) concentrations in groundwater and increased spatiotemporal physicochemical heterogeneity. The thickness of the vadose zone (VZT) controlled DOC input to groundwater at recharge sites but did not reduce spatiotemporal heterogeneity. The higher density and richness of invertebrate assemblages at the well-cluster recharge site than at the well-cluster reference site also was controlled by VZT, suggesting that organic matter supply was a primary factor determining biodiversity patterns in groundwater. Invertebrate density increased and species composition shifted with increasing depth below the groundwater table at the shallow water-table well-cluster site. Some taxa, including several epigean species, preferentially occurred near the water table, whereas others, including several hypogean species, colonized deeper groundwater layers.
10.2307/1467585|We compare the relative contribution of bacteria in four suspended and benthic habitats to total system bacterial standing stocks, production, and respiration in the Ogeechee River, a sixth order, low-gradient, blackwater river. The habitats considered are water column, sandy main channel sediment, backwater sediment, and snags. Total system bacterial biomass ranged widely with a mean of 3240 mg C m<sup>-2</sup>. It was greatest during winter and early summer, and peaks were dominated by bacteria in sandy sediments where from 21 to 98% of total bacterial biomass was found. Bacterial biomass in both backwater and snag habitats remained consistently low. Dye studies revealed considerable water movement into sandy sediments, which were aerobic to the greatest depth sampled (60 cm). System bacterial production was less variable than biomass, ranging from 0.84 to 8.54 mg C m<sup>-2</sup> n<sup>-1</sup> >80% of which occurred in main channel sediments. System bacterial production could not account for system biomass; hence allochthonous sources of bacteria appear to be important. Bacterial respiration was calculated from rates of production and growth efficiencies measured previously in laboratory studies. The calculated contribution of bacterial respiration to measured system respiration had a modal value of 97%, but varied widely (from 9 to 161%). Benthic bacteria appear to be a major driver of system respiration, although uncertainties in these calculations point to the critical need for a better understanding of temporal variability in bacterial growth efficiency in nature.
20491134|Spatial heterogeneity among microhabitat patches in aquatic ecosystems creates refuges (e.g., substrate interstices) that protect organisms against a variety of environmental constraints. Aquatic insects have evolved the ability to alter their life-history traits in response to environmental variability. Our objective was to determine whether differences in hydraulic and substrate conditions cause phenotypic plasticity in nymphs of the stonefly
4499031|We tested the hypothesis that algae influence the activities of extracellular enzymes involved in mineralization processes within microbial assemblages in streams. We tested the prediction that the factors that influence algal biomass and photosynthesis (i.e., diel fluctuations in photosynthetically active radiation [PAR], long-term variations in light regime, and community development stage) would have a corresponding effect on extracellular enzyme activities. We also tested the prediction that algae would influence enzyme activities on inorganic substrata and in detrital communities where they ultimately would influence plant litter decomposition rates. We allowed microbial communities to develop on inert substrata (glass-fiber filters) or on leaf litter in artificial streamside channels. For each community type, we examined the effects of long-term light manipulations, community development stage, and diel periodicity on the activities of -glucosidase, alkaline phosphatase, leucine-aminopeptidase, and phenol oxidase. In addition, we measured the decomposition rates of the leaf litter substrata in the low- and high-light treatments. Our results support the prediction that factors that influence algal photosynthesis and biomass in the short (diel fluctuations in PAR) and long (shading, community development stage) term ultimately influence enzyme activities in microbial communities associated with both inorganic substrata and detritus. Furthermore, decomposition rates of organic detritus probably are enhanced by algal colonization and activity. Algal photosynthesis might enhance redox and pH conditions within microbial communities, and in turn, might increase the activities of oxidative and hydrolytic enzymes. As a consequence, photoautotrophic activities might stimulate heterotrophic pathways in stream ecosystems by creating conditions favorable for decomposition of both dissolved and particulate organic detritus.
20491166|The freshwater amphipod
10.2307/1467901| Consumption of bacteria by ciliates and microflagellates in streambed sediments was estimated from changes in bacterial densities in feeding experiments. Sediments were sterilized and recolonized with bacteria and then inoculated with cultured ciliates or microflagellates to approximate natural densities. In experiments conducted at 20C, bacterial densities declined rapidly during the first 4 hr and were relatively stable thereafter. Ingestion rates determined from changes occurring within the first 4 hr were regressed against bacterial densities. Predicted ingestion rates at the average streambed bacterial density when streamwater temperature was 20C were 2113 and 12 bacteria per protozoan/hr for ciliates and microflagellates, respectively. Ingestion rates of 414 and 9 bacteria per protozoan/hr were predicted for ciliates and microflagellates, respectively, at the average streambed bacterial density when the stream was 10C. Depending on whether the cell size of bacteria used in experiments or the cell size of streambed bacteria are used in calculations, protozoa could potentially ingest from 21 to 48 g bacterial C/m<sup>2</sup> annually, an estimate based on bacterial and protozoan densities in White Clay Creek at 20C and 10C, ingestion rates measured in the laboratory at those temperatures, and the proportion of the year the stream was at those temperatures. These values range from 80% to 183% of our present estimate of annual streambed bacterial productivity. 
1468409|The transport and deposition of fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) is an important flux linking upstream and downstream reaches of stream ecosystems. However, few studies have attempted to identify physical controls on particle transport. One reason has been the lack of relatively simple, inexpensive methods. We describe a new technique for measuring fine particle transport in streams using fluoresently labeled yeast as FPOM analogs. We used steady state injections of yeast and a conservative tracer (Cl) in 6 reaches along a stream continuum at the Hubbard Brook Experimental Forest to explore the relationship between hydrologic properties of stream reaches and particle transport. The yeast technique is relatively easy and inexpensive, and measures of fine particle transport derived from this approach were comparable to those obtained for natural seston and other seston analogs in similarly sized streams. The transport distance of yeast particles (
1468039|We examined the temporal, longitudinal, and among-substrate variation of the size structure of the invertebrate assemblage in a Mediterranenan river (Aniene River, central Italy). Sampling was conducted with quantitative methods on different substrates every 2 mo at 2 sites for 1 y and at 9 additional sites in spring 1997. Water-quality variables, periphyton standing crop, and physical characteristics of sites were also recorded. The Aniene River showed large longitudinal changes in overall physical features, periphyton biomass, and water quality that were reflected in dramatic changes of the taxonomic composition of the invertebrate assemblage. Insects were numerically dominant in the upper reach and codominant with gastropods in the middle reach, whereas oligochaetes, crustaceans, and chironomids were predominant in the lower and polluted reach. Despite these changes, the shape of the size structure of the invertebrate assemblage was similar among sites, dates, and substrates, with limited departures from the average size spectrum. Body mass alone accounted for the largest part of the variance of the abundance per size class (48%) whereas date, site, and substrate accounted for an additional 13%. These data support early observations of size spectrum invariance from North American streams and rivers, reinforcing the view that size-dependent processes may structure lotic benthic assemblages.
4499047|We measured the effects of timber-harvest condition (clearcut and forested) and flow duration (perennial and intermittent) on emergent aquatic insect assemblages at 20 headwater streams in the Central Oregon Coast Range. Clearcut streams had been logged to the stream banks within 2 y prior to the start of our study. Adult aquatic insects were sampled from a 40-m reach at each study stream in 3 seasons: summer, autumn, and spring. Emergent insects were strong indicators of harvest condition and, regardless of flow duration or season, more aquatic insects emerged from streams in clearcut catchments than in forested catchments. Plecoptera had higher emergence rates from intermittent streams than from perennial streams in spring. Functional feeding group composition was not apparently affected by harvest condition or flow duration. Taxon richness was slightly higher at clearcut than at forested streams, primarily because of the occurrence of rare taxa at clearcut streams. Nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMS) ordination of emergent aquatic insect assemblages showed community patterns that varied by season and harvest condition, but little by flow duration. Stream canopy % cover, stand age, logging debris (% slash), and substrate composition differed between clearcut and forested streams and were strongly correlated with NMS axes. Taxa that responded to conditions created by logging, such as % slash or canopy opening, contributed to differences in assemblages between headwater streams flowing through clearcut and forested catchments.
10.2307/1467329|Behavioral patterns differ among third-, fourth-, and fifth-instar Dicosmoecus gilvipes larvae. Feeding, crawling, resting, case building, and interactions were observed among all instars, but time spent in each category varied according to larval instar, hunger, and type of algae available. Larvae fed one-third of the time. Third-instar larvae fed longer on diatoms, whereas fourth and fifth instars fed longer on filamentous assemblages. Third-instar larvae crawled faster than other instars, fourth instars spent the most time case building, and fifth instars rested more than others. Resting and case building were often associated activities. Interactions among individuals were infrequent; neither aggression nor cannibalism were observed. The variety and changes in behavior exhibited by D. gilvipes may affect grazing levels on algal resources and influence possible competitive interactions. Behavioral studies that encompass developmental patterns of organisms provide critical contexts for studies of ecological processes in streams.
40792626|We reviewed the development of ideas and empirical understanding about disturbance in lotic ecosystems by providing a pre-1986 historic context and highlighting major themes that have emerged in the 25 y since the inception of
41318723|The temporal pattern of river metabolism was estimated for high-order rivers (57
1468305|Macroinvertebrates living at the sedimentwater interface can be classified into different functional groups according to their modes of feeding and/or their bioturbation activities. We compared 3 detritivorous taxa of hyporheic habitats (chironomid larvae, asellid isopods, and tubificids) to test whether they represented distinct functional groups. This hypothesis was tested in experimental conditions using slow filtration gravel-and-sand columns during 20-d experiments. We measured the effects of the 3 taxa on particle redistribution, organic matter processing, nutrient fluxes, and microbial distribution. There were 3 experimental treatments: 1) 50 chironomid larvae (>80%
10.2307/1467720|This paper presents the results of a survey of our understanding of the structure and function of streams and rivers based on the opinions of colleagues working in the tropics. The questionnaire examined the status of eight general topics: taxonomy, life history traits, standing crop biomass, production, trophic structure, transport/drift of material or organisms, nutrient dynamics, and biotic interactions. Two conclusions were reached: (1) significant progress has been made in our understanding of tropical streams and rivers; very few subjects have not been examined at one or more tropical locations. (2) Although most subjects have received at least some attention, they remain relatively unknown at most sites. Recommendations for future directions in tropical stream research are given.
4095733|Release of P from lake sediments may account for a significant portion of a lakes total P (TP) load. Previous studies using sediment cores showed that 65% of the total P load entering Spring Lake, Michigan, came from the sediments, and that an alum concentration of 24 mg Al/L effectively inactivated P release in experimental sediment-core tubes. In 2004, we studied the influence of alum concentration and sediment resuspension on P release rates from the sediments. Based on laboratory incubations using alum concentrations of 0, 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25 mg/L, we determined that P release rates at alum concentrations 15 mg/L were no different than at release rates at concentrations of 25 mg/L. Resuspension of sediments substantially increased TP concentrations, even at high alum concentrations, but total soluble P concentrations remained low in the water when alum was present. Alum application may be an effective tool to reduce P flux from sediments in shallow lakes, but external P load reduction must accompany alum application to address the long-term impacts associated with cultural eutrophication.
10.2307/1467815|We compared macroinvertebrate population and assemblage responses to seasonal spates and dewatering in an intermittent and a perennial prairie stream in southern Oklahoma. Total densities, population densities, and indices of assemblage structure were examined as response variables. A 90% reduction of total invertebrate densities at both sites suggested that assemblages had low resistance to spring and fall spates. Caenis, Leptophlebia, and Baetis mayflies were more resistant to spates than other common taxa. Recovery of total densities was slower after the fall spate relative to spring. This delay may reflect a reduced availability of colonists and low population growth rates due to lower temperatures. Invertebrate assemblage structure in both streams remained stable during the spring spate, either through resistance (intermittent stream) or resilience (perennial stream). Beyond a few weeks, the effects of the spring spate on assemblage structure was not evident in either stream. Long term assemblage stability was strongly influenced by the resistance and resilience of individual taxa, whose dominance was influenced by season and previous disturbance events. Periodic dewatering in the intermittent stream favored the establishment of spate-tolerant Caenis mayflies over other taxa, resulting in an assemblage highly resistant to spates. High resilience of perennial stream assemblages was associated with the rapid recovery of chironomids as the major taxon. Lower assemblage stability during the fall spate may be related to annual fluctuations in density and assemblage composition, and not necessarily to the spate itself. Summer drying affected intermittent riffle assemblage structure during flow periods by restricting the establishment of flow-dependent taxa, truncating the recovery of invertebrate densities after the spring spate, and favoring drought-tolerant taxa. Recolonization after drying was rapid and 21 taxa were collected 4 d after rewetting. Spates greatly reduced total densities; however, long term assemblage stability was maintained in both streams by individual taxa that were either highly resistant to disturbance (intermittent) or resilient (perennial).
10.2307/1467280| Anthropogenic acidification of lakes alters periphyton growth and taxonomic composition. I tested whether these changes were regulated by abiotic (i.e., resources, acidity) and biotic (i.e., herbivory, competition) conditions, or both. Periphyton was reciprocally transplanted across lakes of low acidity (pH6.3), moderate acidity (pH5.6), and high acidity (pH < 5) undergoing recovery from anthropogenic acidification. Transplants were also placed in exclosures that excluded either macrograzers or all grazers and potential algal competitors. Data from 4-wk incubations suggested that periphyton growth and taxonomic composition were primarily regulated by abiotic conditions. Total biomass was significantly lower for periphyton that originated from, or was transferred into, the most acidic lake. Canonical correspondence analysis showed abiotic regulation of periphyton in acidified lakes was best explained by dissolved inorganic carbon availability. Regulation by biotic factors was detectable only in the least acidic lake where macrograzers suppressed loosely attached taxa, but not total biomass, owing to compensatory species replacements. When periphyton was transferred into less acidic lakes, only taxa that were already native to the host lake persisted through the 4-wk incubation, suggesting that algal recolonization during recovery is not impeded by dispersal barriers. My findings suggest that abiotic regulation of epilithic periphyton is superseded by biotic control as acid-sensitive macrograzers recolonize recovering acidified lakes. 
1468320|We studied the main channel of the lower Illinois River and of the Mississippi River just upstream and downstream of its confluence with the Illinois River to describe the abundance, composition, and/or seasonal appearance of components of the main-channel community. Abundance of fishes in the main channel was high, especially adults. Most adult fishes were present in the main channel for either 3 or 4 seasons/y, indicating that fishes regularly reside in the main channel. We documented abundant zooplankton and benthic invertebrates in the main channel, and the presence of these food types in the diets of channel catfish and freshwater drum. All trophic levels were well represented in the main channel, indicating that the main channel supports a unique food web. The main channel also serves as an important energetic link with other riverine habitats (e.g., floodplains, secondary channels, backwater lakes) because of the mobility of resident fishes and because of the varied energy sources supplying this food web. It may be more realistic to view energy flow in large-river systems as a combination of 3 existing concepts, the river continuum concept (downstream transport), the flood pulse concept (lateral transport to the floodplain), and the riverine productivity model (autochthonous production). We urge additional research to quantify the links between the main channel and other habitat types in large rivers because of the apparent importance of main-channel processes in the overall structure and function of large-river ecosystems.
10.2307/1467309| Although a cohort P/B ratio of about 5 has been most commonly reported for aquatic invertebrates, substantially lower ratios were observed in a recent production study of three species of Hydropsychidae (Trichoptera): Hydropsyche slossonae--3.9 to 4.6, Cheumatopsyche pettiti--3.0 to 3.7, and Hydropsyche riola--2.3 to 2.5. Cohort instantaneous growth rates were 6.3, 6.2, and 6.7, respectively, for the three species. The low cohort P/B ratios appeared to result from a truncation of the Allen curve owing to pupation and emergence; such truncation results in a relatively high cohort B, and thus a low cohort P/B ratio. It is suggested that the previously accepted concept of a near constant cohort P/B ratio of about 5, or even the narrow range of 4 to 6, be discarded in favor of a division of benthos into two major groups: (1) animals that live their entire life history in the aquatic habitat, such as crustaceans, exhibit an Allen curve that is not truncated, and have an expected cohort P/B ratio of about 5-7, and (2) animals that terminate their CPI in pupation/emergence, exhibit an Allen curve that is truncated, and have a cohort P/B ratio of about 2-5. 
1468434|We studied mechanisms by which zebra mussels may elevate densities of aquatic invertebrates at local and lake-wide spatial scales in a productive lake. Locally, zebra mussels provide structural refuge from predation and deposit organic material. An experiment demonstrated that the density of benthic invertebrates increased locally as a function of zebra mussel density in Oneida Lake, New York. On a lake-wide spatial scale, light penetration increased dramatically in response to zebra mussel invasion. Consequently, the area of lake bottom likely to support benthic primary production also increased. The maximum depth of light penetration sufficient to support benthic algal photosynthesis increased from 7.5 m in pre-invasion years (19751991) to 10.5 m in post-invasion years, and macrophytes extended to a greater depth in post-invasion years. Algae and macrophytes may provide food or structural refuge to invertebrates. An intensive survey of one shallow bay showed that benthic invertebrate densities were higher in 1995 than in 2 pre-invasion years (1916 and 1967), even on substrates not colonized by zebra mussels. Continuous data (19671997) showed that invertebrates on soft substrate in Oneida Lake have not significantly increased above peak historical levels. However, the abundance of 2 grazing taxa (Amphipoda and Gastropoda) has increased in shallow relative to deep areas, suggesting that grazing invertebrate populations have responded to modification of light penetration by zebra mussels. Phosphorus levels in the lake have declined in the past 30 y, possibly keeping the increase of benthic invertebrate populations below historical levels.
10.2307/1467207|In northern Wisconsin lakes, patterns of spatial distribution of an exotic crayfish, Orconectes rusticus (Girard), were related to differences in four littoral zone habitats: cobble, sand, macrophyte/firm (vegetated firm sediments), and macrophyte/much (vegetated soft sediments) in northern Wisconsin lakes. Field surveys of crayfish abundance and mortality rates of tethered crayfish were used to determine the relationship of habitat-specific predation risk to cross-habitat patterns of crayfish distribution. Predation risk differed significantly across habitat types; crayfish on sand (particularly small crayfish, 15-18 mm carapace length) experienced significantly higher predation than crayfish in either cobble or macrophyte habitats, which were not significantly different. Crayfish use of cobble and sand habitats was inversely related to habitat-specific predation risk, whereas use of macrophyte/firm and macrophyte/muck habitats was not related to predation risk. Crayfish use of these latter habitats may be related to physical attributes of substrate (e.g., physical impediment to crayfish movement). An additional survey of crayfish habitat use and fish predator density in seven lakes was consistent with these results. Crayfish were overrepresented in cobble relative to its availability, used sand in proportion to its availability, and were underrepresented in macrophytes. Among the seven lakes, crayfish use of cobble was significantly and positively correlated with lakewide predator density, suggesting the potential importance of predation risk in structuring patterns of crayfish distribution. The combination of the crayfish's association with cobble habitat and the low predation risk associated with cobble suggests that cobble availability may significantly influence the success of O. rusticus invasions.
10.2307/1467341| Export of particulate inorganic matter (PIM) from three headwater streams was studied from 1985 to 1991 at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory. The study encompassed years of extreme high and low precipitation. During three years of the study, the stream draining Catchment 54 (C 54) received seasonal treatments of an insecticide. This treatment greatly reduced abundance biomass and secondary production of most invertebrate taxa. Streams draining Catchments 53 and 55 (C 53 and C 55) served as reference streams. During treatment, concentration of PIM in C 54 decreased significantly from pretreatment levels for both instantaneous (grab) and continuous samples, while those of reference streams either increased or did not exhibit significant change. Maximum PIM concentrations, measured during rising hydrographs of storms, were over 2 greater in the reference streams than in C 54. During treatment of C 54, export of PIM per unit maximum discharge (L/s) during sampling intervals (2 wks) decreased significantly compared with that of reference streams. Annual PIM export in reference streams displayed a strong (p < 0.002) exponential relationship with annual discharge, whereas that of the treated stream did not (p > 0.05). High discharges during post-treatment years (1989-1991) resulted in increased concentration and export of PIM in all streams. However, PIM concentrations in C 54 remained lower than those of the two reference streams. Invertebrate manipulation apparently reduced PIM export from C 54 by at least two mechanisms. First, the rate of particle generation by feeding activities was reduced. Second, invertebrate manipulation reduced rates of leaf litter processing, which resulted in increased storage of leaf litter and enhanced retention of particles. Comparisons of predicted versus measured export suggest that invertebrate manipulation in C 54 reduced PIM export by 76%, or 550 (relative to C 53R) to >1000 kg (relative to C 55) over the 6-yr treatment and post-treatment period. These comparisons exceed those made previously for the impact of invertebrate manipulation on FPOM export and provide another example of the link between animal communities and ecosystem processes. This study also provides evidence that stored leaf material, like that of woody debris, augments retention of inorganic particles in small headwater streams. 
10.2307/1467407|Collections of pharate pupae, pupae, and pharate adults of the larva tentatively assigned to Oropsyche by G. B. Wiggins (Larvae of the North American caddisfly genera, University of Toronto Press, 1977) have revealed that these larvae are actually those of Homoplectra flinti Weaver. At present the immature stages and habitat of Oropsyche remain unknown. The larval retreat and pupa of H. flinti are described and figured.
40792631|Microbes play numerous roles in stream ecosystems. They carry out key processes in stream nutrient cycles and are responsible for a large part of organic matter breakdown. Advances over the past 25 y in our understanding of which microbes are linked to specific processes have been rapid and fundamental, in part, because of improvements in methods. It is now clear that immobilization of inorganic nutrients and other transformations are just as important as release of nutrients during organic matter decomposition. Microbial biomass is recognized as a key portion of trophic transfer, but our understanding of the pathways of connection have changed. Information on the actual composition of microbial communities is very recent, and it is still unclear whether there are consistent biogeographic patterns in freshwater bacterial composition. One of the major areas of potential advancement is clarifying the linkage between microbial community composition and ecosystem function. Determining the strength of the connection between microbial assemblage composition and the processes they catalyze remains a technical and conceptual hurdle. Quantifying the strength of this linkage seems necessary to understand variability in both composition and function because feedbacks are likely in cases where the link is strong. The future of the field is bright, but we need to understand how microbes and the processes they carry out will respond to climate change and novel stream management approaches.
10.2307/1467235|Particulate organic matter (POM) is a major vector for carbon and nutrients in stream ecosystems. The decomposition process by which this material enters the food web has been difficult to study directly because in-situ degradation rates for POM are difficult to obtain, particularly for fine particles. We evaluated a new statistical method that estimates POM mass loss rates from indices of microbial enzyme activity. Litter bags containing benthic POM in three size ranges--Fine (F) 0.063-0.25, Medium (M) 0.25-1 and Coarse (C) 1-4 mm--were placed in a eutrophic woodland stream in June 1992. Over a 6-mo period, samples were collected and analyzed for mass loss and the activities of seven extracellular enzymes involved in the degradation of holocellulose, chitin, and polyphenolic compounds. In-situ POM samples were collected concurrently and assayed for the same suite of enzyme activities. In all cases, mass loss was related to cumulative enzyme activity; however, apparent enzymatic degradation efficiencies were generally lower for MPOM and FPOM (=MFPOM) than for CPOM by factors of 1.5-7. Separate regression models, relating mass loss to average cumulative enzyme activity, were developed for CPOM and MFPOM and used to estimate in-situ decomposition rates. Mean model-estimated turnover times for in-situ CPOM, MPOM, and FPOM were 127, 145, and 185 d, respectively, compared with values of 143, 312, and 244 d determined for size-sorted POM confined in litter bags. The application of enzymatic decomposition models may circumvent some of the methodological problems that have limited the study of POM dynamics in lotic ecosystems.
4095629|Gradients in photosynthesis (P) and respiration (R) were measured on an unperturbed portion of the Rio Mameyes, a tropical stream in the Luquillo Experimental Forest, northeastern Puerto Rico. Rates of P, which were similar to those of streams in temperate-deciduous forests, were low in the heavily canopied headwaters (<70 g O
10.2307/1467762|The autotrophic and heterotrophic nature of attached algal and bacterial populations in streams was investigated in July and August 1986. Glass slides were colonized in two rivers in Algonquin Park, Ontario, that differed in their concentration of bioavailable phosphorus (P). The importance of three abundant algal species was demonstrated by considering their activities on a cellular level using nuclear track autoradiography (NTA). Community biomass accrual, carbon fixation, and phosphate uptake were monitored at bi-weekly intervals and were generally reflective of that of the dominant algal species in each river. It has been proposed that, in running waters, nutrients do not cycle in place but are continually translocated downstream before being re-used by attached organisms. This mode of recycling was demonstrated by monitoring biotic incorporation, release, and subsequent downstream re-incorporation of radiolabelled P and carbon (C) metabolites at the community and cellular levels. The river with less bioavailable P re-assimilated the P metabolites more quickly, but C re-assimilation was similar in the two rivers. This may account for observations that biomass development in running waters may exceed that predicted from empirical P-biomass relationships. Data presented also provide evidence that the species succession, and consequently the tiered development of a biofilm, was the result of the differing abilities of species to sequester and recycle organic and inorganic nutrients from overlying waters.
10.2307/1467711| Field experiments were conducted to examine the effects of disturbance frequency on invertebrates and periphyton colonizing bricks in a third order Rocky Mountain (USA) stream. After an initial colonization period (30 days), sets of bricks were turned over at intervals of 0, 3, 9, 27, or 54 days. Invertebrate species richness and density were reduced as disturbance frequency increased. These trends were evident for both seasons (summer and fall) and sites (open vs. closed canopy). Invertebrate species diversity (H) displayed no effect during the fall experiment; however, H was reduced at high frequencies of disturbance during the summer experiment. Baetis tricaudatus was the most abundant invertebrate on the substrata at both sites and seasons. Alloperla, Baetis, Cinygmula, Chironomidae, Drunella grandis, Hydropsyche, and Seratella tibialis increased in absolute abundances as disturbance frequency decreased. Four other abundant taxa (Capnia, Cleptelmis, Glossosoma, and Isoperla) displayed no clear response to disturbance in either absolute or relative abundances. Species in low abundance tended to colonize only the less frequently disturbed bricks. During both seasons, periphyton biomass increased as disturbance frequency decreased at the open canopy site, while no trend was apparent at the closed canopy site. Periphyton accumulation monitored over time and among treatments revealed that frequent disturbances maintained low standing crops at an open canopy site. These data suggest that disturbance frequency can directly influence the benthic community at the scale of individual rock "islands" by reducing invertebrate richness, total animal density, and periphyton biomass. The effect of disturbance on species diversity (H) was seasonal, further emphasizing the importance of considering seasonality in stream field studies. 
4499006|Our understanding of the N cycle is affected by how accurately we can measure NH
4499027|The location of a stream reach relative to other landforms in a watershed is an important attribute. We hypothesized that lakes disrupt the frequency of finer, more mobile sediments and thereby change sediment transport processes such that benthic substrates are more stable (i.e., less mobile) below lakes than above lakes. In turn, we hypothesized that this reduced mobility would lead to greater periphyton biomass below lakes. We tested these hypotheses in study reaches above and below lakes in 3 mountain watersheds. To expand this comparison, we analyzed the relationship between sediment attributes and periphyton biomass in one watershed with and one watershed without a lake. We hypothesized that no clear pattern or change in sediment size or chlorophyll
09-116R|Ecological thresholds that lead to alternative community states can be exceeded through gradual perturbation or as a result of sudden disturbance. Many Great Plains streams have experienced dramatic changes in their hydrologic regime resulting from water and landuse changes that began as early as 1880. These changes, combined with the presence of many invasive species, have substantially altered the fish communities in this area. We quantified temporal changes in fish communities in 3 large river basins in relation to putative anthropogenic stressors, including increased sediment supply derived from row-crop agriculture (beginning in 1880), habitat fragmentation caused by reservoir construction (beginning in the 1950s), and reduced discharge caused by groundwater withdrawal (beginning in the 1960s). We hypothesized that these abiotic regime shifts, coupled with species invasions, would shift the system from a fish community dominated by lotic (flowing water) species to one dominated by lentic (still water) species. Further, we predicted that the timing and intensity of community change would vary across basins that experienced different types and levels of stressors. Restructuring of fish communities across the 3 river basins was driven primarily by similar increases in lentic species, with only a few declines in several large-river species. Current fish communities in these basins share <50% of the species recorded in historic collections, and these differences were driven by species extirpations and invasions. The greatest levels of community divergence over time occurred in western Kansas basins that experienced the most intense groundwater withdrawals and fragmentation by reservoirs. An alarming result from this analysis was the recent (after 1991) expansion of several invasive species in the Arkansas and lower Kansas River basins and the decline or extirpation of several native species where flow regimes are less heavily altered. Accelerating changes in the biota and habitat identified by our retrospective analysis highlight potential complications for restoring the habitat and native fish communities to a previous state.
09-179R1|Knowledge of functional aspects of communities in intermittent streams currently is lacking, and the role of terrestrial detritus as a resource in open-canopy streams is uncertain. Our main objective was to characterize and quantify the macroinvertebrate shredder assemblages in 3 intermittent open-canopy streams on the island of land in the Baltic Sea, Sweden, by estimating secondary production. Estimates of annual shredder secondary production ranged from 0.005 to 13.6g ash-free dry mass (AFDM) m
10.2307/1467666|Field experiments were used to assess the importance of intraspecific and interspecific competition in two grazing caddisflies, Neophylax fuscus Banks (Uenoidae) and Pycnopsyche guttifer (Walker) (Limnephilidae) and to examine the effect of larval density on the biomass of their algal food. Chlorophyll a was unaffected by manipulations of the density of either caddisfly species, although indicators of algal "quality" (the ratios of chlorophyll a to ash-free dry weight or to pheophytin a) displayed weak but significantly positive relationships with the dry weight of P. guttifer and N. fuscus, respectively. This suggests that grazing may remove older or overstory algae and thereby prevent senescence of the algal assemblage. Both active larvae and diapausing prepupae of N. fuscus were affected strongly by densities of conspecifics, exhibiting increases in weight only in treatments at 33% of natural density; this suggests a release from intraspecific competition. Survivorship of N. fuscus larvae and prepupae was not dependent on intraspecific density, but mean survivorship tended to decline with increasing density of conspecifics. Intraspecific competition may increase the variation in the biomass of individual N. fuscus larvae; at high densities, there may be individual "winners" and "losers" of aggregate biomass. No significant effects of intraspecific competition were detected for larvae of P. guttifer, and a significant interspecific effect of N. fuscus density on the biomass of individual P. guttifer did not have a consistent effect with changes in density.
41319674|Nutrients and grazers both can regulate benthic algal structure and function in streams, but the relative strength of each factor depends on stream biotic and abiotic conditions. The abundance of stream organisms and nutrient availability can change rapidly after a flood. Thus, nutrient and grazer influences on algal development and how these drivers interact may vary temporally during recovery. We measured benthic structural and functional development for 35d after a simulated flood in large outdoor mesocosms under a gradient of 6 nutrient loadings crossed with 6 densities of grazing fish (Southern redbelly dace,
1468432|Leptocerid caddisflies have a wide variety of case forms, and therefore it might seem difficult to establish behavioral homologies at the family or generic levels. We videotaped case building in representatives of 9 genera in 8 leptocerid tribes and compared their behavior to 32 other caddisfly genera in 11 families to determine if family-specific behaviors could be identified. We also constructed a behavioral phylogeny of the 8 leptocerine genera and compared this phylogeny to an existing morphological phylogeny. Four unreversed and 1 reversed behavioral synapomorphies supported the monophyly of the Leptoceridae even though case shape varies among the genera. An analysis of 9 intergeneric behavioral characters produced 1 most parsimonious tree (length 11; consistency index: 1.00; retention index: 1.00) that differed from the morphological phylogeny in the placement of 2 genera. Six character states were homologous relative to the morphological data, 5 of which supported 2 nodes that were previously only weakly supported by morphological data alone. The remaining states were homoplastic relative to the morphological data. In general, detailed descriptions of behavior can yield valuable genealogical information even when behaviors appear superficially different.
40792568|We developed a set of great-river macroinvertebrate indices of condition (GRMINs) for the littoral benthos of mid-continent great rivers in the US (Missouri, Upper Mississippi, and Ohio). We used a multiscale (site, reach, landscape), multimetric abiotic stressor gradient to select macroinvertebrate assemblage metrics sensitive to human disturbance. We used the same stressor gradient to derive reference expectations by empirical modeling. We developed GRMINs for each of 5 reaches: the upper Missouri River, the lower Missouri River, the unimpounded Upper Mississippi River, the impounded Upper Mississippi River, and the Ohio River. We created 2 versions of each index. One version was based on the absolute value (AV) of the correlation between invertebrate metrics and the stressor gradient and potentially included all types of metrics (e.g., diversity, composition, tolerance to pollution, feeding guild). The second version included no tolerance-value-based metrics (NTV). Each index included up to 10 metrics. The indices were reliable for general assessment of great-river aquatic conditions except in the unimpounded Upper Mississippi River. The AV and NTV versions of the GRMIN were highly correlated (
09-159R|Climate change is expected to alter freshwater communities and accelerate extinction, but the exact processes are poorly known. Here, we appraise interannual variation between 2 sympatric planarians (
10.2307/1467665| Biomass of Simuliidae larvae was measured on individual rocks in four surveys of southern Qubec streams to quantify the intensity and importance of relationships between biomass of black flies and microhabitat features (depth, current velocity, rock size), site properties (distance from the lake, seston quality), and biomass of Hydropsychidae. Microhabitat features and site properties accounted for 14-47% of the variability in biomass of hydropsychids and simuliids on individual rocks, and between 30 and 67% of variability in mean biomass across sites. Addition of biomass of potential competitors did not significantly improve the proportion of variability accounted for by the multiple regression models. Within most sampling sites, biomasses of simuliids and of hydropsychids were positively correlated. However, analysis of microdistribution patterns across sites suggests a small but significant negative partial correlation between hydropsychids and simuliids in summer and a positive partial correlation in winter. Analysis of covariance revealed strong site effects that could not be explained by microhabitat features or biomass of potential competitors. These results suggest that hydropsychids have a negative effect on biomass of simuliids in summer, but that biomass of simuliids in different sites is more influenced by microhabitat features and site properties than by the biomass of hydropsychids. Reanalysis of published work on interactions between simuliids and caddisflies suggests that intensity of competition is relatively constant, but that its importance is overestimated by controlled experiments. Quantitative models describing the distribution of filter feeders across sites should include better correlates of site suitability rather than considering abundance of competing groups. 
10.2307/1467620|Microbial respiration on sticks and leaves, measured as rate of oxygen uptake, was compared among four sites (2nd-4th order) along Ball Creek/Coweeta Creek, Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina. Senescent rhododendron and birch leaves were placed in the stream at each site on 21 October 1990. Microbial oxygen uptake rates were measured for both leaf species beginning 15 December 1990 and continuing monthly until leaves were no longer intact (birch--2 mo, rhododendron--7 mo). Oxygen uptake rates also were measured monthly for 1 yr on sticks (1-3 cm diameter) collected from the stream at each site. Oxygen uptake rates (mg O<sub>2</sub>/hr) were calculated on the basis of surface area and ash-free dry mass (AFDM). Mean respiration rates per unit surface area of substrate were highest for sticks, followed by rhododendron, then birch, indicating that substrate stability and persistence may affect microbial respiration in streams. When expressed on an AFDM basis, respiration rate was highest for birch, followed by rhododendron, then sticks. Respiration rates were significantly correlated with temperature for both rhododendron leaves and sticks on both an AFDM and surface area basis. Respiration rates on rhododendron also increased with exposure time. Rhododendron leaves represent a long-lasting leaf source for microbial activity in streams. Differences in respiration rates among sites, for both rhododendron leaves and sticks, can be explained primarily by differences in water temperature. The high respiration rate per unit surface area on sticks suggested that small woody debris can play a significant role as a substrate for microbial metabolism.
10.2307/1467669| Twenty-two populations of Hyalella azteca (Saussure) from freshwater habitats located across eastern, central, and southern Ontario were studied to investigate the relationship between the variability in demographic traits, and a gradient in environmental conditions. Environmental variables were chosen to reflect the buffering capacity of each habitat, and to describe additional physical and chemical attributes of both the water and sediment. Canonical correlation analysis of the data described a significant multivariate relationship between demographic and environmental variables (p = 0.041). Only the first pair of canonical variates was significant (p  0.01) and indicated increasing reproductive output of H. azteca in habitats of increasing sulphate, calcium hardness, sediment particle size, conductivity, alkalinity, seston, and the organic matter of the fine sediment. Reproductive output was described by the weight at sexual maturity, mean brood size, duration of the reproductive season, and the proportion of the population that was juvenile. Although variables related to the buffering capacity of the water were an important part of the environmental gradient, they were not the only variables important to the demography of H. azteca. Other ions, sediment grain size, seston, and the organic matter of the fine sediment were also important to the relationship described by canonical correlation. The data documented the level of demographic variability among populations of H. azteca in Ontario, and emphasized the relationships among habitat variables and their combined effect on demographic patterns. 
1468279|Statistical models for predicting the effects on algal biomass of eutrophication are much better developed for lentic systems than for lotic systems, partly because of the dynamic physical nature of streams as controlled by flood regimes. I analyzed data from 30 sites in 25 runoff-fed streams and rivers to develop statistical models for mean monthly and maximum chlorophyll
10.2307/1467687|A case study of hyporheic research in a northern Michigan river is presented to illustrate some potential effects of subsurface hydrology on microbial ecology. Hydrologic flow between a downwelling and an upwelling zone beneath a riffle-pool sequence promoted hyporheic-groundwater interaction and differentiated regions of increased bacterial activity, production, turnover time, and responsiveness to dissolved organic carbon enrichment. Large gaps in knowledge exist on the structure and function of fungal, bacterial, microalgal, protozoan, and micrometazoan assemblages within hyporheic zones. This study, combined with available literature on surface and groundwater microbial assemblages, generated several hypotheses for future research. Hydrological methods, when coupled with biochemical measurements, micro-techniques, and descriptions of hyporheic physicochemical and biological gradients, can potentially contribute to a greater understanding of the role of hyporheic microbial communities in the structure and function of lotic ecosystems.
40792501|Comparisons of the effects of leaf litter chemistry on leaf breakdown rates in tropical vs temperate streams are hindered by incompatibility among studies and across sites of analytical methods used to measure leaf chemistry. We used standardized analytical techniques to measure chemistry and breakdown rate of leaves from common riparian tree species at 2 sites, 1 tropical and 1 temperate, where a relatively large amount of information is available on litter chemistry and breakdown rates in streams (La Selva Biological Station, Costa Rica, and Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory, North Carolina, USA). We selected 8 common riparian tree species from La Selva and 7 from Coweeta that spanned the range of chemistries of leaf litter naturally entering streams at each site. We predicted that concentrations of secondary compounds would be higher in the tropical species than in the temperate species and that high concentrations of condensed tannins would decrease breakdown rates in both sites. Contrary to our predictions, mean concentration of condensed tannins was significantly greater (2.6,
41319678|Grass litter can be a dominant detritus type in many streams. However, use of this C source in stream food webs often is viewed as insignificant because of its relatively slow breakdown rates and low nutritional quality. We deployed leaf packs containing senesced bluejoint grass (
41319677|Patchiness is hierarchically structured in stream ecosystems and transcends multiple spatial and temporal scales. Regulation of streams through channelization and flow stabilization often homogenizes in-stream habitats, thereby reducing this patchiness. We conducted a patch-disturbance experiment with individual brick substrata in 2 reaches (open vs closed canopy) and 2 seasons (summer vs winter) in a eutrophic regulated stream. Although the stream was regulated, we expected coarse-scale attributes (canopy cover, season) to influence the effects of disturbance at the fine scale of individual bricks. Brick substrata had 3 degrees of structural complexity (low = smooth, intermediate = techno, high = hetero). Replicates of each brick type were physically disturbed at frequencies of every 5 and 10d or were left undisturbed during each 30-d experimental period. At the end of each experiment, individual bricks were collected, periphyton biomass was estimated, and macroinvertebrates were identified and counted. Natural densities, taxon richness, and assemblage composition of macroinvertebrates differed significantly between sites and seasons. Periphyton biomass was higher in the open-canopy than in the closed-canopy site in both seasons, especially summer. Periphyton biomass differed among brick types at each site and season, but disturbance had no effect on periphyton biomass within a brick type. At the closed-canopy site, undisturbed hetero bricks had higher macroinvertebrate density, richness, and biomass than the other brick types and disturbance treatments in both seasons. At the open-canopy site, no effect of disturbance was found for any brick type in summer, whereas undisturbed and 10-d hetero bricks had higher macroinvertebrate density, richness, and biomass than the other brick types and disturbance treatments in winter. Besides the dominant role of site and season in this study, our results also suggest that substrate patch complexity can be significant in the response of macroinvertebrates to physical disturbance in regulated streams. As in natural systems, coarse-scale attributes of stream reaches, e.g., degree of canopy cover and season, also provide the spatiotemporal hierarchical context in which disturbance effects are realized in regulated streams, thus having major implications for resource managers.
4095746|We sampled pupal exuviae in 39 Mediterranean stream sites, situated in 2 mountain regions in the Betic ranges (southern Spain) to test the value of chironomid species assemblages for stream classification and water-quality evaluation. Downstream reaches of these streams are organically polluted to different extents, but the headwaters are protected, providing reference sites for comparison with impaired sites in the mid elevations. A priori classification of sites was done using 7 physiographical and geological variables to differentiate stream types independently of human influence. A posteriori classification and ordination analyses of sites were done on an environmental matrix of 28 variables and a biotic matrix of 204 chironomid species. Regional-scale factors played a more important role than reach-scale factors (i.e., water chemistry) in structuring chironomid assemblages. However, within each region, reach-scale factors such as thermal regime and variables related to water-quality impairment also exerted important influences on chironomid assemblage structure. The indicator value of chironomid species, obtained by comparing reference and impaired sites in the same stream type, showed that 6 species clearly had a positive response to water-quality impairment. This response does not appear to be dependent upon stream type or regional setting, either in the studied area or in other fluvial ecosystems of Western Europe. Moreover, these chironomid species seemed to be distributed along a wide gradient of water-quality impairment, suggesting their potential for evaluating a great range of water-quality degradation.
41319683|Understanding the broad-scale factors that influence biological communities has long been a goal of community ecology. We used benthic macroinvertebrate data to identify broad geographical patterns in macroinvertebrate community composition and specifically to examine the influence of the Precambrian Shield on stream abiotic and biotic conditions. The Precambrian Shield is a geological feature that encompasses most of northern North America. Geology differs between Shield and off-Shield areas, creating distinctly different physical and chemical conditions in aquatic systems. We focused our regional-scale study on south-central Ontario, where both Shield and off-Shield conditions are found in adjacent areas. We used constrained and unconstrained multivariate analyses to examine patterns in biotic, abiotic, and spatial variables. Our results showed that, in low-order lotic systems, macroinvertebrate communities differ between Shield and off-Shield streams. Shield streams have higher dissolved O
4095571|Our study evaluated spatiotemporal variation of physicochemical parameters and benthic and sestonic algal biomass in littoral areas of the main channel and floodplain lakes of the Cinaruco River, a lowland tributary of the Orinoco River in Venezuela. The Cinaruco is characterized by a highly predictable annual flood pulse, high transparency, and extremely low conductivity and suspended sediment load. During 2002 and 2003, 10 sites in the main channel and floodplain lagoons were sampled on 12 occasions. Correspondence analysis based on water physicochemical variables and algal biomass showed that 80% of the variation in the multivariate space among sites and sampling dates was explained by 2 axes. During the high-water periods, river and lagoon sites showed high similarity in water variables and algal biomass. Conductivity, SiO
20491199|One of the biggest challenges when conducting a continental-scale assessment of streams is setting appropriate expectations for the assessed sites. The challenge occurs for 2 reasons: 1) tremendous natural environmental heterogeneity exists within a continental landscape and 2) reference sites vary in quality both across and within major regions of the continent. We describe the process used to set expectations for the multimetric index of biotic integrity (MIBI) and observed/expected (O/E) indices generated from predictive models used to assess stream condition for the US Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA). The assessment was based on a reference-site approach, in which the least-disturbed sites in each region of the US were used to establish benchmarks for assessing the condition of macroinvertebrate assemblages at other sites. Reference sites were compiled by filtering WSA sample sites for disturbance using a series of abiotic variables. Additional reference sites were needed and were obtained from other state, university, and federal monitoring programs. This pool of potential reference sites was then assessed for uniformity in site quality and comparability of macroinvertebrate sample data. Ultimately, 1625 sites were used to set reference expectations for the WSA. Reference-site data were used to help define 9 large ecoregions that minimized the naturally occurring variation in macroinvertebrate assemblages associated with continental-wide differences in biogeography. These ecoregions were used as a basis for developing MIBI and O/E indices and for reporting results. A least-disturbed definition of reference condition was used nationally, but we suspect that the quality of the best extant sites in ecoregions, such as the Northern Plains and Temperate Plains, was lower than that of sites in other ecoregions. For the MIBI assessment, we used a simple modeling approach to adjust scores in ecoregions where gradients in reference-site quality could be demonstrated conclusively. The WSA provided an unparalleled opportunity to push the limits of our conceptual and technical understanding of how to best apply a reference-condition approach to a real-world need. Our hope is that we have learned enough from this exercise to improve the technical quality of the next round of national assessments.
1468035|The Mackenzie Delta is a lake-rich region where the distribution and abundance of phytoplankton, macrophytes, and benthic algae among lakes may be controlled by an interaction between nutrient supply and sediment in the water column, and episodic reduction in light availability associated with river flooding. To simulate the effects of episodic river inflow on benthic algae, limnocorrals (depth = 3 m) were either not manipulated (control), or received high or low weekly additions of nutrients (N and P) and sediments, delivered as a pulse (1/wk: high-pulsed, low-pulsed) or distributed incrementally through each week ( of high or low load  3 d/wk: high-distributed, low-distributed) in a balanced triplicated design (15 limnocorrals). Artificial substrates, enriched to mimic the supply of nutrients at the sediment/water interface, were suspended in the limnocorrals at 2 m depth for 6 wk beginning in mid-July 1995. Maximum average levels of phytoplankton biomass (inferred from chlorophyll) occurred in the treatment where light attenuation was highest (high-distributed), and lowest levels occurred where light attenuation was lowest (control). By contrast, maximum average accrual of benthic algal biomass on the artificial substrates occurred in the control, whereas lowest accrual occurred in the high-distributed treatment. Chlorophyll content per unit biovolume of benthic algae increased modestly in treatments experiencing low light relative to treatments with higher light, but was insufficient to explain the 3-fold difference in inferred biomass between the control and high-distributed treatment in the case of benthic algae, or the 4-fold difference in the case of phytoplankton. Under equivalent in situ light conditions, areal net photosynthesis of benthic algae was highest in the control and lowest in the high-pulsed treatment. Net photosynthetic rate per unit benthic algal chlorophyll was not significantly different among the control and treatments. Last, biomass accrual rates among treatments showed a strong inverse relation with average light attenuation among the limnocorrals over the duration of the experiment. These results indicate that light availability was primarily responsible for maximum biomass accrual in the control and was the dominant factor affecting accrual rates among treatments. Overall, this study suggests that the abundance of benthic algae among Mackenzie Delta lakes may progressively increase as flood frequency decreases and light availability becomes greater, whereas phytoplankton abundance may peak in lakes with intermediate transparencies by responding to nutrient additions despite interruption of the light environment by suspended sediments.
10.2307/1467281| In this study we compared water-quality results obtained by a modified version of the Biological Monitoring Working Party Score System (BMWP, a multimetric method) with those from multivariate methods--TWINSPAN and Canonical Correspondence Analysis (CCA)--in a river basin in southern Spain affected by organic pollution. Main environmental variables correlated to macroinvertebrate distributions were identified by CCA. Biological quality of the water was assessed by the BMWP biotic index, which classified the sites according to the tolerance of taxa to organic pollution. TWINSPAN was used to classify the sites according to benthic communities, and CCA was performed to establish the relationships among groups of sites, taxa, and abiotic variables. The results showed a clear separation of river sites according to their water composition and degree of pollution; nutrient content and water hardness were the main factors influencing the faunal distribution. Most of the sites in the study area were polluted, and consequently the most frequently encountered taxa were tolerant species. Moreover, the worsening of the water quality downstream was accompanied by a substitution of species, even within the same genus, from less to more pollution tolerant. The results obtained by the multivariate analyses used were highly satisfactory for correctly interpreting the assemblages and substitutions of macroinvertebrates, according to the main environmental variables measured in the basin. Moreover, the classification of sites according to macroinvertebrate requirements, provided by TWINSPAN analysis, was closely related to the classification according to tolerance to water pollution, provided by the biotic index. In addition, a significant part of the variance of each taxon as a pollution bioindicator, in the sites where they were found, was explained by the main canonical axis. Thus, the BMWP biotic index, of easy applicability in river basins, proved to be an easy tool for water-quality assessment. 
10.2307/1467562| A food augmentation experiment demonstrated that growth and lipid accumulation by grazing snails (Elimia clavaeformis) and caddisflies (Neophylax etnieri) from a snail-dominated stream in eastern Tennessee were strongly food limited. Elimia (two size classes) and third-instar Neophylax from White Oak Creek were given one of four diets in laboratory streams: (1) low-biomass periphyton (from White Oak Creek), (2) high-biomass periphyton (from an unshaded, nutrient-enriched stream that lacked effective grazers), (3) low-biomass periphyton and leaves, and (4) high-biomass periphyton and leaves. Small Elimia grew 2 faster and large Elimia grew 5 faster on high-biomass periphyton than on their normal diet of low-biomass periphyton. Neophylax grew 7 faster on the high-biomass periphyton. The high-biomass periphyton also produced significantly higher ratios of lipid to ash-free dry mass for both grazers. Leaf additions did not increase growth or lipid accumulation, even for Elimia, a feeding generalist. Measurements of grazer growth in situ closely matched those obtained on low-biomass periphyton in the laboratory, indicating few laboratory artifacts. The degree of Elimia's food limitation was size-specific: growth stimulation by high-biomass periphyton was much more pronounced for large snails than for small snails, and large snails had lower lipid reserves after feeding on low-biomass periphyton than did small snails. Food limitation appears to be a chronic condition for grazers in streams like White Oak Creek, where grazer biomass is high and primary production is low. 
10.2307/1467733|Effects of different intensities of physical disturbance on benthic macroinvertebrates colonizing artificial (brick) substrata were examined in upland (Birthday Creek) and lowland (Gorge Creek) tropical rainforest streams that differed in community structure. The movement of substratum (disturbance) resulting from spates of different magnitudes was simulated by tumbling and scrubbing of bricks. Colonization of undisturbed (control) bricks was examined at both sites. At the upland site, temporal changes in the benthic rock fauna following the summer wet season (December-February) were monitored. Rock samples revealed temporal fluctuations closely correlated with wet and dry seasons, which may reflect food availability and life-history characteristics. Both density and richness of macroinvertebrates were lowest following the wet season (March), with a peak in July. Individual taxa typically reflected this trend, with the exception of Simulium sp., which was abundant in March, possibly as a result of reduced densities of other taxa on the scoured substrata, combined with elevated flow levels. Macroinvertebrate densities and colonization rates on bricks were significantly higher at Gorge Creek than at Birthday Creek, with no asymptote reached at Gorge Creek after 70 d exposure. In contrast, faunal densities at Birthday Creek stabilized after 21 d exposure, at levels directly comparable to the natural rock samples. Direct taxonomic comparisons between bricks and rocks at day 34 and day 64 revealed that the fauna colonizing the bricks closely matched natural rock communities, particularly by day 64, when only one taxon (Nousia sp. 2) was more abundant on bricks. Species richness essentially remained constant over the colonization period at both sites. Overall response to disturbance was similar in both streams. Increases in the intensity of physical disturbance typically resulted in a significant reduction in total abundance and, to a lesser extent, reduced diversity on the bricks sampled 24 h later. Responses to disturbance were highly taxon-specific and generally varied with season. The most common response was a decline in density as disturbance intensity increased (e.g., Chironomidae, Helicopsyche, Oecetis), whereas Simulium and Baetis were least affected by the treatments. Recolonization onto disturbed bricks appears to be largely a function of resistance and resilience of individual taxa. The effects of disturbance on community structure were more profound at Gorge Creek, which was numerically dominated by two species (Cheumatopsyche sp. and Ferrissia sp.) which were highly vulnerable to disturbance. This result suggests that a natural disturbance of sufficient magnitude to move the substratum may alter community structure at Gorge Creek, but this effect may be short-term due to the high resilience of the fauna (expressed as recolonization rate) compared with Birthday Creek. Increasing the recolonization distance by disturbing a large area (100 m<sup>2</sup>) surrounding the disturbed bricks had no effect on density, richness, or taxonomic composition of the colonizing fauna, suggesting the fauna is well able to recover from this spatial scale of disturbance. Disturbance appears to play an important role as a structuring force of macroinvertebrate faunas of tropical Australian rainforest streams, which may be a direct consequence of the highly active hydrological regime of this region.
10.2307/1467624|We evaluated factors that influence food preference of the giant rams-horn snail Marisa cornuarietis for two aquatic macrophytes, Vallisneria americana and Ludwigia repens. The effects of pre-exposure and time-of-year on differences in consumption of plant species were determined by means of laboratory feeding trials. Snails had higher rates of ingestion in November 1991 than February 1992, but composition of diet was similar between dates. Marisa cornuarietis exhibited a distinct preference for L. repens following pre-exposure to both plants or to only V. americana. In contrast, pre-exposure to only L. repens resulted in equal consumption of both macrophytes. To gain insight to the factors producing these patterns of consumption, apparent digestibility (=ingestion - egestion) of plant materials was evaluated by additional feeding trials, and phytochemical characteristics of L. repens and V. americana were determined by laboratory analyses examining: 1) polar + nonpolar soluble (labile), 2) acid-soluble (=cellulose + hemicellulose), 3) acid insoluble (e.g., lignins), 4) total phenolics, and 5) ash contents. The consumption of L. repens in higher amounts may be due to the higher apparent digestibility of L. repens than V. americana. L. repens has a higher concentration of holocellulose, which appears to be readily digested. Plant phenolics and ash contents did not differ between plant species. V. americana is reported to have higher nutrient concentrations than L. repens, which may explain why M. cornuarietis consistently consumed V. americana even though the latter plant species has lower apparent digestibility than L. repens.
10.2307/1467606|A rapid bioassessment method was compared with the State of North Carolina's standard semi-quantitative collection method. The rapid procedure is essentially a subset of the standard method, but with fewer samples (four) and with collections limited to Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera and Trichoptera (EPT). Collecting and processing time for this "EPT" method was less than one-half that of the standard collection method, but the more rapid method still produced reliable water quality ratings.
10-035R|Given the unique spatial structure of stream habitat and the stochasticity characteristic of lotic ecosystems, metacommunity approaches hold much promise in the field of stream ecology. We take advantage of the tight parallels between neutral theories of molecular evolution and community assembly and present a novel conceptual approach to evaluating the role of stochasticity and dispersal limitation in structuring stream metacommunities. The analogous neutral frameworks generate similar expectations for the spatial structure of species comprising communities and genes comprising populations, particularly among patchily distributed, isolated local habitats (e.g., headwater streams) where among-stream dispersal is expected to be limited. Our emphasis is on the conceptual value of this approach, but we also used a limited data set composed of intensively sampled community and population-genetic data collected from 5 to 7 Rocky Mountain alpine streams for illustrative purposes. We characterized neutral population genetic structure as mitochondrial haplotype distributions for the blackfly
10.2307/1467261| Many mayfly species have synchronous univoltine life histories over broad geographic ranges, but the life-history adaptations underlying their seasonality remain unidentified. We investigated whether simple adaptations in the response of development rate to temperature might account for the observed phenology of adult emergence and the 1- and 2-year life histories of eight mayfly species studied in Piedmont streams of eastern North America between 34N and 50N latitude. We present a model consisting of two sequential life-history stages. Development rate in each stage is a linear function of streamwater temperature above a lower threshold but, in the first stage, a developmental quiescence occurs whenever a maximal temperature is exceeded. The five model parameters are assumed not to vary with latitude. Using daily field temperatures, the model simulated several successive generations beginning from an arbitrary day of the year. With parameters fitted from the field data, the model could reproduce both the univoltine life history and the latitudinal variation in the timing of adult emergence for six species. For two additional species, the model reproduced a northward transition to a semivoltine life history. The simulations suggest that nearly all development occurs in spring and autumn during periods of roughly equivalent thermal regime at all latitudes. 
41318728|Differences in the raw data used in bioassessments and choices regarding how those data are analyzed and summarized can affect inferences regarding the status of ecological resources and, thus, the degree to which we can trust individual ecological assessments, compare assessments across different programs and regions, or share data when developing or refining new endpoint indices. Progress in addressing these issues has been hindered by lack of consensus regarding what a general definition of comparability should be in the context of bioassessments and what measures of comparability are appropriate for ecological data. In this paper, we review the state of knowledge regarding the comparability of assessments as affected by differences in raw data (composition and relative abundance of taxa), derived measures (biotic metrics and endpoint indices), and assessment levels (condition classes). We specifically address the extent to which the comparability of assessments can be compromised by systematic differences in data, discuss the factors known to affect data comparability, and consider the techniques available to evaluate and improve comparability. Rigorous assessment of data comparability should be a standard aspect of quality assurance when developing and applying biological indices.
4498999|The long-term effects of an alien species may differ from transient effects that occur shortly after its invasion of a new ecosystem. Conservationists fear that the invasion of North America by the zebra mussel since 1985 may lead to the extinction of many populations and species of native bivalves. The appearance of zebra mussels in the Hudson River estuary in 1991 was followed by steep declines (65100%) in population size of all species of native bivalves between 1992 and 1999. The body condition of all unionids and growth and recruitment of young unionids also declined significantly. Initial declines in population size and body condition were correlated primarily with the filtration rate of the zebra mussel population but not with fouling of native bivalves by zebra mussels. However, samples taken since 2000 have shown that populations of all 4 common native bivalves have stabilized or even recovered, although the zebra mussel population has not declined. The mechanisms underlying this apparent reversal of fortune are not clear. Recruitment and growth of young mussels have shown limited recovery, but the body condition of adults has not. We found no evidence that spatial refuges contributed to this reversal of population declines. Simple statistical models project now that native bivalves may persist at population densities about an order of magnitude below their preinvasion densities. These results offer a slender hope that zebra mussels may coexist with unionids and sphaeriids in North America, as they do in Europe.
4095566|Diadromous faunas dominate most tropical coastal streams and rivers, but the factors controlling their distribution are not well understood. Our study documents abiotic variables controlling the distribution and abundance of the diadromous snail
1468077|Macroinvertebrate biological monitoring in Victoria, Australia, has required substantial resources over the past decade, and often results have taken years to reach water managers. Ways of reducing the time and effort required in this program were examined. The influence of taxonomic resolution and sample habitat on the classification and ordination of 165 stream sites in 27 catchments across Victoria was examined by progressively reducing the level of detail in the original data. Macroinvertebrate samples were collected from 2 habitats (riffle and edge) at each site. A 3rd data set was generated by amalgamating the individual habitats. These 3 habitat treatments were analyzed at family, genus, and species level, and a 4th taxonomic treatment was generated at species level including Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) taxa only. All 12 data sets were analyzed using presence/absence data, and each was used to classify sites across Victoria into groups that were characterized using environmental variables. The Mantel test was used to compare the 12 analyses, and showed that each of the analyses produced similar patterns. A number of possible ways to reduce time and effort in broad-scale macroinvertebrate studies were evident: 1) single habitat sampling was sufficient for biological monitoring, 2) studies that require species-level discrimination may be able to reduce costs by identifying EPT taxa only, and 3) genus-level identifications offered no substantial advantage over family-level identifications. Overall, species-level identification appeared to be unnecessary for broad-scale monitoring programs and, in future, taxonomic effort could be reduced by identifying to family level only.
10.2307/1467559|Sampling protocols (different sampling gears used in different habitats) often vary among invertebrate studies. Several questions commonly arise: Which invertebrate attributes differ between pools and riffles? Are pool and riffle invertebrate assemblages differentially sensitive to the influences of human society? Can qualitative samples provide as much discriminating ability as quantitative samples? How can we best evaluate the status (biological condition) of the resident biota? We examined three sampling protocols: replicate Hess samples taken in pools, replicate Surber samples taken in riffles, and one qualitative sample from all habitats. Differences between Hess and Surber samples probably reflect differences in organisms found in pool and riffle habitats, whereas the qualitative protocol differed from the others in both habitats sampled and sampling effort. We determined differences among protocols for 18 attributes of invertebrate assemblages using data from yearly benthic samples (1986-1989) in three Tennessee River tributaries: Clinch, Powell, and Sequatchie rivers. Conditions differed among those rivers as reflected by fish assemblages (using the index of biotic integrity--IBI). We found distinct differences among the protocols and among many of the attributes selected for evaluation. Ten attributes either did not differ (stonefly and intolerant snail and mussel taxa richnesses, dominance, and proportions of omnivores, gatherers, grazers, and predators), or exhibited consistent differences (proportions of filterers, shredders, and chironomids), between riffles and pools. Of these ten attributes, six (stonefly taxa richness, dominance, and proportions of chironomids, filterers, omnivores, and predators) exhibited trends that coincided with our expectations based on fish assemblage condition. Eight attributes exhibited spatial and/or temporal trends that differed between riffles and pools (total, mayfly, caddisfly, and sediment-surface taxa richnesses, proportions of Corbicula, detritivores, and oligochaetes, and total abundance). When interyear differences among protocols were detected, trends among sites in pools, but not riffles, matched our expectations based on the biological condition of the fish assemblages (exception--the proportion of detritivores). Thus, monitoring programs may reach conclusions that are biased if biological condition is assessed with many commonly used attributes (e.g., total and mayfly taxa richnesses) and sampling is restricted to only one habitat. None of the taxa richness attributes (e.g., total and mayfly) distinguished differences among rivers in the multihabitat, qualitative protocol even though taxa counts were generally higher than in samples from either pools or riffles. Consequently, unreplicated, qualitative sampling may not have sufficient statistical power to detect subtle differences among streams. Replicated, quantitative sampling in both riffles and pools interpreted through a variety of biological attributes provides the strongest assessment of biological condition based on invertebrates.
40792670|Proliferations of filamentous chlorophytes and mats of cyanobacteria (hereafter termed metaphyton) are increasingly observed in rivers, lakes, wetlands, and estuaries undergoing eutrophication, but their contribution to invertebrate production and overall ecological significance remains poorly understood. In Lake Saint-Pierre, a shallow widening of the St. Lawrence River (Qubec), vascular macrophytes (mainly
10.2307/1467929|The hypothesis that different secondary production estimation methods yield unbiased and equally precise estimates is tested using published data from 66 benthic invertebrate populations from lentic habitats. Tests are performed by Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of the residuals of a published empirical equation accounting for the important covariables biomass, body-mass, and water temperature. While no method was found to be significantly biased, the size-frequency method was less precise than the Allen curve, growth increment summation or instantaneous growth methods, yielding estimates about three times farther from the probable production values than other methods. Imprecision of inferred cohort production interval (CPI) is suggested as one source of error.
10.2307/1467419| Growth responses of Simulium vittatum and fifth instar Hydropsyche betteni were observed (at 20C for 10 d and 14 d, respectively) while on diets restricted to sterile or conditioned fine leaf detritus, cultured bacteria (Escherichia coli), a filamentous cyanobacterium (Oscillatoria), three eukaryotic algae (Chlorella pyrenidosa, Ulothrix fibriatum, and diatoms), and Daphnia magna (H. betteni only). Early instar Simulium had significantly higher weight increases than later instars for all food types tested. Simulium weight increases were lowest on diets of C. pyrenidosa and sterile leaves (10-70%), whereas all other foods produced mean weight increases >300%. Hydropsyche betteni larvae lost weight on all diets except Ulothrix, diatoms, and D. magna; the two algal diets produced growth rates that were significantly higher than other non-animal diets but significantly lower than D. magna. The Simulium data show that detritus and its associated microbes may not be a lower quality food for all insects in comparison with algae. Also, H. betteni and Simulium data suggest that not all algae/cyanobacteria are similar in their nutritional quality. 
10.2307/1468379|The considerable within-reach patchiness of unionid mussels in rivers has not been explicable by simple habitat features such as water depth, current speed, or sediment grain size. As an alternative, I hypothesized that mussels are found chiefly in stable areas of the river bed where hydraulic stresses during floods are low. I used movement of marked rocks to locate flow refuges during floods in 2 small rivers in southeastern New York. Mussel beds were spatially coincident with flow refuges, but not with other measured features of the habitat (water depth, current speed, sediment grain size) in both study sites. Use of flow refuges by unionids may partly explain the characteristic patchiness of unionid communities in rivers, and contribute to the success of these longlived, slow-moving animals in running waters.
10.2307/1468460|We evaluated P transport through a 3<sup>rd</sup>-order eutrophic stream in 2 seasons, December 1994 and September 1997, by adding spikes of dissolved P (orthophosphate) and dye tracer (Rhodamine WT) to a 3-km reach. The December experiment occurred under ice cover when biological growth was minimal; during the September experiment plant growth was abundant. Both the dye and P plumes were dispersed in space and time as a result of mixing and transient storage; only P was retained in the stream reach. Initial reversible short-term P retention in the stream reach was demonstrated in both seasons. In December, 36% (318 g) of added P was retained for about 2.5 h, then released over the next 12 h. In September, 39% (116 g) of added P was retained over 12 h, with negligible subsequent release. All the P added in December was exported from the reach within 24 h; 38% of added P (4 mg P/m<sup>2</sup>) was still retained in the stream reach at the end of the 48-h September experiment. Phosphorus retention was apparently influenced by flow, temperature, concentration gradient, and biological activity. Short-term retention probably resulted from sorption by inorganic sediments and organic biofilms; long-term retention may have been a result of biological uptake. Instream P retention processes may not be capable of reducing P transport significantly during high flows and cold temperatures, but may temporally attenuate inputs delivered during small stormflows in the growing season.
1467976|Despite a considerable amount of literature on large wood (LW) in freshwater ecosystems, its dynamic nature in large rivers has hardly been investigated. Our study focused on the mass and turnover of LW in braided floodplains of the Tagliamento River (northeastern Italy), the last morphologically intact large river flowing out of the Alps. LW masses and turnover were quantified by establishing 165 permanent plots (100 m
4095569|The annual flood pulse in tropical lowland rivers creates a continually moving landwater margin that forces aquatic organisms of the littoral zone to relocate to new habitats at intervals ranging from days to weeks. Thus, species assemblages in patchy littoral-zone habitats have large potential to be influenced by stochastic colonization dynamics, whereby organisms may exhibit weak selection for mesohabitat features and arrive on a patch in no particular sequence. We examined species assemblages of fishes and macroinvertebrates occupying habitats of varying structural complexity through an annual flood cycle of the Cinaruco River, a species-rich floodplain river in the southern llanos of Venezuela. We collected 268 standardized samples that contained 54,596 individual fishes representing 156 species (23 families) and 6973 macroinvertebrates representing 8 families. Analysis of species-specific patterns of habitat occupancy based on a randomization procedure indicated greater species selectivity during low water (92% of taxa) relative to rising- and falling-water periods (60% and 63% of taxa, respectively). Community-wide correspondence analysis (CA) revealed similar patterns. Assemblages from similar habitat types clustered together in the CA ordination, and these nonrandom patterns were most apparent during low water. Results from partial canonical correspondence analysis revealed that assemblage structure was strongly influenced by habitat type (patches of different composition located within the shallow littoral zone of either the river main channel or lagoons), which accounted for 56% of the total explainable variation in the species  sample matrix. Mesohabitat parameters (e.g., water velocity, depth), sampling period (month), and location on the landscape explained 30%, 23%, and 17% of variation, respectively. As water level changes and the aquaticterrestrial interface moves across the landscape, species assemblages in patchy littoral habitats, while highly variable, reconstitute with significant determinism. At the same time, a large proportion of unexplained variation in assemblage structure probably is associated with unmeasured components of landscape variation as well as a stochastic element in colonization dynamics.
1468270|We collected an undescribed hydropsychid caddisfly,
10.2307/1467852|The Timpanoga complex is a holophyletic group of mayflies in the subfamily Ephemerellinae consisting of 21, mostly North American species, distinguished by the absence of lamellate gills on abdominal segment 3 in the larvae, and associated absence of the gill socket remnants in subimagos and adults. A phylogenetic reclassification is proposed, based on a cladistic analysis, and is an example of reclassification necessary in much of the Ephemeroptera. Of the options available for generic classification, the one proposed is both informative in terms of expressing diversity within the complex and practical in terms of allowing morphological differentiation in all life stages, including both sexes of alate stages. Three main sequential lineages are recognized as the genera Attenella, Eurylophella, and Timpanoga [=Dannella n. syn.]. The two main phylogenetic branches in Eurylophella are treated as subgenera Dentatella and Eurylophella s.s. The two main phylogenetic branches of Timpanoga are treated as subgenera Dannella and Timpanoga s.s. A key to known stages of genera and subgenera incorporates newly discovered characteristics of gill socket and posterolateral projection remnants in adults and subimagos, and polar cap characteristics of eggs. A cladogram of the four species of Attenella indicates that A. soquele and A. attenuata are sister species commonly derived with a sister branch represented by A. margarita, and that these three species represent a sister group of A. delantala.
10.2307/1467497|We monitored population densities and size distributions of two dominant pulmonate gastropods, Pseudosuccinea columella (Say) and Physa vernalis Taylor and Jokinen, for four years in a small New England pond. Densities of both snails decreased with the appearance of the hemipteran, Belostoma flumineum Say. Physa and Pseudosuccinea sizes were negatively correlated with densities of Belostoma in different microhabitats of the pond, an observation consistent with our laboratory results showing Belostoma preferred larger snails. In laboratory studies, predation rate by Belostoma increased with older Belostoma instars, and lighting conditions did not consistently affect predation rate or size-selectivity. Handling time increased with increasing snail size and did not limit overall predation rate. A predation rate of 0.5 snails/bug/day was determined from an enclosure-exclosure experiment. When this rate was multiplied by the estimated density of Belostoma in the pond, the resulting estimated predation rate was sufficient in both magnitude and temporal pattern to explain snail mortality, as determined by numbers of empty shells observed in the pond. We conclude that Belostoma is important in structuring the snail assemblage of the pond we studied, and that the importance of hemipteran predation on snail populations should not be overlooked.
09-149|Coal-mine development is occurring at a rapid rate in the central Appalachians, but few tools exist to assess the consequences of cumulative effects of mining to downstream aquatic resources. We constructed and applied an index of mining intensity (MI) to the Lower Cheat River basin, northern West Virginia. Our objectives were to: 1) determine if the MI could be used to predict stream-water quality and biological conditions, 2) quantify the extent to which geology and the geographic position of mines modulate the effects of mining on in-stream conditions, and 3) identify thresholds of MI that produce quantifiable changes to benthic macroinvertebrate communities. We quantified water chemistry, habitat quality, and benthic macroinvertebrate communities from May 2002 to May 2003 in 39 stream segments randomly distributed across a range of MI, coal geology, elevation, and watershed area. We sampled benthic macroinvertebrates at an additional 41 validation sites in May 2002. The MI was positively correlated with dissolved metals (
4499039|Two difficult decisions in the design of any bioassessment program based on stream macroinvertebrates are the number and types of habitats that should be sampled and the taxonomic level to which specimens should be identified. We used a large data set from biomonitoring of streams in the greater Sydney region, New South Wales, Australia, to compare bioassessment results obtained with an average-score-per-taxon type of biotic index among several habitats and between the taxonomic levels of family and genus. We evaluated the sensitivity of family- and genus-level indices calculated for 5 habitats (edges of pools, rocks in pools, riffles, aquatic macrophytes, and submerged wood) by considering relationships to chemical and microbial indicators of anthropogenic stress and capacity to distinguish sites affected by human activities from reference sites. Samples from rocks in pools did best on both criteria, and samples from edges of pools also did well. Genus-level index scores were slightly more strongly correlated with environmental variables than were family-level index scores, but taxonomic resolution had virtually no average effect on the degree to which samples from test sites differed from reference status, even though tolerance values for genera differed widely within some families. We attributed the weak effect of greater taxonomic resolution to the small number of identified genera in most families and the fact that many specimens could be identified to family but not to genus. The cost of discrete sampling from multiple habitats might sometimes be justified by its potential to detect habitat-specific impacts at particular sites. However, we conclude that it might be more cost-effective in broad-scale surveys to restrict sampling to the edges of pools, a habitat that occurs widely, or to consider assessment using composites of samples across multiple habitats. The small difference in sensitivity between the family- and genus-level indices suggests that, given its greater cost, bioassessment with fine-level taxonomy may be justified only in special circumstances, such as detection of subtle impacts. A tiered approach, in which only those families with wide intrafamilial variation in tolerance are identified to finer levels, is likely to be more cost-effective than identifying all taxa with fine-level resolution.
1468191|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is the principle constituent in fresh water responsible for attenuation of ultraviolet radiation (UVR, 280400 nm). Previous field experiments using UVR exclusion filters have shown that UVR can inhibit accrual of lotic attached algal communities, change algal species composition, decrease benthic invertebrate abundances, and alter the trophic dynamics of stream communities. We examined the colonization of lotic assemblages in outdoor flumes exposed to a range of UVR intensities by suspending 7-cm deep water filters differing in DOM concentration above each flume to filter natural sunlight. DOM solutions of 0, 2, 5, and 8 mg/L resulted in light exposures ranging from 1274% ambient UVB, 3489% ambient UVA, and 8094% ambient photosynthetically active radiation. This approach isolated the UVR-attenuating properties of DOM from potential biochemical effects. There was a sharp transition in biological effects between 2 and 5 mg/L DOM. No significant differences in algal biomass or invertebrate abundances were observed between 5 and 8 mg/L or between 0 and 2 mg/L DOM. Algal accrual was initially higher under 5 and 8 mg/L DOM treatments (i.e., lowest UVR); however, this trend was reversed following 24 d of colonization after which algal biomass was significantly greater under 0 and 2 mg/L DOM (i.e., highest UVR). Grazer abundance (predominantly chironomids) was significantly higher in the 5 and 8 mg/L treatments. The higher densities of grazers in these treatments likely reduced algal standing crops in the later part of the experiment. Blackfly (Simuliidae) and oligochaete (Naididae) abundances were also reduced in low-DOM treatments, although trends were not as pronounced as for chironomids. We predict that streams with DOM concentrations <5 mg/L could be particularly sensitive to UVR. Potentially, these streams would be most negatively affected by future increases in UVR exposure as a result of ozone depletion, or DOM decreases related to natural or human-induced factors.
20491128|N and C cycles in headwater streams are coupled, and land use can modify these cycles by increasing N availability and removing riparian vegetation. To increase our understanding of how land use modifies the controls on N cycling, we quantified rates of 2 microbial N transformations in a total of 18 agricultural and urban streams (with and without riparian buffers) for 3 y to examine how riparian vegetation and land use influence sediment nitrification and denitrification. Nitrification rates were highest in agricultural streams in late spring. Nitrification was not related to streamwater NH
4095732|Application of a hydrogeologic computer model underscored the importance of geomorphic controls on groundwater and surface-water flow dynamics in the Nyack Floodplain, a montane alluvial floodplain in Montana, USA. The model represented the floodplain as a hierarchy of geomorphic patches, which facilitated analysis of model results using independent (predictor) variables at multiple scales. The analyses revealed that geomorphic structures at various spatial scales interact with the flow regime to influence the direction, magnitude, and stability of hyporheic flow within individual floodplain patches. Specifically: 1) the hydrologic flow network within the hyporheic zone is more responsive to seasonal changes in river discharge if floodplain topography is complex and aquifer properties are heterogeneous, 2) simplification of internal patch structure across the floodplain eliminates the influence of fine-scale geomorphic structures on the stability of groundwater flow paths, although the influence of patch context remains, and 3) incremental changes in river discharge can abruptly and substantially restructure the relationship between river discharge and groundwater flow patterns when events such as inundation of previously dry flood channels occur on the floodplain. We believe that ecological theories of biodiversity can be used to understand interactions among geomorphic variation, hydrologic dynamics, and the maintenance of biodiversity in the hyporheic zone if abrupt reorganization and other variations in groundwater flow paths act as disturbances to hyporheic communities. From this perspective, we used model results to develop 4 hypotheses describing the potential for causal linkages among floodplain geomorphology, hyporheic flow-path variation, hyporheic habitat diversity/stability, and hyporheic community diversity.
10.2307/1467448|Local velocity and flow profiles (50 cm in length) were measured in accelerating transitional-velocity zones in two 20-40-m long contrasting reaches of cobble and shale substrate in Wilson Creek, Manitoba, to characterize the observed hydraulic habitat of individual Brachycentrus occidentalis larvae (instars IV and V). Both instars in the cobble reach were in local habitats with faster water-column velocities, shallower depths, steeper water-surface slopes, and higher Froude numbers than randomly available locations in similar transitional-velocity zones. Values for hydraulic variables were mostly higher for instar IV habitat. Random conditions in the shale reach differed from those in the cobble reach, but differences between larval (instar V) habitat and random locations were again significant. Although larvae in the shale reach were at slower velocities and shallower depths than larvae in the cobble reach, they selected identical hydraulic regimes in terms of water-surface slope and Froude number. At both sites, Froude number was the best discriminator between larval and random locations. Microhabitats selected by B. occidentalis larvae coincided with zones of converging streamlines (average Froude number: 0.6) which may expose filter feeders to higher seston delivery rates. Additional observations for comparison showed that filter-feeding Simulium vittatum larvae selected positions with high Froude numbers also (average: 0.7), whereas Glossosoma intermedium larvae were in locations that differed from random only in depth. The profiling device used to map patches of local flow conditions allowed larval habitats to be distinguished from random locations within accelerating transitional-velocity zones, which are a subset of the full range of complex local flow zones in boulder-cobble stream beds.
40792579|Since the 1940s, use of road salt as a deicing agent has increased substantially in regions of the US with cold winters. Despite its ubiquitous application and known negative consequences for aquatic and human health, little research has documented the effects of road salt on the water quality of either streams or groundwater in regions, such as New Hampshire (NH), with harsh northern climates. We measured stream Na
10.2307/1468451|Knowledge about the ability of freshwater unionid mussels to recover from physical disturbance is important to their conservation and management. Threatened species may be disturbed by relocation to refugia as a conservation measure, and some species are disturbed by size- and species-selective harvesting of shells for use in the production of cultured pearls. The activity of freshwater unionid mussels generally decreases with water temperature, but intra- and interspecific differences in the frequency and distribution of recovery behaviors following disturbances at specific water temperatures have not been previously quantified. We observed righting, moving, and burrowing behavior of 4 mussel species, Amblema plicata plicata, Potamilus alatus, Fusconaia flava, and Lampsilis cardium, at 3 water temperatures (7, 14, and 21C). The temporal frequency (intensity) and times-to-1st-event of behaviors were analyzed using proportional hazards models. Righting events and consecutive movements occurred at different intensities among temperatures and species. For righting, intensity increased by 8%/C within the range of 7-21C. Subsequent movements increased in intensity by 10%/C. Amblema plicata was the slowest to respond, and had an intensity of turning upright only 27% of that for P. alatus. The intensities of movements for A. plicata and F. flava were 16% of those for P. alatus. Lampsilis cardium righted themselves most quickly, and had an intensity of righting 124% of that for P. alatus. The distribution of the 3 behaviors among treatment groups at 1 wk was analyzed with a proportional odds model. The distribution of righting, moving, and burrowing 1 wk after disturbance was described entirely by high-order interactions in our proportional odds model. Therefore, that model revealed little interpretable pattern in the endpoint data and it was less sensitive than our analysis of time-to-event data for measuring the effects of disturbance. We attributed the difference in sensitivity between the 2 models to the greater information content of time-until-event data. For similar studies of occurrences of key events, times to events should be recorded and interpreted whenever feasible and consistent with study objectives. Our results suggest that water temperature has an important effect on the outcome of mussel conservation projects and commercial harvesting activities. Our modeling approach, applied to other species, could help guide decisions about which species can safely be disturbed and the optimal seasonal timing of those disturbances.
10.2307/1467446|Organic matter dynamics were studied in five streams at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory. Three of these streams drained logged watersheds, and two drained reference deciduous forest watersheds. Litter inputs to the streams draining disturbed watersheds were significantly lower than to reference streams. Additionally, while undisturbed litterfall consisted primarily of relatively refractory leaf species, litterfall in the disturbed watersheds was composed of more labile leaf material. Non-woody benthic organic material was generally lower in disturbed streams than in reference streams, and woody benthic material was substantially lower in disturbed streams. Particulate organic matter transport was measured intensively during storms. These data were used in a computer model to estimate annual particulate organic matter transport. The model was driven by empirical equations relating particulate concentration to the rate of increase in flow during storms, time since peak storm discharge, and average baseflow concentation. Results showed that disturbed streams exported significantly more particulate organic matter and that most of this transport occurred during storms. In order to place our results in perspective, the model was also used to estimate transport over a 47-year period. Transport during our study was not significantly different from the long-term average. Organic matter budgets were calculated from input, standing crop, and export data. This synthesis showed that forest disturbance has increased export, has accelerated turnover of benthic particulate organic matter, and is depleting benthic material. These changes are related primarily to the decline of woody debris dams in the disturbed streams.
4095750|Regional bioassessment programs of states, various federal agencies, and other governmental and private groups often use different methods to collect and analyze stream invertebrate samples. This lack of uniformity has created concern and confusion over the comparability of disparate sources of data, but few studies have attempted to evaluate differences in performance between methods or to reconcile the results produced from different methods. We conducted concurrent sampling at 40 sites in the eastern Sierra Nevada of California using 3 bioassessment methods to obtain directly comparable data sets. The riffle-based methods (University of California Sierra Nevada Aquatic Research Laboratory [UC-SNARL, Lahontan Water Board], California Stream Bioassessment Protocol, and US Forest Service Region 5) differed at each stage from field sample collection to laboratory processing and data analysis. We used a performance-based methods system to compare precision, uniformity, discrimination, accuracy, and correlations among multimetric Index of Biotic Integrity (IBI) scores and multivariate
10.2307/1467462|Early instar larvae that lack distinguishing structural characters can be identified quickly and easily with cellulose acetate gel electrophoresis. Examples are given from the genera Ameletus (Ephemeroptera) and Coenagrion, Enallagma, and Lestes (Odonata). We tested 28 or 29 enzymes which yielded up to 29 scorable loci; of these only six or seven were necessary to achieve species separation at three or more loci. The technique facilitates the search for structural characters, confirms species separation based on morphology, and allows the construction of complete life histories and life tables.
09-160R|Macroinvertebrate taxon tolerances to human disturbance have been key components of bioassessment since the early 20
4499054|We compared the within- and among-lake variability of benthic communities in small, near-pristine lakes vs lakes affected by nonpoint-source pollution in southern Finland. We used 2 sampling methods, profundal grab sampling and the chironomid pupal exuvial technique (CPET), and compared the signal-to-noise ratios (S/N) of the 2 data sets. We also assessed lake condition using the benthic quality index, identified macroinvertebrate taxa indicative of different trophic conditions, and evaluated the concordance of species ordinations obtained using the 2 collection methods. Both data sets discriminated effectively among the lake groups, and the 2 community ordinations were significantly concordant. The number of chironomid species in the CPET samples was higher than the total number of macroinvertebrate taxa found in the profundal grab samples, and the CPET method appeared more efficient than profundal grab sampling at detecting profundal taxa. Despite the slightly stronger signal strength of the profundal grab samples, randomization tests showed that only the CPET data had S/N significantly higher than expected by chance. CPET data also better reflected the trophic status of the lakes. Indicator species analysis showed that 7 chironomid taxa and
10.2307/1467619|Changes in the microdistribution of benthic macroinvertebrates were observed, between patches identified as refugia from high flow and the remaining benthic habitat, over a range of discharges in a small stream with prominent flow refugia. Total invertebrate abundances were similar across all patch types at baseflow, but local densities were higher in flow refugia after periods of high and fluctuating flow. Different species- and size-specific responses were observed: microdistributions of larval Chironomidae and small nymphs of the stonefly Leuctra nigra did not change with discharge. Conversely, the stonefly Nemurella pictetii and large nymphs of L. nigra were most abundant in refugia, relative to the remaining benthic habitat, during periods of high and fluctuating discharge. The interactive effects of leaf litter and local flow conditions on species microdistributions were investigated. In some seasons, some species may respond indirectly to hydraulic conditions through their direct response to litter mass. Observed microdistribution changes probably do not reflect very short-term reactions to individual flow events, but perhaps a longer-term response to seasonal flow conditions. These are some of the first field data implicating the role of in-stream flow refugia in macroinvertebrate community structure.
10.2307/1467350|The need for new, comprehensive and biologically based federal protection policies for rivers and riverine ecosystems in the United States in urgent. While Congress has enacted significant legislation, such as the 1988 Omnibus Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, and the Clean Water Act, America's river systems continue to be degraded. The history of actions taken by conservationists to protect rivers is marked by a distinct absence of scientific involvement, and has focused mostly on protecting high-quality recreational stream segments. Recently, however, river conservationists and scientists have begun to work together effectively and successfully. The testimony of the Scientific Panel on Late Successional Forests in Congress is an excellent example of the scientific community involving itself in the political process, although much more involvement is needed. The Pacific Rivers Council (PRC, formerly the Oregon Rivers Council) has begun a multi-faceted, national river protection campaign. Scientific involvement is central to this campaign, and we encourage scientists from diverse fields to actively participate in our efforts.
10.2307/1467648|Life histories, annual production, and genetic structure for two insect species were examined for two adjacent streams that differ in flow regime. Birch Creek had a mesic groundwater (seasonally constant) flow regime; Little Lost River had a snowmelt (seasonally cyclic) flow regime. Baetis tricaudatus was multivoltine, whereas Hesperoperla pacifica had a life cycle longer than one year. The life histories of B. tricaudatus were similar between streams, but mean biomass was greater in Birch Creek. Gene frequencies of B. tricaudatus also were similar between streams, Nei's genetic distance being only 0.011. Expected heterozygosities and population polymorphisms were higher in the Little Lost River. In contrast, the life histories of H. pacifica were different between streams, emergence being later in the Little Lost River. This difference could be explained by temperature. However, the genetic structure of H. pacifica showed the same pattern as B. tricaudatus with more polymorphisms and higher heterozygosities occurring in the Little Lost River. Nei's genetic distance between the H. pacifica populations was 0.054. These data support the idea that populations exhibit greater genetic variability in more variable environments than populations in relatively more constant environments.
10.2307/1468048|The Panamerican Ephemeroptera fauna is evaluated with respect to the interchange of generic lineages and species between the Americas, and comparisons are drawn with classical studies of the American interchange based on other biota. Cladistic, distributional, and behavioral data are presented or reviewed that support the following hypotheses and conclusions: The Central American corridor has strongly favored northward dispersal, with 29 of 85 potential South American donor genera having infiltrated Central America, and 21 of those having further penetrated Nearctic North America. Only 10 of 63 potential North American donor genera have dispersed into Central America, and of those only Cercobrachys, Choroterpes, Epeorus, and Hexagenia have broached the Central American corridor. Only 8 species among the genera Campylocia, Cloeodes, Euthyplocia, Guajirolus, Hexagenia, Mayobaetis, and Tortopus co-occur in South and Central America. All belong to South American lineages, and 5 are large, relatively strong flying ephemeroid mayflies--the 3 belonging to Euthyplocia and Hexagenia having further penetrated North America. Species range extensions between North and Central American are less restricted, with 34 species of genera of South American origin and 9 species of genera of North American origin co-occurring in the continental Neotropics ("Central America") and Nearctic region ("North America") of the Northern Hemisphere. Late Neogene and Holocene dispersal can account for most infiltration of Central America as well as interchanges across the corridor. Bi-directional dispersal is evident in Caenis and Hexagenia. Vicariance has evidently affected the Panamerican distribution of Hexagenia and Homoeoneuria. Mid-Tertiary or earlier southward and more recent northward dispersal of Hexagenia is consistent with the distribution and phylogeny of the genus. A relatively early northward dispersal of Homoeoneuria is suggested by the presence of a distinct lineage in South America and the Holarctic sister relationship of Homoeoneuria and Oligoneurisca. Distributional pattern analysis predicts that the widespread Panamerican genus Callibaetis is of South American origin.
10.2307/1467277| Black fly larvae (Simulium) assimilated, with high efficiency (80-90%), bacterial extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) extracted from laboratory cultures of a pseudomonad isolated from the Ogeechee River. Incorporation was traced using <sup>13</sup>C-labelled EPS offered to larvae as a coating on a mixture of 1-m latex beads and kaolin particles. These EPS-coated particles were used to simulate natural particles, both living and dead. Solubility, protein, and nitrogen content of the EPS suggested it was a slime rather than a capsular polysaccharide. Glycosyl composition of the EPS was glucose and galactose in  and  linkages, with pyruvate, succinate, and possibly malonate constituent groups. To evaluate the incorporation of C derived from protein associated with the EPS matrix, feeding experiments were conducted using EPS with and without proteins extracted. Black fly larvae incorporated 7.2 g EPS C larva<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> from EPS that did not have proteins extracted, and 19.5 g EPS C larva<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup> from EPS with proteins extracted. Carbon in protein that is typically associated with EPS was not solely or selectively incorporated. EPS incorporation rates are similar to rates of cellular bacterial carbon incorporation previously estimated for Ogeechee River black fly larvae. If EPS is generally available as a food resource, the importance of bacteria in detrital food webs may be underestimated by studies that examine only the consumption of bacterial cells. 
1468119|Chemical fluxes between catchments and streams are influenced by biogeochemical processes in the groundwaterstream water (GWSW) ecotone, the interface between stream surface water and groundwater. Terminal electron accepting processes (TEAPs) that are used in respiration of organic C in anoxic environments may have a strong effect on nutrient dynamics and water chemistry. Concentrations of oxidized and reduced forms of terminal electron acceptors (dissolved O
10.2307/1467878|Mass loss and microbial oxygen consumption on decaying leaves from five species of gallery forest trees were measured in six prairie streams (three perennial, three intermittent) ranging in size from 2nd to 4th order. Leaf decay was monitored for 56 d in late fall and early winter 1987-1988. Mass loss was greatest for bois d'arc (Maclura pomifera), followed by hackberry (Celtis laevigata), cottonwood (Populus deltoides), elm (Ulmus rubra), and Shumard oak (Quercus shumaraii). Breakdown rates in the six streams fell into two groups: decay in 3rd-order intermittent, 3rd-order perennial, and 4th-order perennial streams all exhibited faster breakdown rates than the 2nd-order intermittent 2nd-order perennial, and 4th-order intermittent streams. These differences appear to be related to stream order and hydrologic regime. Microbial respiration was strongly correlated with mass loss for the first 28 d. This period of rapid mass loss from the leaf litter was followed by a period in which mass loss and respiration were poorly correlated. Respiration was greatest on bois d'arc and hackberry, followed by cottonwood, elm, and oak. Microbial respiration accounted for 10% to 66% of the mass loss from the decaying leaves. Overall, leaf species seemed to be the most important factor controlling breakdown rates, followed by stream order and hydrologic regime.
20491156|Ecological stoichiometry is the study of the balance of multiple elements in ecological interactions and processes. We investigated the ecological stoichiometry of freshwater mussels across 3 seasons at 2 sites each in an agricultural watershed (Little Darby Creek [LD], Ohio) and a forested watershed (Upper Ouachita River [OR], Arkansas) (2 species/stream). We used nutrient-release experiments to determine C, N, and P content and elemental ratios in seston and in consumer-driven nutrient recycling (CNR) components (mussel soft tissues, shells, biodeposited material, and excreted nutrients). We focused on seasonal patterns of: 1) biodeposition and excretion rates; 2) seston and CNR component % C, % N, % P, C:N, C:P, and N:P; and 3) degree of homeostasis in mussels. Differences in mass-specific biodeposition and excretion rates were driven largely by seasonal factors. Percent P, C:N, C:P, and N:P of seston were seasonally variable in LD, and % C, % N, % P, C:N, C:P, and N:P of seston were seasonally variable in OR. Mussel tissues and biodeposited materials were variable for 3 to 5 of the 6 nutrient metrics in both LD and OR. Mussel shell and soft-tissue nutrient stoichiometry were relatively homeostatic and fell within stoichiometric ranges of other macroinvertebrates, except that mussel tissue had higher % P and lower C:P and N:P than are usually observed in other macroinvertebrates. Mussels can repackage nutrients in stream seston and fine benthic organic matter in the form of biodeposited material and excreted nutrients, thereby providing a significant source of C, N, and P for other benthic organisms.
4499014|Freshwater mussels are important constituents of freshwater ecosystems, yet much of their basic biology remains to be examined. The behavior of 3 species of unionid mussels (
1468190|The Florida apple snail (
10.2307/1467623| Periphyton is so highly variable that the community resists modelling. To explore the unpredictability of this important resource, we studied: 1) alternative variables to the traditional trophic ones, 2) the spatial scale of periphyton variability, and 3) different levels of description of the community. For such an exercise, we partitioned the variability of epiphytic communities growing in Lake St. Franois (Qubec) into various fractions explained by environmental variables, spatial structure, and covariation between environment and space. We described the epiphytic communities according to their fine (61 taxa) or coarse (6 classes) taxonomy, their size structure, and their total biomass to identify which of these state variables could be most successfully modelled. Our analysis suggests that periphyton modelling could be improved by: 1) the measurement of physical and biotic factors as well as nutrients, 2) the consideration of microscale variation, and 3) the division of periphyton into functional groups based on coarse taxonomy or size classes. 
4499048|We examined the efficacy of the photosystem II inhibitor 3-(3,4-diclorophenyl)-1,1-dimethyl urea (DCMU) for inhibition of algal photosynthesis in periphyton associated with submerged decomposing litter of
4095634|Calcareous floating periphyton mats in the southern Everglades provide habitat for a diverse macroinvertebrate community that has not been well characterized. Our study described this community in an oligotrophic marsh, compared it with the macroinvertebrate community associated with adjacent epiphytic algae attached to macrophytes in the water column, and detected spatial patterns in density and community structure. The floating periphyton mat (floating mat) and epiphytic algae in the water column (submerged epiphyton) were sampled at 4 sites (1 km apart) in northern Shark River Slough, Everglades National Park (ENP), in the early (July) and late (November) wet season. Two perpendicular 90-m transects were established at each site and 100 samples were taken in a nested design. Sites were located in wet-prairie spikerush-dominated sloughs with similar water depths and emergent macrophyte communities. Floating mats were sampled by taking cores (6-cm diameter) that were sorted under magnification to enumerate infauna retained on a 250-m-mesh sieve and with a maximum dimension >1 mm. Our results showed that floating mats provide habitat for a macroinvertebrate community with higher densities (no. animals/g ash-free dry mass) of
40792500|Increasing evidence suggests that autochthonous foods are the principal basis of consumer production in tropical forest streams, despite the predominance of terrestrial detritus inputs. The relative importance of autochthonous and allochthonous energy for the dominant benthic consumers was investigated in 3 tropical headwater streams with different shading conditions in Hong Kong with a combination of assimilation-based analyses: stoichiometry, C and N stable isotopes, and fatty acid (FA) profiling. The snail
10.2307/1467622| Benthic detritus was collected from an unnamed stream in Holly Springs Experimental Forest, Mississippi, and from King's Creek. Kansas. Detritus was wet-sieved into five size classes from 1 mm down to 0.075 mm. Water and particles passing through the 0.075-mm sieve were vacuum-filtered through 0.45-m membrane filters (Millipore); particles retained on these filters represent the sixth size class. Scanning electron microscopy revealed fine particulate organic matter (FPOM), fine particulate inorganic matter (FPIM), and fine particulate matter (FPM), i.e., aggregates of organic and inorganic particles. Many of these particles fell within the expected size ranges; however, we also detected numerous particles too small to have been retained by the sieves. Laboratory techniques were developed to separate the FPOM from the FPIM. Using nitrogen-adsorption techniques, surface-area measurements were made on the separated fractions as well as on samples that had been only wet-sieved. Comparisons of mean mass-specific surface areas (m<sup>2</sup>/g) revealed significantly lower values when inorganic material was left in the sample (FPM) or when the sample contained only inorganic material (FPIM). King's Creek samples had much greater mean surface area per unit mass than did Holly springs samples. When location and particle size class were considered together, location explained most (85%) of the variation in surface area. When season and size class were analyzed together, most of the variation (61%) was explained by size class. Organic content, size class, season of collection, and collection site are all important influences on FPM surface area and should be considered in studies of surface-related phenomena. 
10-154|The application of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding in benthic ecology is proceeding rapidly, and a special session held at the 2009 North American Benthological Society Annual Meeting in Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA, brought together benthic scientists working in areas varying from taxonomy to biomonitoring to present the state of the science. The papers arising from this meeting are grouped in this special series of papers. Here, we present a brief introduction to this emerging area of benthic science, highlight the contributions of previous researchers, and provide an overview of these latest contributions to this highly active field. Paper topics include the development of DNA libraries for identification of material from field studies, application of DNA-based taxonomy in the discovery of new faunas, and the use of DNA-based identification in field biomonitoring studies, present and future. In addition, a critique is presented of the use of DNA barcoding in benthology and the potential pitfalls facing researchers who seek to use this method in their future research.
40792567|Many running waters are polluted by organic effluents resulting from agricultural, industrial, and urban activities. Organic pollution consists of the release of high levels of labile C, which usually is rapidly consumed by heterotrophic microbes, and large quantities of N and P, which influence algal productivity and elemental composition (nutrient:C ratio). The nutrient:C ratio of periphyton is somewhat flexible and can be linked to nutrient level in the water. In contrast, elemental stoichiometry of stream macroinvertebrates is constrained within narrower ranges. This observation leads us to the question whether macroinvertebrates with higher nutrient:C ratios, and presumably high nutrient requirements, are more likely to be found in more nutrient-rich (i.e., polluted) sites, containing food (e.g., periphyton) with higher nutrient:C ratios. The capability of macroinvertebrate taxa to thrive in polluted streams often is referred to as tolerance. Empirical data show that taxa have different tolerances to organic pollution. However, mechanisms that explain their tolerance are largely unexplored. We used published data to test the degree to which tolerance to organic pollution is linked to the elemental composition (nutrient:C ratios) of freshwater invertebrates and their functional feeding group. We showed that the nutrient:C ratios of macroinvertebrate taxa are statistically linked to taxon-specific tolerance to organic pollution. This relationship is strongest among scrapers. The observed relationship between pollution tolerance and macroinvertebrate stoichiometry indicates that macroinvertebrate elemental stoichiometry can determine species distribution along an organic pollution gradient.
10.2307/1467545| Data from Lake Apopka, Florida, are presented to illustrate the importance of wind-induced resuspension of sediments in a shallow, subtropical, hypereutrophic lake. Wind-induced resuspension of meroplankton, primarily planktonic diatoms that settle to the benthic environment, accounts for a large component of the temporal variation in phytoplankton biomass. Chlorophyll concentrations >100 g/L are highly correlated with wind speed, and the regression of wind speed on chlorophyll accounts for 53% of the temporal variability in chlorophyll. Resting cells of diatoms are also resuspended with the meroplanktonic community. Induction of resting cells that are physiologically dormant occurs in darkness; but within a few hours after exposure to the water-column light and nutrient environment, resting cells become physiologically active. Other types of resting propagules in addition to diatom resting cells also may be resuspended from sediments and affect phytoplankton dynamics. Data from Lake Apopka and other systems are used to develop paradigms about time and depth scales for resuspension of meroplankton and resting propagules in lakes and in the sea. 
20491205|Assessments of stream ecosystems often include an evaluation of riparian condition; a key stressor in riparian ecosystems is the presence of invasive plants. We analyzed the distribution of 12 invasive taxa (common burdock [
40792518|We studied aspects of the nymphal biology and ecology of 3 Perlodidae species (
10.2307/1467404| The role of hindgut microorganisms in the nutrition of stream detritivores was evaluated by examining the production, transport, and utilization of acetate derived from hindgut microbial fermentation. Incubations of detritivore hindguts demonstrated linear rates of acetate production in Tipula abdominalis and Pycnopsyche guttifer (i.e., 14.4 and 19.4 mol/g hindgut, respectively). In T. abdominalis, in vivo transport of acetate from the hindgut proceeded rapidly with 45% of the hindgut acetate transported in 1 hr. Hemolymph acetate was rapidly metabolized (i.e., within 4 hr) to tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, indicating typical routes of aerobic respiratory metabolism. Overall, acetate produced within the hindguts of these detritivores could account for approximately 5-16% of larval respiratory demand. 
20491218|We explored N
10.2307/1468137|Deposition of fine sediments occurs at depths where water velocity at the bottom is less than the threshold velocity required to keep the particles in suspension. In this paper we demonstrate that the depositional boundary depth (DBD) can be predicted from models based on wave height and lake morphometry, and that such depositional boundaries greatly affect the biomass and composition of the zoobenthos. Lake Memphremagog was chosen for this study since it exhibits a great deal of variation in exposure and bottom slope, which make the DBD highly variable from place to place. In spite of this variation, our model predicted its location very accurately even along transects with highly complex topography. Sites that our models predicted would be depositional, always had fine sediments and had more than twice the zoobenthic biomass of non-depositional sites, which had sediments made up of silt or silty-sand. Epilimnetic sites had more than twice the average biomass of hypolimnetic sites of the same depositional type. PCA on the benthic community data ordinated our study sites along 2 distinct components: Component I reflected mainly the thermal environment and had positive loadings from epilimnetic taxa; Component II reflected mainly the depositional regime, and had positive loadings from most taxa. Most zoobenthos in lakes depend on sedimenting fine seston and its associated microflora for food. The close relationship between the depositional regime and the abundance and composition of the zoobenthos indicates that the sedimentation behavior of seston is very similar to that of fine clay-sized inorganic particles. This similarity allows us to use models developed for clay particle deposition to predict zones of high benthic productivity.
1468273|Artificial neural networks were used to predict the species richness of 4 major orders of aquatic insects (Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera, and Coleoptera, i.e., EPTC) at a site, using a limited number of environmental variables. EPTC richness was recorded in the AdourGaronne stream system (France), at 155 unstressed sampling sites, which were characterized using 4 environmental variables: elevation, stream order, distance from the source, and maximum water temperature. The EPTC and environmental data were first computed with the Self-Organizing Map (SOM) algorithm. Then, using the k-means algorithm, clusters were detected on the map and the sampling sites were classified separately for each variable and for EPTC richness. Four clusters could be identified on the SOM map, according to the 4 environmental variables, and this classification was chiefly related to stream order and elevation (i.e., the longitudinal location of sampling sites within a stream system). Similarly, 4 subsets were derived from the SOM according to a gradient of EPTC richness. There was also a high coincidence between observed (field data) and calculated (predicted from the output neurons of the SOM) species richness in each taxonomic group. Species richness relationships between Ephemeroptera, Trichoptera, and Coleoptera for both observed and predicted data were highly significant. However, correlation coefficients among species richness of Plecoptera and the other groups were low. Last, a multilayer perceptron neural network, trained using the backpropagation algorithm, was used to predict EPTC richness (output) using the 4 above-mentioned environmental variables (input). The model showed high predictability (
40792498|Stream shredders have been reported as scarce in several tropical areas. This pattern is in contrast to observations in temperate streams, which support an abundant and diverse shredder fauna. Two possible explanations for this pattern are that most shredders are adapted to cool conditions and that temperate riparian vegetation often produces more palatable and more nutritious leaves than do the more diverse, tropical rainforests. In peninsular Malaysia, most streams flow through lowland dipterocarp forests that are characterized by strikingly high tree diversity and by many species with tough leathery leaves that are high in lignin and toxic secondary compounds and low in protein. In contrast, highland streams flow through montane rain forests and are more similar to temperate streams. We hypothesized that shredder fauna would be distributed along an altitudinal gradient, with more abundant and diverse assemblages in highland streams. We sampled leaf litter in 12 sites at altitudes from 55 to 1560 m above sea level. As expected, highland sites supported higher abundance and diversity of shredders (915 species per site) than did lowland sites (38 species per site). Shredder densities were similar among lowland sites, but species composition was variable. Large snails (
10.2307/1467947|In soft sediments, Dreissena spp. create firm substrate in the form of aggregates of living mussels (druses) that roll free on the sediments. Druses provide physical structure which increases habitat heterogeneity, and the mussels increase benthic organic matter through the production of pseudofeces and feces. Descriptive and experimental studies were used to determine: 1) whether the density of benthic invertebrates in soft sediments increased in the presence of druses, and 2) whether the invertebrate assemblage responded to the physical structure provided by a druse or to some biotic effect associated with the presence of living mussels. In core samples collected biweekly during summer in Presque Isle Bay, Erie, Pennsylvania, amphipods, chironomids, oligochaetes, turbellarians, and hydrozoans were significantly more abundant in sand with druses than in bare sand. When mesh bags containing either a living druse, non-living druse, or no druse were incubated in the bay for 33 d, we found that chironomids were significantly more abundant in treatments with living druses than with non-living druses, and in treatments with non-living druses than with no druse; turbellarians, amphipods, and hydrozoans were significantly more abundant in treatments with living or non-living druses than with no druse; oligochaetes showed no significant differences among treatments. This study demonstrates that most taxa of benthic invertebrates in soft substrate respond specifically to the physical structure associated with aggregates of mussel shells, but further study is needed to examine chironomid responses to some biotic effect dependent on the presence of living mussels.
10.2307/1467330|Analysis of modes of pupation in Trichoptera reveals two fundamental types of pupal enclosures and concomitant systems for water circulation. In one (Rhyacophilidae, Hydrobiosidae, Glossosomatidae, Hydroptilidae--infraorder Spicipalpia Weaver), pupating larvae construct a closed cocoon of parchment-like silk, usually discrete from the pupal enclosure of small stones; water currents bathe the external surface of the cocoon during metamorphosis. In the other type (most families in the suborders Annulipalpia Martynov s.s. and Integripalpia Martynov s.s.), larvae construct a pupal cell with open meshes or holes at each end, permitting water currents to bathe the surface of the pupa directly during metamorphosis. Exceptions in the Philopotamidae, Stenopsychidae, Ecnomidae, and Phryganopsychidae are considered. The function of trichopteran cocoons during metamorphosis is considered, indicating that osmotic relations in closed cocoons of parchment-like silk in the Rhyacophilidae and allied families impede the efficiency of respiration mediated solely by diffusion of oxygen across the semipermeable wall of the cocoon. Because ovoid, closed cocoons of parchment-like silk also occur in primitive Lepidoptera, the sister group of Trichoptera, cocoons of this type are proposed as part of the groundplan of Trichoptera. Consequently, the open pupal cells of Annulipalpia (retreat-makers) and Integripalpia (case-makers) are interpreted as derived. It follows that the habitat common to the families constructing closed cocoons--cool, flowing waters--would likely have been the habitat in which Trichoptera originated. The hypothesis proposed for the phylogeny of pupation in Trichoptera is that the closed cocoon of semipermeable silk in the ordinal groundplan required Trichoptera to become aquatic in cool, lotic waters; and that evolutionary innovation through subsequent derivation of cocoons of permeable silk with ventilatory openings enhanced the efficiency of respiration, enabling Trichoptera to invade warmer waters of reduced current, and opening the way for radiation of the major lineages now extant--the retreat-making (Annulipalpia s.s.) and the case-making (Integripalpia s.s.) families. An alternative form of the higher classification of Trichoptera is proposed and discussed, elevating the Spicipalpia, termed the cocoon-making Trichoptera, to the rank of a third suborder, co-ordinate with the Annulipalpia and Integripalpia.
10.2307/1467680| Much of the fauna of the Ro Claro on the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica, including snails, fishes, and freshwater shrimp, migrates upstream, sometimes in large aggregations. We investigated the dynamics of the migratory behavior of the snails Neritina latissima and Cochliopina tryoniana, which both migrate upstream in huge, mixed aggregations (>500,000 individuals) during the dry season. Yet these two species have very different life histories. Neritina latissima has pelagic larvae which are swept downstream to the ocean. Metamorphosed individuals migrate upstream. Cochliopina tryoniana has direct development, with no marine stage. We analyzed the size distribution of the migrating, stationary, and drifting portions of the populations of these two species. In the drift, we collected only larval N. latissima. Analysis of the size distribution of the migrating and stationary snails suggested that the migration takes >1 yr for N. latissima and perhaps <1 yr for C. tryoniana. In both species, the migration behavior was size and age dependent. Juveniles and small adults composed the bulk of the migrating populations, whereas large adults were almost never observed to migrate. The mean size of individuals in migrating aggregations increased over time and distance upstream. Sphoeroides annulatus, a marine molluscivorous fish, was found only in the lower reaches of the stream. Where S. annulatus was common, N. latissima was less abundant and located on the underside of rocks. The distance migrated may be a balance between size-dependent energetic constraints on upstream movement and increased predation pressure downstream. 
10.2307/1467433|Models of the factors affecting community structure following a disturbance differ in the emphasis placed on adaptations to the physical environment and to biotic interactions. We investigated the hypothesis that the duration of a habitat following disturbance mediates the relative importance of physical and biotic control. We combined detailed information on natural populations in a series of temporary ponds with small-scale experiments on specific processes. We compared data on presence/absence and abundance of taxa from temporary ponds showing a gradient of habitat duration with 3 simple models of community structure that incorporate random forces, life history adaptations, and biotic interactions, respectively. Different scales of resolution in describing community structure provide different emphases on which processes are important in these communities. The Life History Model explained patterns of presence/absence in the ponds, but not patterns of abundance of many taxa which best fit a model in which the importance of predation and competition in structuring communities increases with increasing duration. Experimental studies confirmed that the effect of predation and competition in temporary pond communities depends on habitat duration. Predation on all prey species examined increased with increasing pond duration. Predators were more diverse and more abundant in long-duration ponds where effects of their consumption on the abundance of prey taxa were greater than in shorter-duration ponds. Predators from long-duration ponds fed preferentially on prey taxa that predominate in shorter-duration habitats such as Aedes mosquitoes and the fairy shrimp Eubranchipus. Competition between Daphnia and rotifers occurred primarily in intermediate-duration ponds, where Daphnia at typical denities was capable of drastically reducing abundances of Keratella cochlearis in cultures. However, at densities found in both short- and long-duration habitats, Daphnia had no effect.
4499016|Damaged and immature specimens often result in macroinvertebrate data that contain ambiguous parentchild pairs (i.e., abundances associated with multiple related levels of the taxonomic hierarchy such as
10.2307/1467589| The thermally stable (21  4C) aquatic environment of Montezuma Well, Arizona, influenced the voltinism and secondary production of Ranatra montezuma. In contrast to other species of Nepidae, R. montezuma is multivoltine, producing three asynchronous cohorts from mid-February to mid-November. Mean density of spring, summer, and fall cohorts of R. montezuma (5 instars and adults) was 39, 65, and 27 animals/m<sup>2</sup>, respectively. R. montezuma overwinters in the adult stage, despite the warm, near-thermally constant environment. The total duration of instar development for R. montezuma reared in the laboratory was 75 d at 21C and 46 d at 26C. Annual production of R. montezuma was estimated over a two-year period with the size-frequency method. The two-year average estimated annual production of R. montezuma was 0.97 g dry wt m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>. Two-year average annual biomass was 0.072 g/m<sup>2</sup>, the two-year average annual P/B ratio was 13.4, and the two-year average cohort P/B was 3.63. The summer cohort contributed at least 50 percent of the total annual production of R. montezuma. 
10.2307/1468025|Biological processes, such as predator-prey or competitive interactions, occur at multiple spatial and temporal scales, but their impacts on the distribution, abundance, and fitness of organisms may only be detectable at some scales. This is because 1) small scale (local) processes may be constrained by large-scale (regional) processes, 2) the influence of organism movement changes with spatial scale, and 3) multiple small-scale processes may interact and produce variation that obscures large-scale patterns. Most ecologists would like to know the relevance of small-scale observations and experiments for large-scale patterns and processes acting over long time periods. In this paper we consider whether patterns of individual behavior translate in a straightforward way to patterns in population dynamics, community structure, or individual fitness at larger spatial and longer temporal scales. We illustrate our discussion with data from communities living in high altitude streams in western Colorado, coastal streams in southern California, and streams on the South Island of New Zealand. We describe patterns of individual behavior including selective predation, predator-avoidance behavior, and competitive interactions. Our examples indicate that large scale patterns of distribution and abundance of organisms sometimes deviate from those expected from patterns of individual behavior. We hypothesize that such discrepancies are often due to multiple confounding factors, including abiotic disturbances, that have effects on populations and communities at larger scales. Similarly, our data illustrate that present behaviors may not have measurable fitness consequences over longer time scales. We emphasize that only by studying all life history stages of organisms with complex life cycles can we interpret the long-term fitness consequences of individual behaviors. We conclude that our ability to extrapolate from individual behaviors to populations and communities in streams will improve when we consider the repercussions of individual behaviors and environmental factors over broader spatial and temporal scales.
09-031R|In this paper, we review the history of Hydropsychinae genus-level classification and nomenclature and present new molecular evidence from mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) and nuclear large subunit ribosomal ribonucleic acid (28S) markers supporting the monophyly of the genus
10.2307/1467403| Chemical composition and microbial activity of seston (i.e., fine particulate organic matter and associated inorganic material in transport) in a southern Appalachian headwater stream were evaluated to determine whether changes in microbial activity associated with decreasing particle size were related to changes in seston surface area and/or chemical composition. As seston particle size decreased from 500 to 10 m, organic content measured as ash free dry mass decreased from 72.5% to 36.7%. Simultaneously, the nutritional quality of the organic fraction declined, as evidenced by increases in lignin and cellulose content and corresponding reductions in acid-detergent-soluble materials (simple carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids). Microbial activity, measured as mass-specific <sup>14</sup>C-glucose mineralization and <sup>3</sup>H-thymidine incorporation rates, increased significantly as particle size decreased, despite the reduced nutritional quality of smaller particles. Microbial biomass (ATP) and activity (glucose mineralization) per unit seston surface area were proportional to particle size over the 10-250-m particle size range. Smaller particles of lower nutritional quality supported lower area-specific microbial biomass and activity. Production: biomass ratios of microorganisms associated with seston were low (1.21 to 6.08  10<sup>-9</sup>/hr), suggesting that these microorganisms may have become inactive in response to the gradual decline in quality of detritus as it decomposed. 
10.2307/1467315| The difficulty of hand-sorting aquatic invertebrates from sphagnum moss led to the development of a behavioral extraction procedure. The method involves vertical temperature and dissolved oxygen gradients in a column of water with a sphagnum sample immersed at the top. When sphagnum was used as an artificial substrate in Southern Indian Lake, Manitoba, overall extraction efficiency was 85% (SD  1.5%, n = 4). Invertebrates in samples from the edge of the floating sphagnum mat surrounding bog ponds in New Brunswick were extracted with an overall efficiency of 75% (SD  15%, n = 17). Taxa not extracted by the procedure were represented by an average of fewer than two organisms in samples containing 289 (SD  153) organisms. Efficiencies for the more abundant groups of aquatic invertebrates ranged from 73 to 96%. Mean sorting time was reduced from >16 hr to <2 hr per sample. The method's high efficiency allows both quantitative and qualitative assessment of aquatic invertebrate populations in sphagnum and other substrates. 
4095577|Decomposition of allochthonous material is a central process in organic matter budgets of low-order streams. Shredding invertebrates contribute substantially to the decomposition of leaves in northern-temperate-zone streams, but their role in tropical streams is less clear. Hydrology has an overarching control on ecological processes in streams, especially on floodplains, where flooding of the mainstem river may cause backflooding in the tributaries. Decomposition experiments with leaves of
41318737|We evaluated the potential for grazers to regulate benthic algal biomass and taxonomic composition in an Alaskan marsh after enrichment with nutrients that are expected to increase in the region with ongoing climate change. We nested caged and uncaged substrates together inside mesocosm enclosures with natural abundances of snails or no snails and with or without nutrient enrichment (NO
41318738|Multilevel hierarchical regression was used to examine regional patterns in the responses of benthic macroinvertebrates and algae to urbanization across 9 metropolitan areas of the conterminous USA. Linear regressions established that responses (intercepts and slopes) to urbanization of invertebrates and algae varied among metropolitan areas. Multilevel hierarchical regression models were able to explain these differences on the basis of region-scale predictors. Regional differences in the type of land cover (agriculture or forest) being converted to urban and climatic factors (precipitation and air temperature) accounted for the differences in the response of macroinvertebrates to urbanization based on ordination scores, total richness, Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera richness, and average tolerance. Regional differences in climate and antecedent agriculture also accounted for differences in the responses of salt-tolerant diatoms, but differences in the responses of other diatom metrics (% eutraphenic, % sensitive, and % silt tolerant) were best explained by regional differences in soils (mean % clay soils). The effects of urbanization were most readily detected in regions where forest lands were being converted to urban land because agricultural development significantly degraded assemblages before urbanization and made detection of urban effects difficult. The effects of climatic factors (temperature, precipitation) on background conditions (biogeographic differences) and rates of response to urbanization were most apparent after accounting for the effects of agricultural development. The effects of climate and land cover on responses to urbanization provide strong evidence that monitoring, mitigation, and restoration efforts must be tailored for specific regions and that attainment goals (background conditions) may not be possible in regions with high levels of prior disturbance (e.g., agricultural development).
1468482|Previous research has suggested that certain environmental pollutants interfere with the perception of chemical stimuli. It is not clear if this interference comes from masking the odor, where the animal cannot detect the signal over the background noise, or if there is a physiological effect on the olfactory receptor cells or neuromusculature that influences the animals behavior. We acutely exposed crayfish to the agricultural chemical metolachlor. We then tested the ability of crayfish to respond appropriately to 2 chemical stimuli important to their survival: 1) detection of damaged conspecifics, and 2) location of a food source in the absence of metolachlor. A damaged conspecific, commonly known as an alarm signal, produces a chemical signal composed of bodily fluids that could signify a predation event to the individual receiving the signal. Results indicated that crayfish were unable to successfully locate a food source after being exposed to metolachlor. In the presence of an alarm signal, animals exposed to metolachlor walked faster than nonexposed animals and tended to walk in the direction of the alarm signal instead of away, as in the control animals. Crayfish may perceive aspects of the chemical signal but make inappropriate decisions in response to the information received as a result of exposure to metolachlor.
09-094|Fish density models are essential tools for fish ecologists and fisheries managers. However, applying these models can be difficult because of high levels of model complexity and the large number of parameters that must be estimated. We designed a simple fish density model and tested whether it could predict fish densities in lotic systems with meaningful levels of accuracy and precision. We built our 6-parameter model on 2 key assumptions: 1) fish population density is a power function of mean body mass (i.e., the self-thinning relationship), and 2) energetic resources are transferred from lower to higher trophic levels at a nearly constant rate (i.e., trophic transfer efficiency). We estimated the self-thinning and trophic transfer efficiency parameters by randomly sampling from values reported in the primary literature. Remaining parameters were net primary production, trophic level, the productionbiomass ratio, and mean body mass. We used empirical parameter estimates and fish density estimates to test the model in 4 warm-water and 4 cold-water systems. Model accuracy was high in 3 test systems (deviations between the model-predicted densities and empirically observed densities <30%), moderate in 3 test systems (deviations 75111%), and low in 2 systems (deviations >150%). Model precision was low (e.g., the interquartile ranges of model-predicted densities encompassed ~1 order of magnitude), but appropriate for predicting fish densities at coarse spatial and temporal scales. We concluded that the model is a potentially useful and efficient tool, and we provide recommendations for applying the model. In particular, we emphasize that the model is scalable, and therefore, well-suited for estimating fish densities at large spatial scales. We also point out that the model is a carrying capacity model, and therefore, can be used to predict fish densities in undisturbed systems or to approximate reference conditions.
10.2307/1467882| Egg masses of the European net-spinning caddisfly Plectrocnemia conspersa were collected from a small stream, with the object of studying egg incubation and early (first seven days) larval behaviour. Egg masses contained 150-800 eggs (mean 440.2, 95%CL 75.6). Egg incubation period in the laboratory (y days) was related to temperature (xC) by the equation ln(y) = 3.14 + 0.144 ln(x), taking 93 days at 6C and 20 days at 18C. Egg masses incubated in the field hatched as predicted by this equation. The length of individual eggs increased by an average of 17% during incubation. Emergence from the egg took about 30 min, and newly hatched larvae had yolk in their guts which lasted 24-30 h, after which feeding began. Larvae took only live prey. In still water, larvae span silk, ventilated using abdominal undulations, turned in the net, and performed further miscellaneous movements. Newly hatched 'yolky' larvae spent the most time spinning; older larvae resident in the mass of silk near the maternal egg mass carried out most ventilations and turns, and non-resident larvae made most other, miscellaneous movements. Interactions among siblings were categorised as 'aggressive', 'ignore' or 'explore'. Interactions most commonly involved older residents, which were the only larvae to show aggression. Overall, most interactions were 'ignore' and 'explore'. In running water a large single net (up to 10 cm<sup>2</sup>), containing >300 larvae, was formed around one old egg mass. This colonial web persisted for at least 7 d and, although density declined rapidly, 3-4 larvae/cm<sup>2</sup> remained after 7 d. This pattern was repeated in three other egg masses kept in running water, net size reaching a peak 3 d after the onset of egg hatching. Behaviour of individual larvae in running water was similar to that in still water, except that in flowing water they did not ventilate and turning behaviour was less frequent. During the first three days of life, residents in the net in flowing water ignored or explored each other without aggression. The first aggressive interactions were observed on day 4. It is proposed that the sharing of silk is the main selective value of this briefly colonial system. Silk provides shelter and probably increases the likelihood of obtaining the first meal. 
10-016|Four approaches to or levels of identifying macroinvertebrates (amateur/family, expert entomologist/genus, expert entomologist/genusspecies, and DNA barcoding/species) were used to assess community structure and water quality in White Clay Creek, Pennsylvania, USA. Macroinvertebrates were collected in March 2008 from 2 riffle sites 3.9km apart on the same stream. The downstream site was known to be degraded by land and water use. About 98% of the 1617 specimens used for analysis, including small, immature, and damaged specimens, were successfully barcoded (sequenced) for the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I gene. A criterion of 2 to 4% genetic divergence provided good separation of presumptive species. Barcodes increased the taxonomic inventory across the 2 sites by 475% (124 taxa) relative to the amateur level, and 125% (83 taxa) and 70% (62 taxa) relative to the expert genus and species levels, respectively. Barcoding revealed species not currently described in larval taxonomic keys, including multiple (211) coexisting congeneric species. That 150 species were revealed by barcoding samples collected on the same date and in the same habitat was unprecedented, as was the fact that 60cm
4499029|Dissolved organic matter (DOM) is an important component of aquatic ecosystems, and it influences a range of physical, chemical, and biological properties. Reactions induced by solar radiation may oxidize DOM to inorganic C or break large molecules into smaller ones. Therefore, photodegradable DOM is removed with exposure to light, and the remaining DOM pool might become less photodegradable as photorecalcitrant DOM accumulates. This possibility has led to speculation that previous light exposure might influence the susceptibility of DOM to photodegradation and that forested low-light streams might have highly photodegradable DOM. To assess this possibility, we measured: 1) the susceptibility of stream DOM to photoreactions and compared our results to studies in other aquatic ecosystems, 2) the relative importance of the ultraviolet (UV) portion of the solar spectrum to DOM photoreactions, and 3) the photoreactivity of DOM collected from streams with and without upstream lakes. We measured DOM properties of stream water exposed for 56 h to 1 of 3 treatments: full sunlight, sunlight with the UV portion of the spectrum (<400 nm) removed, and a dark control. Exposure to light reduced the UV light-absorbing ability of DOM and, to a lesser extent, its concentration. Most alterations of DOM properties could be attributed to the UV portion of the solar spectrum. We found no evidence that previous light exposure significantly influenced photodegradability of stream DOM. Our results suggest that other DOM-processing agents, such as heterotrophic uptake, can obscure the effect of upstream photoexposure on downstream DOM photodegradability.
10.2307/1467525|Twenty-three taxa of aquatic macroinvertebrates and amphibians were found in 50 desert ephemeral rain-filled rock pools in the desert near Moab, Utah. Only one pool contained no animals. The most common 12 taxa of animals tended to occur in three distinct assemblages, characterized respectively by Dasyhelea sublettei (Ceratopogonidae--biting midge larvae), Triops longicaudatus (Notostraca--tadpole shrimps) and Notonecta undulata or N. kirbyi (Notonectidae--back-swimmers). These assemblages were correlated with increasing pool size in the above sequence, and, by implication, with duration of the aquatic habitat. Feeding trials suggested that D. sublettei was excluded from larger pools by predatory Triops and Notonecta. Omnivorous feeding habits and some resistance to desiccation allowed D. sublettei to find a refuge in the most ephemeral pools.
10.2307/1467779| The use of bacterial carbon by stream invertebrates was assessed by dripping <sup>13</sup>C as sodium acetate into a headwater spring at Coweeta Hydrologic Laboratory for three weeks during August 1992. The addition raised the  <sup>13</sup>C value of dissolved organic carbon from approximately -26 to approximately 100. Coarse particulate organic matter, fine particulate organic matter (FPOM), and 14 taxa of animals were analyzed by mass spectrometer before and after the <sup>13</sup>C addition. Pre-addition sample  <sup>13</sup>C ranged from -36 to -22; post-addition samples ranged from -35 to 129. Predators contained less <sup>13</sup>C label than collectors, shredders, and scrapers. Shredders were not uniformly labeled, suggesting low use of bacterial carbon. Stenonema (Heptageniidae), a biofilm scraper, was the most highly labeled taxon (up to 128), even though biofilm  <sup>13</sup>C was -16. Chironomids and copepods were clearly labeled and had a higher  <sup>13</sup>C than the FPOM, suggesting preferential assimilation of bacterial carbon relative to FPOM. Although adults and larvae of Optioservus (Elmidae) are believed to be scrapers, the adults were more labeled than the larvae, indicating greater dependence on bacterial carbon. Gut analyses of Optioservus corroborated the stable isotope results: adult guts contained mostly detritus whereas larval guts contained a high proportion of diatoms. This technique is useful for determining the relative differences in bactivory by an assemblage of stream animals. 
10.2307/1468006|Shallow mountain lakes and ponds may function as reference systems for monitoring the effects of global climate change. A survey of phytobenthos and phytoplankton communities was conducted along an altitudinal gradient of Canadian Rocky Mountain lakes and ponds to relate patterns in algal abundance and community composition to catchment and climate-related variables. Algal abundance and community composition were quantified using pigments as analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Regression analyses revealed that the abundance of rock-attached algae (epilithon) was negatively correlated (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.54, p < 0.001) to lake elevation, and positively correlated to conductivity and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) content (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.52, p<sub>cond.</sub> < 0.03, p<sub>DOC</sub> < 0.01). Redundancy analysis (RDA) showed that elevation, conductivity, and DOC were also significant predictors of epilithon community composition. Epilithic diatoms (diatoxanthin, diadinoxanthin, fucoxanthin) declined disproportionately with increasing water transparency and decreasing chemical concentrations. In contrast, patterns in sediment-dwelling algal (epipelon) abundance and community composition were not well-explained by the suite of measured environmental variables. Phytoplankton community composition, but not abundance, was best predicted by zooplankton biomass and elevation as cryptophytes (alloxanthin) were favored in low-elevation, montane lakes and ponds containing abundant zooplankton. Also, elevated conductivity and low DOC content were associated with a compositional shift away from planktonic cryptophytes and green algae (lutein, violaxanthin) towards siliceous algae (fucoxanthin, chlorophyll c) and colonial cyanobacteria (myxoxanthophyll). These comparative results corroborate experimental findings that suggest epilithon is regulated by DOC, inorganic nutrients, and exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UV) in alpine littoral habitats. Thus, epilithon appears better suited than either phytoplankton or epipelon as a bioindicator of climatically induced variations in the abiotic environments of shallow mountain lakes and ponds.
10.2307/1468171|Benthic charophytes were observed during July 1994 in the southern end of Lake Okeechobee, Florida. Surveys of charophyte distribution and abundance were conducted over the subsequent 30 mo. Charophyte biomass declined progressively from 1994 through 1996; regardless of year, charophyte presence was observed only during the mid to late summer and fall months. Ash free dry mass (AFDM) levels ranged from non-existent to >20 g/m<sup>2</sup>. Abiotic factors influencing charophyte populations were investigated. Regression analysis showed that charophyte biomass was inversely related to water depth and positively related to Secchi depth, suggesting that irradiance strongly influences charophyte distribution in this lake. Data from photosynthetic measurements and photosynthesis-irradiance curves confirmed this hypothesis, as I<sub>k</sub> (irradiance at which photosynthesis is initially saturated) was an order of magnitude greater than the ambient light reaching the charophyte populations. In addition, autotrophic respiration exceeded net photosynthesis under ambient light conditions. Inorganic phosphorus concentration was not significantly related to charophyte biomass. Nutrient kinetics favored phytoplankton growth over Chara, assuming phosphorus limited conditions. Although nutrient concentration may influence Chara phenology and abundance, light appears to be a stronger regulator in this subtropical lentic ecosystem.
4499050|Elevated atmospheric CO
41319690|Great Plains rivers are characterized by unpredictable, thunderstorm-generated flow events that can abruptly restructure their physical complexity. These morphodynamic disturbances force river organisms to overcome hydrologic challenges. Some organisms surmount these challenges by using refugia, which play a key role in the ecological processes that govern lotic systems. The physical complexity of rivers can determine the availability and diversity of refugia both within and among rivers. However, physical complexity often changes with the hydrologic cycle and position along the river. We determined how the benthic community was affected by changes in the structure and abundance of in-channel refugia created by hydrologic fluctuations. We worked on and around sandbars in the Kansas River (Kaw), a multithread, sand-bed river. The composition of the zoobenthic community was directly related to the complexity of river morphology and flow rates. The community of 1 side channel consistently shifted over time between 2 distinct assemblages depending on whether the side channel was flowing or a disconnected slackwater. The benthic invertebrate community exploits many strategies to survive in the abrasive and continually fluctuating Kaw, including using sandbars as refugia and places for recolonization. The refuge provided by these sandbars will become increasingly important in the future if precipitation regimes become more variable as predicted by climate-change scenarios for the region. However, increased levee and dam construction threaten the persistence of the sandbars and vital habitats that they create.
4095630|The effects of water-quality degradation caused by urbanization, agricultural, and industrial activities on leaf litter breakdown and associated communities of invertebrates and microorganisms were examined at 1 reference and 2 downstream polluted sites in the Ave River (northwestern Portugal). Conductivity, concentrations of NH
4498994|Organic matter inputs, transport, and storage, ecosystem metabolism, and organic C turnover length were measured in a forested Mediterranean 3
4095735|Biological indicators often are used to assess and manage water quality in anthropogenically altered stream systems. Leaf breakdown has the potential to be a good indicator of stream integrity because it integrates a variety of biological, chemical, and physical conditions. Red maple (
20491157|Freshwater mussels (superfamily Unionoidea) are in serious global decline and in urgent need of protection and conservation. The declines have been attributed to a wide array of human activities resulting in pollution and water-quality degradation, and habitat destruction and alteration. Linkages among poor water quality, pollutant sources, and mussel decline in rivers and streams have been associated with results of laboratory-based tests of specific pollutants. However, uncertainties remain about the relationship of laboratory data to actual contaminant exposure routes for various mussel species, life stages, and in the habitats occupied during these exposures. We evaluated the pathways of exposure to environmental pollutants for all 4 life stages (free glochidia, encysted glochidia, juveniles, adults) of unionoidean mussels and found that each life stage has both common and unique characteristics that contribute to observed differences in exposure and sensitivity. Free glochidia typically are exposed only briefly (e.g., seconds to days) through surface water, whereas adults sustain exposure over years to decades through surface water, pore water, sediment, and diet. Juveniles live largely burrowed in the sediment for the first 0 to 4 y of life. Thus, sediment, pore water, and diet are the predominant exposure routes for this life stage, but surface water also might contribute to exposure during certain periods and environmental conditions. The obligate parasitic stage (encysted glochidia stage) on a host fish might be exposed from surface water while partially encysted or from toxicants in host-fish tissue while fully encysted. Laboratory methods for testing for acute and chronic exposures in water have advanced, and toxicant-specific information has increased in recent years. However, additional research is needed to understand interactions of life history, habitat, and long-term exposure to contaminants through water, pore water, sediment, and diet so that the risks of environmental exposures can be properly assessed and managed.
10.2307/1468008|Forest management operations may result in above-ambient inputs of fine sediments to streams with consequences for stream biota. A field experiment was conducted at the Fernow Experimental Forest in West Virginia to examine the effects of fine sediment on macroinvertebrate assemblages. Fine sediment (<2 mm) was varied between 0 and 30% in 5% increments in otherwise natural substratum mixtures in 0.03-m<sup>2</sup> trays deployed at each of 3 sites along Elklick Run, a 4th-order stream, and allowed to colonize for 5 wk. Macroinvertebrate density (-, sign indicates response to fine sediment), biomass (-), EPT (Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera) taxa richness (-), the proportion of Ephemeroptera composed of Baetidae (+), and the proportion of chironomids composed of Chironominae (-) and of Orthocladiinae (+) were the most sensitive and reliable metrics. Sediment effects on metrics were generally subtle, even when statistically significant. Ordination and the relative abundance of individual taxa indicated that assemblage structure was altered by treatment, but the shift was generally less than the variation in structure among the 3 sites. Percent organic matter and interstitial velocity were quantified, but did not appear to explain observed responses to treatment. Comparison of assemblages colonizing treatment mixtures with assemblages colonizing natural substratum indicated that most aspects of the experiment were realistic. Macroinvertebrate assemblages were also sampled in 15 local streams, which varied in fine-sediment bed loads, to determine if predictions based on the field experiment were supported at a larger spatial scale. Survey results generally agreed qualitatively with experimental results suggesting that some metrics were robust at a regional scale for physically and geologically similar streams.
20491196|The Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA) provided the first statistically sound summary of the ecological condition of streams and small rivers in the US. Information provided in the assessment filled an important gap in meeting the requirements of the US Clean Water Act. The purpose of the WSA was to: 1) report on the ecological condition of all wadeable, perennial streams and rivers within the conterminous US, 2) describe the biological condition of these systems with direct measures of aquatic life, and 3) identify and rank the relative importance of chemical and physical stressors affecting stream and river condition. The assessment included perennial wadeable streams and rivers that accounted for 95% of the length of flowing waters in the US. The US Environmental Protection Agency, states, and tribes collected chemical, physical, and biological data at 1392 randomly selected sites. Nationally, 42% of the length of US streams was in poor condition compared to best available reference sites in their ecoregions, 25% was in fair condition, and 28% was in good condition. Results were reported for 3 major regions: Eastern Highlands, Plains and Lowlands, and West. In the West, 45% of the length of wadeable flowing waters was in good condition. In the Eastern Highlands, only 18% of the length of wadeable streams and rivers was in good condition and 52% was in poor condition. In the Plains and Lowlands, almost 30% of the length of wadeable streams and rivers was in good condition and 40% was in poor condition. The most widespread stressors observed nationally and in each of the 3 major regions were N, P, riparian disturbance, and streambed sediments. Excess nutrients and excess streambed sediments had the highest impact on biological condition; streams scoring poor for these stressors were at 2 to 3 higher risk of having poor biological condition than were streams that scored in the good range for the same stressors.
1468033|Dissolved oxygen (O
10.2307/1467618|Increased use of artificial streams in aquatic research over the last 20 years has not been accompanied by a systematic, critical analysis of their advantages and disadvantages. A symposium held at the 1992 annual meeting of the North American Benthological Society in Louisville, Kentucky, attempted specifically to provide this information. We define an artificial stream as any constructed channel that has a controlled flow of water and that is used to study a physical, chemical, or biological property of natural streams. The following aspects of artificial streams were covered in the symposium: historical perspectives, hydrodynamics, algal-nutrient dynamics, macroinvertebrate growth, grazer-algal interactions, fish ecology, disturbance, ecotoxicology, small- and large-scale artificial streams, and longitudinal linkages. Although the symposium addressed a wide variety of subjects, each contribution was linked by a common desire to ascertain the strengths and weaknesses of artificial streams relative to that subject. Major conclusions that emerged from the symposium include: (1) there is no single best design for artificial streams; appropriate stream design is contingent on the question being asked; (2) research geared to mechanistic understanding of lotic processes is particularly well-suited for artificial streams; and (3) generation of testable hypotheses, which can then be validated in natural stream ecosystems, is a useful application of research in artificial streams.
1468067|Fine benthic organic matter (FBOM) was collected over a 10-mo period from 14 1st-order streams in the Cascade Mountains of western Oregon to investigate 1) relationships between FBOM substrate quality and microbial activity, 2) links between organic matter sources and FBOM substrate quality, and 3) how FBOM is influenced by riparian vegetation, elevation, and season. Streams drained forests in 3 successional age classes: old-growth forest dominated by Douglas-fir (
1468034|Ecological theory predicts that multiple nutrients, added independently, could each stimulate algal community biomass. In contrast to this theoretical prediction, individual nutrient amendment experiments frequently detect significant increases in algal community biomass in response to addition of a single nutrient, whereas the independent addition of other nutrients often does not result in a statistically significant increase in biomass. However, because of the low replication and high variability typical of ecological field experiments, only large responses can be detected as statistically significant in any single experiment. It is therefore possible that smaller, yet still real and biologically important responses occur, but remain undetected because of the low statistical power of individual experiments. Meta-analysis of lotic nutrient (N and P) amendment experiments indicated that simultaneous stimulation of benthic algal community biomass by >1 nutrient was the rule, not the exception. Addition of a limiting nutrient typically doubled algal biomass, whereas addition of another nutrient generally increased algal biomass 1.25-fold. N was approximately equally likely as P to be limiting. The power of the typical experiment for detecting biomass stimulation resulting from limiting and nonlimiting nutrients was >85% and <50%, respectively. This study presents yet another line of evidence that multispecies communities are unlikely to be limited by a single nutrient, and illustrates the utility of meta-analysis for conducting statistically powerful syntheses of ecological experiments.
09-174|Water-body size is one of the most important factors affecting the structure and function of aquatic ecosystems. The categorical variable, Strahler stream order, is commonly used as a surrogate for stream size, perhaps because stream size is a multidimensional attribute that defies simple definition. Some stream-size attributes, including continuous variables, such as catchment area, distance to source, and model estimates of discharge also are available as geographic information system (GIS)-derived or modeled variables. These GIS measures are commonly used by stream ecologists along with field-derived attributes, such as discharge, stream cross-sectional area, width, and depth, which are more direct measures of stream size as experienced by aquatic organisms. Our objective was to quantify how well some commonly used stream-size attributes are predicted from Strahler order in the US as a whole and within major ecoregions and hydrologic landscape regions. We based our analysis on field-channel-survey and digital-stream-trace data (NHD-Plus) from 2162 US stream sites, ranging from 1
20491198|The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is revising its strategy to obtain the information needed to answer questions pertinent to water-quality management efficiently and rigorously at national scales. One tool of this revised strategy is use of statistically based surveys of aquatic resources such as lakes, wetlands, rivers, and streams. Implementing large-extent surveys involves decisions that reflect compromises between scientific rigor, consistent and practical implementation over large areas and many participants, and the realities of time and money. Primary constraints result from interactions among management objectives, time lines, funding, and institutional constraints of participants. Secondary constraints arise from the interaction between the survey design (geographic extent, sample size, use of existing data), logistics (sampling period, sample shipping, information management, crew expertise, field training), and the suite of ecological indicators selected (site-scale sampling design, field and laboratory protocols). We use our experience with the EPAs national Wadeable Stream Assessment and its Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program Western Pilot Study to describe the key constraints and the resulting decisions made to implement those surveys successfully. The experiences from those surveys offer perspectives and information useful for effectively implementing future surveys of similar scope or spatial extent, including advanced planning, compatible survey designs, consistent methods, indicators, and cooperative research.
20491125|The Montana Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) uses 2 forms of benthic macroinvertebrate indicators for detection of stream impairment, a multimetric index (MMI) and a predictive model of observed to expected taxa (O/E), each of which is calibrated to streams across the state. As part of the routine monitoring program, some sample locations were subjected to repeated sampling, i.e., multiple samples were collected from stream reaches in spatial and temporal proximity. Results from repeated sampling allow calculation of precision estimates, which are important for describing a portion of the uncertainty (systematic error) associated with field sampling and site assessments. In this project, we evaluated 131 and 77 repeated-sample pairs for the MMI and O/E, respectively, using 4 different measures of precision: coefficient of variability (CV), 90% confidence intervals, relative % difference (RPD), and % difference for the final assessments. MMI and O/E had similar consistency and repeatability. Segregating the data set and calculations by region or field method yielded generally similar precision estimates for the indicators, although precision was slightly better in the mountains using the Hess field-sampling method than in other regions or with other field methods. Evaluation of RPD showed that assessments (impaired/nonimpaired) on the basis of the MMI differed between samples in 18.3% of repeated-sample pairs and assessments on the basis of O/E differed between samples for 19.5% of repeated-sample pairs. Recommended measurement quality objectives were 10 to 15% for CV and 15 to 20% for RPD for both indicators. Field-sampling precision was the focus of our paper, but we emphasize that detecting the presence of stressors or degraded conditions is the primary objective of the MDEQ stream condition indicators.
10.2307/1467463|North Carolina's Division of Environmental Management has a large number of semiquantitative stream macroinvertebrate collections that have been assigned water-quality ratings. These semiquantitative data use abundance values of Rare = 1 Common = 3, and Abundant = 10, allowing the calculation of mean abundance (range = 0-10) for each taxon across five water-quality classes. This information was used to derive tolerance values and classification criteria for a south-eastern biotic index Classification criteria were adjusted for both season and ecoregion, but no corrections were required for stream size. Tolerance values are listed for >500 North Carolina taxa, and are compared with a similar Wisconsin data base.
10.2307/1467250|Many species of aquatic animals rely on chemical cues to assess the risk of predation. Although amphibians are known to have adaptations to avoid predatory fish, little is known about their adaptations that allow them to co-occur with other aquatic vertebrate and invertebrate predators. Adult California newts (Taricha torosa) prey on egg masses and larvae of conspecifics. Larvae use chemical cues to assess the risk of cannibalism. Laboratory studies showed that larvae that are two weeks post-hatching hid in response to chemical cues from adults. Larvae five weeks post-hatching did not respond to conspecific cues regardless of previous exposure to adult cues. Field surveys supported the prediction that small larvae would use refuges more than larvae that are only slightly older. Surveys of natural stream pools showed that newt larvae spent more time in refuge early in the summer than they did later in the summer. This behavioral shift also corresponds to the time of year when adults leave the streams and return to land. Thus, newt larvae showed an abrupt ontogenetic change in their response to conspecific chemical cues. Reduced sensitivity to conspecific risk suggests that large newt larvae are less vulnerable to conspecific adults than small larvae.
1468285|A number of studies have documented tolerance in aquatic communities exposed to contaminants, but few have examined costs of tolerance and potential community-level consequences. We assessed the effects of metals and acidic pH, a novel stressor, on communities from streams with different histories of metal pollution. Acidic pH was a novel stressor to communities in streams that are consistently circumneutral. Intact benthic invertebrate assemblages collected from metal-polluted sites on the Arkansas River (AR1, low levels of pollution, and AR5, greater levels of pollution) and a reference site on the Cache la Poudre River (PR), Colorado, were exposed to either metals (Zn, Cu, Cd) or pH 4.5 in stream microcosms. Multivariate analyses on a subset of taxa showed different patterns of response to metals and acidic pH among the 3 sites, which corresponded to exposure histories of the communities: PR assemblages were more sensitive to metals, whereas AR assemblages were more sensitive to acidic pH. These patterns were supported by analyses on specific characteristics of community structure. Exposure to metals significantly reduced abundance of mayfly taxa in PR (
10.2307/1467850| To study life history characteristics of the pleurocerid gastropod genus Elimia, direct measurements of shell growth of free-ranging marked snails were combined with analyses of temporal change in size structure of eight lotic populations: E. cahawbensis (3 populations), E. variata (1), E. carinifera (1), E. fascinans (3) from six streams throughout central Alabama. Although minor variation was apparent, the general pattern of oviposition, growth, and cohort structure was strikingly similar among populations, being characterized by: 1) the production of eggs over an extended period from spring through early summer and the appearance of juveniles in late summer and autumn, 2) two discrete periods of rapid growth confined to spring and summer during the 1+ yr and 2+ yr age classes, and 3) an age structure consisting of a minimum of three simultaneous cohorts. To estimate the minimum cohort duration for each population, an iterative bootstrap model was developed. This model predicted cohort durations ranging from a minimum of 2+ through 6+ yr among the populations studied and suggested that, even at relatively low latitudes (33N), relatively long lifespans and complex cohort structure may be expected among populations of Elimia. A comparison of life history information derived in the present study with that available for other species of Elimia and other pleurocerid genera (Leptoxis, Pleurocera) shows a strong consistency among major aspects of life histories of the North American pleurocerids from northern temperate through essentially subtropical latitudes. 
10.2307/1467810| The influence of river sediment and the suitability of algae as food for juvenile rainbow mussels (Villosa iris) and giant floaters (Pyganodon grandis) were investigated by rearing mussels on various combinations of green algae (Chlorella vulgaris, Ankistrodesmus falcatus, and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii), a commercial suspension of bacteria, and fine sediment (including autoclave-sterilized sediment). After 45 d, juvenile V. iris reared on sediment and algae had significantly better growth in shell length (552 m) and survival (66.5%) than growth (437 m) and survival (22.2%) of V. iris reared without sediment and fed only algae. A commercial suspension of bacteria added to a diet of algae also did not improve growth (462 m) or survival (2.7%) of juvenile V. iris. Shell lengths of P. grandis juveniles fed algae and reared on various substrates (fine sediment, autoclaved sediment, and autoclaved sediment and bacteria) were similar among treatments. After 45 d, juvenile P. grandis reared on algae and fine river sediment achieved a mean length of 789 m, representing a 2-fold increase in shell length, and 58.8% survival. Resident bacteria in riverine sediments seemingly were not essential to growth and survival of juvenile mussels. Mussels were observed pedal-feeding for 120  30 (SD) d; thus, sediment may serve as a substratum for pedal-feeding juveniles to collect food particles. After 272 d post-metamorphosis, V. iris juveniles reared on sediment and algae achieved a maximum shell length of 4520 m (mean length of 2968 m), representing a 17-fold increase in length, and 5% survival. After 195 d, juvenile P. grandis had a maximum shell length of 7846 m (mean length of 4877 m), representing a 22-fold increase in length, and 13% survival. 
4095628|Nitrification, the chemoautotrophic process by which NH
10.2307/1467420|We altered patterns of fungal growth, extracellular enzyme production, and degradation of aspen leaves by adding glucose to cultures. When glucose was present, fungi formed a thick mat of mycelium on the surface of leaves and caused a net increase in mass of leaves. In glucose-containing cultures, activities of pectin lyase, polygalacturonase, and endoglucanase were greatly reduced, and leaves were not softened. We also grew the same fungi on leaves in the absence of glucose for incubation times that produce high fungal activity and palatability for caddisfly larvae (i.e., leaves were fully conditioned). In these cultures, fungi produced high enzymatic activities and caused mass loss and softening of leaves. When offered a choice between leaves colonized by the same fungus in the presence or absence of glucose, caddisfly larvae ingested greater amounts of material (mainly fungal mycelia) from leaves colonized in the presence of glucose. Growth rates of larvae fed leaves colonized in the presence of glucose were not significantly different from those fed fully conditioned leaves. However, when larvae fed on leaves from glucose-containing cultures, consumption rates were less than half and ingestion conversion efficiencies were more than double those of larvae fed leaves from glucose-free cultures of the same fungus. We conclude that fungal mycelia played a greater role in determining food selection by caddisfly larvae and were a better food source than the combination of extracellular enzymes, modified leaf tissue, and mycelia associated with leaves that had been fully conditioned by the same fungus.
10.2307/1467405| Sexual allocation was examined in a dense (28 /m<sup>2</sup>) population of Elliptio complanata (Lightfoot) in Lac de l'Achigan, Qubec. The gonads of individuals in this population contained mixtures of male and female tissue with 6% containing >10% and <90% female tissue. The sex ratio was determined by microscopic examination of gonads and was found to be skewed toward males. The sexual composition of the population varied significantly with body size. Protandry was indicated because the gonads of 80% of animals <50 mm in shell-length were composed primarily of male tissue, while larger animals had a significantly higher proportion of females and hermaphrodites. The fraction of the population producing eggs or glochidia increased with the fraction of the gonad composed of female tissue, such that animals whose gonads contained <40% female tissue had a low probability of egg production. There was no significant tendency for dioecious organisms to be found in denser aggregations than hermaphrodites. 
10.2307/1467688|Our understanding of spatial and temporal dynamics of the distribution of the hyporheos can be considerably enhanced by an appreciation of surface-hyporheic hydrologic exchange. We illustrate this relationship using two case studies from very different lotic ecosystems: a large mesic river in France and an intermittent desert stream in Arizona. In both cases, there are strong correlations between direction and magnitude of hydrologic fluxes and the composition of hyporheic invertebrate assemblages. Hydrologists are likely to find that the distribution and abundance of hyporheos will provide useful corroborative data in studies of hyporheic flow dynamics, while ecologists should recognize the effects of hydrologic exchange between the surface stream and the hyporheic zone at a variety of scales. Thus hydrologic measurements of surface water and groundwater exchange should be included routinely in future studies of hyporheic invertebrate ecology. Such exchange controls the availability of nutrients, food, and dissolved gases to the hyporheos and indicates a mechanism whereby the subsurface component influences processes occurring in the rest of the lotic ecosystem.
10.2307/1467723| We investigated whether biota and sediments in river catchments consisting of primary forest in northwestern Costa Rica are contaminated by atmospheric transport of organochlorine pesticides from nearby regions where their use is intense. We measured organochlorine residues in stream mayflies, as well as in the bark and leaves of trees in catchments of an undisturbed dry tropical forest west of Volcn Oros and Cerro Cacao (i.e., western catchments), and in tree leaves and bark in partially disturbed rain forest catchments east of Cerro Oros (i.e., eastern catchments) in a region where agricultural activity is intense. Samples were solvent extracted, purified by silica gel clean-up, and concentrated before analysis by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Twelve organochlorine pesticides were detected in samples, including hexachlorocyclohexanes, heptachlor epoxide, endosulfans, DDT, DDE, dieldrin, endrin, endrin aldehyde, and aldrin. Endosulfans dominated the organochlorine signature of mayflies collected in the western catchments and of leaves and bark collected from eastern catchments. Leaves and bark collected in the undisturbed western catchments contained ten-fold lower concentrations of the endosulfans than those collected from the eastern catchments. Hexachlorocyclohexane isomers were dominated by the gamma isomer and were present at comparable levels in samples of leaves and bark collected from both sides of the volcanic ridge. An exception was high residues in bark collected from one eastern catchment, suggesting a local source. Stream mayflies and terrestrial vegetation in the undisturbed dry tropical forest contained substantial quantities of organochlorine pesticides, the most likely source being long- and short-range atmospheric transport. 
40792644|We examined how substrate and complex hydraulic variables limit the distribution of freshwater mussels. We sampled mussels and measured substrate and hydraulic variables (at low and high flows) at 6 sites in the Little River, Oklahoma. To test which variables were most limiting to mussel species richness and abundance, we evaluated univariate and multiple 95
10.2307/1467730|The genetic structure of populations of Baetis sp. (Ephemeroptera:Baetidae) was used to draw inferences about the means of dispersal within and between stream systems of the Conondale Range, Queensland, Australia. Allozyme electrophoresis was used to examine allelic frequencies at five variable loci in geographically distant populations of nymphs in the same drainage and in nearby populations in different drainages. The results showed widespread gene flow between drainages and a tendency for local differentiation. We concluded that adult flight represents an effective means for dispersal between drainage systems. The differentiation between populations at a local scale and erratic deviations from Hardy Weinberg equilibrium could have occurred if the nymphs collected from any stream were the offspring of only a few adults. If this is the case, the dispersal capabilities of nymphs by swimming, crawling or drift may be minimal even within a single stream.
1468072|Deciduous leaves provide a major allochthonous source of energy to stream food webs, particularly in small, shaded headwater streams. To digest cellulose and other structural carbohydrates in plants, invertebrates must use enzymes that degrade these polymers. Our research focused on the digestion of cellulose by the freshwater amphipod
09-076R|Cultural eutrophication of surface waters has become a major source of water-quality impairment throughout the US. In response, the US Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) has devised a national strategy for the development of regional nutrient criteria. Our study is part of New York States effort to revise its narrative nutrient standard for N and P and is based on the USEPAs recommended weight-of-evidence approach. The objective of our investigation was to identify nutrient thresholds based on a final weighted average of results from percentile analysis, nonparametric deviance reduction (changepoint), and cluster analysis. The thresholds were determined from shifts in biological community structure (benthic macroinvertebrate and diatom) related to water-column nutrient data from 40 large river sites throughout New York State. USEPAs percentile analysis yielded possible criteria of 0.023mg total P (TP)/L, 0.51mg total N (TN)/L, 0.16mg NO
41318749|Detrital inputs into ecosystems vary in quantity and quality (e.g., plant litter vs carrion). Variability in detrital quantity and quality potentially affects consumer biomass and rates of organic matter (OM) breakdown. We used cave streams to test 2 linked hypotheses regarding the influence of total detrital inputs on consumer biomass and the breakdown of high-quality carrion detritus. First, we hypothesized that cave systems with higher total OM availability would support a higher biomass of consumers. Second, we predicted that higher consumer biomass would cause faster carrion breakdown rates. To test these hypotheses, we quantified macroinvertebrate biomass and breakdown rates (
1468297|Links between groundwater invertebrates and their potential food resources were examined using biofilm development on fine wood. Little is known about biofilm development and organic matter content of lateral subsurface (i.e., parafluvial) environments and hyporheic habitats (upwelling and downwelling zones). Eighteen experimental baskets containing river rocks were paired by treatment in which 1 basket was supplemented with wood (six 7.2 cm  12 cm strips of oak wood veneer). Nine pairs of baskets were buried 12 to 15 cm below the surface in Gallina Creek, a 1st-order mountain stream in northern New Mexico in late summer 1997. Three pairs were buried beneath the stream bank (i.e., parafluvial zone) and 6 pairs were buried in the hyporheic zone. Baskets were distributed along upwelling and downwelling reaches to assess the potential hydrologic influence of subsurfacesurface exchange. Open baskets of wood veneer were placed on the streambed surface to compare fungal biomass on the surface with the subsurface. Wood in both hyporheic and parafluvial baskets was colonized by fungi, but fungal biomass was significantly greater on wood in surface water than in hyporheic and parafluvial zones. In addition, fungal biomass on hyporheic wood was significantly greater than on parafluvial wood. A similar pattern (i.e., surface > hyporheic > parafluvial) was observed for dissolved oxygen. In contrast, concentrations of retained particulate organic matter were significantly higher in the parafluvial than the hyporheic zone. Invertebrate densities were significantly greater in baskets supplemented with wood and were greater in the hyporheic zone than in the parafluvial zone. Our data suggest that wood and associated microbial biofilms represent an important food resource for interstitial invertebrate communities.
10.2307/1467784|The reproductive cycle, population demographics, and habitat use of the dwarf wedgemussel (Alasmidonta heterodon) were studied in populations from the Tar River, North Carolina, and Aquia Creek, Virginia, during 1991 and 1992. The mussel is a long-term brooder, spawning in late summer and becoming gravid in fall. Laboratory infestations with glochidia on 15 species of fish confirmed three hosts for A. heterodon: tessellated darter (Etheostoma olmstedi), Johnny darter (E. nigrum), and mottled sculpin (Cottus bairdi). Six species of sunfishes, four minnows, one sucker, and one catfish tested in the laboratory did not serve as hosts. Age and growth characteristics were calculated using a thin sectioning technique on valves collected from the Tar River, Aquia Creek, and Neversink River, New York. As computed by the von Bertalanffy equation, the dwarf wedgemussel reaches a maximum length of 38.70 mm, 45.26 mm, and 45.84 mm in the Tar River, Aquia Creek, and Neversink River, respectively. There were significant differences in growth rates of A. heterodon from the Tar River and Aquia Creek and between populations in the Neversink River and Aquia Creek. There was no significant difference in growth rate of populations from the Tar and Neversink rivers. Age-class distribution of live mussels collected at the three sites was estimated using age-length keys. The Tar River population included year classes from 4 to >6 years. Excessive shell erosion prevented the aging of older individuals and thus, a key to include larger live individuals. The age class distribution of the Aquia Creek population ranged from 2 to 9 years, while the Neversink River population was represented by age 1 to 8 year classes. The von Bertalanffy growth equations for the Tar River, Aquia Creek, and Neversink River populations were as follows: L<sub>t</sub> = 38.70 mm (1-e<sup>-0.299(t+0.251)</sup>; L<sub>t</sub> = 45.26 mm (1-e<sup>-0.260(t+0.244)</sup>); and L<sub>t</sub> = 46.84 mm (1-e<sup>-0.207(t+0.335)</sup>), respectively. Habitat-suitability experiments were conducted in the laboratory to determine preferred substratum size and water velocity. Dwarf wedgemussels always preferred the finer substratum offered, but little preference was shown for lotic versus lentic flow regimes.
10.2307/1467884|A measure of macroinvertebrate community composition was developed using data from 46 shallow freshwater streams in New York State. It is intended for use in conjunction with other biological indices to assess water quality. Using unpolluted sites selected from 300 kick samples, an ideal community composition was developed and expressed as percent composition of seven major organism groups. The index of percentage similarity, as developed by Whittaker and Fairbanks (1958, "Ecology" 39:46-65), is used to measure the affinity of a community in a sampled riffle to that of the expected model community. Percent model affinity was found to be closely correlated with the Hilsenhoff Biotic Index (HBI) and the species richness of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera, and reflected water quality changes better than HBI did in instances of non-organic pollution. With modification of the model community abundances, this measure has potential for use in other geographic areas.
10.2307/1467637| Densities of protozoa in sediments and leaf accumulations in a first-order spring seep, and in sediments and on stones in a third-order stream reach were determined over a 17-mo period. Higher densities were obtained from microscopic counts than from determinations of most probable number (a statistical estimate of number derived from growth responses when serial dilutions of sample are inoculated into replicate cultures of bacterized Cerophyl). Protozoa densities were higher per unit area of sediment than per unit area of leaves or rock surfaces. Microflagellate densities in sediments ranged from 9.00  10<sup>5</sup> to 2.29  10<sup>7</sup>/cm<sup>2</sup> (x  1 SD = 5.32  7.36  10<sup>6</sup>, n = 15) in the seep and from 6.00  10<sup>5</sup> to 1.04  10<sup>7</sup>/cm<sup>2</sup> (2.06  2.32  10<sup>6</sup>, n = 18) in the stream. Ciliate densities ranged from 5.00  10<sup>3</sup> to 3.32  10<sup>4</sup>/cm<sup>2</sup> (1.54  1.09  10<sup>4</sup>, n = 5) in the seep and from 5.00  10<sup>3</sup> to 3.65  10<sup>4</sup>/cm<sup>2</sup> (1.09  0.88  10<sup>4</sup>, n = 12) in the stream. Nematodes were separated from sediments by a combination of sieving, flotation in sucrose, and centrifugation, and were counted microscopically. Nematode densities in sediments in the stream ranged from 0.90 to 8.85/cm<sup>2</sup> in fine sediments (x  1 SD = 4.2  1.9, n = 15) and from 0.20 to 1.80/cm<sup>2</sup> (1.1  0.2, n = 7) in coarse sediments. 
10.2307/1467807|We investigated the ability of zebra mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) to colonize small streams (<30 m wide), which have been considered to have low susceptibility to invasion. We examined European literature concerning riverine mussel populations and sampled lake and stream sites in the St. Joseph River basin (Indiana-Michigan, USA) for mussels. The presence of colonized upstream lakes (rather than stream size) was the critical watershed feature determining zebra mussel invasion of streams because such lakes served as a source of veligers that drifted into outflowing streams. For all sites, there was a significant positive association (p < 0.001) between zebra mussel presence in lakes and in their outflowing streams. Two streams in the St. Joseph River basin (average widths: 20 m and 7 m) had mussel densities that declined exponentially from >1000/m<sup>2</sup> at the lake outlet to about 10/m<sup>2</sup> within 1 km downstream of the colonized lake, although isolated mussels were found up to 12 km downstream. This pattern persisted for 3 y (1993-1995) with no substantial change in mussel distribution or abundance. Stream populations appear not to be self-sustaining, but rather they rely on an upstream source of larvae. Our findings suggest that zebra mussel distributions in flowing water ecosystems are best described by a source-sink model, wherein streams ("sinks") are the recipient for larval mussels produced in lakes ("sources").
09-165R1|Climate change is gradual and long-term, consistently collected data are required to detect resulting biological responses and to separate such responses from local effects of human activities that monitoring programs usually are designed to assess. The reference-condition approach is commonly used in freshwater assessments that use predictive modeling, but a consistent reference condition is required to maintain the relevance and integrity of results over the long term. We investigated whether external influences, such as climate change, inhibited clear interpretation of bioassessment results in a study design using reference vs test sites. Macroinvertebrates were collected from 16 sites (11 sites affected by ski resorts and 5 reference sites) on 5 streams in 4 seasons each year from 1994 to 2008 within Kosciuszko National Park, Australia. We analyzed trends over 15y to address questions regarding climate-change and macroinvertebrate bioindicators of stream condition (observed/expected [O/E] taxa; Stream Invertebrate Grade Number Average Level [SIGNAL] 2 scores; Simpsons Diversity; Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, Trichoptera [EPT] richness ratio; and Oligochaeta abundance). Climate became slightly warmer and less humid (
4095668|Ecosystem metabolism was measured in 10 streams flowing into New York City drinking-water-supply reservoirs. Six of the streams were located west of Hudson River (WOH) in the Catskill Mountains and 4 were in the Croton River watershed east of Hudson River (EOH). Measurements were made for 3-d periods between June and November in each of 3 y using an open-system O
10.2307/1468253| We outline a hierarchical framework of classes of mechanisms, operating at different spatial and temporal scales, by which populations may exploit environmental heterogeneity to ensure persistence in environments subject to physical disturbance. Examples are provided for stream systems subject to high flow disturbances. Genotypic heterogeneity, encompassing morphological and physiological adaptations, operates at evolutionary and biogeographic scales, and ultimately constrains mechanisms at smaller scales. On ecological scales, organisms may exploit temporal or spatial heterogeneity, or both, to maintain population sizes larger than possible by morphological adaptations alone. For 2 classes of mechanism operating at large scales (>1 generation and >1 habitat patch), individuals do not survive disturbances and population persistence depends on recruitment from external sources. Where generations overlap and populations exploit temporal refugia in complex life cycles, dispersal occurs between habitat patches of different types. Alternatively, dispersal occurs between habitat patches of similar type. For 2 other classes of mechanism, operating at smaller scales (<1 generation and 1 habitat patch), individuals survive disturbances by moving between microhabitat patches of different types, or by changes in habitude which reduce the negative effects of disturbance. A simple mathematical model is used to explore the efficacy of 4 mechanisms of refugium use operating through microhabitat heterogeneity within a single habitat patch. Simulations of population changes over a series of disturbance events showed that each of 4 mechanisms could maintain a viable population under certain conditions. Total refugium area and proportion of the population lost at each disturbance event had a strong effect on final population size for all mechanisms. Doubling disturbance frequency had little effect on final population size if movements of individuals into refugia were facilitated by small accessible refugium patches, or if individuals remained in refugia during benign inter-disturbance periods. Empirical evidence supports the efficacy of these mechanisms: organisms with short life cycles and, perhaps, poor mobility may be lost from erosive patches but persist in refugia; macroinvertebrates may accumulate in refugia during disturbance events and redistribute throughout the stream after the disturbance. More empirical data on the spatial attributes of refugium patches and the mobility of stream organisms are required to test and to add realism to these models. 
1468295|Periphyton and macrophytes alter water velocity in streams, influencing movement of solutes and providing microhabitat for other organisms. How assemblages with different growth form and architecture influence water velocity attenuation across mm to dm scales is not well described. A thermistor microprobe was used to measure water velocity through 4 morphologically distinct stream periphyton assemblages and 4 distinct stream macrophyte assemblages in flumes. All assemblages resulted in an exponential decay in velocity with depth. A dense assemblage of diatoms (primarily
40792587|Studies of the effects of urbanization on stream ecosystems have usually focused on single metropolitan areas. Synthesis of the results of such studies have been useful in developing general conceptual models of the effects of urbanization, but the strength of such generalizations is enhanced by applying consistent study designs and methods to multiple metropolitan areas across large geographic scales. We summarized the results from studies of the effects of urbanization on stream ecosystems in 9 metropolitan areas across the US (Boston, Massachusetts; Raleigh, North Carolina; Atlanta, Georgia; Birmingham, Alabama; Milwaukee-Green Bay, Wisconsin; Denver, Colorado; Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; and Portland, Oregon). These studies were conducted as part of the US Geological Surveys National Water-Quality Assessment Program and were based on a common study design and used standard sample-collection and processing methods to facilitate comparisons among study areas. All studies included evaluations of hydrology, physical habitat, water quality, and biota (algae, macroinvertebrates, fish). Four major conclusions emerged from the studies. First, responses of hydrologic, physical-habitat, water-quality, and biotic variables to urbanization varied among metropolitan areas, except that insecticide inputs consistently increased with urbanization. Second, prior land use, primarily forest and agriculture, appeared to be the most important determinant of the response of biota to urbanization in the areas we studied. Third, little evidence was found for resistance to the effects of urbanization by macroinvertebrate assemblages, even at low levels of urbanization. Fourth, benthic macroinvertebrates have important advantages for assessing the effects of urbanization on stream ecosystems relative to algae and fishes. Overall, our results demonstrate regional differences in the effects of urbanization on stream biota and suggest additional studies to elucidate the causes of these underlying differences.
1468440|Multivariate analyses are used widely for determining patterns of assemblage structure, inferring speciesenvironment relationships and assessing human impacts on ecosystems. The estimation of ecological patterns often depends on sampling effort, so the degree to which sampling effort affects the outcome of multivariate analyses is a concern. We examined the effect of sampling effort on site and group separation, which was measured using a mean similarity method. Two similarity measures, the Jaccard Coefficient and BrayCurtis Index were investigated with 1 benthic macroinvertebrate and 2 fish data sets. Site separation was significantly improved with increased sampling effort because the similarity between replicate samples of a site increased more rapidly than between sites. Similarly, the faster increase in similarity between sites of the same group than between sites of different groups caused clearer separation between groups. The strength of site and group separation completely stabilized only when the mean similarity between replicates reached 1. These results are applicable to commonly used multivariate techniques such as cluster analysis and ordination because these multivariate techniques start with a similarity matrix. Completely stable outcomes of multivariate analyses are not feasible. Instead, we suggest 2 criteria for estimating the stability of multivariate analyses of assemblage data: 1) mean within-site similarity across all sites compared, indicating sample representativeness, and 2) the SD of within-site similarity across sites, measuring sample comparability.
10.2307/1468331| This study used stable isotope analysis to evaluate the hypothesis that upstream migrations by anadromous clupeid (Alosa spp.) fishes represent an ecologically important seasonal subsidy to annual energy and nutrient budgets for coastal waters of the Atlantic slope. Dual stable isotope ratio analyses ( <sup>13</sup>C and  <sup>15</sup>N, ) were conducted on >200 samples representing major ecological components of Wards Creek, Virginia, and temporal trends in the stable isotope signatures of these components were related to the timing of Alosa-derived allochthonous inputs. Carbon ratios ( <sup>13</sup>C) for migratory (oceanic) Alosa spp. arriving in Wards Creek were enriched by 10.2 compared to ratios for resident fishes. The timing and magnitude of shifts in the  <sup>13</sup>C values of documented Alosa predators suggest that predators in Wards Creek derive a substantial proportion of their biomass carbon from marine sources during the Alosa spawning run. The unique trophic structure of Wards Creek may be related to ecological linkages between tidal fresh waters and coastal marine systems and the greater taxonomic complexity of tidal freshwater faunal assemblages compared to other aquatic systems. 
4499028|The effects of drought on stream invertebrates have been reviewed, but the effects of artificially reduced flows have not. We addressed this knowledge gap by reviewing the literature on the effects of natural low flows and artificially reduced flows (without complete cessation of flow). We considered the effects of low water volume on habitat conditions and on invertebrate community structure, behavior, and biotic interactions. Decreases in discharge usually cause decreased water velocity, water depth, and wetted channel width; increased sedimentation; and changes in thermal regime and water chemistry. Invertebrate abundance increases or decreases in response to decreased flow, whereas invertebrate richness commonly decreases because habitat diversity decreases. Invertebrates differ in their environmental tolerances and requirements, and any loss of habitat area or alteration of food resources from decreased flow can influence organism behavior and biotic interactions. Invertebrate drift often increases immediately after flow reduction, although some taxa are more responsive to changes in flow than others. Natural low flows and artificially reduced flows have similar effects on invertebrates, but the severity (duration and magnitude) of the flow decrease can influence invertebrate responses. Certain invertebrate taxa are especially sensitive to flow decreases and might be useful indicators for reduced flows or flow restoration. The effect of low flow on streams is an important issue, but few empirical studies of the impacts of decreased flow on stream ecosystems have been done, and more manipulative experiments are needed to understand the ecological consequences of decreased flow.
4095568|Stream physicochemistry and insect assemblages were studied in lowland tropical streams in Costa Rica to determine physicochemical variables explaining temporal and spatial variations in insect density and biomass. Streams drained a tropical wet forest landscape and had similar geomorphology, but differed in their water chemistry because of differential inputs of solute-rich (i.e., P, Cl
10.2307/1467209|Variability of the United States Environmental Protection Agency's Rapid-Bioassessment Protocol III was examined by comparing the results of benthic macroinvertebrate surveys and habitat assessments conducted by 14 student groups on each of three distinct 2nd-order reaches of Strawberry Creek, on the Berkeley campus of the University of California: a reach that was recently restored to improve water quality and aquatic habitat; an unrestored tributary, which receives occasional inputs of organic pollution; and an unmodified reference site upstream of the restored site. Impact was assessed by comparison with the reference site using three different impairment thresholds: 83% similarity; 65% similarity; and the interquartile range of the reference-site data. A randomized block analysis of variance showed that taxa richness, the Family Biotic Index (FBI),% Ephemeroptera-Plecoptera-Trichoptera (EPT) abundance, EPT/Chironomidae abundance ratio, EPT/[Chironomidae+EPT],% contribution of dominant taxon, and% shredder abundance discriminated among the restored, unrestored, and reference sites. The metrics of% scraper abundance and ratio of scraper/filterer abundance showed no significant site differences. All 14 sets of results identified the unrestored site as impaired; however, characterization of the restored site ranged from no-impact to various degrees of impact depending on the impairment threshold used Results of the habitat assessments followed neither predicted site rankings nor benthic survey results. Although the observed variability could have resulted from errors in any of several steps in the protocol (e.g., identification, calculations, analysis), likely influences were the selection of collection point and non-random sub-sampling of macroinvertebrates.
20491202|Taxonomic identifications are central to biological assessment; thus, documenting and reporting uncertainty associated with identifications is critical. The presumption that comparable results would be obtained, regardless of which or how many taxonomists were used to identify samples, lies at the core of any assessment. As part of a national survey of streams, 741 benthic macroinvertebrate samples were collected throughout the eastern USA, subsampled in laboratories to 500 organisms/sample, and sent to taxonomists for identification and enumeration. Primary identifications were done by 25 taxonomists in 8 laboratories. For each laboratory, 10% of the samples were randomly selected for quality control (QC) reidentification and sent to an independent taxonomist in a separate laboratory (total
4499026|The spiraling concept provides an explicit approach to modeling the longitudinal linkages within a river continuum. I developed a spiraling-based model for particulate organic C dynamics in the Little Tennessee River to synthesize existing data and to illustrate our current understanding of ecosystem processes in river ecosystems. The Little Tennessee River is a medium-sized river flowing 100 km through the southern Appalachian Mountains of northern Georgia and western North Carolina (USA). Across this distance, allochthonous inputs decrease and autochthonous production increases, resulting in a U-shaped curve of energy input. The model was set up as an advecting seston compartment interacting with 3 benthic compartments: coarse benthic organic matter, fine benthic organic matter, and autotrophs. Model-estimated ecosystem respiration was consistently lower than measured values, suggesting a need to evaluate our measurements of whole-stream metabolism. Also, model-predicted seston concentrations were generally lower than measured values, reflecting a need to consider additional sources of organic C in the model. For the whole river system, leaves accounted for 19% of inputs, primarily near the headwaters, and the remaining input was from instream primary production in the lower reaches of the river. Almost  of the input was respired, 28% by autotrophic respiration and 21% by heterotrophic respiration, and the remaining 51% was transported downstream. Ecosystem efficiency was 50% along the length of the river, and turnover length increased from several hundred meters at the headwaters to >100 km downstream. Based on various measures, the transition from heterotrophy to autotrophy ranged from 25 to >100 km downstream from the headwaters. As this model illustrates, a consequence of downstream transport is that much of the particulate C in streams is metabolized a considerable distance downstream from where it enters the stream. This longitudinal linkage is essential to our understanding of stream ecosystems.
4095684|Ecologists have described an urban stream syndrome with attributes such as elevated nutrients and contaminants, increased hydrologic flashiness, and altered biotic assemblages. Ecosystem function probably also varies with extent of urbanization, although there are few stream networks in which this prediction has been studied. We examined functional characteristics of 6 tributaries of the Chattahoochee River near Atlanta, Georgia, USA, whose catchments differed in degree of urbanization. We conducted short-term NH
20491185|Small forested streams typically are dominated by heterotrophic processes and rely on retained allochthonous material, including coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM), to support stream food webs. Within the Ottawa National Forest (ONF), Michigan, 3 small streams of similar size (discharge <130 L/s) were used to measure the retention (e.g., particle travel distance) of various allochthonous particles. Allochthonous CPOM consisted of natural (
09-171R|Phytoplankton and littoral invertebrate assemblages in 4 boreal lakes recovering from acidification and 4 minimally disturbed reference lakes studied over 2 decades were used to determine the pathways and trajectories of change under the influence of climatic variability. Assemblage composition (species presenceabsence data) but not dominance patterns (invertebrate abundance/phytoplankton biovolume) of acidified lakes became more similar to those of reference lakes (distance decreased with time), indicating that detection of recovery varies as a function of chosen metrics. Acidified lakes had more pronounced shifts in assemblage composition than did reference lakes. The most marked differences were noted for phytoplankton assemblages. Assemblages in acidified lakes had mean between-year Euclidean distances almost 2 greater than those of assemblages in reference lakes. Trends in water chemistry showed unequivocal recovery, but responses of phytoplankton and invertebrate assemblages, measured as between-year shifts in assemblage composition, were correlated with interannual variability in climate (e.g., North Atlantic Oscillation, water temperature) in addition to decreased acidity. The finding that recovery pathways and trajectories of individual acidified lakes and the environmental drivers explaining these changes differed among assemblages shows that biological recovery is complex and the influence of climatic variability is poorly understood.
4095678|We compared the ability of simple random sampling (SRS) and a variety of systematic sampling (SYS) designs to estimate abundance, quantify spatial clustering, and predict spatial distribution of freshwater mussels. Sampling simulations were conducted using data obtained from a census of freshwater mussels in a 40  33 m section of the Cacapon River near Capon Bridge, West Virginia, and from a simulated spatially random population generated to have the same abundance as the real population. Sampling units that were 0.25 m
10.2307/1467705|Invertebrate drift was studied for one year in a Coastal Plain blackwater river in southeastern Georgia, USA. Post-dusk samples were collected monthly at two sites, 160 km apart. Diel drift patterns were assessed seasonally at both sites, and a detailed analysis of diel drift was performed for two summer months at one site. Post-dusk drift densities (2-5 individuals/m<sup>3</sup>) and biomass (0.2-0.5 mg dry mass/m<sup>3</sup>) were relatively high throughout the year at both sites. Drift was composed primarily of larval black flies, caddisflies, beetles, midges, mayflies and copepods. Seventy-two to 82% of drift numbers and biomass consisted of animals normally found on submerged woody debris (the snag habitat). The remainder was from sandy and muddy benthic habitats. Drift had a relatively uniform distribution throughout the water column, suggesting that snag animals are swept far from their habitat. As a result, animals appear to drift for rather long distances (0.18-1.8 km), much further than found in most small streams. Drift periodicity was strongly night-active throughout the year, but the pattern was especially strong in summer. The summer diel analysis indicated that drift densities do not vary greatly in spite of wide fluctuations in discharge. However, a changing discharge pattern is reflected by a change in community composition. Black flies, in particular, increase rapidly in response to rising waters. Our results are consistent with the finding of concurrent analyses of production dynamics indicating that snags are an extremely important habitat for the invertebrate community in Coastal Plain rivers. We suggest that season and discharge together will determine temporal patterns of production and drift dynamics.
10.2307/1467561| Longitudinal gradients in streamwater nutrient concentrations in Walker Branch are generated as a result of instream nutrient uptake and spatially confined groundwater inputs during the period from November to May. The response of the stream periphyton community to these longitudinal nutrient reductions was determined by measuring periphyton biomass, productivity, species composition, and phosphorus (P) cycling indices at four stations along a longitudinal transect in the stream. Phosphorus cycling indices (chlorophyll-specific phosphatase activity, phosphorus content of periphyton) exhibited significant changes along the longitudinal transect during those times of the year when streamwater soluble reactive phosphorus (SRP) concentrations also decreased along the transect. During the period from June to October, however, neither streamwater phosphorus concentrations nor phosphorus cycling characteristics exhibited longitudinal trends. Regressions between phosphatase activity and streamwater SRP concentration and between phosphorus content and streamwater SRP were highly significant for all data combined, with SRP explaining 74% of the variation in phosphatase activity and P content. Measures of periphyton biomass (chlorophyll a, total biovolume), and productivity (areal carbon fixation rate, chlorophyll-specific carbon fixation rate) exhibited no consistent longitudinal patterns, even during the period of longitudinal streamwater phosphorus depletion. Regressions between productivity measures and streamwater SRP concentration for all data combined were significant, but SRP explained 56% of the variation in productivity. Periphyton biomass and productivity at all stations along the longitudinal transect appear to be maintained at low levels by high and longitudinally uniform rates of herbivory throughout the year. Algal species composition exhibited some response to longitudinal nutrient depletion. The biovolume and percentage of the blue-green alga Chamaesiphon investiens increased and the percentage of the chlorophyte Stigeoclonium sp. declined longitudinally when nutrients also declined. Our results demonstrate an upstream-downstream biotic linkage in Walker Branch. We show that instream nutrient uptake can reduce the concentrations of nutrients in stream water and thereby influence the structure and functioning of downstream periphyton communities. However, increases in nutrient cycling in response to lower streamwater concentrations can partially compensate for nutrient depletion by upstream organisms, thereby buffering primary productivity in downstream periphyton communities from changes in nutrient supply. 
10.2307/1467747|Gut pH and ability to digest protein and carbohydrates were studied in three steam-dwelling detritivores (Gammarus tigrinus, Hydropsyche betteni and Tipula caloptera). In animals freshly collected from slightly acid streams, gut pH was close to neutrality in Gammarus and Hydropsyche, and moderately alkaline in Tipula. After three weeks in alkaline laboratory water (pH=8.5), gut pH increased significantly in all three invertebrates. Maximum proteinase activity toward Azocoll occurred at a pH higher than that found in freshly collected animals. Only Tipula was able to hydrolyze proteins of unconditioned maple leaves. Ability to digest major plant polysaccharides and to release sugars from unconditioned maple leaves was restricted to Gammarus. All three animals could digest starch and laminarin. Enzymes capable of breaking glycosidic linkages in small molecules, similar to those that might be released during microbial breakdown of leaf polysaccharides, were present in the gut fluids of all three animals. Fungal carbohydrases, ingested with maple leaves, remained active in the guts of Gammarus and Hydropsyche but not in Tipula.
1468287|Trophic relationships were examined using natural-abundance
4095748|The ability of 2 Rapid Bioassessment Protocols (RBPs) to assess stream water quality was compared in 2 Mediterranean-climate regions. The most commonly used RBPs in South Africa (SA-protocol) and the Iberian Peninsula (IB-protocol) are both multihabitat, field-based methods that use macroinvertebrates. Both methods use preassigned sensitivity weightings to calculate metrics and biotic indices. The SA- and IB-protocols differ with respect to sampling equipment (mesh size: 1000 m vs 250300 m, respectively), segregation of habitats (substrate vs flow-type), and sampling and sorting procedures (variable time and intensity). Sampling was undertaken at 6 sites in South Africa and 5 sites in the Iberian Peninsula. Forty-four and 51 macroinvertebrate families were recorded in South Africa and the Iberian Peninsula, respectively; 77.3% of South African families and 74.5% of Iberian Peninsula families were found using both protocols. Estimates of community similarity compared between the 2 protocols were >60% similar among sites in South Africa and >54% similar among sites in the Iberian Peninsula (BrayCurtis similarity), and no significant differences were found between protocols (Multiresponse Permutation Procedure). Ordination based on Non-metric Multidimensional Scaling grouped macroinvertebrate samples on the basis of site rather than protocol. Biotic indices generated with the 2 protocols at each site did not differ. Thus, both RBPs produced equivalent results, and both were able to distinguish between biotic communities (mountain streams vs foothills) and detect water-quality impairment, regardless of differences in sampling equipment, segregation of habitats, and sampling and sorting procedures. Our results indicate that sampling a single habitat may be sufficient for assessing water quality, but a multihabitat approach to sampling is recommended where intrinsic variability of macroinvertebrate assemblages is high (e.g., in undisturbed sites in regions with Mediterranean climates). The RBP of choice should depend on whether the objective is routine biomonitoring of water quality or autecological or faunistic studies.
20491219|Ecological responses to dam construction are poorly understood, especially for downstream benthic algal communities. We examined the responses of benthic algal communities in downstream reaches of a tributary of the Xiangxi River, China, to the construction of a small run-of-river dam. From February 2003 to August 2006, benthic algae, chemical factors, and habitat characteristics were monitored upstream and downstream of the dam site. This period spanned 6 mo before dam construction and 37 mo after dam construction. Benthic algal sampling yielded 199 taxa in 59 genera that belonged to Bacillariophyta, Chlorophyta, and Cyanophyta. Some physical factors (flow velocity, water depth, and channel width) and 3 algal metrics (diatom species richness, Margalef diversity, and % erect individuals) were significantly affected by the dam construction, whereas chemical factors (e.g., NH
10.2307/1467745|The life history of Dibusa angata Ross (Trichoptera: Hydroptilidae) was studied in Cave Spring Creek, Jessamine Co., Kentucky, from 1978 to 1983. Adult emergence occurs during April and May. First larval instars appear in mid-November; an egg diapause apparently occurs in summer and autumn. Instars 1-4 occur at the base of thalli of the freshwater red alga Lemanea australis Atkinson (Rhodophyta: Lemaneaceae); guts of fourth instars contain diatoms. The fifth instar is unique among insects in being entirely dependent on L. australis for food and casemaking material. Casemaking begins soon after the molt to the fifth instar; strips of L. australis and silk are intermeshed to form a case of two parallel, flattened oval valves, which are joined together at the valve seam and attached to the L. australis thallus. Larvae sometimes eat the living algae that form the case. Pupation occurs in either terminal or basal areas of the L. australis thallus; the latter is chosen when the substrate is free of silt deposition. Dibusa angata predators include Etheostoma spp. darters. Early instar, fifth instar, and pupal densities were examined for two generations, 1978-1980. Highest fifth instar densities (15-16/25 cm<sup>2</sup>) occurred in December and January; highest pupal densities (10-11/25 cm<sup>2</sup>) occurred in March and April. Densities varied little between the consecutive generations. The range of D. angata extends from Ontario south to Georgia and from Virginia west to Oklahoma; collection records suggest a single cohort, univoltine pattern throughout this range. Northern and western populations may be associated with Lemanea fucina (Bory) Atkinson. Dibusa angata shares morphological similarities with the Australian hydroptilid Maydenoptila cuneola Neboiss, a species that occurs in association with the red alga Batrachospermum. The Dibusa-Lemanea relationship is the only known example of a specific insect-plant association in the Trichoptera and one of the few known for stream-inhabiting insects.
10.2307/1468380| Low temperature is known to suppress immune function in ectothermic vertebrates, including fish. Therefore, we hypothesized that low temperature might facilitate successful encystment and transformation of the parasitic glochidia larvae of unionid mussels on fish hosts. Glochidia of the flat floater, Anodonta suborbiculata, are present on hosts from January through March, when water temperature is low. The % transformation success of attached glochidia in laboratory infections on fish hosts (golden shiner, Notemigonus crysoleucas) was significantly higher at 10C (67%) and 15C (62%) than at 21C (42%). In contrast, transformation success of glochidia in vitro was significantly lower at 10C (39%) than at 15C (89%) or 20C (93%). Thus, the improved survival at low temperature on fish hosts does not appear to involve direct effects of temperature on the glochidia. These results support the hypothesis that immune suppression of fish hosts by low temperature enhances transformation success of this winter-breeding species. We also tested the effects of CO<sub>2</sub>, pH, and HEPES buffer on transformation of flat floater glochidia in vitro at 15C. Transformation success was highest at the lowest pH tested (7.6) and the highest level of CO<sub>2</sub> tested (5% CO<sub>2</sub>). This result is consistent with previous studies of other species, but is puzzling because the physiological pH of fish body fluids is higher and the level of CO<sub>2</sub> is much lower. Although most workers have incubated glochidia in 5% CO<sub>2</sub>, we found that transformation success was fairly high (68%) without elevated CO<sub>2</sub>, provided that pH was kept low. HEPES buffer reduced transformation success. 
1468296|Changes in chemistry of quaking aspen (
4095737|We investigated whether suburbanization influenced the physical and biological characteristics of ten 3
4499056|Fine particulate organic matter (FPOM) is an important source of C and energy in aquatic systems, but the decomposition of FPOM has rarely been studied. Litterbags were used to study the decomposition of particles in 2 size fractions of FPOM in surface sediments of a cypress swamp in southeastern Louisiana for slightly over 1 y. Particles in both size fractions followed linear decay models, but fine particles (0.251 mm) derived from the remains of coarser material decomposed more slowly than very fine particles (0.0630.25 mm) that probably were derived from a number of sources. The activities of 6 microbial extracellular enzymes involved in the degradation of lignocellulose also were analyzed, and enzymatic decomposition models were developed to relate the decomposition of particles in each size fraction of FPOM to microbial activity. Very fine particles decomposed more rapidly than fine particles, although enzyme activities were lower, suggesting that this material was more efficiently degraded than fine particles. Enzymatic activity also was measured on particles in 2 size fractions of unconfined FPOM in sediment, and the enzymatic decomposition models were used to predict instantaneous mass-loss rates. Unconfined fine particles decomposed 1.5 faster than fine particles confined in litterbags, whereas unconfined very fine particles decomposed 2 to 4 faster than very fine particles confined in litterbags. Confining FPOM within litterbags clearly led to underestimation of decomposition rates, which might be more effectively determined using enzymatic decomposition models. The differences in microbial activity and decomposition rates between particles in different size fractions show that the concept of FPOM as uniform particles <1 mm in diameter is simplistic, and that a more accurate concept would recognize the distinction between different sizes of particles that might be derived from different sources.
10.2307/1467365| Data from the literature on growth of lotic insects were used to develop an empirical model predicting the instantaneous growth rate (g, in d<sup>-1</sup>) as a function of individual dry mass (W, in mg) and water temperature (T, C). Growth rates were found to decrease with increasing size, and to increase with an increase in temperature with an average Q<sub>10</sub> of 1.78. The equation Log<sub>10</sub>g = -2.09 - 0.27 Log<sub>10</sub> W + 0.025 T explained 49% of the observed variance in logtransformed growth rates from field studies. The relation between growth rate and body mass and temperature was found to vary among insect orders. On average, Diptera grow 1.5 faster than what is predicted by the general model, whereas Trichoptera grow at only 0.7 the predicted rate. The coefficients for body mass and temperature also varied among orders. On average, body mass affects less the field growth rates of Diptera and Ephemeroptera than rates of Trichoptera. The growth models can be combined with information on the biomass size distribution of populations of single species or communities to estimate secondary production. Estimates so obtained agree closely (r = 0.93, n = 31) with those obtained by using standard methods for populations of single species. For production of communities, computer simulations show that errors in predicted growth rates decrease the precision of estimates but suggest that estimates of production of communities of tens of species calculated from monthly description of biomass size distribution for a year would on average be 70-140% of the true value. Thus, the model may be used to estimate production for species or groups of species with indistinguishable cohorts when estimates of growth rates are not available. 
4095725|Unionid mussels often occur as multispecies aggregates called mussel beds and in dense patches within the mussel beds themselves. Thus, their distributions are patchy at 2 spatial scales. We examined the association between mussel assemblage structure and macroinvertebrate assemblage structure at these 2 spatial scales in rivers of the Ouachita Highlands, Arkansas and Oklahoma, USA. We used multivariate variation partitioning techniques to relate variation in benthic macroinvertebrate distribution and abundance to variation in mussel assemblages, environmental variables, spatial variables, and overlapping or shared variation between these components. At the patch scale, total densities of macroinvertebrates and dominant groups (Oligochaeta, Chironomidae, Ephemeroptera, and Trichoptera) were significantly higher in patches containing mussels than where mussels were absent, and densities of macroinvertebrates were positively correlated with unionid density. In variation partitioning analyses, mussel assemblages explained almost  of the variation in macroinvertebrate assemblages at both spatial scales, even after removing effects of similar habitat (environmental variables) and biogeographic history (spatial variables).
10.2307/1467686|The term "hyporheic zone" is gaining wide usage among those interested in processes and patterns within the stream bed and floodplain sediments. Because of differences in terminologies, methodologies, and dogma among biologists, hydrologists, geomorphologists, and chemists, there is no single, conceptual definition of the hyporheic zone. The hyporheic zone has been defined by distributions of epigean organisms, hypogean organisms, epigean-hypogean associations, nutrients, organic matter, temperature, underflow paths, etc. Conceptual cross-sectional and longitudinal models have been presented for a number of individual research sites. Hydrologically, the hyporheic zone is established by channel water advection and may be defined as a "middle zone" between channel waters above and groundwaters (if present) below. In expanding this definition to include other disciplines, researchers should explicitly state their own working definitions when reporting research. There is a need to begin incorporating hyporheic processes into present lotic paradigms and to develop more interdisciplinary conceptual frameworks that will facilitate hypothesis testing and cross-system and intra-system comparisons. Development and refinement of hyporheic research must evolve from greater dialogue among researchers in all the disciplines involved.
10.2307/1468249|This introduction to 9 articles on the influence of heterogeneity on pattern and processes in streams describes why we need to examine heterogeneity and outlines major themes we need to consider. Contributors show that a wide range of lotic patterns and processes may be influenced by physical and biological heterogeneity, including the spatial distribution and persistence of biota, predator-prey interactions, and flux of materials among ecosystem compartments. Authors have relied on both theoretical approaches (e.g., numerical simulation models) and empirical approaches (e.g., manipulative experiments) to garner insights into the causes and consequences of spatial and temporal variability in streams. We outline 6 major themes that emerged from this collection of papers and from the symposium on ecological heterogeneity held at the 1995 meeting of the North American Benthological Society in Keystone, Colorado. These themes encompass much of the nature of heterogeneity, and they have important implications for the study of pattern and process in streams. To elucidate on these themes, we provide specific examples from the papers in this series.
1468265|Articles and books cited 12 times in the
10.2307/1468335|Accuracy, precision, and cost are major concerns in optimizing a sampling strategy to estimate population sizes of benthic macroinvertebrates. We used Monte Carlo simulations to compare precision and accuracy for various efforts (= cost) to predict density of cohorts and total populations of the water but Aphelocheirus aestivalis (Fabr.) from 3 German rivers. We compared density predictions of this hemipteran made from simultaneously collected physical variables to density predictions made from random sampling. The joint preference factor (JPF) method predicted Aphelocheirus densities from combined preference gradients for depth, velocity, and substratum size. It clearly yielded the most powerful predictions of all physical approaches tested. However, the JPF method sometimes predicted bug density better or worse than random sampling, depending on 1) the mean density of a cohort or total population, 2) the degree of spatial patchiness (contagion), 3) the affordable sample number to predict from, and 4) whether all or only dominant size components of the substratum were considered. We concluded that benthic macroinvertebrate sampling should be optimized using a flexible strategy, depending on the study objectives and the budget. This approach can save considerable time for the given error level required in predictions, and/or can yield a considerable reduction of the error of predictions (up to 50%) with a comparable effort. Optimization of sampling strategies in studies of lotic benthos is appropriate, logical, and timely, because large expenditures for stream management may be based on data provided by lotic ecologists.
10.2307/1468154|Designing an effective sampling program and accurately interpreting the results requires a knowledge of the sampling characteristics of the various devices which might be used, but such knowledge is lacking for invertebrate samplers that can be used in heavily vegetated wetlands. We evaluated the sampling characteristics of 8 invertebrate samplers in vegetated habitats by employing them side-by-side in the Florida Everglades. The samplers differed in the number of individuals captured, number of species captured, and the equitability of species abundances. A funnel trap, a D-frame sweep net, and a stovepipe collected more individuals, more taxa, and a more even distribution of individuals among taxa, than did a 1-m<sup>2</sup> throw trap and Hester-Dendy artificial substrates. Three other samplers, a minnow trap, a benthic corer, and a plankton net, captured very few individuals. Most importantly, samplers differed consistently in the taxonomic composition of the invertebrates each captured. These differences argue for the use of several complementary methods in order to gain a complete representation of the invertebrate assemblage. We discuss issues involved in choosing samplers and recommend the use of 3: the funnel trap, the D-frame sweep net, and the 1-m<sup>2</sup> throw trap, for studies of aquatic invertebrates in heavily vegetated wetlands such as the Everglades.
10.2307/1467276| To show how predaceous fish and dragonflies affect benthic community structure, we conducted enclosure experiments in the littoral zone of Bays Mountain Lake, Tennessee. A "natural" benthic assemblage was subjected to all combinations of 2 densities of 3 predator treatments--small sunfish, 0 or 4/m<sup>2</sup>; large dragonfly larvae, 0 or 15/m<sup>2</sup>; and dragonfly eggs at 2 densities, 90 or 900/m<sup>2</sup>. Treatments were assigned randomly in each of 6 spatiotemporal blocks. Net effects of predation over 4 mo show that small sunfish had "strong" effects (>50% reduction of densities) on triclads, large daphnid cladocerans, and snails, and "moderate" effects (50% > reduction > 25%) on small dragonflies and ostracods; all these effects were statistically significant, except the one on ostracods. Large dragonflies had moderate non-significant effects on triclads and ostracods. There were no significant increases in prey density associated with fish predation; but chydorid cladocerans and midge larvae showed "weak" non-significant increases that might be caused by "indirect effects" of fish predation on invertebrate predators or grazers. There were only 2 significant interaction terms indicative of "higher-order interactions": Fish  Dragonfly on the large daphnid Simocephalus, and Fish  Egg Density on snails, which were associated with relatively low probabilities. In both cases, the net effect of dragonflies was to reduce prey densities more when fish were present. 
40792657|Rapid Bioassessment Protocols (RBPs) have been widely used to assess the ecological health of aquatic ecosystems. Specific aims of RBPs for wadeable streams are to indicate the ecological condition of a stream using low-cost protocols to allow long-term and widespread routine monitoring. Our study was part of an ongoing effort to test and standardize a protocol using benthic macroinvertebrates as indicators of the water quality of wadeable streams in southeast Brazil. One of the most controversial issues during RBP development is deciding the taxonomic resolution that should be used. We evaluated how well genus-, family-, and order-level taxonomic resolution detected a gradient of impairment. All 3 taxonomic resolutions statistically discriminated reference, intermediately impaired, and impaired sites based on assemblage structure, water-quality classification, and biotic index responses. Analysis at the genus level was more effective than analysis at other levels of taxonomic resolution for discriminating sites that varied in degradation conditions, especially when considering biotic index responses, but the lack of comprehensive taxonomic keys and information about the ecology of those genera hinder their widespread use in bioassessments. On the other hand, analyses at the order level had lower discriminating power to separate reference sites from intermediately impaired sites when considering biotic index responses. Analyses at the family level gave results similar to results at the genus level, and we support its use in a RBP program for this region, at least until better keys and autoecological knowledge are available.
09-108|Mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid (mtDNA) sequence data have been both heralded and scrutinized for their ability or lack thereof to discriminate among species for identification (DNA barcoding) or description (DNA taxonomy). Few studies have systematically examined the ability of mtDNA from the DNA barcode region (658 base pair fragment of the 5 terminus of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase I gene) to distinguish species based on range-wide sampling of specimens from closely related species. Here we examined the utility of DNA barcode data for delimiting species, associating life stages, and as a potential genetic marker for phylogeographic studies by analyzing a range-wide sample of closely related Chilean representatives of the caddisfly genus
1468089|The tan riffleshell (
4095670|Distributing 4.5 billion liters of clean fresh water every day to >9 million New York City (NYC) and suburban residents and countless other users is an enormous task that is made even more difficult by the aspiration to supply that water without filtration. To accomplish that task with a sense of confidence requires adequate data to: 1) gauge the quality of water in the source streams, 2) measure changes in that quality over time, and 3) assess the factors that might contribute to future degradation. The primary goal of the Stroud Water Research Centers large-scale enhanced water-quality monitoring project (the Project) described in the papers in this special series was to create a baseline of water quality and ecosystem health for the streams and reservoirs that provide drinking water to NYC and to relate current conditions to land use/cover. The results show that streams and rivers located west of Hudson River (WOH) deliver good to very good water to most of the receiving reservoirs. The project confirmed the eutrophic condition of the WOH Cannonsville reservoir and further linked that condition to nutrient inputs from the West Branch Delaware River. The project also confirmed that many streams located east of Hudson River (EOH) had fair to poor water quality and that streams in the Croton and Kensico watersheds were biologically and functionally degraded. Streams in some parts of the WOH region appear to be on a trajectory toward conditions already present in streams in the EOH region. Anthropogenic changes in land use from forested to agricultural in the WOH region have affected water chemistry, macroinvertebrate community structure, and stream function, although the impact is less than that caused by changes in land use from forested to urban in the EOH region. Understanding the processes of change in both regions should improve conservation, restoration, and best management practices by revealing the causes of problems, the extent and nature of those problems, and the type of landuse conditions that lead to water-quality degradation. The addition of novel parameters such as nutrient spiraling and whole-stream metabolism to traditional biomonitoring tools has established a new bridge between basic and applied research at the ecosystem level.
10.2307/1467298|The Great Plains and Osage Plains of interior North America included vast prairie regions before settlement by western man. Prairie streams that exist today are ecologically interesting for their unstable flow regimes and harsh fluctuations in environmental conditions. How much extant prairie streams have changed from their pre-settlement conditions is unknown, but writings of early explorers suggest that then, as now, mainstream flows were highly variable. Although historically, some prairie rivers were turbid, the siltiness of others has increased with agricultural expansions, and some mainstream biota (fishes) are known to have disappeared. Small streams in these regions have probably changed even more; although they were clear 100 years ago, many are now highly turbid. Differences in ecological conditions among streams of the prairie region may be as great as those between prairie and nearby upland streams. For example, streams of the southern plains are characterized by irregular flow and substrates of small particle size, whereas streams of the northern prairies are more consistent in flow and many have cobble substrates. For some prairie streams, published studies exist of many ecological features, such as hydrologic regimes, productivity, respiration, organic matter processing, and composition of the biota; however, such basic features are unknown for most streams of the interior plains. Limited measurements suggest that typical central or southern prairie streams differ from streams of nearby uplands or northern forested regions in functional properties and biotic composition. Community structure and ecological functioning of many prairie streams appear strongly influenced by physicochemical limitations resulting from irregular flow regimes and environmental harshness, such as major disturbances due to drought and flood. Despite the above conditions, numerous examples suggest that prairie stream faunas are also influenced by biotic interactions, including those due to multi-trophic level effects. A relatively new approach in stream ecology applies the analysis of complex hydraulic parameters to questions concerning distributions or adaptations of the biota. This approach may be profitable in prairie streams, but needs modification to include the sometimes lengthy periods of low or no flow in these systems. As a result of the discussions giving rise to this paper, numerous specific topics are suggested for future investigations. These can be generalized in four categories: (1) basic description and comparison of biotas, processes, or rates; (2) biotic adaptations; (3) controlling mechanisms; and (4) comparisons of prairie stream ecosystems with those of other kinds of temperate streams in North America. Streams of the Mississippi Embayment, Interior Highlands, the Rocky and Appalachian mountains, and the prairies of our inland plains provide a contrasting array of study sites at a similar latitude for consideration by ecologists desiring a broad comparative or experimental approach to questions in stream ecology.
4095544|We determined whether chemosensory selection of detritus by crayfish is affected by past experience and is related to the nutritional quality of the food and subsequent growth on that food. These questions were addressed with a long-term growth assay and with short-term behavioral assays of chemotaxis and chemical preference. A 10-mo growth experiment was conducted in which crayfish (
1468298|The composition of macroinvertebrate assemblages was studied at 31 sites in the Sado basin, a lowland area with intermittent rivers located in southern Portugal. Riparian features of the sites, including bankfull width, composition, cover, shade, and relative amount of tree debris, were also measured, and local and basin abiotic variables were determined. Woody vegetation in the Sado basin was species poor and was dominated by the ash
41318732|Urbanization is degrading stream ecosystems worldwide. Tropical island streams may respond to urbanization differently than temperate streams because of their overall climate differences, and they may respond differently than continental tropical urban streams because of their reduced biological diversity and short drainages. We characterized the physicochemistry, physical habitat, and macroinvertebrate assemblages of 16 stream tributaries in the Rio Piedras Watershed (San Juan, Puerto Rico). We also described landuse patterns upstream from each sampling site for the entire subwatershed and for riparian buffers of 5- and 100-m width. Urbanization had a negative effect on the physicochemical and biological condition of the Rio Piedras. Streams were distributed in ordination space along a strong physicochemical gradient that was related to concentrations of K
1468130|The hydroscape of south Florida has been severely altered over the past 50 y by the construction of canals, drainage ditches, levees, water control structures, and pump stations. This alteration has included, in part, channelization of the Kissimmee River, construction of a dike around Lake Okeechobee, increased ditching of pastures for drainage throughout the lakes watershed, and unnatural connections from Lake Okeechobee to estuaries on the east and west coasts of Florida. Collectively, these processes have reduced the retention of flow in the lakes watershed, restricted the opportunity for nutrients to be assimilated on the landscape and, in turn, increased the rate of eutrophication in Lake Okeechobee. This paper reviews the history of these changes and current plans for system restoration. The fate and transport of P is used to illustrate how hydrologic changes have influenced the systems ecology. Improved drainage has been a key factor allowing for the expansion of dairy and beef cattle operations. This, in turn, has increased agricultural runoff to Lake Okeechobee. Best management practices have helped reduce total P (TP) loads to the lake. However, TP concentrations in the pelagic region of the lake have not declined, presumably because of internal loading. Watershed and water-quality models are being used to examine the effect of changing land use in the watershed on the lakes condition. A number of large, multiagency projects are being developed in south Florida, with the goal to develop a hydrologic system that meets the multiple needs of agriculture, urban development, and the environment. Aquatic linkages, including loticlentic, loticlenticestuarine, and loticwetland, are critical aspects of these projects.
10.2307/1467808| This study was designed to compare unionid assemblages in rivers with grass-dominated and densely treed riparian zones in southwestern Ontario. Environmental variables related to the riparian classes were measured at 24 sites (2 riparian classes  3 river drainages per riparian class  4 sites per drainage). We found 17 species in the study basins. Rivers with narrow, grassy riparian zones were characterized by Pyganodon grandis and Strophitus undulatus, whereas rivers with wider, forested riparian zones were characterised by Elliptio dilatata, Lampsilis radiata, Lampsilis cardium, and Fusconaia flava. Basin types did not differ in mean number of species per site (<tex-math>$\overline{\text{x}}_{\text{grass}}$</tex-math> = 3.75 (SE = 0.708); <tex-math>$\overline{\text{x}}_{\text{forested}}$</tex-math> = 4.00 (0.670)). However, a shift towards dominance by a single species was found in grassy rivers where over 60% of individuals in these rivers were P. grandis. Riparian classes differ in physical and chemical characteristics with grassy basins receiving greater amounts of solar radiation, having greater daily temperature fluctuations, and higher concentrations of ammonia and total kjeldahl nitrogen than forested basins. Some mussel species appear to be associated with particular riparian types. 
20491131|The absence of quantified relationships among sediment supply, stream channel conditions, and biological responses limits our ability to predict the cumulative watershed effects of management activities in forested mountainous watersheds. We addressed this uncertainty by testing whether increased sediment supply resulted in elevated levels of streambed fine sediment stored in pools and riffles and whether fine bed material was correlated with spawning-gravel quality and altered benthic macroinvertebrate assemblages in 6 streams of the Klamath Mountains, northern California. Sediment supply was estimated using 2 models: 1) an empirical model of landslide volumes based on terrain types present in a basin, and 2) a surface erosion model using a locally calibrated version of the universal soil loss equation. Riffle-surface fine sediment and the fractional volume of pools filled with fine sediment (V*) were both positively correlated with estimated sediment supply, whereas subsurface spawning-gravel permeability was inversely correlated with estimated sediment supply. Fine sediment levels were relatively low compared to published values. Reach-average values of riffle-surface fine sediment ranged from 4 to 16% and V* values ranged from 0.05 to 0.20. Based on established relationships between subsurface flow rates and salmonid egg survival, median predicted egg survival was quite low and ranged from 15 to 38%. Riffle-surface fine sediment and common benthic macroinvertebrate biological metrics were not correlated, but several taxa showed responses to riffle-surface fine sediment. Taxa that showed negative responses to fine sediment are hypothesized to be more available as prey for salmonids than taxa that showed positive responses. This relationship suggests that fine sediments might cause an overall reduction in prey availability for salmonids. Monitoring the effects of increased sediment supply in steep, forested streams should focus on fine sediment in pools and riffles, salmonid spawning-gravel quality, and specific macroinvertebrate taxa that are especially responsive to fine sediment. The linkages described in our paper can be used to make quantitative predictions of the cumulative watershed effects of management activities on stream conditions, salmonid habitat, and benthic macroinvertebrates.
4095559|Leaves of a forest-floor plant,
20491213|Pleurocerid snails are a common element of the benthos in rivers and streams throughout the Appalachian highlands from Virginia to Georgia on both sides of the continental divide. Yet their dispersal capabilities are so limited today that significant gene frequency differences have been demonstrated over a scale of meters. We obtained mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase c subunit I (COI) sequence data from 3 individual snails sampled from each of 13 populations of pleurocerids representing 3 species
4498990|The complex effects of global climate change on freshwater ecosystems limit our ability to predict biological responses in a standard way and may compromise ecosystem management with respect to potential changes. I present a theoretical framework that shows the usefulness of resurrection ecology for standardizing cross-system comparisons of ecological responses to global climate change. Resurrection ecology makes use of plant seed and animal resting-egg (propagule) banks that integrate past environmental histories in the gene pools of their organisms. Resurrected organisms that have undergone different periods of dormancy can be studied comparatively using evolutionary/genetic and experimental approaches. Both approaches combined can provide insights into how the dimensions of species ecological niches have shifted over time and could help reveal whether direct effects of climate change (increased temperatures and CO
20491127|The shells of most North American freshwater mussel species are not sexually dimorphic. During the brooding period, gravid females can be identified by inspection of marsupial gills; however, it is difficult to separate nongravid females from males in species lacking sexual dimorphism. The ability to differentiate males from females throughout the year would assist mussel conservation and research. Our objective was to test the accuracy and safety of a method to determine the sex of live mussels. We used a syringe to extract 0.2 mL of gonadal fluid from 67
41318767|The effects of barriers to migration by adult salmon smolt have been well studied, but effects to migration of juvenile salmon during freshwater residency have not been evaluated thoroughly. We tested for differences in the relative abundance of juvenile Pacific salmon upstream and downstream of road-crossing culverts in 10 streams, 5 with moderate (upland) and 5 with low (wetland) slope. We compared stream width, bed slope, and substrate in natural channels and culverts; measured culvert water velocity during base flow; and obtained maximum and minimum culvert velocities using the flow time of dissolved solutes. We compared flow velocities to swimming speeds of rearing juvenile salmon to evaluate potential passage of fish through culverts. In upland streams with spawning adults, catch-per-unit-trap (CPUT) of juvenile coho salmon was often 2 to 3 greater above than below culverts. In these reaches, downstream migration of salmon fry from spawning locations may be limited by culvert flow velocities that exceed burst swimming speeds of juveniles. Where 2 upland crossing structures were replaced with culverts that replicated natural channel slopes, widths, and substrate, flow velocities decreased and differences in coho salmon CPUT were eliminated. In wetland streams with adult spawning reduced or absent above the crossing, CPUT of juveniles was greater below than above culverts where the outlet was perched. Thus, culverts can influence upstream and downstream fish movement and altered the distribution of rearing fish within streams.
10.2307/1467881|Diel variations in drift of periphytic diatoms were studied in a small 4th-order sandy stream and in enclosed recirculating water chambers in the laboratory to describe algal drift in the natural stream, identify algal species exhibiting diel periodicities in drift, determine if species-specific drift may be related to substrate selectivity, and determine if algal drift may be affected by benthic invertebrates. Stream water samples were collected at 2-h intervals for 24-h periods seven times from July 1986-July 1987. Algal drift ranged from 130-950 cells/mL and was dominated by the periphytic diatoms Achnanthes minutissima, Cocconeis placentula var. euglypta, Achnanthes lanceolata var. dubia, Achnanthes clevei, Amphora perpusilla, Cocconeis diminuta, and Fragilaria brevistriata. A small centric diatom, Cyclotella comensis, was also common. Diel periodicities in algal drift were not observed. Three laboratory studies were conducted in triplicate to study drift of algae attached to macrophytic plants (14-17 September), rocks (21-24 September), and sand (8-10 October). Photoperiod and temperature were adjusted to simulate conditions in the natural environment. Algal drift in chambers was collected at 2-h intervals. Two diatoms, A. minutissima and C. placentula var. euglypta exhibited diel periodicities in drift, but only in chambers containing macrophytic plants and rocks. No periodicities were apparent in chambers containing sand. Midday peaks in drift of both species averaged 6-15 times greater than minimum drift observed at night. After 2 d of normal photoperiod, we eliminated the next light period to monitor algal drift under 24 h constant darkness. Midday peaks in drift persisted indicating that diel periodicities in algal drift were not directly dependent on light availability. Algal drift was compared in chambers containing macrophytic plants with and without a common filter-feeding caddisfly, Brachycentrus americanus. Algal drift was not affected by B. americanus during the day; however, drift was greater in chambers with than without B. americanus at night. This was probably an effect of increased crawling and grazing activity and possible dislodgment of cells from substrates. Results of this study show that diel periodicities in algal drift are not readily evident in all small streams dominated by periphytic diatoms. Diel periodicities in algal drift are species-specific and under autogenic regulation which may be affected by light, substrate selectivity, and benthic invertebrates.
10.2307/1467963|Phosphorus has been added to a reach of the Kuparuk River, Alaska, from late June to mid August every year since 1983. The P-fertilized reach of the river is now extensively colonized by 2 bryophytes (Schistidium agassizii and Hygrohypnum spp.), whereas only S. agassizii is common in unfertilized reaches of the river. We compared photosynthesis rates of epilithic algae, S. agassizii, and Hygrohypnum spp. under reference and P-enriched conditions to extend our long-term records of bryophyte dynamics within the fertilized reach and to describe the physiological differences between major primary producers. Rates of primary production were determined from changes in dissolved oxygen concentration during light and dark incubations of algal and bryophyte samples in closed chambers. Net primary productivity per unit total chlorophyll a (CHL<sub>t</sub> a) was greater for epilithic algae (2.0-6.0 mg O<sub>2</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> CHL<sub>t</sub> a h<sup>-1</sup>) than for bryophytes (0.2-1.7 mg O<sub>2</sub> mg<sup>-1</sup> CHL<sub>t</sub> a h<sup>-1</sup>). However, the greater biomass of the bryophyte community in the fertilized reach yielded area-specific productivity rates for Hygrohypnum spp. that were 2 to 4 times greater than areal rates of epilithic algal productivity. Bryophytes accounted for 80% of primary production in P-fertilized reaches but only 9% in reference reaches. Thus, increased bryophyte abundance in response to P increased total net primary production from 2.3 g C/h to 6.3 g C/h. Photosynthesis-irradiance (PI) parameters obtained by fitting data to a hyperbolic tangent model differed between bryophyte species, between reference and fertilized stream reaches, and over the season. Differences in PI relationships between S. agassizii and Hygrohypnum spp. suggest that they use different life strategies (subsistence vs opportunism, respectively) to exist in the arctic environment.
1468349|The goal of this research was to understand the underlying causes of patterns of distribution and abundance of N-fixing periphyton and non N-fixing periphyton in a desert stream, and to evaluate potential consequences of these patterns for stream N cycling. Sampling of periphyton communities at sandbar edges in Sycamore Creek, Arizona, revealed community differences related to direction of hydrologic exchange with the subsurface. N-fixing cyanobacteria were abundant at sandbar inwelling edges. Non N-fixing taxa predominated at outwelling edges. We evaluated several predictions of the hypothesis that this difference was attributable to differences in N availability at sandbar edges. NO
4499025|Small headwater streams have a suite of physical eccentricities that distinguishes them from the rest of the river system. These differences are now recognized in the study of sediment transport and channel morphology, but their implications for other limnological disciplines are less apparent. We suggest a zonation scheme for the upper stream system that acknowledges obvious geomorphic boundaries while highlighting differences in fine-scale habitat features that are likely to be biologically relevant. The upstream heterogeneous zone (UHZ) is distinguished by a high ratio of structural component size to stream width. Structural components include large rocks exposed from the regolith or from colluvial sources, tree roots, and woody debris, all of which are stochastically distributed and can constrain the morphology, hydraulics, and habitat distribution of small headwater streams. The high ratio of structural component size to stream width is a geomorphic phenomenon linked to the streams lack of competence to move the material that forms its bed and banks. It follows that the incompetence of streams within the UHZ is ultimately responsible for their greater internal physical heterogeneity than downstream reaches and is a fundamental driver of their physical structure, dynamics, and possibly ecology. Benign hydraulic conditions in small headwater streams have the potential to uncouple the link between physical and biological heterogeneity, resulting in a faunal community composed of highly mobile generalists.
10.2307/1468464|Influence of the development of riparian vegetation on benthic invertebrate assemblages was analyzed in a recently formed stream in southeast Alaska. Several features of riparian interaction were documented: 1) invertebrate use of willow catkins entering streams in summer, 2) invertebrate use of submerged alder roots as a substrate for attachment and as a source of building material for caddisfly cases, and 3) retention of leaf litter by salmon carcasses. The development of riparian vegetation markedly influenced colonization of the stream by certain invertebrate taxa and thereby played an important role in the successional sequence of macroinvertebrates and overall assemblage development in this new stream.
10.2307/1467919| We describe Cladophora gyrfalconium, a previously unknown alga that forms an epilithic mat, 0.04 g average ash free dry weight (AFDW)/m<sup>2</sup>), in the littoral areas of Gyrfalcon Lake. This slow growing alga is the dominant autotroph in this cold (< 70 ice-free days/yr), ultra-oligotrophic lake (average nutrients: 3 g/L total phosphorus; 75 g/L Total Nitrogen). No colonization by the alga was observed when an array of experimental substrata were left in the lake, and regrowth of cropped mats was negligible 2 years later. Chironomids of the genus Pseudodiamesa appear to be the only major benthic grazers in the lake's simple food web. The algal mat seems to be in a climax successional state and is thought to be a relict population. 
40792653|We examined recent faunal changes in freshwater mussels (Unionidae) in northern Ohio. We assessed species diversity in 2 agricultural watersheds, the Vermilion and Huron Rivers, and compared these faunas among 7 neighboring rivers within the Lake Erie watershed that varied in levels of human impact, geological structure, and fish diversity. We found 19 mussel species in each of the Huron and Vermilion Rivers, and 89% of species overlapped between the 2 rivers. Museum records suggested that as many as 4 species might now be missing from each river, and across the 9 tributaries in the region, species loss has been common. The total number of species once present in each river was positively correlated with watershed area, but the size of watersheds no longer provides a significant estimate of mussel or fish diversity. Current mussel faunas also were weakly correlated with the fish species present, suggesting that mussel species ranges have not been limited by a lack of available fish hosts.
10.2307/1467853|A new species of Trichoptera, Ceraclea (C.) enodis, of the Ceraclea (C.) senilis Group, was discovered in freshwater sponge in the Little River in Montgomery County, North Carolina. Illustrations and descriptions of the male, female, larva, pupa, and larval case are given. Adults resemble those of C. cancellata (Betten), the mature larva looks like that of C. maculata (Banks), the younger larva may be confused with C. transversa (Hagen), and the pupa has anal rods rather like those of C. spongillovorax (Resh); but all life history forms can be distinguished reliably from these species by consistent morphological characters and the sponge habitat of late instar larvae. Although few or no larvae and pupae were found in streams near the type locality, adults are reported from Ontario to Georgia to Illinois and Michigan, suggesting that the species may be widespread but local in abundance. Ceraclea enodis was found in fairly clean, 1st- to 4th-order streams containing the freshwater sponge Anheteromeyenia ryderi Potts (Porifera:Spongillidae) and loose, flat rocks.
10.2307/1467958| Transport of dissolved material in streams and small rivers may be characterized using tracer-dilution methods and solute transport models. Recent studies have quantified stream/substream interactions using models of transient storage. These studies are based on tracer-dilution data obtained during periods of steady flow. We present a modeling framework for the analysis of transient storage in stream systems with unsteady flows. The framework couples a kinematic wave routing model with a solute transport model that includes transient storage. The routing model provides time-varying flows and cross-sectional areas that are used as input to the solute transport model. The modeling framework was used to quantify stream/substream interaction in Huey Creek, an Antarctic stream fed exclusively by glacial meltwater. Analysis of tracer-dilution data indicates that there was substantial interaction between the flowing surface water and the hyporheic (substream) zone. The ratio of storage zone area to stream cross-sectional area (A<sub>s</sub>/A) was >1 in all stream reaches, indicating that the substream area contributing to hyporheic exchange was large relative to stream cross-sectional area. The rate of exchange, as governed by the transient storage exchange coefficient (), was rapid because of a high stream gradient and porous alluvial materials. Estimates of  generally exceed those determined for other small streams. The high degree of hyporheic exchange supports the hypothesis that weathering reactions within the hyporheos account for observed increases in solute concentration with stream length, as noted in other studies of Antarctic streams. 
10.2307/1467556| Retention of water and particulate organic matter (leaves and wood) was studied experimentally in Juday Creek, a 3rd-order woodland stream in northern Indiana. Fluorescein dye and 1500 Ginkgo leaves were released into each of nine 50-m reaches classified into three reach types based on the quantity and arrangement of large woody debris (LWD). Reaches with accumulations of LWD (debris dams) retained water, based on nominal transport times, 1.5-1.7 longer than the channelized (non-woody) reaches with minimal LWD. Reaches with LWD located only along channel margins (edge wood) were intermediate in hydraulic retention. Average leaf travel distances increased from 109 m (debris dam) to 125 m (edge wood) and 168 m (non-woody) as the amount of reach LWD decreased. Fifty wood dowels were released into debris dam reaches and non-woody reaches. Wood traveled an average of 14 m in debris dam reaches compared with 183 m in non-woody reaches. The most important retention structures for leaves and wood, besides debris dams, were stream margins, roots of riparian vegetation, sticks, and single LWD pieces. Although mid-western streams typically have much lower LWD loads than many coniferous forest streams, such LWD provides important sites for organic matter retention and processing. 
09-154R1|Despite the uncertainties in the rate of climate change, the Atlantic zone of northwestern Europe is expected to experience warmer, wetter winters and wetter summers than at present. Summer precipitation probably will depend on short, heavy rain showers between dry periods. Changes in the amount, frequency, and intensity of precipitation are expected to change stream discharge patterns, especially in rainwater-fed lowland streams, which will shift toward more dynamic flow regimes. Indices of discharge dynamics were used to assess the effect of changes in climate through changes in hydrology and land and water use on natural lowland stream macroinvertebrate communities. Discharge dynamics were significantly correlated with macroinvertebrate community structure, current velocity, and organic material preference. Our results demonstrate important influences of dynamic discharge regimes and extreme flows on macroinvertebrate community structure. Predictions of the ecological effects of climate change and of changes in land and water use indicate impaired ecological conditions in lowland streams of the Atlantic zone of northwestern Europe. Scenario tests involving different climate and landuse options suggest that current restoration practices and planned restoration activities can positively interact to reduce negative effects of climate change on lowland stream ecosystems.
10.2307/1467398|Riverine forests were studied in the River Garonne floodplain as sites of maximum interactions between a river and its valley. A historical perspective was used as an aid to explain present processes. In the floodplain the vegetation dynamics are still largely influenced by floods in contrast with other more industrialized European rivers. Intensive agriculture in the floodplain results in high nitrate concentrations in the groundwater. Denitrification was shown to be an important process within the riparian zones. Primary productivity of these riparian zones is high owing to water and nutrient availability. In the river system, the fate of leaf litter is more linked to physical factors and processes than to the nature of leaf material or to activities of invertebrate organisms.
1468347|The ability to assess flow hydraulics and the movement of substrata is important to understanding the complexity of habitats and variation in spatial and temporal conditions in stream and river ecosystems. The concept of flow competence (i.e., flow necessary to mobilize the streambed) has been applied to analyses of streambed stability and generally is based on the assumption that measures of rock size composing the substrata can be used to estimate the magnitude of flow that would mobilize the bed material. However, analyses have had limited success owing in part to the expectation that simple linear expressions accurately predict threshold entrainment (i.e., initiation of bed movement) over a broad range of hydraulic conditions from low-gradient sand-bed rivers through high-gradient boulder-bed rivers. Examination of the literature revealed ambiguity of terminology and use of equations without the proper adherence to limitations and assumptions inherent in the derivation of the equations. We present the derivations of the founding equations of flow competence, and discuss their applications, assumptions, and limitations. We also examine the efficacy of a stream stability index based on the ratio of estimated bottom boundary shear stress applied to the bed during bankfull conditions, and the critical entrainment shear stress calculated from the size of the surface bed material. Data from 33 gravel- to boulder-bed river sites were used to evaluate the stream stability index as a predictor of bed movement. The stability index indicated that a bankfull discharge would not generate critical threshold entrainment for 28 of the 33 sites, with most sites requiring a 2-fold increase in bottom boundary shear stress to mobilize the riverbed gravel and cobbles, and nearly an order of magnitude increase in shear stress to mobilize boulders. We conclude that other factors affecting the possible range of variation in flow velocity, particle size distributions, bed packing, and momentum exchange from collisions between saltating particles and those at rest on the bed may lead to departures between predicted and actual streambed movement. Hence, flow-competence approaches to predicting streambed instability should be used only to objectively bracket ranges of variation in disturbance and streambed movement. Moreover, the assumptions and limitations of equations for such indices should be investigated carefully before elaborate statistical analysis of watershed or streambed variables are undertaken to explain deviations from theoretical estimates, or to explain why a particular index does or does not predict bed movement.
10.2307/1467458|The goal of this study was to predict the broad-scale (1-10 km) distributions of freshwater mussels from readily available macrohabitat descriptors. All six of the descriptors used (stream size, stream gradient, hydrologic variability, calcium concentration, physiographic province, and the presence or absence of a tide) had some predictive power, but stream size and tidal influence were the most effective predictors of mussel distributions. Unexpectedly, several mussel species typically occurred in calcium-poor waters, which I tentatively interpret as evidence that these species might not tolerate eutrophication. In general, the macrohabitat distributions of mussel species identified in this study correspond only moderately well to previously published, subjective assessments of mussel habitat use.
40792627|We reviewed concepts of patch dynamics and environmental heterogeneity and their applications to the study of fluvial ecosystems, with emphasis on research published in
20491224|We sampled macroinvertebrate assemblages in the littoral benthos and on the surface of snags in the Upper Mississippi, Missouri, and Ohio rivers. Snag assemblages differed from benthic assemblages. Tubificids,
1468269|Leaf inputs in temperate forest streams may limit caddisfly production because leaf detritus serves both as a food and case-material resource. We estimated
1468088|The southern Appalachian Mountains are home to the greatest diversity of Blephariceridae (Diptera) in North America, with 13
10.2307/1467602|The occurrence and microdistribution of microcrustaceans in nine low order Minnesota streams were examined. Total densities ranged from 16,652 to 430,863/m<sup>2</sup>. Eight species of cyclopoid copepods, 13 species of canthocamptid harpacticoid copepods, and one parastenocarid harpacticoid copepod were identified. Nineteen species of cladocerans were collected. Ostracods were quantified but not identified to species. Cyclopoid copepods were most abundant in slow water habitats where the majority lived on the sediment surface; in some cases they occurred in well sorted gravel or pea gravel, and were likely living interstitially. Harpacticoid copepods were most common in coarse sediments with a sand matrix, but occurred in all benthic habitats. Cladocerans included the Daphnidae, Macrothricidae, Bosminidae, and Chydoridae and were most abundant in slow water habitats of the stream; chydorids were the most common, reaching densities of over 25,000/m<sup>2</sup>.
4095539|Nutritional constraints on herbivores are important factors structuring food webs. Our study presents field data on the nutrient content of benthic invertebrates from Lake Erken (Sweden). The most abundant benthic invertebrates of the littoral community were sampled in 3 seasons at 5 sites to examine the influence of spatial and temporal variation of abiotic conditions on invertebrate C:N:P stoichiometry. The relationships between nutrient ratios and dry mass (DM) of invertebrates were evaluated using regression analysis. Nutrient ratios of periphyton, sampled in an earlier study, were compared to those of benthic invertebrates. C:N, C:P, and N:P ratios differed among invertebrate taxa. Coleoptera had relatively high C:N, C:P, and N:P ratios, whereas Isopoda had low C:N, C:P, and N:P ratios. Nutrient ratios differed with respect to season and location. C:P and N:P ratios were significantly lower and C:N ratios were significantly higher in autumn than in spring and summer. C:P and N:P ratios increased as a functions of invertebrate DM when all taxa were analyzed together. C:N and C:P ratios of periphyton were higher than those of benthic invertebrates, but N:P ratios were similar. Our results suggested that benthic invertebrates have taxon-specific C:N and C:P ratios, but the seasonal variability in ratios indicated that littoral invertebrates were rheostatic rather than homeostatic with respect to nutrient stoichiometry. The temporal and spatial variation in grazer nutrient content must be taken into account when applying stoichiometric theory to benthic food webs.
40792646|The genus
4095546|Two-phase sampling provides a statistical framework for combining data from qualitative and quantitative sampling methods. It is a useful approach when the survey objective is a drainage-wide estimate of mussel density and the cost of qualitative sampling is small relative to the cost of quantitative sampling. This survey design has several advantages including: 1) no need for a priori classification of stream reaches into sampling strata, 2) allocation of sampling effort so that more time is spent sampling where mussels are at higher density and less time is spent sampling where mussels are not present, 3) the ability to evaluate the relationship between qualitative and quantitative estimates of density, and 4) efficient allocation of effort so that more stream reaches can be surveyed compared to quantitative-only sampling designs with similar effort. The survey design consists of sampling as many sites as possible during a qualitative 1
1468195|BRIDGES is a recurring feature of J-NABS intended to provide a forum for the interchange of ideas and information between basic and applied researchers in benthic science. Articles in this series will focus on topical research areas and linkages between basic and applied aspects of research, monitoring policy, and education. Readers with ideas for topics should contact Associate Editors, Nick Aumen and Marty Gurtz.
4095574|Temperate headwater streams with closed canopies rely on inputs of terrestrially derived organic matter to provide the major energy basis for their food webs. Microbial colonization, or conditioning, makes leaf litter more nutritional and palatable to stream detritivores, but few studies have investigated the relative importance of litter source to macroshredders in tropical streams. We determined the source (terrestrial, aquatic, or aerial), quantity, and species composition of allochthonous inputs into the Quebrada Prieta, a tropical headwater stream in Puerto Rico, as a first step toward understanding the importance of conditioning history to rates of tropical leaf-litter processing by decapod consumers. Fresh leaves of 4 common species of leaves were treated by exposing them to different conditions for 2 wk. These exposure treatments (conditioning histories) represented routes by which leaves might enter streams and included submersion (aquatic input), incubation on the streambank soil (terrestrial input), and suspension above the ground (aerial input). Conditioned leaves were placed in small experimental microcosms with or without shrimp (
10.2307/1467367|Diel burrowing behavior of Gumaga nigricula (McL.) (Trichoptera:Sericostomatidae) was investigated in Big Sulphur Creek (Sonoma Co., California). Most of the population burrows during the day and surfaces at night, a behavior that facilitates feeding on periphyton while retaining many of the advantages of burrowing (e.g., protection from predators). Because of daytime burrowing, case algae (primarily diatoms) are potentially light-limited by overlying substrate and, indeed, chlorophyll a concentrations on stream-collected cases and diatom colonization on cleaned cases increased dramatically when daytime burrowing was prevented. Cases and case-associated algae are normally abraded during burrowing; therefore experimental abrasion had little effect. However, after cases were cultured to accrue algae, experimental abrasion drastically reduced the accrued algae. Blue-green algal filaments and diatoms were removed from exposed surfaces but were protected in crevices between sand grains. Comparison of cases of different caddisfly genera showed a trend between abrasion level and case-associated algae. Under low abrasion, grazer-resistant diatoms occurred on exposed surfaces and upright diatoms occurred in crevices (e.g., Glossosoma and Discosmoecus cases). As abrasion increased, diatoms were lost from exposed surfaces, although they remained in crevices (e.g., Gumaga cases); with continuous burrowing, cases were nearly devoid of algae (e.g., Agarodes cases).
20491169|Urban land use degrades stream ecosystems, but the nature and mechanisms of its effects on ecological processes, such as leaf breakdown, are poorly understood. Leaf litter breakdown has pivotal effects on energy and nutrient flows in stream ecosystems. Our goals were to test the effect of catchment urbanization on breakdown rates of leaves of 2 common riparian species in southeastern Australia and to identify the mechanisms responsible for changes in breakdown rates. Catchment urbanization was quantified as the percentage of catchment covered by impervious surfaces with connection to streams via stormwater sewers (effective imperviousness [EI]).
40792523|The percentage of emergent mosquitoes (
10-056|Invasive species may threaten the fundamental role played by native macroinvertebrate shredders in determining energy flow and the trophic dynamics of freshwater ecosystems. Functionally, amphipods have long been regarded as mainly shredders, but they are increasingly recognized as major predators of other macroinvertebrate taxa. Furthermore, intraguild predation (IGP) between native and invasive amphipods underlies many species displacements. We used laboratory mesocosms to investigate what might happen to shredders and leaf-litter processing in water bodies invaded by the highly predatory Ponto-Caspian amphipod
10.2307/1467445|A stream solute workshop was held February 1-5, 1989, at The University of Mississippi with the goals of 1) suggesting a conceptual model for stream solute studies that integrates physical, chemical, and biological processes, and 2) identifying advantages and limitations of various methods for studying solute transport and exchanges. Solute dynamics refers to the spatial and temporal patterns of transport and transfers of materials that are chemically dissolved in water. Solute transport and exchange processes can be described by solute transport equations that relate solute concentration to advection, dispersion, groundwater and tributary inputs, transient storage zones, and biotic and abiotic transformations. Studies can be based on these model equations even if a full simulation of a particular system is not attempted. Although no common methodological approach can serve every investigation of solute dynamics, experimental approaches represent a range from greatest control and least realism to least control and greatest realism. The model parameters describe processes that can be investigated in laboratory, chamber, and flume experiments designed to reduce confounding experimental variables. Whole-stream studies, particularly solute injection experiments, provide estimates of solute transfer to and from the water column and can be used to calibrate the simulation models. Transport and transfer models can link experimental results obtained at different scales and increase the opportunity for inter-site comparisons and the extrapolation of results between laboratory, chamber, flume, and whole-stream studies.
41318735|Benthic invertebrates have important ecosystem engineering functions (bioturbation and biodeposition) in freshwater and marine benthic systems. Bioturbation and biodeposition affect the metabolism of the watersediment interface through modification of watersediment fluxes or organic-matter enrichment of sediments by biodeposits. The functional significance of these processes depends strongly on the type of invertebrate activities (the functional traits of the invertebrates) and on the modulation of this activity by environmental conditions. The aim of my article is to propose a common framework for the role of bioturbation/biodeposition in benthic habitats of both marine and freshwater environments. In these ecosystems, hydrological exchanges between the water and sediments (interstitial flow rates) control the microbial activity inside sediments. The ability of ecosystem engineers to influence benthic microbial processes differs strongly between diffusion-dominated (low interstitial flow rates) and advection-dominated (high interstitial flow rates) habitats. Bioturbation/biodeposition may play a role in diffusion-dominated habitats where invertebrates can significantly modify water and particle fluxes at the watersediment interface, whereas a slight influence of ecosystem engineers is expected in advection-dominated habitats where fluxes are predominantly controlled by hydrological processes. A future challenge will be to test this general framework in marine and freshwater habitats by quantifying the interactions between the functional traits of species and the watersediment exchanges.
10.2307/1467450| A three-year life cycle was determined for a population of Chironomus tenuistylus, the predominant benthic macroinvertebrate in a small, dystrophic lake in northern Wisconsin, by analyzing larval size and developmental stage distributions on eight dates over a two-year period. The coexistence of three discrete cohorts could be recognized clearly only during the short September emergence period. At other seasons, we could not separate two cohorts within the final instar due to overlapping larval sizes and similar developmental states. Frequent hypoxic or anoxic conditions at the bottom of this sheltered, poorly mixed bog lake apparently limited Chironomus growth and development to brief intervals, prolonging the life cycle and leading to a multi-cohort population structure. Most growth, development, and emergence occurred in the fall when peak annual temperatures coincided with highest levels of dissolved oxygen. Biomass showed relatively low temporal variation (1.9-7.2 g/m<sup>2</sup>) over the two years, and annual production was estimated at 4-5 g/m<sup>2</sup> by cohort and P/B methods. Failure to recognize the long cohort production interval and three-cohort structure of this population could result in substantial errors if production were estimated with non-cohort methods. 
10.2307/1467725| Generic-level diagnoses are provided for adult males, females, and larvae of the longhorned caddisfly genus Nectopsyche Mller (Trichoptera:Leptoceridae). In addition, seven new Costa Rican species in the gemma species group are described and illustrated: N. exophthalma n. sp., N. monticola n. sp., N. onyx n. sp., N. ortizi n. sp., (also known from Argentina, Brazil, Guyana, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Surinam, and Venezuela), N. tapanti n. sp., N. tuanis n. sp., and N. utleyorum n. sp. The new species are compared with two previously described gemma group species also known from Costa Rica, N. argentata Flint and N. gemmoides Flint, and these, too, are diagnosed and illustrated. 
1468316|The concept of trade-offs and the decisions organisms make regarding them have become a driving force in ecological research. One well-studied trade-off, maximizing growth while minimizing mortality, affects decisions an organism makes regarding activity levels, habitat selection, and refuge use. Our study addressed how complex odor cues (e.g., a predation event and food combined) and their physical properties (e.g., concentration and spatial distribution) can affect foraging. Experiments were carried out using the crayfish Orconectes virilis in an artificial stream. A 2  2 factorial design was used with 2 odor treatments (food and food + alarm) and 2 shelter treatments (shelter and no shelter). Crayfish in the alarm treatment found the food source less often. They also took significantly longer to find the food source and spent more time in shelters. Crayfish in the presence of alarm stimuli used side shelters significantly more than shelters in the center of the flume, whereas crayfish in the control did not show a preference. Also, concentration of the alarm odor significantly affected the alarm response of the crayfish. Electrochemical recordings showed that the dopamine tracer was present in high concentrations down the center of the flume but in very low concentrations or absent along the sides of the flume for both the food and alarm trials. Our study illustrated the importance of chemical signals in aquatic systems for both locating food and avoiding predators. Complex odors influenced habitat use as well as foraging efficiency and success. The content, concentration, and distribution of complex chemical signals appear to be an important part of risk assessment during foraging, and may provide the necessary information to facilitate ecological interactions.
10.2307/1467603| The size structure of epilithic animal communities was examined in 12 streams of the Ottawa-Hull region, Ontario-Qubec border. In all streams, the size distribution of invertebrates in late summer was approximately lognormal, with most animals <2 mm long (about 10 g dry mass), but with most of the biomass in size classes >2 mm. Size structure differed significantly among streams, but these differences were not correlated with total invertebrate biomass or periphyton abundance. Normalized biomass spectra in all streams were peaked, unlike those reported for marine and freshwater benthic and planktonic communities. It is likely, however, that addition of bacterial, algal, and meiofaunal components to obtain spectra for the entire epilithic community may linearize the spectraaa, yielding approximately equal biomasses in logarithmic size classes. When combined with allometric relationships describing metabolism, the observed size spectra imply that metazoans <1 mm long make negligible contributions to production, consumption, or respiration of the epilithon. 
41318726|The invasive clam
40792490|Whole-stream rates of nutrient uptake and metabolism vary with season in forested headwater streams, but seasonal variation in rates at the substratum scale, which collectively generate whole-stream patterns, have not previously been quantified. We measured gross primary production (GPP), community respiration (CR), and NO
40792512|Despite the global occurrence of braided rivers and the frequency with which they are anthropogenically modified, the benthic diversity of their floodplains and, in particular, lateral and longitudinal patterns in their communities have been neglected. A spatially nested, hierarchical survey was conducted of 11 braided rivers in the South and North Islands of New Zealand to investigate benthic invertebrate diversity at multiple spatial scales. In each river, 6 reaches and up to 5 floodplain habitat types within each reach were sampled. From a total of 203 sites, 145 taxa were identified. Benthic invertebrate diversity was highly variable at the island, river, reach, and habitat scales. Diversity differences between islands were driven by high regional endemism. Diversity at the whole-river scale ranged from 99 taxa in the Wairau River to only 56 in the Waiapu River. At the reach scale, no significant differences in diversity or abundance were found longitudinally down the rivers. At the habitat scale, lateral floodplain habitats, particularly spring creeks, consistently had greater richness and abundance than did adjacent main channel habitats. Comparisons of Whittakers multiplicative  at different spatial scales revealed that the greatest range and mean value of taxon turnover was among habitats within reaches. Additive partitioning of  diversity indicated that diversity values at the broad spatial scales of reach and river contributed disproportionately to overall diversity. Our results indicate that river managers concerned with maintaining diversity should focus their efforts at the whole-river scale rather than attempting management of smaller units representing local scales. However, at finer scales, lateral floodplain habitats (particularly springs and floodplain ponds) are hot spots of diversity and protection and remediation of these habitats are particularly important.
20491143|Most methods for assessing the ecological status of streams focus on structural characteristics (water quality, community composition, riparian vegetation) but neglect functional properties of the ecosystem because routine methods to assess stream function are scarce. Metabolism, one of the most integrative ecosystem functions, can be a good indicator of stream function because it is relevant across all sizes and types of streams, is sensitive to stressors, such as eutrophication or changes in riparian cover, and can be measured continuously. Environmental controls on whole-ecosystem metabolism were measured at 19 contrasting stream reaches in the Basque Country (northern Spain). Discharge, temperature, and O
10.2307/1467299|We discuss elemental dynamics in streams and seek to identify areas where there are critical gaps in our understanding. Both landscape-level processes (e.g., geology, land-use practices, vegetation) and heterogeneous in-stream processes influence the supply and availability of elements to the stream biota. Stream ecologists need to consider the relative availability of different compounds or groups of compounds to the biota rather than lumping all forms of an element into operationally-defined units such as dissolved organic nitrogen or carbon. The impact of short-term events like storms on the elemental dynamics in streams needs to be assessed and compared with other controls. The relative importance of longitudinal (upstream), lateral (riparian zone, flood-plains), and in-stream controls of supply and availability of elements needs to be compared in a variety of streams. Availability of essential elements is a key factor controlling rates of primary productivity and decomposition in streams. Whole system manipulations offer a valuable tool for understanding the interactions between elements and all components of the stream food web. We include an action plan of developments that would assist researchers in addressing some of the critical gaps we have identified in our understanding of elemental dynamics in streams.
40792633|Life-history research has a long tradition in benthic biology because of its value in explaining patterns observed in nature, quantifying trophic relationships and energetics, and interpreting experimental results. We examined articles published in the
4095640|Recent comparative studies suggest that macroinvertebrates in small Boreal Plains lakes respond to large fluctuations in fish densities caused by winterkill and subsequent recovery even when such fluctuations involve the normally piscivorous northern pike (
20491176|We evaluated the efficacy of different field sampling approaches for volunteers sampling macroinvertebrates in low-gradient streams. We used a series of analytical metrics to compare results using the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) multihabitat, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency multihabitat, and EPA single-habitat sampling protocols. We also investigated the effect of 2 scenarios in which volunteers fail to follow (and potentially bias) the widely used EPA multihabitat protocol by including either more snag and vegetated banks or more run and riffle habitat than prescribed by the protocol. We collected jab samples from cobble, snags, vegetated banks, submerged macrophytes, and sand in 4 contiguous 125-m reaches in an Anoka sand-plain stream in Minnesota. We identified up to 100 macroinvertebrates in each jab sample to family. We subjected a parent population of 40 jab samples/reach to a bootstrap analysis to sample and create metric or index scores 100 times without replacement for each of the 3 volunteer sampling methods and 2 biased scenarios. The EPA multihabitat protocol and the biased scenario in which woody debris and bank vegetation were oversampled yielded the highest diversity of organisms, whereas the biased scenario in which riffle and run habitats were oversampled yielded the lowest diversity. The EPA multihabitat protocol used correctly was more likely to indicate good water quality (on the basis of the EPA muddy-bottom narrative assessment tool designed for volunteers) than either biased sampling scenario. This result illustrates that poor field methods could result in underestimation of water quality.
20491174|River health monitoring traditionally has made use of structural measurements (water quality or taxonomic composition of aquatic organisms). We argue that a more complete assessment of river health should include functional metrics, such as rates of organic matter decomposition and ecosystem metabolism. Leaf breakdown links the characteristics of riparian vegetation with the activity of both aquatic invertebrates and microbial organisms and is affected by natural and human-induced variation in a wide range of environmental factors. Measurement of leaf breakdown is relatively simple and has modest equipment requirements. River metabolism (gross primary productivity and ecosystem respiration) measures the rates of production and use of organic C in river ecosystems as a whole, providing a direct estimate of the food base that determines life-supporting capacity. Metabolism measurements require more sophisticated equipment than do measurements of leaf breakdown, but improvements in technology have made metabolism measurements relatively easy. We review the factors that influence leaf breakdown and river metabolism and pay particular attention to the effects of human-induced environmental stressors. We also describe how measurements can be standardized and suggest criteria for interpreting functional measures in terms of river ecosystem health. Last, we consider the strengths and weaknesses of both methods as functional measures and provide recommendations for their use as biomonitoring tools.
4095687|We examined patterns in Maryland fish assemblages in 1
1468085|Although heterotrophic bacteria are important components of stream ecosystems, little is known about the factors that contribute to their abundance. We used data from 69 streams to examine both the direct and indirect effects of algal biomass (chlorophyll
10.2307/1468151|The relationship between allozyme genotype and survival of nymphs of the mayfly Isonychia bicolor (Walker) when exposed to acute mercury concentrations was tested in laboratory experiments. The probability of survival and individual times-to-death were found to be significantly different among genotypes at the glucose phosphate isomerase locus, but not at the phosphoglucomutase locus. This pattern was consistent for both summer and winter temperatures and for populations from 2 separate, unpolluted streams. Subsequent field surveys were conducted to determine if results of these acute laboratory tests could be extrapolated to the more chronic, sublethal conditions present in the South River, Virginia. Genotypes identified as sensitive and tolerant in the laboratory experiments showed no consistent relationship with environmental mercury levels in the South River. In fact, one heterozygote identified as tolerant was found to be more frequent at the reference site than at contaminated sites, and no significant between-site differences were observed in the frequencies of the most sensitive genotype. Consequently, despite fitness differences to mercury exposure among allozyme variants, we were unable to attribute any between-site differences in genetic structure in I. bicolor populations to adaptation to mercury pollution.
41318758|The goal of our study was to investigate the interaction between the invasive mussel
40792651|The biological diversity reflected by nearly 300,000 caddisfly specimens collected throughout Minnesota since 1985 was compared with that of 25,000 specimens recorded prior to 1950 and was analyzed based on the 5 caddisfly regions of Minnesota. In the Lake Superior, Northern, and Southeastern regions, >90% of species known historically from each region were recovered and additional species were discovered. In the Northwestern and Southern regionsthe most disturbed areas of Minnesotaspecies recovery ranged from 60 to 70%. Historical and contemporary assemblages were similar to each other in the former 3 regions and markedly different in the latter 2. Prior to 1950, species in all trophic functional groups were widespread in all regions. A similar pattern still exists in the Lake Superior, Northern, and Southeastern regions, whereas the Northwestern and Southern regions are now dominated by filtering collectors in all sizes of lakes and streams. Over 65% of species extirpated from any region were in the long-lived families Limnephilidae and Phryganeidae, and 70% of these same species were in the shredder functional group. Almost 30% of the statewide fauna has been found from <5 localities since 1950, suggesting a degree of imperilment on par with that of freshwater bivalves, gastropods, and fish. These observed losses of biodiversity and changes in trophic composition have probably occurred as a result of anthropogenic disturbance throughout most of the northcentral US.
10.2307/1467543| Methane emissions were quantified from beds of Eleocharis sphacelata R.Br., Myriophyllum sp., and Vallisneria gigantea Graeb. in a small floodplain lake (Ryans 1 Billabong; 3607S, 14658E) in south-eastern Australia over a 15-mo period, from March 1993 to May 1994. Gas from sediments of Vallisneria beds had the highest methane concentrations (about 60-90% v/v); methane concentrations in gas from sediments of Myriophyllum beds were the lowest (falling to 17  3% v/v in May 1994), and concentrations in sediments of Eleocharis beds varied from about 25% v/v in winter to about 60-82% v/v in summer-autumn. Total water-atmosphere methane fluxes, measured with 0.8 m<sup>3</sup> static chambers, varied from <0.01 to 2.75 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in Eleocharis beds, <0.01 to 0.95 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in Myriophyllum beds, and <0.01 to 1.64 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in areas of open water colonised by Vallisneria. Total fluxes were highly seasonal, being greatest in summer-autumn, when sediment temperatures exceeded 20C. Strong diurnal and diel variations were also observed, especially in Eleocharis beds during the warmer months. Ebullition rates varied from <0.05 to 1.61 mmol m<sup>-2</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> and, like total water-atmosphere fluxes, fluctuated according to season, being lowest in winter and highest in summer-autumn. Ebullition seemingly accounted for 6-15% of total methane fluxes from Eleocharis beds in the cooler months, and 30-90% in the warmer months. Eleocharis shoots could generate pressures of up to 550 Pa during summer days, and the seasonal pattern to plant pressurization matched closely the seasonality of total methane emissions from Eleocharis beds. Manipulative experiments provided additional evidence that emergent shoots of Eleocharis were a significant pathway for methane transport from the benthos to the atmosphere, because cutting shoots below the water decreased emissions. 
10.2307/1467662|Stream biotopes (habitat types) have commonly been defined using subjective recognition of hydraulic and substrate conditions. In this study the relationship between groups of macroinvertebrates and subjectively defined biotopes was examined at three sites in the upper, middle, and lower reaches of the Buffalo River. Biotopes which were recognised included riffles, leaf packs in riffles, and a waterfall (erosional biotopes); and stony backwaters, marginal vegetation and sediments (depositional biotopes). Over 100 taxa were identified from the three sites, and an hierarchical classification of 138 samples was prepared using TWINSPAN. The first division distinguished between the invertebrate assemblages of the upper reaches and those of the middle/lower reaches. In the upper reaches, the waterfall was differentiated from all the other stream biotopes. In addition, seasonal changes in assemblage composition were recognised. Divisions in the middle/lower reaches differentiated between biotopes. Of the 27 most common taxa, 13 occurred in a single biotope in more than 50% of the samples in which they had been collected. Clearest species-biotope associations were riffle-dwelling mayflies and caddisflies, and stone-dwelling planaria and ancylid gastropods. Invertebrate assemblages were not always associated with subjectively identified biotopes, particularly in the narrow headwaters, where different biotopes tended to be smaller and less distinct. However, associations of assemblages with biotopes were found in the middle/lower reaches. This study shows that stratified random sampling regimes can be useful tools in stream research if the scale at which biotopes are recognised is clearly defined.
4499057|Water abstraction can alter invertebrate community composition by changing the availability or suitability of habitat for invertebrates. The consequences of water abstraction for the physical habitat and invertebrate communities of small permanent streams are not clear. Therefore, we used whole-channel flow manipulations to imitate real water abstractions. We used weirs and diversions to reduce discharge by >85% in 3 small New Zealand streams (mean discharges: 1184 L/s), ranging in water quality from pristine to moderately polluted. We sampled benthic invertebrates and periphyton at control and impact sites on each stream before and during 2 mo of artificially reduced discharge during summer 2005, and then we left the diversions in operation throughout the following year and sampled invertebrates again after 9 and 12 mo of flow reduction. During the experiment, wetted width decreased by 24 to 34% at impact sites. Water velocity and depth also decreased at impact sites, but only small changes to conductivity, pH, dissolved O
20491203|A major goal of the national aquatic surveys being conducted by the Environmental Protection Agency in partnership with the states and tribes is to assess the relative importance, at a regional scale, of stressors that impact aquatic biota. The Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA) was a prototype of these surveys, and it assessed 8 individual water-chemistry, physical-habitat, and landuse stressors in 2 ways. First, the WSA estimated the total length of streams in a region that was deemed to be in poor condition for each stressor considered separately. Estimates of stressor
10.2307/1467826| The life history and behavior of Limnophora riparia (Falln) were studied during 1986 at a lake outlet in Kent, England. Field-collected adults were returned to the laboratory for observation on mating behavior and to provide eggs for rearing. Laboratory studies involved rearing adults from eggs of L. riparia and included detailed observations on larval feeding behavior. Each life stage is described, including the unusually large egg (1.8-2.4 mm long) with lateral flanges, and the monomorphic larva which hatches from the egg as a third instar ready to begin a predatory existence. Larvae and pupae were found mainly associated with mosses; they have morphological adaptations to maintain their position in this substrate. Limnophora riparia larvae generally attack their prey on the anterior half of the body and, if undisturbed, proceed to remove and digest the contents of the head and body, leaving only the cuticle, peritrophic membrane, and gut contents intact. Substrate samples were analyzed to determine changes in population densities of L. riparia, its principal prey, Simulium noelleri (Friederichs), and the associated invertebrate fauna. The life cycles of the predator and prey were synchronized in their development, providing the predator with readily available food throughout its larval life. 
10.2307/1468142|Appropriate tests of disturbance theory require that disturbance is defined and measured in an organism-related sense. We quantified 7 measures of disturbance, 3 dealing with the pattern of disturbance of the stream bed (assessed using painted tracer particles), 3 dealing with aspects of discharge variation and 1 being a subjective composite measure of stream channel stability (Pfankuch's index). Hypotheses relating to invertebrate taxon richness (maximal at intermediate levels of disturbance) and the representation of particular insect species traits (assemblages in more disturbed sites contain higher percentages of individuals possessing high adult mobility and streamlined-flattened larval morphology) were both supported when disturbance was measured in terms of bed movement but generally not when measured in terms of discharge variation. When disturbance was estimated by Pfankuch's index, species trait predictions were supported but the taxon richness prediction was not. A co-inertia analysis, searching for a co-structure between our environmental and faunistic data sets, allowed us to distinguish taxa that apparently are resistant to bed movement from taxa that appear to be resistant to flow variations; this more detailed analysis indicates that the most appropriate measure of disturbance may vary even among quite closely related taxa. The construction of a comprehensive theory of disturbance in streams requires that disturbance is quantified in a way that allows both multi-site and multi-study comparisons. The painted-particle approach, described here, has the potential to permit such standarized comparative studies.
1468272|The ecosystem significance of crayfishes (
10.2307/1467868|Manipulative field enclosure/exclosure experiments were carried out in Carnation Creek, British Columbia to determine if patch-restricted coho fry (Oncorhynchus kisutch) affected the distribution and abundance of macroinvertebrates in the drift or benthos. Enclosures/exclosures with standardized substrate, detritus, and current velocity were buried in the streambed during the low discharge period, and four treatments used: no fish, ambient fish, double ambient fish, and quadruple ambient fish densities. Density, biomass, and size distribution of macroinvertebrates in the drift were not significantly affected by fish density treatment. Additionally, with the exception of large swimming larvae of Ameletus sp. and Baetis tricaudatus, macroinvertebrate density, size distribution, and biomass in the benthos were also not significantly affected by fish density treatments. Thus, despite fish densities being increased from two to four times above ambient patch levels, patch-restricted coho fry had little measureable effect on macroinvertebrate distribution and abundance in Carnation Creek during the low discharge period of August to September.
1468125|This study examined how the leptophlebiid mayfly
4499002|We experimentally tested for systematic biases in techniques commonly used to study behavior of larval aquatic insects. We determined whether larval Zygoptera responded to the presence of an observer and whether live observation missed some behaviors. We found significant differences between behaviors recorded during live observations and behaviors videotaped in the absence of an observer. All behaviors, except
10.2307/1468333|Muskrat (Ondatra zibethicus) predation has been hypothesized to influence the structure of freshwater mussel assemblages. We compared the species composition and sizes of mussels collected from middens and in situ at 3 locations in the St. Croix River and 1 location in the Mississippi River. Species diversity was greater for mussels collected from the rivers compared to those collected from middens. Logistic regression revealed mussel species composition and mussel size differed significantly between the rivers and middens, which suggested that muskrats were both size-selective and species-specific feeders. A significant interaction between species and size may result from muskrats taking large individuals from small species and small individuals from large species. There was selection for the small species, Truncilla truncata, at the 2 sites where it was the dominant species, and avoidance at the other 2 sites. This result suggested that muskrats may be using a strategy to maximize energy by choosing prey of a particular size, but in locations where larger prey items are not available they will accept smaller species that may normally be considered a marginal prey.
1468289|Gut tube dissection and gut fluorometry are methods that allow assessment of mayfly gut contents for the determination of diel feeding periodicity. We conducted laboratory experiments that quantitatively compared the field applicability of the 2 methods. Our study demonstrated that larval mayflies could be frozen for up to 6 mo without affecting the levels of chlorophyll
10.2307/1467246|Previous studies on single species of snails reached conflicting conclusions regarding the importance of chemical cues in predator-avoidance behavior. We performed laboratory experiments to determine if chemically mediated, predator-avoidance behavior, such as crawling out of the water by freshwater gastropods, occurred among prey of different species from several geographic sources: Oklahoma, Oregon, and Wisconsin. We compared responses of eight gastropod populations when they were exposed to predation by three species of crayfish. We observed no crawl-out from two prosobranch species. Individuals from four of six populations of pulmonates responded to crayfish predators; physid and lymnaeid populations consistently responded whereas some planorbid populations did not respond. We also examined individual variation in response to predators and the proximate costs and benefits to prey associated with crawling out of the water. Trade-offs between risks of immediate, direct mortality from aquatic, amphibious, or terrestrial predation relative to delayed, indirect mortality associated with desiccation, are influenced by shell size, thickness, and morphology, as well as physiological adaptations among various pulmonate populations. If water depth is sufficient to provide spatial refuge from crayfish, smaller snails can reduce their losses to predation by moving to the surface of the water or by crawling out. In previous studies, Physella virgata and Planorbella trivolvis frequently used predator-avoidance behavior when young, but as shell size and strength increased with age, the larger individuals spent less time crawling out of the water. In this study none of the planorbids (Helisoma anceps or Gyraulus parvus) crawled out, even when young. These differences are apparently due to differences in selection pressures caused by differences in use of various microhabitats where risk of predation varies over time.
10.2307/1467598| A 54-d experiment was conducted in laboratory streams to examine relationships between temporal and spatial patterns of algal development and grazing behavior of the snail Juga silicula in a patchy physical environment. Each stream contained nine channel-spanning blocks (22.5  22.5  4 cm) spaced 22.5 cm apart and was illuminated with a photon flux density of 375, 90 or 20  E m<sup>-2</sup> s<sup>-2</sup>. We monitored periphyton succession and the number of snails in fast current regimes on tops of blocks (exposed substrata) and in slower current regimes on surfaces recessed between blocks (sheltered substrata). At the end of the experiment, algal biomass in streams illuminated with high irradiance was approximately 80 and 8 greater than in streams with low and intermediate irradiance, respectively. Growth rates of Juga in streams with high and intermediate irradiances were similar and approximately 15 greater than rates at low irradiance. At all irradiances, snail densities were higher and algal biomass was lower on sheltered substrata than on exposed substrata. As algal biomass became low on sheltered substrata, snails tended to be more abundant on exposed substrata, and biomass values in the two current regimes became more similar. Differences in algal biomass and snail abundance between the two substrata were greater in streams illuminated with high irradiance than for the two lower irradiances. Algal assemblages with low irradiance contained adnate cell forms early in succession. At intermediate irradiance, succession in both current regimes moved towards adnate cells, but this occurred more rapidly on the more heavily grazed sheltered substrata. At high irradiance, parts of the algal assemblages in both current regimes remained ungrazed, producing a mix of successional stages on the substrata. Similar interactions may occur in coastal Oregon (USA) streams, because Juga is the competitive dominant herbivore with few predators, and its distribution corresponds mainly to irradiance (as one of the major determinants of algal abundance), current regime, and substratum size. 
10.2307/1468448|We investigated the environmental factors that control the local composition and distribution of hyporheic invertebrates within the sediments of a 3rd-order prealpine gravel-bed stream (Tss River, Switzerland). We focused on faunal gradients as functions of environmental conditions reflecting 1) hydrological exchange patterns, 2) sediment depths, 3) physicochemical and fine particle gradients, and 4) interactions between these 3 factors. Three clustered sets of steel piezometers were installed at 4 depths in the sediment (20, 50, 100, 150 cm) at locations with distinctly different types of hydrological exchange (infiltration, exfiltration, horizontal advection) to obtain samples of the fauna and the physicochemical and sedimentological conditions. Sixty taxa were identified, the most abundant of which were cyclopoid copepods (33%), ostracods (23%), and chironomids (11%). Total animal density patterns were strongly related to the ratio of particulate organic carbon to total fine particles (POC/TFP), which explained 61% of the variation in abundance within the sediment. Gradients in hyporheic community structure corresponded most to changes in POC/TFP, hydrological variables, and distance between the surface and groundwater habitats. Interstitial POC/TFP was determined mainly by the interaction between sediment depth and type of hydrological exchange in conjunction with season. The POC/TFP optima for individual taxa indicated that the depth to which epigean taxa penetrate sediments may be restricted by availability of the food resource, which decreases with decreasing POC/TFP. Therefore, the proportion of fine inorganic particles appears to be a critical determinant of the availability of food resources for interstitial invertebrates.
4095724|Freshwater mussels are long-lived and relatively stationary organisms that form annual rings, so they provide excellent opportunities for studying how population properties such as age structure relate to environmental influences on recruitment and mortality. We investigated population dynamics of the freshwater pearl mussel,
10.2307/1468381|Results from several previous studies showed that zebra and quagga mussels (Dreissena polymorpha and D. bugensis, respectively) are key structuring agents of benthic invertebrate communities. However, the relative effects of Dreissena and other potentially important biotic factors on these communities remain poorly understood. The goal of this study was to improve our understanding of community-structuring mechanisms in habitats with Dreissena by quantifying simultaneous effects of Dreissena and large benthic predators (primarily fish) on invertebrates inhabiting hard substrates in western Lake Erie. Biomass, densities, and diversity of invertebrates were compared on bricks with low and high (=ambient) Dreissena biomass that were held in western Lake Erie for 49 d within cages that excluded large predators, partial cages where predators had access to invertebrates, and cageless-reference plots. Dreissena had positive effects on total invertebrate biomass, and biomass of gastropods, chironomid larvae, and the amphipod Echinogammarus ischnus. Dreissena also caused increases in taxonomic richness of invertebrates, Echinogammarus body size, and densities of several invertebrate taxa. Our results suggest that predators reduced Echinogammarus biomass in the high-Dreissena biomass treatment. However, predators did not affect Dreissena biomass, total invertebrate biomass, invertebrate densities, or taxonomic richness of invertebrates. We conclude that both Dreissena and large predators regulate invertebrate community structure on hard substrates in western Lake Erie, but that Dreissena are of much greater importance.
41318756|Flood-pulsing is a key environmental factor that structures biotic communities in large-order river systems, but we focused our study on the effects of flood-pulsing in headwater systems. We used 10 mesocosm wetlands (10m  20m) to test 2 treatments: a flood-pulse regimen in which natural flood events caused water levels to fluctuate and a static regimen in which water levels remained artificially stable. Abiotic characteristics, plants, and aquatic invertebrate communities were monitored from 2002 through 2005 in permanent pools, nonflooded banks in static wetlands, and intermittently flooded banks in flood-pulse wetlands. The flood-pulse treatment had minimal effects on environmental conditions of permanent pools, and submersed plant and aquatic invertebrate communities in permanent pools were similar in both treatments. This result suggested that resource subsidies from the floodplain to the pools were minimal. However, flood-pulsing caused observable changes to plant communities in the intermittently flooded zone (IFZ) above the permanently flooded pool. Overall plant diversity was higher in static wetlands, and % bare ground was higher in flood-pulse wetlands, results suggesting that the short, stochastic floods were a strong environmental stressor. In flood-pulse wetlands, the fluctuating water levels may have reduced the proportion of introduced, weedy, and upland plant taxa. Flood-pulse and static wetlands had distinctly different plant assemblage compositions, indicating that the abiotic stressors caused pronounced changes in the floodplain community. An indicator species analysis showed that taxa classified as obligate wetland plants were indicators in flood-pulse wetlands (e.g.,
40792516|We compared genetic lineages in the mayfly genus
41319676|We quantified macroinvertebrate production and organic matter standing stocks in riffle/run and pool habitats for 2y in 2 reaches of Big Creek, a 3
10.2307/1467599|At natural densities in enclosures in an eastern Tennessee headwater stream, snails (Elimia clavaeformis) and juvenile creek chubs (Semotilus atromaculatus) affected benthic invertebrate assemblages. Elimia reduced the total number of invertebrates without affecting total invertebrate biomass. Conversely, creek chubs reduced the total biomass, but not the total number of invertebrates. No interaction was detected between snail and fish effects on either total invertebrate biomass or abundance. Both taxa appeared to affect the benthos by direct and indirect trophic pathways. Elimia reduced the abundance of non-tanypodine chironomids, apparently by interference. Elimia also appeared to reduce the abundances of some predators of benthic insects (salamanders [Desmognathus fuscus], dragonfly nymphs [Lanthus sp.], and young-of-the-year creek chubs). Juvenile creek chubs (55-70 mm total length [TL]) excluded young-of-the-year chubs (15-25 mm TL) from the enclosures and appeared to reduce the abundance of dragonfly nymphs. These changes may have increased the abundances of herbivorous/detritivorous insects such as the stonefly Leuctra. Multiple regression analyses indicated that snail and fish mass were more important than light in determining the total biomass and numbers of invertebrates in the channels.
40792672|Agricultural drainage can contribute excess N to aquatic ecosystems. The objective of our study was to investigate the capacity of agricultural ditches to remove NO
4095636|Many shallow aquatic ecosystems with high nutrient loads experience periods of O
41318768|Habitat fragmentation and nonindigenous species are 2 of the leading causes of species loss globally. Thus, scientific information is needed to assess their interactive effects on the biota of lotic ecosystems. We tested the hypothesis that culverts (i.e., pipes) at roadstream intersections elevate flow velocities and differentially slow upstream locomotion of native relative to nonindigenous crayfishes. We: 1) mapped culvert locations and measured their flow; 2) quantified movement of
10.2307/1467429|The objective of this study was to quantify fluxes of ground water and advected channel water through the shallow aquifer adjacent to a 4th-order mountain stream. A network of wells was installed from 1989 to 1992. Water-table elevations were measured seasonally and during storms. These data were used to calibrate MODFLOW, a 2-dimensional groundwater flow model. The fluxes of water through the subsurface were estimated from the head distributions predicted by the model for 8 steady state model runs bracketing the observed range in baseflow conditions, and for 1 transient simulation of a large storm. The overall pattern of subsurface flow changed little over the course of the year, even though the relative flux of advected channel water and ground water changed among seasons and during storms. Apparently the longitudinal gradient of the main valley, the location of the stream, and the influence of secondary channels determined the pattern of subsurface flows. Subsurface fluxes through a gravel bar were dominated by advected channel water but fluxes through the floodplain were dominated by ground water. Flow rates were positively correlated to estimated stream discharge during base-flow periods, but decreased slightly during storms because of precipitation inputs to the aquifer. The mean residence time of water stored within the aquifer was approximately 10 d for the gravel bar and 30 d for the floodplain during baseflow periods. Even though precipitation during the simulated storm equaled 12% and 23% of the water stored in the gravel bar and the floodplain, respectively, the mean residence time of water remained long.
10.2307/1467631| The freshwater Asiatic clam, Corbicula fluminea (Mller), has become a prominent component of the benthic community in many lakes and rivers since its introduction to this continent some 50 years ago. Because of its abundance, this filter-feeding clam has the potential to influence nutrient cycling by excretion of metabolic wastes, including NH<sub>3</sub> and PO<sub>4</sub>. Excretion rates of ammonia and orthophosphate were estimated seasonally in Corbicula freshly collected from the Chowan River, a large coastal plain river in eastern Virginia-North Carolina. Excretion was expressed as a function of clam dry weight, and was highest in May and September for both nutrients. Using Corbicula population estimates from an earlier benthic survey of the Chowan to calculate excretion volumes per square meter suggests that the clams can have a substantial effect on nutrient cycling in summer in the upper Chowan River and a large tributary, the Blackwater River, with ammonia excretion ranging from 357 to 8642 moles m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>, and orthophosphate excretion ranging from 161 to 3924 moles m<sup>-2</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. 
1468414|The abundance of epiphytic macroinvertebrates on aquatic macrophytes can be influenced by different plant architecture types. For example, dissected plants can provide epiphytic macroinvertebrates more substrate for foraging and more cover from predators than undissected plants. Large changes in macrophyte community composition have the potential to strongly influence whole-lake macroinvertebrate abundance if overall plant architecture changes. For example, when the exotic macrophyte Eurasian watermilfoil (
4499019|Recent comparisons of benthic macroinvertebrate (BMI) sampling protocols have shown that samples collected from different habitat types generally produce consistent stream classifications and assessments. However, these comparisons usually have not included biological endpoints used by monitoring agencies, such as multimetric indices (e.g., benthic index of biotic integrity [B-IBI]) or observed-to-expected (O/E) indices of taxonomic completeness, as target variables, and estimates of method precision are rarely provided. Targeted-riffle (TR) and reach-wide (RW) benthic samples have been collected at thousands of sites across the western USA, but little guidance is available for understanding: 1) the extent to which raw data sets can be combined in regional or large-scale analyses, 2) the degree of precision afforded by each method, or 3) the efficacy of cross-application of biological indicators derived from one sample type to the other. To address these issues, we used data from 193 sites in California where the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) collected the 2 samples side by side. We also conducted a separate study wherein 3 replicates of each sample type were collected from 15 streams to estimate minimum detectable difference (MDD) as a measure of each methods precision. Metrics calculated from TR and RW samples showed similar doseresponse relationships to stressor gradients and similar raw scoring ranges. Biological indices (B-IBI, O/E
1468038|Dissolved nutrients and temperature tend to increase in a downstream direction, whereas shredder density tends to decrease. As a result, the relative importance of microbes (bacteria and fungi) and invertebrates in leaf litter processing may gradually shift along a stream gradient. Therefore, we hypothesized that differences in litter decay between fine-mesh (invertebrates excluded) and coarse-mesh (accessible to invertebrates) bags will be high in low-order streams (i.e., <4) and low in high-order streams (i.e., >4). To test this hypothesis, we investigated the processing of alder (
10.2307/1467560| Influences of the transmission properties of the riparian canopy and the water column on spectral irradiance and periphyton composition were examined at four sites in Otter Creek, a small spring-fed stream in the Sand Hills region of western Nebraska. Values for per cent sky in the canopy at the four sites were: 65.1% (open site), 31.9% (partial shade), 19.0% (shade), and 15.4% (heavy shade). Above canopy, below canopy, and underwater irradiances were measured at 2-nm intervals from 300-800 nm in late morning, mid-day, early afternoon, and late afternoon at each site on a clear day (13 June 1991). Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) incident at the stream surface did not consistently correspond to per cent sky values at the sites because of temporal changes in the penetration of direct sun through small openings in the canopy (sunflecks). The relationship of solar path to canopy structure and orientation was the primary determinant of sunfleck activity. There was very little absorbance of specific wavelengths by the canopy at the open site, but the proportion of blue light (400-500 nm) increased at all sites by late afternoon. At the three shaded sites, the amount of red light (600-700 nm) was proportionally lower underneath the canopy than above it. Underwater PAR was always greater at the open site than at the more shaded sites, but the relationship between canopy cover and underwater irradiance for the more shaded sites varied temporally. The spectral distribution of PAR at the mean depth in Otter Creek (39.7 cm) was similar to that found at shallow depths in clear, oligotrophic lakes, in that there was only a slight maximum transmission in green wavelengths (550 nm). The degree of temporal variability in the underwater spectral distribution at a site was often greater than differences between sites because of the effects of sunflecks and surface reflection by ripples. Algal chlorophyll a concentrations at the sites were significantly correlated with per cent sky for gravel substrata but not for sand substrata. The flora on both substrata was dominated by diatoms, and the distributions of several species were related to the degree of canopy cover at the sites. The relative importance of the spectral light field versus total PAR in structuring benthic lotic assemblages warrants further study. 
1468041|The experimental flooding of Lake (L) 979, a small wetland lake at the Experimental Lakes Area (ELA) in northwestern Ontario, provided an opportunity to study effects on the chironomid fauna emerging from the surrounding peatland. Nearby L632 was used as a reference system. The nature of the peatland chironomid fauna in L979 changed dramatically. Most true peatland species were eliminated by the flooding. They were quickly replaced by lacustrine species whose numbers emerging from the flooded peatland increased substantially. In contrast, qualitative and quantitative changes in emergence were minimal from the open-water zone of the lake and from L632. Intensive study of L979 and L632 revealed 12 species of true peatland chironomids in common with other peatlands at the ELA, and added another 18 species to the 37 peatland species already identified from previous studies at the ELA. Most of the 55 species have wide zoogeographic distributions, and probably occur in peatlands all across the boreal zone of Canada, but confirmatory studies are needed.
10.2307/1467208| Carp (Cyprinus carpio) fingerlings were fed contaminated midge larvae (Chironomus riparius) or contaminated mussels (Dreissena polymorpha) to study the hypothesis that prey choice is important for cadmium accumulation in fish. Both types of prey were exposed to nominal water concentrations of 100 g Cd/L for 2 wk. Before being fed to carp, midges contained more Cd (260 mg Cd/kg dry wt) than mussels (160 mg Cd/kg dry wt). After 1-4 wk of feeding, Cd concentrations in intestine, liver, gill, kidney, and muscle of the carp were analysed. Significant Cd accumulation took place in all fish organs studied, except muscle. The highest Cd concentration was found in the intestine. Despite the higher Cd levels in midges, Cd concentrations in liver, kidney, and gill of the carp were about twice as high after eating contaminated mussels than after eating contaminated midges. We conclude that the uptake of Cd by fish depends on the prey species eaten, but the hypothesis that the consumption of less contaminated prey species leads to lower accumulation by the fish was falsified by the results of this study. 
10.2307/1467496| The role of physical (discharge) and biological (macroinvertebrate communities) factors in the control of coarse (>4 mm) and fine (4 mm > 0.5 m) particulate organic matter (FPOM) transport was studied in three headwater streams of the southern Appalachian Mountains. The role of discharge was determined by relating two years of continuous measurements obtained over discrete (ca. 2-wk) time intervals. The role of macroinvertebrates was examined by treating one of the three streams, C 54, with an insecticide during Year 2 to reduce populations and alter community structure. Maximum discharge was the only discharge parameter which adequately predicted (linear regressions) FPOM export during a sampling interval (r<sup>2</sup>  0.70). These regressions were unique for each stream and were constant between years for the untreated streams, despite a record drought during the second year. Relationships between discharge and export of coarse particulate organic matter (CPOM) were not as strong nor as consistent as those for FPOM. CPOM export was very sensitive to timing of CPOM inputs and storms (e.g., 78 to 88% of CPOM export during Year 2 occurred during a single fall storm). Consequently, CPOM export-discharge relationships differed not only among streams but also between years and did not show treatment effects. Treating C 54 with methoxychlor during Year 2 resulted in massive invertebrate drift and drastically reduced populations of macroinvertebrates, practically eliminating shredders and collector-filterers. Maximum discharge continued to be a good predictor of FPOM export (r<sup>2</sup> = 0.83) for C 54 during the treatment year, but the yield of export per unit of maximum discharge (slope of the discharge-FPOM export regression) decreased by 65%. This contrasts with the untreated streams in which the slopes were constant between years despite the >50 year drought during Year 2. Most (75%) of the decrease in FPOM yield from C 54 is directly attributable to the reduction in macroin-vertebrates. Only 25% is attributable to the drought even though stream flows dropped by ca. 40% during Year 2. Relationships between export and discharge observed in this study are stronger than those reported elsewhere because measurements of export were made independent of discharge over long time intervals (ca. 2 wk). Collecting export over 2-wk intervals clearly shows the effects of storms while avoiding the problem of hysteresis commonly seen in relationships between discharge and export concentration made during single storms. 
1468290|Electricity delivered from a modified electric fence charger was used successfully to reduce grazing pressure on epilithon within experimental stream channels in the field without influencing flow through the channels. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that the presence of an electrical field similar to that used in the stream channels did not significantly influence epilithon biomass. Although more macroinvertebrates were collected from channels receiving electricity than those without, the much higher epilithon standing crop, measured as chlorophyll
40792662|We conducted a series of stepwise NO
10.2307/1467944| This study experimentally examines potential shifts in epilithic bacterial biomass and productivity in response to variations in epilithic algal biomass and labile dissolved organic carbon (DOC) during stream biofilm colonization. I predicted that epilithic bacteria would respond positively to allochthonous DOC early in biofilm colonization and respond positively to increased algal biomass late in biofilm colonization. Using once-through, experimental-stream channels, a 2  2 factorial design was employed in which light (shaded vs. non-shaded) and labile DOC (glucose-amended vs. ambient) were manipulated. Ceramic tiles were used as substrates for biofilm colonization and were sampled at different colonization stages. Shading significantly reduced chlorophyll a, live-algal bio-volume, and ash-free dry mass throughout colonization. Bacterial biomass increased significantly during biofilm colonization, but was not significantly different among treatments. Incorporation of [<sup>3</sup>H]thymidine into bacterial DNA, which was measured as a surrogate for bacterial productivity, was significantly greater in the glucose-amended channels throughout colonization, but it increased in the unshaded, ambient treatment in late colonization as well. These results suggest that labile DOC in the water column can potentially function as a control for epilithic bacteria throughout biofilm colonization, whereas epilithic algae can stimulate bacteria late in biofilm colonization in productive stream ecosystems. 
1468105|The US Environmental Protection Agencys (USEPA) Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (EMAP) sampled 500 wadeable streams in the Mid-Atlantic Highlands region of the US during the late spring of 1993 to 1995 for a variety of physical, chemical, and biological indicators of environmental condition. Eighty-eight sites that were minimally affected by human activities were chosen to determine the extent to which geographic and stream-based classifications accounted for variation in the composition of riffle macroinvertebrate assemblages. BrayCurtis similarities among sites were calculated from the relative abundance of macroinvertebrates to assess the strength of classifications based on geography (ecoregions and catchments), habitat (slope and stream order), and water chemistry (conductivity). For comparison, a taxonomic classification (two-way indicator species analysis, TWINSPAN) and a gradient analysis (correspondence analysis, CA) were performed on the macroinvertebrate data. To assess the effect of taxonomic resolution, all analyses were completed at the family level and to lowest practical taxon. The large overall variation within and among ecoregions resulted in a low average classification strength (
1468435|An initial failed invasion by the zebra mussel, followed by an abrupt shift to dense populations, is documented for polluted, hypereutrophic Onondaga Lake. The Lake is located in a region of New York subject to high infestation rates by the zebra mussel. Our analysis was supported by: 1) monitoring of multiple life stages of the zebra mussel, including veligers, pediveliger deposition, and adults in the lake and an adjoining source river over a 4-y interval, 2) a quantitative substrate survey of the lakes nearshore zone, 3) in situ growth-rate experiments, and 4) long-term water-quality monitoring data for the lake. Despite the availability of appropriate substrate and food, near-optimal temperature and primary water chemistry requirements, and continuing inputs of veligers since the early 1990s, veliger concentrations (<0.2 individuals/L) and adult densities in the nearshore zone (<1 individual/m
41318739|Former agricultural fields that are converted to wetlands can serve as either a source or a sink of P to connecting downstream water bodies. Understanding the P dynamics associated with these flooded fields can lead to appropriate mitigation strategies. We investigated P dynamics in flooded celery fields that are adjacent to and connect with a major tributary that eventually flows into Lake Michigan. We measured the P concentrations and loads in the tributary upstream and downstream of the flooded celery fields. Mean total P (TP) load was 2.6 greater downstream than upstream of the flooded celery fields. Turbidity, chlorophyll
10.2307/1467632| The benthic and epiphytic faunas of Tivoli South Bay, a freshwater tidal wetland on the Hudson River, New York, were studied in the summers of 1986 and 1987. Total macroinvertebrate density in the sediments ranged from 5.0  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup> to 11.0  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>. Chironomids made up 15 to 50% of the total number of macroinvertebrates in the sediment. Artificial substrates were used to document short-term population dynamics of chironomids. Colonization of artificial substrates placed in the field in June of 1986 was rapid, with the maximum number of chironomid genera being present in <2 wk. Peak abundance on these substrates (8.3  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>) was reached after 22 d of exposure, and densities were comparable to densities of chironomids found on the predominant macrophyte (9.5  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>). Substrates placed in the field later in the summer collected fewer individuals and genera, and there were changes in taxonomic composition. From late June to August, water-chestnut (Trapa natans) thoroughly covered the surface of this bay and was an important habitat for macroinvertebrates. The average abundance of epiphytic invertebrates was consistently greater than 1.0  10<sup>4</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup> of bottom surface area and ranged as high as 3.0  10<sup>4</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>. From June to August, epiphytic invertebrates were more abundant than benthic invertebrates, illustrating the importance of the water-chestnut habitat. In July abundance of epiphytic chironomids declined sharply, with densities dropping from 7.7  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup> of bottom surface area to 0.7  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>. Emerging adults collected over this period totalled 0.4  10<sup>3</sup> individuals/m<sup>2</sup>, leaving much of the decline unexplained. Predation by fishes and predatory or competitive interactions among the Chironomidae are possible alternative explanations for the decline. 
10.2307/1467331|Possible routes for recolonization of cold desert spring-streams that experience severe winter spates are evaluated. Because the entire stream, including headwater areas, is affected, initial recolonization appears to be largely by survivors of the spates, including newly hatched larvae from surviving eggs. Drift, upstream migration, and oviposition are not important initially, but may play roles as the stream recovers or during periods of oviposition by immigrants later in the year. Taxonomic composition is unpredictable owing both to the disappearance of common species and the appearance of new species. The fauna is low in diversity. The spates appear to be largely stochastic events, and recolonization is related to both deterministic and stochastic processes.
1468184|We investigated macroinvertebrate richness in 10 streams of different sizes within the Carmo River catchment in Brazil. Specifically, we tested 2 predictions of the river continuum concept (RCC): 1) within the catchment, mid-sized streams (orders 34) have the richest biota, and 2) macroinvertebrate assemblage structure is more stable during the dry season than during the rainy season when natural spates are frequent. We sampled the streams using individual stones as sampling units. Observed and estimated values of richness did not follow the hump-shaped pattern of richness along a gradient of stream size as predicted by the RCC; the richest streams were smaller than those predicted. No difference in assemblage structure between seasons was found on the basis of observed and estimated richness or abundance. The similarity in assemblage structure between the rainy and dry seasons was also supported by multivariate analysis. Observed richness and species composition (reflected in multivariate analysis) were strongly correlated to stream size and the presence of fine sediments over rocks. Assemblage structure in these streams seems to be deterministic, in that richness and species composition are related to physical habitat characteristics.
10.2307/1467571|Aquatic macrophytes have been viewed as important to invertebrates as substrates for periphyton and epiphytic food, refuges from predation, heterogeneous substrates for co-existence, and upon senescence and death as detrital food sources. Direct herbivory on living macrophytes has been considered unimportant and has been understudied until recently. A review of the literature shows that, when looked for, invertebrate herbivory of macrophytes is more common than generally thought. Most herbivory on macrophytes is usually by specialized oligophagous herbivores which are placed phylogenetically in families and orders of primarily terrestrial insect groups (secondary invaders) that include a number of pest herbivores in terrestrial systems (e.g., chrysomelid and curculionid beetles, aquatic lepidopterans, and specialized dipterans). Herbivores from primarily aquatic invertebrate groups (primary aquatic invertebrates) are often generalists and also detritivores. These patterns and the use of macrophyte detritus by primary aquatic invertebrates do not appear to be determined by a low food quality of aquatic macrophytes, but are more likely related to deterrent chemicals present in both terrestrial and aquatic plants. In order to more clearly ascertain the importance of aquatic macrophytes as food and their interrelations with aquatic invertebrates, more mechanistic studies are needed of aquatic herbivores, herbivore damage to plants, and the secondary chemistry of aquatic plants.
40792640|Growing awareness of environmental degradation resulted in stricter environmental regulations and laws for aquatic ecosystems. These regulations were followed by an increase in applied research and monitoring beginning in the early 1970s. The number of applied scientists who were members of the North American Benthological Society grew at a commensurate rate. The editors of
10.2307/1468382| The role of meiofauna as grazers of microorganisms in streambed sediments in White Clay Creek (Chester Co., Pennsylvania) was studied using microcosm experiments and quantification of meiofauna densities in situ. The primary objective was to determine meiofauna ingestion rates of protozoa, but in each experiment meiofauna ingestion of either bacteria or diatoms also was measured. Meiofauna densities were manipulated in microcosms and the effect on the net specific growth rate of the food resource was measured, from which clearance rates and ingestion rates were calculated. Generation times of prey groups in the absence of meiofauna grazing could also be estimated with this experimental approach. To help relate grazing rates to meiofauna densities in White Clay Creek, streambed samples were collected for meiofauna enumeration at approximately monthly intervals. Meiofauna densities ranged from 4 to 1094 animals/10 cm<sup>2</sup> and biomasses from <0.1 to 1.4 mg C/10 cm<sup>2</sup> during the study period. Bacterivory by meiofauna was undetectable. In one experiment diatoms were ingested at a rate of 541 diatoms  meiofauna<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>, representing the consumption of 1.6% of diatom abundance per h. In 4 out of 5 experiments protozoa were ingested at rates ranging from 46 to 153 cells  meiofauna<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup>. At these rates meiofauna could ingest between 2.1 and 3.0% (2.6  0.3, x  SD, n = 6) of protozoan abundance per h. 
09-185R|Climate change is predicted to increase the frequency of rain-on-snow events in the winter and spring in mountain streams. Flooding caused by such events can drastically alter stream geomorphology, but much less is known about how such floods affect aquatic life. A record flood in early January 1997 afforded an opportunity to carry out a case study of benthic invertebrate community responses to this flood in 14 eastern Sierra streams sampled in the summers before and after the event. All sites were exposed to the flood. Study sites included 8 exposed to livestock grazing disturbance (test) and 6 where grazing was absent or minimal (reference). Reference sites had more riffle habitat, coarser substrata (cobbles), and greater relative abundances of many Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) genera, whereas test sites had higher alkalinity, more pool habitats and fine substrata, lower diversity of EPT taxa, and higher densities of chironomid genera and elmid beetles. From 1996 to 1997 (before vs after the flood), the densities of total invertebrates and many taxa increased in most sites, and significantly (10) more at test than reference sites. At all sites, bank stability and riparian vegetation coverage decreased and roots were exposed on the stream banks. At many sites, fine sediments decreased and average substrate sizes increased. Examination of 1996 to 1997 vectors in nonmetric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) space indicated differences in responses at reference vs test sites. Macroinvertebrate assemblages at reference sites changed relatively little, whereas the relative abundances of certain midges and
1468069|Long-term (13 y) experimental P enrichment of a 4th-order reach of the Kuparuk River (North Slope, Alaska) had little effect on the distribution, abundance, or metabolism of a common, clump-forming bryophyte (
10.2307/1467477|The population genetic structure of two species of mayflies was studied using protein electrophoresis at eight locations in the headwater region of the Delaware River drainage basin. Study sites were located upstream and downstream from two large reservoirs. The working hypothesis was that little or no genetic differentiation occurs between conspecific populations within and among tributaries of the same drainage basin. A total of 24 and 28 loci were examined for Eurylophella verisimilis and Ephemerella subvaria respectively. Geographic differentiation was significant for three of nine polymorphic loci (average F<sub>ST</sub>=0.028) for Ep. subvaria when all populations were compared. Spatial variation in allele frequencies among populations of Ep. subvaria was substantially higher in the West Branch than in the East Branch of the Delaware River. The spatial cline of allele frequencies for certain loci of Ep. subvaria paralleled environmental gradients in the vicinity of the two reservoirs but no cause-effect relationship can be implied without more extensive data. Regardless, the results for Ep. subvaria failed to support the hypothesis. In contrast, geographic differentiation for Eu. verisimilis was low, being limited to one locus and caused by allelic abnormalities at one site (average F<sub>ST</sub>=0.008). No significant spatial clines were observed for Eu. verisimilis among study sites. These data seem to be consistent with the hypothesis. There was no indication of disrupted gene flow caused by the reservoirs acting as barriers to dispersal by larval drift or adult flight in either species. However, additional data on species in drainage basins without potential barriers to gene flow are needed to adequately test the hypothesis.
40792634|We summarized studies on the impacts and scale effects of negative (competition, predation, parasitism, herbivory) and positive (mutualism, commensalism, indirect facilitation) species interactions in freshwater benthic habitats since 1986 and focused on organisms with mainly or entirely aquatic life cycles. Benthologists publishing in
4499040|Diatom-based indicators can contribute significantly to comprehensive assessments of stream biological conditions. We used modeling to develop, evaluate, and compare 2 types of diatom-based indicators for Idaho streams: an observed/expected (O/E) ratio of taxon loss derived from a model similar to the River InVertebrate Prediction And Classification System (RIVPACS) and a multimetric index (MMI). Modeling the effects of natural environmental gradients on assemblage composition is a key component of RIVPACS, but modeling has seldom been used for MMI development. Diatom assemblage structure varied substantially among reference-site samples, but neither ecoregion nor bioregion accounted for a significant portion of that variation. Therefore, we used Classification and Regression Trees (CART) to model the variation of individual metrics with natural gradients. For both CART and RIVPACS modeling, we restricted predictors to natural variables unaffected by or resistant to human disturbances. On average, 46% of the total variance in 32 metrics could be explained by CART models, but the predictor variables differed among the metrics and often showed evidence of interacting with one another. The use of CART residuals (i.e., metric values adjusted for the effect of natural environmental gradients) affected whether or how strongly many metrics discriminated between reference and test sites. We used cluster analysis to examine redundancies among candidate metrics and then selected the metric with the highest discrimination efficiency from each cluster. This step was applied to both unadjusted and adjusted metrics and led to inclusion of 7 metrics in MMIs. Adjusted MMIs were more precise than unadjusted ones (coefficient of variation 50% lower). Adjusted and unadjusted MMIs rated similar proportions of the test sites as being in nonreference condition but disagreed on the assessment of many individual test sites. Use of unadjusted MMIs probably resulted in higher rates of both Type I and Type II errors than use of adjusted metrics, a logical consequence of the inability of unadjusted metrics to distinguish the confounding effects of natural environmental factors from those associated with human-caused stress. The RIVPACS-type model for diatom assemblages performed similarly to models developed for invertebrate assemblages. The O/E ratio was as precise as the adjusted MMI, but rated a lower proportion of test sites as being in nonreference condition, implying that taxon loss was less severe than changes in overall diatom assemblage structure. As previously demonstrated for O/E measures, modeling appears to be an effective means of developing more accurate and precise MMIs. Furthermore, modeling enabled us to develop a single MMI for use throughout an environmentally heterogeneous region.
10.2307/1467921|The naidid Ripistes parasita (Schmidt) was identified from benthic samples collected at two localities in north-central Minnesota. Specimens were collected with a D-frame kick net from the Rainy and Bear Rivers. These samples represent a new western range extension for this species, as well as being the first recorded occurrence in Minnesota. This naidid may be more widespread than records indicate. However, the widespread use of 0.590-mm sieves for benthic work, resulting in the possible loss of naidids may be responsible for its sporadic distribution. Future benthic work should include sorting unsieved samples, or sieving some samples through finer (0.250 mm) mesh, to correlate naidid assemblages with water quality and to accurately assess the contribution of this fauna to total community dynamics.
10.2307/1468463|In-situ, nutrient amendment experiments (nutrient-diffusing substrata, NDS) were conducted in 12 New Zealand gravel-bed streams to investigate seasonality of biomass accrual and nutrient limitation of benthic algal communities. Benthic algal biomass accrual rates exhibited significant (p = 0.019, repeated measures ANOVA) seasonal differences; rates were greatest in summer and least in winter. The degree of nutrient limitation also differed (p = 0.003) seasonally; periphyton community biomass was most responsive to nutrient amendments in summer and least responsive in winter. Temperature may be the underlying cause of these patterns. The ratios of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to soluble reactive phosphorus (DIN:SRP) in streamwater and of streambed periphyton communities were of limited use for predicting which nutrient limited NDS bioassays; cellular nutrient content was weakly predictive. This study demonstrates the need to consider temporal changes (i.e., seasonality) when assessing the influence of nutrients on stream ecosystems, and indicates that the use of nutrient ratios to ascertain which nutrient may limit benthic algal biomass should be validated with field experiments.
10.2307/1467814|Benthic invertebrates were quantified in 6 small upland streams in Alabama for 2 y to examine the degree to which variation in assemblage structure was related to the hydrologic permanence of riffle habitats. Streams differed along a gradient of flow permanence: 2 were normally intermittent (i.e., riffles ceased flowing in normal rainfall years) in summer, 1 was rarely intermittent (i.e., normally perennial), and 3 streams were occasionally intermittent (i.e., riffles ceased flowing during dry years). Despite large differences in flow permanence among streams, invertebrate assemblages differed only slightly. Presence-absence data revealed that 75% of the species (171 total taxa, predominantly aquatic insects) were ubiquitous across the 6 streams or displayed no pattern with respect to permanence; 7% of the total species were found exclusively in the normally intermittent streams. Although somewhat variable, many of the community richness and diversity measures were positively correlated with stream permanence. Year-to-year differences in assemblages within single streams appeared as great as differences between streams of contrasting permanence within a given year. Faunal similarity among streams was higher in 1995, a year with normal summer rainfall that followed a wet year (1994), than in 1994, a wet year that followed a dry year. Between-year differences in density and richness were lowest in spring and winter and greatest in summer, the season when communities were directly exposed to drying of riffles in intermittent streams. Several populations of common invertebrates during summer displayed non-random distributions along the permanence gradient. These data in general support the hypotheses that 1) benthic invertebrate assemblages show predictable, albeit subtle, relationships with stream permanence, and 2) antecedent hydrologic conditions associated with riffle permanence, perhaps because of their effects on survival and recruitment of subsequent generations, can influence the structure of benthic assemblages in streams.
20491206|The increasing demand for tools that can score biological condition from aquatic community data has spurred the creation of many predictive models (e.g., observed/expected [O/E] indices) and multimetric indices (MMIs). The geographic and environmental scopes of these indices vary widely, and coverages often overlap. If indices developed for large environmentally heterogeneous regions provide results equivalent to those developed for smaller regions, then regulatory entities could adopt indices developed for larger regions rather than fund the development of multiple indices within a region. We evaluated this potential by comparing the performance (precision, bias, responsiveness, and sensitivity) of benthic macroinvertebrate O/E indices and MMIs developed for California (CA) with that of indices developed for 2 large-scale condition assessments of US streams: the Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program Western Pilot Study (EMAP-West) and the western portion of the Wadeable Streams Assessment (WSA-West). WSA-West and EMAP-West O/E scores were weakly correlated with CA O/E scores, had lower precision than CA O/E scores, were influenced by 2 related natural gradients (% slope and % fast-water habitat) that did not influence CA O/E scores, and disagreed with 21 to 22% of impairment decisions derived from the CA O/E index. The WSA-West O/E index produced many fewer impairment decisions than did the CA O/E index. WSA-West and EMAP-West MMI scores were strongly correlated with the CA MMI scores. However, the WSA-West and EMAP-West MMIs produced many fewer determinations of impairment than did the CA MMI. EMAP-West and WSA-West MMIs were biased and differed in responsiveness compared with CA MMI. Thus, they might produce estimates of regional condition different from those from indices calibrated to local conditions. The lower precision of the EMAP-West and WSA-West indices compromises their use in site-specific assessments where both precision and accuracy are important. However, the magnitude of differences in impairment decisions was sensitive to the thresholds used to define impaired conditions, so it might be possible to adjust some of the systematic differences among the models to make the large-scale models more suitable for local application. Future work should identify the geographic and environmental scales that optimize index performance, determine the factors that most strongly influence index performance, and identify ways to specify accurate reference condition from geographically extensive reference-site data sets.
10.2307/1467664|A diverse mayfly community (28 species) was found in the Ogeechee River, a blackwater river in the Georgia Coastal Plain. Quantitative samples of snag habitat, where most species (22) were found, were collected at 2-4 wk intervals in 1982 to investigate life history characteristics, and at monthly intervals in 1983 to determine consistency of seasonal and annual abundance patterns. Baetidae and Heptageniidae were abundant throughout each year with average densities of 1553-5981 / m<sup>2</sup> (1982-1983) and 1498-1828 / m<sup>2</sup> of snag surface, respectively. Field data for the most common species of Baetidae (Baetis ephippiatus, B. intercalaris) and Heptageniidae (Stenonema exiguum, S. integrum, S. modestum) showed no recognizable pattern of cohort development. This developmental asynchrony and long emergence periods for S. exiguum and S. modestum are consistent with previously published growth studies indicating multivoltinism. Ephemerellidae (551-719/m<sup>2</sup>), Oligoneuriidae (206-469/m<sup>2</sup>), Tricorythidae (721-1599/m<sup>2</sup>) and Caenidae (114-110/m<sup>2</sup>) were also commonly found on snags, but were seasonal in abundance. The major species of Ephemerellidae (Ephemerella argo, E. dorothea, Eurylophella sp.) showed distinct single cohorts developing primarily during winter/spring. Isonychia spp. (Oligoneuriidae) also showed a well-defined winter cohort, but had as many as two weakly defined cohorts during warm months. Caenis spp. (Caenidae) and Tricorythodes sp. (Tricorythidae) occurred primarily in summer months, during which time they were able to pass through multiple generations, as substantiated by either long emergence periods or independent growth studies. Major differences in life histories occurred between rather than within families. Relative abundance and seasonality at the family level were very consistent between years. The high degree of life history overlap in this diverse mayfly assemblage raises questions about the relationship between phenology and community structure, as well as latitudinal patterns of species richness.
1467996|Ectosymbioses between the Chironomidae and their hosts continue to be documented, but life-history details are not well known. I investigated population dynamics of the commensal midge
4095665|Macroinvertebrate communities were examined in conjunction with landuse and water-chemistry variables at 60 sites in the NYC drinking-water-supply watersheds over a 3-y period. The watersheds are in 2 adjacent regions of New York State (east of Hudson River [EOH] and west of Hudson River [WOH]) that are geographically distinct and have unique macroinvertebrate communities. Nonforested land use at EOH sites was mostly urban (457%), whereas land use at sites in the rural WOH region was more agricultural (up to 26%) and forested (6097%). Land use accounted for 47% of among-site variability in macroinvertebrate communities in the EOH region and was largely independent of geological effects. Land use accounted for 40% of among-site variability in macroinvertebrate communities in the WOH region but was correlated with underlying geology. Comparisons among 3 landuse scales emphasized the importance of watershed- and riparian-scale land use to macroinvertebrate communities in both regions. Multivariate and bivariate taxaenvironment relationships in the EOH and WOH regions identified specific landuse and water-chemistry gradients and, in general, showed a continuum in conditions across the watersheds. WOH macroinvertebrate communities varied primarily with specific conductance, population density, and agricultural and urban land use, but communities were not classified as impaired along these gradients. EOH macroinvertebrate communities were associated with a wider range of watershed conditions than WOH communities. Conditions ranged from forested to urban, and distinctive communities were associated with point-source discharges, road density, and lake outlets. The severity of the impact gradient in the EOH region resulted in impaired macroinvertebrate communities with decreased total and Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT) taxon richness and increased densities of oligochaetes and chironomids.
10.2307/1468029|A healthy stream is an ecosystem that is sustainable and resilient, maintaining its ecological structure and function over time while continuing to meet societal needs and expectations. The concept described in this paper explicitly incorporates both ecological integrity (maintaining structure and function) and human values (what society values in the ecosystem). Stream ecologists who want their research to contribute to improving conditions in flowing waters require concepts like stream health, which will stimulate research in directions that will be more effective in restoring and preserving the unique organisms and ecosystems they study. Determining what is a healthy stream requires integration of stream ecology with disciplines such as economics and political science, because a concept of stream health must take into account the human attitudes and social institutions that are a part of the stream's societal watershed. New and fruitful directions for stream research lie in developing operational measures of stream health, which include the human dimension and move beyond identifying symptoms of ecological stress, and in elucidating the ecological processes and human actions that maintain stream health.
10.2307/1468024|A central set of questions in ecology asks how population densities respond to changes in environmental variables. Two general features of ecological communities, adaptive behavior and temporal variability, have major effects on the way that this class of questions should be approached. A review of recent theory suggests that leaving out either adaptive behavior or environmental variability can result in predictions about changes in population density that are qualitatively as well as quantitatively incorrect. This article summarizes the general implications of these 2 features for some simple models with 4 or fewer species. It also reviews evidence suggesting that both features are likely to be important for stream communities: 1) streams are often highly variable in time; and 2) many of the ecologically important organisms in streams exhibit adaptive behavior that is likely to create and/or modify interspecific interactions. The article ends with a brief discussion of the additional work, both empirical and theoretical, that is needed if we are to understand the implications of variability and adaptation in stream communities. The actual roles of these 2 factors in determining interspecific interactions in both multi-species models and natural systems remains largely unknown. However, the preliminary theoretical results presented here challenge the commonly-held views that: 1) adaptation may influence the values of ecological rate constants, but does not greatly alter the framework for describing or modeling communities, and 2) the main impact of variability is to weaken interspecific interactions.
10.2307/1467526|Larvae, pupae, and male and female adults of Dasyhelea sublettei are described from material reared from rock pools in streams in four southwestern states. Characters are given to distinguish the species from D. pseudoincisurata Waugh and Wirth from rock pools in the eastern United States.
10.2307/1467576|Dromogomphus spinosus (Odonata: Gomphidae) larvae are "burrowing" dragonflies which usually inhabit sand deposits in lotic systems. This species has recently invaded Bays Mountain Lake (Sullivan County, Tennessee, USA), where larvae now occupy widespread submersed macrophyte and allochthonous detritus habitats. It is now one of the more abundant species in a relatively stable odonate assemblage. During the Dromogomphus invasion, there was a gradual decline in abundance of Epitheca (Tetragoneuria) cynosura (Odonata:Corduliidae), the dominant anisopteran in that assemblage. Analyses of Dromogomphus and Epitheca numbers from 12 years (1977-1989) of monthly sweep-net samples at fixed stations within each of five types of littoral zone habitat document trends in population size, suggest that both species have partially semivoltine life-histories with comparable phenology, and show overlap in habitat use between species as well as negative correlations of within-sample abundances for some habitats. Gut contents of Dromogomphus collected in these sweep-net samples showed no change in diet over the 12-yr period. Predominant prey were midge larvae (56%), especially "burrowing" midges, and oligochaetes (34%). Analyses of fecal pellets produced by specimens of both Dromogomphus and Epitheca collected during 1988-1989 show that diets differed for both "small" and "large" instars. For both size categories, Epitheca tended to eat more microcrustaceans, but small larvae also ate more "miscellaneous arthropods" (including odonate larvae). Comparing 1988-1989 Epitheca diets with those reported previously from 1978-1979 suggests that large Epitheca exhibited a dietary niche shift during the Dromogomphus invasion. Contemporary large Epitheca eat fewer "burrowing" midges and more oligochaetes and microcrustaceans than they did previously.
1468284|Extensive areas of production pine forest in New Zealand have been planted in the North American native
10.2307/1467806|Crayfish are common inhabitants of North American streams and many species are undergoing human-assisted range expansions. We studied the effects of an introduced crayfish (Orconectes rusticus) on benthic macroinvertebrates and periphyton in a northern Michigan (USA) stream by 1) conducting a 46-d enclosure-exclosure experiment and 2) sampling benthic communities along a longitudinal gradient in crayfish density. In stream enclosures, crayfish reduced total macroinvertebrate densities by 47-58% and herbivore densities by 55-72% relative to exclosures. Over the course of the experiment, periphyton chlorophyll a increased by 48-70% in enclosures compared to an increase of only 8% in exclosures. Periphyton biomass, however, did not vary across treatments. Periphyton primary productivity increased 4-7 times in the presence of crayfish, probably because crayfish reduced grazer densities (indirect effect) and removed non-autotrophic components of the periphyton matrix (direct effect). The longitudinal survey supported experimental results. At sites along a crayfish density gradient occurring over 3 km of stream, periphyton chlorophyll a on rocks increased and macroinvertebrate density decreased with increasing crayfish density. These studies show that crayfish directly and indirectly affected the stream benthos, thereby producing responses at more than 1 trophic level. Some responses were consistent with a trophic cascade, but crayfish increased food web connectance by consuming periphyton. Therefore, crayfish can have complex, multi-trophic-level effects on the food webs of invaded streams.
10.2307/1467524| Observed size-selective predation on the amphipod Gammarus pseudolimnaeus by trout was compared with encounter model predictions based on drift and benthic samples over seven months. The generalized encounter model used predicts that the proportion (F<sub>i</sub>) of prey size i in the diet will be: F<sub>i</sub>=L<sub>i</sub><sup></sup> N<sub>i</sub>/ L<sub>i</sub><sup></sup> N<sub>i</sub> where L<sub>i</sub> = size (length) of prey group i, N<sub>i</sub> = density of prey group i in the environment, and  = an exponent related to the reactive field searched. In five of seven months, the encounter model reasonably predicted prey-sizes consumed (percent similarities > 85%). For four of these months, benthic size-distributions resulted in the best predictions; the drift size-distribution resulted in best fit in August. Observed size-selectivity in May and July was greater than predicted with commonly used values of , showing that factors other than encounter were also involved in prey size-selectivity. 
4095677|We tested the efficacy of DNA barcodes in identifying mayfly species primarily from the northeastern United States and central Canada. We sequenced a 630-base-pair segment of the mitochondrial gene, cytochrome c oxidase 1 (COI), from 1 individual of each of 80 species to create a reference sequence profile. We used these reference sequences to identify 70 additional specimens representing 32 of the species that were in the profile. DNA barcodes correctly identified 69 of the 70 test specimens. The sole exception was an individual identified morphologically as
1468419|Visual water clarity is a primary regulator of biological and ecological functions in both benthic and aquatic systems. We present a large data set, collected under variable field conditions, to compare measurements of visual water clarity between the horizontal black disc, a horizontal Secchi disc, and 2 more traditional techniques: a vertical Secchi disc and an electronic nephelometer. Distance readings between the 2 horizontal discs were nearly equivalent (
10.2307/1467203| The influence of periphyton biomass, irradiance, and herbivory by snails on phosphorus turnover in stream periphyton communities was examined over a 15-d experimental period. A 2  2  2 factorial design was employed with each treatment combination replicated twice. Percent increase in periphyton biomass was greater under: low vs. high initial biomass; high vs. low light levels; and no-snail vs. snail-present conditions. Significant interactions among main effects revealed that the percent increase in biomass in the low initial biomass treatment was greater when snails were absent, whereas the effect of light was greater when snails were present. Phosphorus turnover from the mat was significantly greater under low than high initial biomass levels and snail-present vs. no-snail conditions. Grazing removed periphyton biomass from the substrates, resulting in increased P turnover because of physical and consumptive losses. In the absence of snails, initial biomass level had surprisingly little effect on P turnover. We suspect that biomass accrued rapidly in the absence of snails, thereby blurring the distinction between low and high biomass treatments by day 15. However, in the presence of snails, P turnover rate was significantly lower in communities with high initial biomass. Despite the fact that lower irradiance resulted in significantly lower metabolic rates of periphyton, irradiance had no significant effect on P turnover. These results suggest that internal cycling provides an important source of nutrients in periphyton communities with high biomass and that grazing promotes nutrient turnover in periphyton, regardless of biomass level. 
4499036|Our study is a first attempt to characterize seasonal fatty acid (FA) profiles of foodweb components in a small forested stream. We measured FA content of autochthonous food sources (aquatic primary producers = periphyton, green algae, red algae, bryophytes), allochthonous food resources (terrestrial matter = benthic and transported organic matter [BOM and TOM, respectively]), and macroinvertebrate consumers (
40792645|Prevailing notions of foodweb structure and trophic relations in fresh waters are based on research undertaken in a limited range of latitudes or habitat types. This limitation had led to the general view that stream food webs are detritus-based with short food chains and simple interactions that often are dominated by a few key species. We used gut-content analyses and stable-isotope signatures to characterize feeding relationships and foodweb attributes of benthic communities in riffles in 2 forest streams in Hong Kong. We compared them with existing data on foodweb structure from pools in 1 of the streams and data from the literature. The 2 approaches to dietary analyses yielded complementary results, providing confidence that trophic relations and foodweb structure were adequately characterized. Food webs in both streams were remarkably similar regardless of habitat (riffle vs pool). Consumers in both streams depended primarily on autochthonous resources, as has been reported from some other tropical streams, and food chains were short although connectance was higher than has been recorded previously for stream food webs. Very few omnivores were found, and omnivory was even rarer than is typical of temperate streams, although it is common in other tropical streams and rivers. No evidence was found for dominance by a few common macroconsumer species, as observed elsewhere in the tropics. The apparently high levels of autochthony in tropical running waters imply that models of ecosystem functioning for northern temperate streams are inadequate for describing tropical systems. However, marked differences in the degree of omnivory and dominance of tropical stream food webs by macroconsumers is evidence that characterization of trophic interactions and stream ecosystem functioning cannot be captured by a simple tropical vs temperate dichotomy. Successful management of these systems will depend upon development of conceptual models that reflect the diversity of food webs within and between regions.
40792585|Adult dispersal and completion of life cycles by aquatic insects are essential for the persistence of populations, colonization of new habitats, and maintenance of genetic diversity. However, life-cycle stages and processes associated with the terrestrial environment often are overlooked when the effect of watershed urbanization on the persistence of insects associated with streams is examined. We reviewed and synthesized current literature on the known effects of watershed urbanization on the terrestrial stage of stream insects. Some research has directly examined the effects of watershed urbanization on dispersal, but much of the evidence we present is indirect and from related studies on aquatic insect life-history traits and dispersal abilities in nonurban watersheds. Our goal is to provide examples of potential impacts that warrant further study, rather than to provide a comprehensive review of all life-history studies. We discuss how watershed land use, riparian condition, and habitat quality affect: 1) adult fitness, 2) adult dispersal, and 3) habitat fragmentation, and 4) how these factors interact with species traits. In general, we found that the local- and landscape-scale changes to stream, riparian, and upland habitats that typically result from anthropogenic activities have the potential to prevent the completion of aquatic insect life cycles and to limit adult dispersal, and therefore, can affect population persistence. When considered within the spatial context of dendritic stream networks, these effects, particularly those on adult dispersal, might have important implications for design and assessment of restoration projects. We discuss a framework for how to determine the relative importance of effects on specific life-cycle stages and processes for the absence of larval populations from urban streams. Overall, more research on terrestrial life-cycle stages and processes and on adult dispersal is required to understand how urbanization might affect population persistence of insects in urban streams.
40792570|We tested 2 sources of growth rate variability in a lotic species of unionoid mussel,
09-112R|Measures of species diversity are valuable tools for assessing ecosystem health. However, most assessments have addressed individual sites or regional taxon pools, with few comparisons of differences in assemblage composition within or among regions. We examined the effects of anthropogenic disturbance on local richness ( diversity) and species turnover ( diversity) of benthic macroinvertebrates in small streams within and between 2 ecoregions (Northern Piedmont vs Southeastern Plains ecoregions) of the Patuxent River basin (Maryland, USA). Regional species pools did not differ between ecoregions (Piedmont = 166 taxa, Plains = 162 taxa); however, local richness was lower in the Plains (mean = 17.4 taxa/stream) compared to the Piedmont (mean = 22.2 taxa/stream). When streams were categorized into disturbance classes (low, medium, high), local richness did not differ among categories for either region. However, at the entire Patuxent scale, local richness tended to decrease with % impervious cover in a watershed. Variation in species composition, analyzed with nonmetric multidimensional scaling (nMDS), differed significantly between Piedmont and Plains streams, and Plains streams had higher  diversity than Piedmont streams. When partitioned by disturbance category and region,  diversity differed only between the low-disturbance sites (Plains > Piedmont). Relationships between  diversity and environmental variables varied by region.  diversity was weakly negatively related to % row-crop cover in a watershed at the entire Patuxent scale. For the Piedmont region,  diversity tended to decrease with % forest, % pasture, and % row-crop cover in a watershed. Such negative relationships between  diversity and landuse variables indicate a possible homogenization of the assemblage. The incongruence between diversity measures and composition measures, together with differing effects of anthropogenic land use on  diversity in the 2 regions, emphasizes the need to incorporate both  and  diversity and regional environmental factors in conservation/land management studies.
4095545|We evaluated the sampling efficacy of 1-m
41318733|Aquatic research historically has focused on separate aquatic ecosystems (i.e., freshwater, estuarine, and marine). We argue that this separation into subdisciplines is artificial and may even be counterproductive. Instead, scientists should consider the physical linkages between different aquatic ecosystems and the many similarities in properties and processes among those ecosystems (conceptual linkages). The 4 papers in this J-NABS
09-128R|Freshwater mussels (order Unioniformes) fulfill an essential role in benthic aquatic communities, but also are among the most sensitive and rapidly declining faunal groups in North America. Rising water temperatures, caused by global climate change, industrial discharges, drought, or land development, could further challenge imperiled unionid communities. The aim of our study was to determine the upper thermal tolerances of the larval (glochidia) and juvenile life stages of freshwater mussels. Glochidia of 8 species of mussels were tested:
4095655|We studied variation in C and energy flow in stream food webs by examining primary consumer diets and potential food sources at 8 sites of different drainage areas in the South Fork Eel River drainage. Both heptageniid mayfly nymphs and
09-135R|Perhaps no subject is more intriguing and complex than climate change and its effects on ecosystems and their biological communities. Changes in precipitation and snowmelt patterns, sea level rise, increased intensity of storms and wet-weather events, thawing permafrost, changes in vegetation and wildlife composition and distribution, and other effects present significant policy and land management challenges. Scientific modeling and analyses demonstrate that the effects of a changing climate are complex, with high variability over time, space, and species, including effects on benthic organisms. The variable effects of a changing climate complicate decision making, rendering scenario planning, adaptive management, and other management learning tools increasingly important. The very complexity of effects presents particularly difficult challenges for policy makers and resource managers because the available science often is highly uncertain. Thus, other decision support tools are needed to help managers anticipate and respond to local and regional conditions. Effective policy and management require relevant science to inform decision making. Key needs include more assessments of ecosystem and species trends and their possible linkage to climate change and a better understanding of the interplay of multiple variables, how different management regimes might affect ecosystems and species survival, and how to apply risk management tools and adaptive management to resource issues.
40792522|We developed and tested a species-level BrayCurtis (BC) similarity to reference index and a genus-level diatom model affinity (DMA) index to quantify agricultural and acid mine drainage (AMD) impacts on streams in the Western Allegheny Plateau of southeastern Ohio. Decreased similarity to references sites was found in impaired streams, and diatom metrics further indicated how assemblages were impacted. Sites identified by index scores as impaired had significantly greater conductivity, PO
10.2307/1467902|Relationship of aquatic benthic macroinvertebrate body form to habitat has been questioned for more than 80 years, without satisfactory explanations. Physical determinants of locomotion can provide more definitive answers. Cloeon dipterum (Linn.) larvae live in still and slowly moving water, but have highly streamlined cylindrical (width: length 1:8) bodies. Because of a low density ratio the larvae walk slowly. At 1.2 mm/s, the 95% boundary layer extends beyond 3.0 mm. Gill size and orientation fall close to permissible height of projections for the boundary layer while swimming. Reynolds number ( 1.2 10<sup>3</sup>) of a swimming larva is sufficiently low that the streamlined shape will do little to reduce drag. However, the streamlined shape will be important during accelerative escape motion when velocities >200.0 mm/s within 0.04 s are achieved, giving accelerations of the order of 6.5 m/s<sup>2</sup> because the streamlined shape confers a low coefficient of added-mass. This reduces virtual mass during initial acceleration. Highly streamlined cylindrical macroinvertebrates could be expected to have accelerative motions in their behavioural repertoire.
20491146|We examined the relationships between the distribution of dominant herbivorous insect grazers (
10.2307/1468334|Deterioration of ecosystem health is often reflected by changes in benthic community structure, but specific community metrics may differ widely in their usefulness as environmental monitors. We investigated the association of several of these metrics with concurrently measured sediment trace element levels at 15 sites within the Buffalo River, New York from 1990 to 1993. Site mean concentrations (9 sample dates) of As, Cd, Cu, Fe, Hg, Mn, Ni, Pb, and Zn were subjected to principal component analysis, yielding 1 factor describing a spatial gradient in trace element levels. Community metrics were then regressed on this factor. The mean density of the family Chironomidae decreased (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.41, p = 0.01) with increasing factor scores (i.e., higher trace element concentrations). However, the mean density of tubificid oligochaetes, which accounted for >80% of the benthic community, was not linearly associated with trace elements (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.22, p = 0.08). Mean richness and diversity of the chironomid community were strongly negatively associated with factor scores (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.77 and 0.76, respectively, p < 0.001), while the prevalence of the tolerant genera Procladius and Chironomus increased with trace element levels (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.55, p = 0.002). Mouthpart deformities in larvae of Chironomus thummi group also increased with higher trace element levels (R<sup>2</sup> = 0.72, p < 0.001). Benthic community metrics can be very useful in ranking the health of specific sites, but our study shows that more detailed metrics (e.g., taxonomically detailed chironomid data, Chironomus mouthpart deformity frequencies) provide additional information on community health that justifies the extra effort required for their assessment.
10.2307/1467482|We examined the food quality of different fungi by determining growth, consumption and survivorship of two caddisflies fed diets of aspen leaves colonized by single fungal species. Mid-to-late fifth instar larvae of Hesperophylax magnus grew better on leaves colonized by Alatospora acuminata, Flagellospora curvula or Tetracladium marchalianum than on leaves colonized by Lemonniera aquatica or on stream detritus, but differences in instantaneous growth rates on these diets were not statistically significant. For early fifth instar larvae of Psychoglypha sp., we detected statistically significant differences in instantaneous growth rates on the following diets: F. curvula = A. acuminata > Heliscus lugdunensis = Articulospora inflata > L. aquatica = stream detritus. Psychoglypha sp. larvae also exhibited high survivorship on these diets through 20 d, but experienced 100% mortality when fed leaves colonized by Filosporella annelidica or T. marchalianum. Psychoglypha sp. larvae grew significantly faster on aspen leaves fully conditioned (10 d and 20 d) by F. curvula and H. lugdunensis than on preconditioned leaves (4 d). For both caddisflies, consumption rates were higher on diets that supported higher growth rates. Food quality of all four fungi in the Hesperophylax experiment and four of the seven fungi in the Psychoglypha experiment corresponded well with caddisfly preferences we have previously determined. Food quality was affected by fungal species and conditioning time. However, even well-conditioned leaves did not support high growth rates in caddisflies if the leaves were colonized by low quality fungi.
10.2307/1467765|Seventeen populations of Pisidium casertanum (Poli 1795) from six rivers and eleven lakes were studied to determine how population demographics were related to environmental conditions. Univariate and multivariate analyses of the data suggest that natural variation in environmental conditions accounts for a significant amount of variation in the demography of this clam. Correlations among principal components of environmental variables and of population demographics were used to assess the relationships between environmental variables and population features. Abundance, production, and biomass were higher in habitats with warmer ice-free temperatures, but the length at which adults first developed shelled larvae, and maximum adult length and weight, were less in such habitats. Productivity, biomass, and the proportion of adults brooding shelled larvae were higher in habitats that had higher calcium hardness, conductivity, pH, alkalinity, and sulphate levels. These factors should be considered in studies that attempt to relate variation in population statistics of sphaeriid clams to environmental degradation.
40792628|Nutrient dynamics in streams has been an important topic of research since the 1960s. Here we review this topic and the significant role played by
4095667|Uptake of nutrients and organic C was measured once annually between 2000 and 2002 in each of 10 streams within the water-supply source areas for New York City. Nutrients (PO
10.2307/1467577|Mountain midges (Diptera:Deuterophlebiidae) are widespread and seasonally abundant in streams of western North America. As part of a comprehensive systematic investigation of the Deuterophlebiidae, I examined the life histories of all Nearctic species, including aspects of habitat, reproductive biology, and phenology. Collection techniques were also evaluated. This paper is based on qualitative data obtained during a seven-year period (1981-1988) and from more than 500 collection sites, and on a quantitative phenological study in 1986 of 17 populations from the Pacific Northwest. Deuterophlebiids generally are considered stenobionts, requiring cold, mountain streams; however, many species inhabit a diversity of stream types, from small, high-gradient creeks to large, low-gradient rivers. The immature stages of all species are restricted to riffle habitats where current velocities typically exceed 1 m/s. Adult mountain midges exhibit marked diel synchrony, with emergence, flight, and mating during only the early morning. Flight behaviour of the short-lived adults is distinct and includes formation of male swarms. Field and laboratory observations show that females shed their wings and select oviposition sites underwater. Asynchronous life histories are typical of Nearctic species, with egg-hatching and adult emergence usually extending 2-3 mo. This strategy is adaptive for populations in the Pacific Northwest, where unpredictable spring spates may scour substrates and cause correspondingly high mortality of stream benthos. Univoltine life histories are typical of Nearctic mountain midges, though variation from this pattern was seen in three populations. Temporal, habitat and/or reproductive isolation of sympatric deuterophlebiids, blepharicerids, and other torrenticolous insects was evident in many streams.
40792580|Terrestrial allochthonous inputs represent the primary energy source for small stream ecosystems, and activities that alter those inputs produce cascading effects through multiple trophic levels. Urban development affects riparian forests through direct removal or through modifications to species composition and structure. Our study evaluated stand composition and litterfall inputs to small streams across a range of urbanization. Heterogeneity was high, but a consistent pattern of deciduous dominance was observed in more-disturbed areas and a mosaic of conifer, mixed, and deciduous forest patches in less-disturbed areas. Such mosaics are a region-dependent pattern that results from Pacific Northwest forest succession. Riparian vegetation disturbance level increased as total impervious area in the watershed increased. Annual mean daily litterfall rates ranged from 0.0 to 2.5 g m
20491214|The species composition of lentic communities often shifts along hydroperiod gradients, in part because temporary-habitat specialists replace closely related permanent-habitat specialists. These replacements reflect tradeoffs between traits that facilitate coexistence with permanent-habitat predators and those that prevent desiccation. The evidence for species replacements and the underlying tradeoffs is considerable in North America, but few studies have explored this pattern in other regions. We compared benthic communities in permanent and temporary habitats on the South Island of New Zealand. Ordination across 58 sites showed that community composition was distinctly different between the 2 types of habitats. Assemblages in permanent habitats had >2 the number of species as those in temporary habitats. We found little evidence for temporary-habitat specialists; i.e., species in temporary communities were a nested subset of those in permanent communities. Quantitative sampling at 12 intensively studied sites revealed that chironomids, water bugs, beetles, and crustaceans accounted for 90% of the biomass in temporary, but only 14% of the biomass in permanent habitats, which were dominated by mollusks, annelids, caddisflies, and odonates. Damselflies, dragonflies, caddisflies, and several other large-bodied taxa common in permanent habitats were absent from most temporary habitats. We propose 2 explanations for the absence of species replacements in these groups in the New Zealand habitats that we studied. First, drying is unpredictable within and between years, perhaps precluding the evolution of temporary-habitat specialization. Second, fish predation on benthic invertebrates, a driver for phylogenetic diversification in North America, appears to be comparatively weak in New Zealand. Comparative studies across a range of climates and faunas will be needed to identify the ecological and phylogenetic contexts that favor evolution of generalists vs specialists along permanence gradients.
4095576|Leaf litter is a major component in the organic matter budgets of streams worldwide. Shredding invertebrates are widely considered to be of central importance for the breakdown of allochthonous organic material in temperate-zone streams. However, various authors report an absence of this group in tropical streams. Various phenomena, including hydraulic disturbance, chemical leaf quality, and biotic control through macroconsumers, may cause variable shredder performance in streams. Our paper discusses the hypothesis that biogeographic distribution and the life-cycle strategies of the shredders are additional factors affecting the contribution of invertebrates to lotic decomposition processes. As a case study, we analyzed the type of organic matter inputs, the community of benthic invertebrate shredders, and the decomposition of temperate zone leaves (alder,
1468032|The seasonal variability of discharge, water chemistry, suspended sediment, and suspended algal abundance was examined in temperate rivers of the northeastern United States to evaluate the accepted (but rarely tested) assumption that streams are more temporally variable than large rivers. Temporal variance of discharge and water-column characteristics was determined for 108 stations on 98 rivers with data measured between May to October of 1978 by the US National Stream Quality Accounting Network (NASQAN). Temporal variance of water-column characteristics increased in relation to the mean estimate of the variable (
10-007|Urban land use alters channel morphometry, particle size structure, and sediment-transport dynamics in stream ecosystems, thereby degrading the habitat of aquatic organisms. However, stream form varies substantially among geoclimatic settings, and, thus, the degree of negative effects induced by urbanization may be region-specific. Biota in streams of the Coastal Plain ecoregion of the eastern US consistently show greater tolerance to urban land use than do biota of the adjacent Piedmont, potentially because of a disparity in geomorphic degradation between ecoregions. We quantified channel morphometry, particle mobility, sediment deposition, and floodwater chemistry in similarly sized rural and urban streams of both ecoregions to detect differences in urbanization-induced geomorphic change. Macroinvertebrate rates of recolonization in patches of disturbed benthic habitat also were monitored. No differences in channel morphometry were observed among treatment groups. Riffle particle sizes were significantly larger in urban than in rural Piedmont streams, but a corresponding disparity was absent in Coastal Plain streams. Particle mobility increased in urban settings uniformly between ecoregions. However, transported particles were substantially larger in Piedmont streams. Sediment deposition was higher overall in Coastal Plain streams but more affected by urbanization in Piedmont streams. Macroinvertebrate density in the disturbed habitat rose faster over time in Coastal Plain than in Piedmont streams. Results suggest that geomorphic degradation is greater in Piedmont streams and that organisms may be adapted to benthic instability in Coastal Plain streams. In addition, our findings demonstrate that ecosystem-scale responses of streams to urbanization may vary inherently among geoclimatic settings.
41318760|Many state water-quality agencies use biological assessment methods based on lotic fish and macroinvertebrate communities, but relatively few states have incorporated algal multimetric indices into monitoring programs. Algae are good indicators for monitoring water quality because they are sensitive to many environmental stressors. We evaluated benthic algal community attributes along a landuse gradient affecting wadeable streams and rivers in Maine, USA, to identify potential bioassessment metrics. We collected epilithic algal samples from 193 locations across the state. We computed weighted-average optima for common taxa for total P, total N, specific conductance, % impervious cover, and % developed watershed, which included all land use that is no longer forest or wetland. We assigned Maine stream tolerance values and categories (sensitive, intermediate, tolerant) to taxa based on their optima and responses to watershed disturbance. We evaluated performance of algal community metrics used in multimetric indices from other regions and novel metrics based on Maine data. Metrics specific to Maine data, such as the relative richness of species characterized as being sensitive in Maine, were more correlated with % developed watershed than most metrics used in other regions. Few community-structure attributes (e.g., species richness) were useful metrics in Maine. Performance of algal bioassessment models would be improved if metrics were evaluated with attributes of local data before inclusion in multimetric indices or statistical models.
09-084|Both historical and contemporary processes can influence population genetic structure and phylogeographic patterns at different spatial scales. We studied the genetic structure of a common alpine caddisfly,
10.2307/1468367| The locomotory behavior of Baetis tricaudatus Dodds nymphs was examined by placing individuals of various lengths in a still-water tank and recording movement sequences using high-speed cinematography and video. Gait of small nymphs (3.0 mm) differed from that of larger nymphs (4.0 mm). Small nymphs combined dorso-ventral oscillations of the abdomen in addition to rowing with their legs, whereas large nymphs used only abdominal oscillations for propulsion. Transition from rowing to swimming gait occurred when the nymphs were ca 3.5 mm long, at Reynolds numbers of 60-90. When viscous forces predominate, friction-based methods of locomotion (i.e., rowing) are most efficient, whereas propulsive methods (i.e., abdominal undulations involving vortices--swimming) are more effective when inertial forces prevail. Small B. tricaudatus nymphs row because viscous forces do not allow propulsive mechanisms, and the use of leg orientation minimizes drag of the recovery stroke relative to that of the power stroke. Average speed increased linearly with body length in small nymphs, but exponentially in large nymphs. The shift from linear to exponential increase in speed occurred within the same range of body lengths as did change in gait. Ontogenic changes in gait and speed could be the mechanisms that regulate other size-dependent behaviors observed in Baetis spp., namely those involved with risk management and predator avoidance. 
1468350|A field experiment with a factorial design was used to examine changes in benthic periphyton exposed to different regimes of scouring (scoured/non-scoured), light (open/shaded), and grazing (grazed/non-grazed) to investigate the role of environmental heterogeneity in shaping assemblages of periphyton in Rocky Mountain streams. Clay tile substrata were positioned at the start of the experiment either in the main channel (to receive bedload scouring) or a protected side channel (where scouring did not occur) of a 3
1468036|Previous investigations of interactions between aquatic invertebrates and decomposing wood substrates used wood decay classification systems based on external characteristics such as texture, shape, and color. These methods may be inaccurate for the assessment of wood decay because external appearance does not necessarily represent the physical state of decomposing wood. We tested an alternative method based on relative wood density adapted from terrestrial wood decomposition studies. We compared rating the physical condition of submerged twigs and branches by the loss of relative density to the traditional method based on external characteristics. Rating wood decay using loss of relative density showed distinct advantages compared to estimates by external characteristics. Measuring density delivered reproducible data independent of wood size or investigator bias. There was a correlation between decreases in relative wood density and increasing water content. In contrast, maximum water content was not correlated with the decay class rated by external characteristics. In addition, decay rating using external characteristics was influenced by the size of the woody debris. Rating wood decay using relative density is a simple and useful tool for characterizing woody debris in different stages of decay.
4499008|The major ion chemistry of water from an 11.42-km reach of the Pajaro River, a losing stream in central coastal California, shows a consistent pattern of higher concentrations during the 2
1468068|Larch (
20491167|Recovery rates of different metrics (physiological, biological), trophic levels (phytoplankton, invertebrate consumers), and habitats (pelagic, benthic) were studied over a 16-y period in 10 boreal lakes recovering from acidification. Several of the metrics showed significant, positive trends over time that supported our expectations of biological recovery. Taxonomic diversity of phytoplankton assemblages, but not assemblage composition, showed early signs of recovery that were strongly related to increases in pH in both reference and acidified lakes. Results from benthic invertebrate assemblages were, however, equivocal. Littoral invertebrate taxon richness and diversity increased in both acidified and reference lakes, whereas sublittoral and profundal invertebrate assemblages of both lake groups showed clear negative trends. These findings indicate that sublittoral and profundal assemblages might be influenced by factors other than lake acidity, such as coincident changes in habitat quality (e.g., ambient O
10.2307/1468252|Lotic models of disturbance generated by floods and spates suffer from 2 main short-comings: a lack of knowledge regarding the appropriate spatial scale at which to apply models and a poor understanding of the relationship between discharge sizes and actual disturbance frequencies and intensities. Here, we examine the spatial variability in the forces needed to shift rocks and the utility of hydraulic equations that predict critical shear stresses ( <sub>c</sub>), which are sometimes used to infer disturbance frequencies in streams. We used spring balances to measure directly the forces needed (F<sub>c</sub>) to move rocks up and out of the stream bed in 4 upland streams (Acheron River, Taggerty/Steavenson rivers, Connelly Creek, and Little River) in southeastern Australia. We measured 25 rocks at each of 32 sites overall, with sites distributed in a nested design: sites were paired in 2nd, 3rd, upper 4th, and lower 4th orders on each river. For each rock, we determined whether it was wedged into place by surrounding rocks, estimated percentage burial in fine sediments, and measured rock size and ambient water velocity and depth. Nested analyses of variance indicated that F<sub>c</sub> and its correlates varied most between rivers and greatly between rocks within individual sites; the spatial scales of stream order and site contributed little explanatory power. Hierarchical, log-linear modelling showed that both rock size and bed packing varied systematically between rivers, with the Little and Taggerty/Steavenson rivers having relatively large rocks that were often packed into the bed, whereas Connelly Creek and the Acheron River had many relatively-small rocks lying loosely on top of the bed. A river-by-river analysis showed that values of F<sub>c</sub> were related highly to rock sizes but that the nature of the relationships differed greatly between packed-in rocks and those lying on top of the bed and also varied between rivers. The Little and Taggerty/Steavenson rivers were similar to each other but both differed from the Acheron River and Connelly Creek, which differed from each other. Our estimates of F<sub>c</sub> suggest that an oft used approximation, which equates  <sub>c</sub> directly with rock sizes in mm, and the commonly-used equations from which the approximation is derived, are likely to produce poor estimates of  <sub>c</sub>; these poor estimates would cause equally poor estimates of likely disturbance frequencies. The application by ecologists of reach-level hydraulic equations to estimate shear stresses and the sizes and numbers of rocks moved by floods and spates could be flawed by a focus on inappropriate spatial scales. Our data suggest that variation in likely disturbance frequencies between rocks within individual sites might be of a similar magnitude to variability between different rivers. We argue that spatial variation in stream systems need not be organized in the top-to-bottom hierarchical models that have been recently promoted for rivers.
10.2307/1468141| Recent measurements have shown that levels of ultraviolet radiation (UVR) reaching the earth's surface at temperate latitudes have increased significantly over the past decade; however, little is known regarding the ecological effects of UVR on temperate aquatic ecosystems. To examine the effects of UVR on a Rocky Mountain stream benthic community (algae and invertebrates), we used clear plastic filters to exclude UVR from the stream bottom. The experimental design consisted of a repeated measures, randomized complete block with 3 replicates per treatment (no UVB; no UVB+UVA; unfiltered control (full sunlight); filtered control). Algal biomass (chlorophyll a) and invertebrate assemblage composition on artificial substrates were sampled 4 times over a 30-d period. On day 30, chlorophyll a levels (g/cm<sup>2</sup>) were 50% lower on substrates exposed to full sunlight (UVB [280-320 nm] + UVA [320-400 nm] + PAR [400-500 nm]) than on substrates that were exposed to PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) only. Similarly, total invertebrate abundance (p < 0.01), and abundance of ephemeropterans (p < 0.05) and trichopterans (p < 0.001) were significantly lower on substrates exposed to full sunlight than on UVR-excluded treatments. For example, the abundance of heptageniid mayflies on day 30 was 10 higher on UVR-excluded substrates than on UVR-exposed substrates. These changes in benthic community structure were not obvious until the end of the experiment when water depth and UV-254 absorbance, a measure of the aromatic fraction of dissolved organic carbon (DOC), were lower than at the beginning of the study. Thus, the negative effects of UV radiation on Rocky Mountain stream organisms (algae and invertebrates) may vary temporally and may be more pronounced during low-water, summer conditions when DOC levels are typically low and UVR levels reaching the earth's surface are relatively high. 
10.2307/1467479| The eggs of eight species of Plecoptera from Alberta were reared at constant temperatures between 2 and 25C. All species' eggs hatched at 2C but none hatched at 25C. The relationships between temperature and number of days required for development and hatching were fitted to power equations. Slope values (b) ranged from -1.31 for Skwala parallela to 0.03 for Amphinemura banksi; the remainder fell between -0.94 and -0.68. All of these values, except for that for S. parallela, imply that stonefly eggs develop most efficiently at the lowest temperature within the favorable range or develop with equal efficiency throughout the favorable range. 
10.2307/1467818|Most of the many bioassessment methods currently in use in the United States produce data of unknown quality. The results are: 1) uncertainty as to which methods yield accurate information for a given type of site, and 2) missed opportunities to share data among different programs or organizations having potentially comparable methods and data quality. Using a performance-based methods system (PBMS) and benthic macroinvertebrate assessment methods as examples, we offer a framework for characterizing the data quality achieved by a collection-and-analysis method and for determining the comparability of different methods. This framework incorporates 3 steps that: 1) quantify method precision and bias for a single site, using different field personnel and different site classes; 2) quantify method precision, bias, and performance range using multiple reference sites within at least 2 different site classes; and 3) quantify method sensitivity, bias, performance range, and--indirectly--accuracy, using test sites (with different levels or types of probable impairment) as well as reference sites. Comparability of methods is judged by the degree of similarity in their performance characteristics rather than in their respective scores or metric values. The PBMS framework could yield several benefits including: documentation of personnel training in the field; realistic requirements for data quality in bioassessment methods so that information gathered is likely to meet program or project needs; greater flexibility in choice of method used; refinement of methods by agencies responsible for long-term monitoring without the loss of historical data; and more sharing of bioassessment information across political boundaries, thus reducing duplication of efforts.
1468091|The exotic rusty crayfish,
10.2307/1467506| Effects of acidification on leaf decomposition in streams were studied in four second-order streams in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The streams ranged in pH from 4.5 to 6.4 at baseflow. Mass loss of leaves incubated in mesh bags placed in pools in each stream was measured periodically over 15 wk beginning in late August. Measurements were also made of C, N, P, and Al in leaves, microbial biomass (adenosine triphosphate [ATP]) and respiration rate and bacterial production (thymidine uptake) associated with leaves, and the number and biomass of macroinvertebrates in leaf bags. Rates of leaf mass loss were significantly lower in streams with pH 5.7 compared with a stream with pH 6.4. Although rate of leaf mass loss among the streams varied directly with pH, differences between streams with pH values between 4.5 and 5.7 were not significant. Microbial ATP and respiration rates and bacterial production rates followed the same pattern as leaf mass loss rate, i.e., low for more acidic streams and highest in the stream with the highest pH. Accumulation of aluminum by the leaf-microbe complex was also greatest in the most acidic streams. The number and biomass of macroinvertebrate shredders found in leaf bags was lowest at the highest pH site and therefore cannot account for the higher rate of leaf mass loss found at this site. Our results suggest that the lower rate of leaf decomposition in the more acidic streams is due largely to low rates of microbial activity. 
10.2307/1467241|Traditional techniques for algal enumeration on substrata may ignore variation along microenvironmental gradients. To examine microdistributional patterns of diatoms on such surfaces, topographically simple, nutritionally inert artificial substrata were positioned in a duckweed-covered canal and in the littoral zone of a prairie lake. After a period of colonization, substrata were sampled using a surficial peel technique along a short section suspected to traverse sharp microenvironmental gradients of irradiance and nutrient concentration. At both sites, significant horizontal and vertical microheterogeneity in diatom species abundance was observed on a single substratum. A zonation of diatom species occurred with depth in the duckweed mat; Achnanthes hungarica, an apparently host-specific taxon, was distributed mostly in the leaf zone of the mat. Join-count analysis of a peel sample from the lake demonstrated that the major diatom taxa were significantly more abundant on some parts of the substratum than others. Refined nearest-neighbor analysis of mapped populations of Cocconeis diminute and Epithemia turgida in these peels showed that they were significantly aggregated in the distance range of a few cell lengths, suggesting that their progeny were only weakly motile after cell division. A relatively motile diatom, Achnanthes hungarica, was distributed randomly at low cell density; a more dense A. hungarica population was distributed regularly. These results illustrate the importance of examining microdistributional patterns of diatoms on substrata as the genesis of ultimate community development and macrodistribution.
10.2307/1468027|Many factors contribute to the complex patterns of ecological conditions in streams. Nutrient and light availability are 2 factors that directly affect benthic algal assemblages and thereby indirectly affect stream faunas. A null model of the major changes and determinants of benthic algal assemblage structure and function along resource (nutrient and light) gradients is proposed. This model predicts that low-resource stress, herbivory, competition, and colonization of habitats by new algal growth forms are the dominant determinants of benthic algal ecology at successively higher resource levels. It also predicts major changes in algal assemblages in resource conditions at which regulation of communities changes from one dominant determinant to another. In many streams, diatoms dominate low-density biofilms in low resource conditions where resource stress and herbivory regulate periphyton. Above a herbivory threshold, a resource condition in which algal accumulation rates equal grazing rates, diatoms should accrue to densities that are regulated by competition for light and nutrients. Another resource threshold can occur where increasing nutrient or light regimes make the habitat available for colonization by different algae, such as Cladophora or other filamentous greens, that have growth forms very different from those of diatom-dominated assemblages. A concept of ecological sustainability is also proposed which quantifies the changes in environmental conditions that an ecosystem can withstand without "significantly" changing ecological integrity. Linkage between the resource threshold hypothesis and ecological sustainability helps to define environmental criteria at points along resource gradients where significant changes in ecological processes are expected.
10.2307/1467777|Nitrification in the hyporheic zone of Sycamore Creek, a Sonoran Desert stream, was examined, focusing on the association between respiration and nitrate production. Subsurface respiration in Sycamore Creek is highest in regions of hydrologic downwelling where organic matter derived from the stream surface is transported into the hyporheic zone. Similarly, nitrification was closely related to hydrologic exchange between the surface and hyporheic zone. Nitrification in downwelling regions averaged 13.1  gNO<sub>3</sub>-N L sediments<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> compared with 1.7  gNO<sub>3</sub>-N L sediments<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> in upwelling regions. Hyporheic respiration also varies temporally as a result of flash floods which scour and remove algae from the stream and thus reduce the pool of organic matter to support subsurface metabolism. Nitrification was also significantly affected by flooding; nitrification increased from an average of only 3.0  gNO<sub>3</sub>-N L sediments<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> immediately following floods to 38.5  gNO<sub>3</sub>-N L sediments<sup>-1</sup> h<sup>-1</sup> late in succession. Nitrification was significantly correlated with hyporheic respiration, supporting the hypothesis that nitrification is fueled by mineralization of organic nitrogen to ammonium. The coupling between subsurface respiration and nitrification is one step in a cyclic interaction between surface and hyporheic zones and serves to transform nitrogen from an organic to inorganic form.
10.2307/1467366|Laboratory experiments were performed to test the hypothesis that the trade-off between predator avoidance and food acquisition was affected by forager size. Groups of small and large larvae of the mayfly Baetis tricaudatus were presented simultaneously with foraging patches representing all combinations of two levels of predation risk (predators present or absent) and two levels of food (low, high). We hypothesized that forager body size would affect patch use because field observations in a Rocky Mountain stream suggested that small Baetis experience twice the percapita risk of mortality of large larvae as a result of predation by a nocturnal minnow. Small larvae also spend more time feeding over a diel period than large larvae. Our results showed that relative patch selection was significantly affected by the interaction between predation risk and Baetis size. Although the presence of a predator reduced patch use, the reduction was less pronounced for large Baetis than for small individuals, suggesting that large Baetis accepted more risk when risky patches contained more food. Food intake rates of small Baetis in safe, high-food patches was four times higher than in safe, low-food patches. For large Baetis, the presence of a predator in high-food patches reduced food intake to a greater extent than in low-food patches. Greater use of risky, high-food patches by large Baetis compared with small Baetis was associated with differences in the distance at which larvae responded to predators by initiating a drift response. The mean distance at which large Baetis reacted to predators by drifting out of patches was almost four times lower in risky, high-food patches than in risky, low-food patches. Mean reactive distances of small Baetis to the predatory minnow were similar to those of large Baetis in low-food patches and did not vary with food level.
40792661|The patchy spatial distribution of benthic algae (periphyton) on gravel-bed rivers might be caused by physical disturbances during small frequent flow spates. During such spates, the gravelcobble river bed is stable, but flows are often strong enough to transport large quantities of sand by a hopping motion called saltation. We tested the hypothesis that a spate-related refuge habitat exists in a transition zone (TZ) between the edge of the varial zone and the thalweg of the river channel where high hydraulic stress and saltating sand reduce biomass. We documented physical disturbance and periphyton biomass across 15 riffles after 3 summer spate periods in an oligomesotrophic river in Quebec. Periphyton perturbation thresholds were identified for near-bed water velocity during prespate growth (0.25m/s) and for sand transport (64180gm
20491180|Recent court cases have questioned whether all headwater streams are jurisdictional waters under the US Clean Water Act. Rapid field-based indicators of hydrologic permanence are needed for making jurisdictional determinations. Our study objectives were to: 1) identify physical characteristics of forested headwater streams that best distinguish perennial, intermittent, and ephemeral reaches and 2) assess the applicability of existing rapid field-based tools for classifying hydrologic permanence across a wide geographic range. We surveyed reach- and drainage-scale characteristics at 113 sites across 10 study forests in the US. Streams in 4 core forests (61 core sites) were sampled over 2 consecutive years and were used in model construction. Streams in 6 satellite forests (72 satellite sites) were used to validate the models over a broader geographic range. Discriminant function models successfully differentiated hydrologic permanence categories at core sites. Drainage area, the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Headwater Habitat Evaluation Index (HHEI), and the North Carolina Department of Water Quality Stream Classification Method (NCSC) were strongly correlated with the discriminant function that separated ephemeral from perennial and intermittent sites. Entrenchment ratio was the most consistent variable discriminating intermittent from perennial sites across the core forests. The models had mixed results when applied to the validation data set, but did classify correctly most intermittent and ephemeral sites. Classification trees were used to assess broad regional applicability of existing rapid field-based protocols and to identify important metrics. Scores from the Rapid Bioassessment Protocol Habitat Assessment, HHEI, and NCSC all clearly distinguished ephemeral from intermittent and perennial sites, but no differences were detected between intermittent and perennial sites across all sites. However, data from core sites do indicate that a suite of physical variables can be used successfully to identify hydrologic permanence at regional scales.
10.2307/1467945|The relative effects of light intensity, color, and UV radiation on the herbivory component of an epilithic food web were examined in a small spring-fed stream in the Sand Hills region of western Nebraska. Plexiglass, solar-radiation filters were suspended over artificial substrata at 4 sites with open riparian canopies. Periphyton and macroinvertebrate biomass and composition on unglazed, clay tiles were determined after 28 d of exposure to 6 treatments of spectral irradiance: green light (filters transmitted 470-600 nm), blue light (360-450 nm), red light (>600 nm), solar radiation with no UV below 380 nm (UV filter), solar radiation reduced equally for all wavelengths (neutral-density filter), and ambient solar radiation (no filter). Photon flux densities were reduced 80-93% by the colored and neutral density filters, and 10-17% by the UV filters. Unadjusted means for periphyton biomass were not significantly different among treatments, but periphyton biomass means adjusted for invertebrate herbivore densities (as a covariate) differed significantly. Consequently, direct effects of irradiance on periphyton were less apparent than indirect effects through herbivory. Both unadjusted and adjusted means for herbivore densities were significantly different among treatments, suggesting that herbivores were directly affected by irradiance, as well as indirectly through associated changes in periphyton biomass. Effects of light intensity on periphyton and herbivores were stronger (relatively greater) than effects of spectral quality of photosynthetically active radiation at a similar intensity. Periphyton and macroinvertebrate densities did not differ significantly between ambient and UV filter treatments.
09-148R1|Nonlinear ecological responses to anthropogenic forcing are common, and in some cases, the ecosystem responds by assuming a new stable state. This article is an overview and serves as the introduction to several articles in this
1468073|Allozyme analysis was used to examine the genetic structure of 12
10.2307/1468139|Geology and precipitation interact to determine the geomorphology of a stream basin. We propose that stream geomorphology in turn interacts with sunlight, air temperature, precipitation, and geology to produce a distribution of environmental drivers (incident radiation, discharge, water temperature, nutrients) that is largely responsible for determining the distribution of organisms in streams. GEOMOD, a physically explicit stream ecosystem model, was designed to examine this proposal. The model has a geomorphically based hierarchical structure with basin, reach, and channel-unit levels of resolution. We used GEOMOD: 1) to simulate annual cycles of the biota in 3rd- and 5th-order stream sections at the basin level of resolution and 2) to predict organism distributions at the reach and channel-unit level of resolution. Stream physical structure and the 4 environmental drivers were the only factors that differed among the sites. Data from two 150-m sections of 3rd-order Mack Creek (one in old-growth and the other in clear-cut forest) and from a 1.5-km section of 5th-order Lookout Creek in the Cascade mountains of Oregon were used to parameterize the physical structure and initial standing crops and calibrate the drivers. Uniform parameters were determined by curve-fitting. GEOMOD simulated annual magnitudes and cycles for abiotic (e.g., channel dimensions, fine particulate organic matter) and biotic (e.g., algae, invertebrates, fish) variables in Mack and Lookout creeks. With explicit parameterization of reach and channel-unit sequences, GEOMOD also predicted the distribution of organisms among channel units and reaches. Fish distributions were accurately predicted at the reach scale, while algal-invertebrate interactions and scouring effects became clear only when examined at the channel-unit level. These results demonstrate that organism distributions and interactions in highly structured streams such as those in the Pacific Northwest region of the USA can be effectively simulated with a physically explicit model. Although more complicated to design and parameterize than a uniform physical representation, a physical explicit model can be tailored to represent a wide variety of stream types.
10.2307/1467931|Territoriality in filter-feeding caddisflies (Hydropsychidae) was studied experimentally by providing larvae of Hydropsyche morosa with a limited amount of suitable substrate in laboratory streams. Distance between nearest neighbours was measured after exposing larvae to different treatments of food concentration and current velocity for 48 hr. When suspensions of powdered Daphnia were high (50 mg dry mass/L) or were delivered by faster currents, most larval retreats were close together (no more than 3 mm apart). When food concentrations and current velocities were lower, fewer larvae were close together. In the absence of food, most larvae were far apart (>11 mm), including some off the substrate, at all current velocities tested. A 48-hr video recording showed that larvae without food bit and lunged at each other, mostly within the first hour of trying to establish themselves on the substrate. It appears that larvae sense food concentrations in the water, set their territory size accordingly, and vigorously defend it unless the energetic or social cost of fighting is greater than the food benefits received.
10.2307/1467684|Ecological study of the hyporheic zone is leading to recognition of a need for additional hydrologic understanding. Some of this understanding can be obtained by viewing the hyporheic zone as a succession of isolated boxes adjacent to the stream. Further understanding, particularly relevant to catchment-scale ecology, may come from studies focussed on the fluid mechanics of the flow-path connections between streams and their catchments.
09-102|Tadpoles are often abundant and diverse consumers in headwater streams in the Neotropics. However, their populations are declining catastrophically in many regions, in part because of a chytrid fungal pathogen. These declines are occurring along a moving disease front in Central America and offer the rare opportunity to quantify the consequences of a sudden, dramatic decline in consumer diversity in a natural system. As part of the Tropical Amphibian Declines in Streams (TADS) project, we examined stream macroinvertebrate assemblage structure and production for 2y in 4 stream reaches at 2 sites in Panama. One site initially had healthy amphibians but declined during our study (El Cop), and 1 site already had experienced a decline in 1996 (Fortuna). During the 1
41318761|Heterogeneity generated by irregularities on the surface of streambed substrates is an important determinant of local species diversity of algae. However, few investigators have examined the effects of substrate roughness on the composition of algal growth forms and on patterns of species distribution. We examined the influence of substrate roughness on stream benthic algal assemblages through a field experiment with 2 treatments (smooth and rough artificial substrates for algal colonization). We assessed whether species richness, density, and assemblage composition of benthic algae (all taxa and those in 5 growth-form groups) differed between treatments and whether differences in species composition between substrates were the result of species turnover or nestedness. We also used a data subsampling procedure to investigate the effect of differences in species richness between treatments. Total species richness was higher on rough than on smooth substrates, but density did not differ between treatments. Species richness, density, and composition of the adnate/prostrate growth form did not differ between treatments. The erect/stalked growth form had higher species richness on rough substrates, but did not differ in density between treatments. All other growth forms (filamentous, motile, and metaphyton) had higher species richness and density on rough substrates and differed in species composition between substrates. The results of the subsampling analysis indicated that assemblage composition was affected by differences in species richness and by changes in species composition (i.e., turnover). Species distribution had a nested pattern, in which the assemblages on smooth substrates were a subgroup of the species occurring on rough substrates. We suggest that the differences in assemblage composition between smooth and rough substrates resulted from variability in species capabilities to colonize substrates with or without crevices. This variability resulted in both nestedness and turnover.
1468106|Benthic invertebrates were quantified at summer baseflow from 30 streams draining largely forested watersheds within 7 river catchments (Coosa, Tallapoosa, Tennessee, Black Warrior, Conecuh, Altamaha, Chattahoochee) of 4 Level III ecoregions (Blue Ridge, Southwestern [SW] Appalachians, Piedmont, Southeastern [SE] Plains) of the southeastern USA. The study 1) compared invertebrate distributions classified by large-scale ecoregions against those of small-scale river catchments, and 2) assessed if taxonomic resolution of invertebrate identification (family vs genus/morphospecies) influenced relative classification strength of ecoregions and catchments. Principal components analysis indicated that environmental differences across catchments and ecoregions were associated more with variation in baseflow water chemistry (e.g., total alkalinity, conductivity) than with geomorphic or geographic variables. Using simple community presence/absence measures, richness of Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera (EPT richness) followed the pattern Blue Ridge > SW Appalachians = Piedmont = SE Plains. When grouped by catchment, total and EPT richness tended to be lower in lowland than in upland regions. However, BrayCurtis presence/absence similarities coupled with flexible UPGMA (unweighted pair-group method using arithmetic averages) analyses revealed that invertebrate assemblages were distinctive among ecoregions both at the genus/morphospecies and family levels. Differences in overall similarity among ecoregions were highly significant, with upland Blue Ridge and lowland SE Plains streams displaying the lowest interecoregional similarity, and Piedmont and SW Appalachians streams displaying the highest similarity. Faunal similarity within a given ecoregion approximated that observed within individual catchments. Family-level groupings were almost as robust at discriminating catchments and ecoregions as were classifications derived from genus/morphospecies. The ecoregion concept appears to be as useful a classification scheme as that derived from smaller river catchments in the delineation of stream invertebrate distributions in the southeastern USA.
41318750|Pesticides play a critical role in maximizing yields of economically important crops and minimizing the human health threats of disease-carrying pests, but they often have collateral effects on nontarget species. We used a mesocosm study to address how the most commonly used insecticide in the USA, malathion, applied at low, ecologically relevant concentrations (20 and 110g/L) affects species interactions in aquatic communities. Unlike many community ecotoxicology studies, our study assessed how malathion affects both consumptive and nonconsumptive effects of predators. We also considered how the vertical distribution of predator cues and malathion (caused by potential stratification) affects species interactions. We found no evidence for vertical stratification of malathion, a result suggesting that exposure to the pesticide was uniform throughout the water column. Malathion was lethal to some primary consumers (cladocerans) at both concentrations and to top predators (dragonflies) at the highest concentration (110g/L). These lethal effects initiated density-mediated indirect effects in both cases. Malathion also may have decreased dragonfly foraging efficiency, resulting in increased tadpole survival (trait-mediated indirect effect), which decreased the resources used by tadpoles (periphyton). Collectively, our results show that malathion alters species interactions. However, we suggest that the degree to which pesticides affect aquatic communities will depend strongly on the species composition of communities. Therefore, the community-level consequences of pesticide exposure are likely to vary across the ecological landscape.
40792572|The use of subsurface sediments by benthic prey as spatial refugia from predators can potentially influence predator consumption, and hence density-dependent relationships. We studied how predatory fish affect subsurface sediment use by spiny- and smooth-shelled morphs of the mudsnail,
20491232|Several species of amphidromous shrimp play important roles in the food webs of Neotropical freshwater stream ecosystems. We quantified the timing and magnitude of the upstream migration of 3 genera of amphidromous shrimp on the Rio Espiritu Santo in northeastern Puerto Rico. We then used multiple regression analyses to identify potential environmental factors that affected our observed migration rates. We also conducted artificial stream experiments to assess which potential physical and chemical factors affect migratory behavior. Shrimp post-larvae migration patterns and the environmental factors affecting those patterns were species specific. The migration rates of
10.2307/1467381|To assess the role of macrofauna consumers in organic matter dynamics of headwater streams, we applied seasonal insecticide treatments to a southern Appalachian Mountain stream and compared benthic community structure between this and two other streams. Production was estimated in the two major habitats: mixed cobble-gravel-sand substrate and bedrock outcrop. Using the proportional availability of the habitats in each stream, production over the entire stream was measured. Annual habitat-weighted production in the untreated streams during the two study years ranged from 8.9 to 14.0 g AFDM m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>, 81 to 86% of which was attributed to insects. Habitat-weighted production was distributed rather evenly among the collector-gatherer (32-41%), shredder (23-31%), and predator (28-33%) functional groups. Collector-filterer and scraper groups accounted for less than 9% of total habitat-weighted production in all three streams. Insecticide applications resulted in dramatic changes in the macrofaunal community. Annual habitat-weighted production (4.4 g m<sup>-2</sup> yr<sup>-1</sup>) in the treated stream decreased by 62% from Yr 1 to Yr 2, with insects contributing only 45% to total production. Oligochaetes, several Diptera, dragonflies, and copepods composed most of the production during treatment. Although habitat-weighted production of all functional groups was lower in the treatment year than in the pre-treatment year, collector-gatherer production decreased the least (21% reduction) and dominated overall production during treatment. Production of the other functional groups decreased by 71-94% between the two years. The changes in macrofaunal community structure and production observed in the insecticide treated stream were much greater than between-year changes in the reference stream, despite the occurrence of a record drought in Yr 2. The effect of the two different disturbances on overall production differed not only in magnitude but also in direction, with production in the reference stream increasing (12% over Yr 1) during the drought year. Resource ingestion was estimated using values of functional group production. Estimates of ingestion suggested that the major functional groups were ingesting a fairly large portion of available resources in the untreated streams. Collector-gatherers consumed 34-64% of total annual habitat-weighted fine particulate organic matter. Shredders consumed an estimated 28-47% of average annual standing crop of leaves, and predators ingested 67-79% of total macrofaunal production. Insecticide treatments resulted in much lower levels of resource ingestion: 26%, 4%, and 50% for collector-gatherers, shredders, and predators, respectively. Our results show the importance of using estimates of production when assessing disturbance effects on macrofaunal communities, since abundances greatly underestimated the impact of insecticide treatments. Biomass estimates, though providing better measures of disturbance than abundances, tended to overestimate overall macrofaunal losses because of the disproportionate influence of large, slow growing taxa such as crayfish.
40792493|Annual migrations of anadromous salmon are an important source of nutrients for many coastal streams. Much of the current research on salmon-derived nutrients has focused on nutrient retention via carcass consumption by mammals, birds, and macroinvertebrates, whereas retention and transfer of nutrients by microbiota has received less attention. Our research objective was to investigate nutrient movement from decomposing salmon tissue into periphyton, bryophytes, leaf-pack microbiota, and amphipods in laboratory mesocosm streams. We measured 
10.2307/1467591|Changes in a benthic algal community were observed during and after a major storm. Algal abundance, mostly diatoms, increased slightly during a 3-d interval that included the storm on day 1. Positive effects of the storm on benthic algae were indicated by decreases in the proportions of diatoms that were dead, but not in the dead cell numbers, and by decreases in the proportions of sexually reproducing cells. Increases in current or nutrient supply to periphyton during the storm may have stimulated growth of live cells and retarded sexual reproduction. During two 3-d growth periods after the storm, benthic diatoms grew rapidly from 1.1 10<sup>7</sup> cells/cm<sup>2</sup> and seemed to reach a carrying capacity near 5.2 10<sup>7</sup> cells/cm<sup>2</sup> in only 8 days. Density-dependent decreases in growth rates were accompanied by increases in the proportion of diatoms that were dead or in stages of sexual reproduction, indicating nutrient limitation. Immigration was not an important mechanism of accumulation immediately after the storm. However, immigration/colonization rates increased during community development and indicated substantial turnover by cell transport during late succession. Benthic diatom communities are well adapted to storms in temperate climates in streams with gravelbed channel morphology. I hypothesize that benthic diatoms are actually affected positively by most storms and are negatively affected only by the most severe storms that overturn substrates in the stream.
10.2307/1468254|The groundwater-surface water (GW-SW) ecotone, or hyporheic zone, is an active component of stream ecosystems that influences whole-system metabolism and nutrient retention. Because hydrologic fluxes affect the supply of carbon, nutrients, and oxygen to the GW-SW ecotone, the biogeochemical structure of the ecotone (i.e., nutrient content) and the role of the ecotone in nutrient retention are expected to vary under differing hydrologic conditions. In this paper, we employ an inter-basin comparison of headwater streams to assess the influence of ecosystem hydrology on the structure and functioning of GW-SW ecotones. Specifically, we address how differing rate and extent of GW-SW interaction influences heterogeneity in interstitial nutrient content and how variation in GW-SW interaction alters the role of the ecotone in whole-system nutrient retention. A multiple regression model derived from 6 solute-injection experiments identified the extent and rate of hydrologic exchange between the stream and its aquifer as critical variables that determine the retention of biologically important solutes. This approach emphasizes that the nature of GW-SW interaction is established by catchment geology (i.e., alluvial hydrogeologic properties), is modified by changing discharge within a catchment, and is a strong determinant of nutrient retention. At the landscape scale, identifying catchment geologic composition may be a starting point for comparative studies of GW-SW ecotones that could contribute to a more robust model of lotic ecosystem functioning.
10.2307/1468173|The objectives of this study were 1) to compare Sonoran Desert streams with other streams in terms of retention efficiency of nitrate; 2) to examine the effects of a flood on nitrate retention and to determine which factors control nitrate retention in the surface stream subsystem in Sycamore Creek, Arizona; and 3) to compare the short-term nutrient addition technique with computations based upon natural nutrient gradients. From June to September 1995, we did 8 short-term nitrate and chloride additions (4 additions before and 4 after a flood) in a 240-m reach to measure nitrate uptake length as an index of surface stream retention efficiency of nitrate. We also calculated nitrate uptake lengths based on a natural downstream decline in nitrate concentration, using data from the addition dates and from previous studies. Nitrate uptake lengths measured in Sycamore Creek were short (<120 m) compared to published values from other streams, indicating a high retention efficiency of nitrate in this nitrogen-limited stream. A midsummer flood caused a 2-fold decrease in retention efficiency of nitrate in the reach (i.e., nitrate uptake length increased from 61 to 124 m); however, this change was within the range of variation measured before the flood. Rapid algal recovery (23 d), the dramatic decrease in discharge, and a large transient storage zone may account for the apparent high resilience of nutrient retention efficiency to disturbance. Most of the temporal variation in nitrate uptake length during the study period was attributed to changes in the algal assemblage. In particular, retention efficiency of nitrate decreased when nitrogen fixers were abundant. Uptake lengths calculated from additions were always shorter than those from natural nitrate declines, supporting our hypothesis that nutrient uptake lengths from short-term nutrient additions reflect gross, rather than net, nutrient uptake. Uptake rates from short-term additions and from natural declines of nitrate over post-flood succession showed a similar temporal pattern, but the ratio between them increased late in succession. This result suggests that, during late successional stages, nutrient release processes became more important than nutrient uptake processes, a prediction that is consistent with the ecosystem succession and nutrient retention hypothesis.
1468306|Methods for wetland bioassessment using macroinvertebrates are not well developed. Two of the most controversial issues in stream bioassessment, subsampling and taxonomic resolution, have yet to be quantitatively addressed for wetlands. Using a multivariate approach, we evaluated the efficacy of family-, genus-, and species-level assemblage data in reflecting the environment and distinguishing impaired sites from the reference condition. We used 5 basic levels of subsampling (100-, 200-, and 300-organism fixed counts; 10% and 25% fixed areas), an integrated subsample requiring a minimum fixed count and fixed area (100&10%), and 100-count and 10%-area subsamples coupled with a supplementary large-rare (LR) search. Data were obtained from 1.5-m
10.2307/1467437| The amphipod Gammarus pseudolimnaeus is an important prey species for trout in certain tailwater fisheries below hydropower dams. The effects of low dissolved oxygen (DO) on this species were investigated in laboratory experiments. The duration of survival in anoxia and in lethally low DO concentrations differed among adult female, adult male, and juvenile individuals. Adult females were the group most sensitive to both anoxia and hypoxia; for example, LC<sub>50</sub> in hypoxia was 2.00, 1.28, and 1.05 mg/L, respectively, for females, males and juveniles (48 h, 15C). Juveniles were generally less sensitive to hypoxia but more sensitive to anoxia than were adult males. LC<sub>50</sub> increased with increasing temperature but changed little with duration of exposure after 24 h. The rate of oxygen consumption was a hyperbolic function of DO without a distinct critical level; oxygen consumption was depressed 10% at 5.7 mg/L and 50% at 1.3 mg/L (15C). Hypoxia induced the separation of amplexing pairs at 2 ppm and inhibited the reunion of separated pairs at 5 ppm (15C). Current US government (US Environmental Protection Agency) criteria for DO appear to be sufficient for protection of this species, but these criteria may often not be met below hypolimnetic-release hydropower dams. 
10.2307/1467649|We describe life history and production of Hydropsyche slossonae Banks in Mill Creek, Virginia, a first-order stream in the Central Appalachian Ridges and Valleys ecoregion. Each adult female laid approximately 230 eggs which hatched in 13 d. Five larval instars were recorded with most individuals overwintering in instars III and IV. Pupation and emergence occurred primarily over a 6-wk period in May and June. No mortality in the egg stage was detected, while high mortality in instar I (92.9%) was due partly to sibling cannibalism. Instars II-V showed constant low mortality, with high mortality again in the pupal stage; 0.5% of the original eggs survived to adulthood. Growth analysis revealed two distinct growth phases: one from hatching through instar IV (0.007 mg/d) and a much faster growth rate for instar V in May (0.148 mg/d). Production estimates for the entire generation ranged from approximately 3 to 5 g/m<sup>2</sup> and were highly variable. On a per-day basis, production occurred at specific times of the year. Yield per day peaked slightly later than peaks in production. High daily production occurred immediately after hatching as a result of growth of many small individuals. At the end of the generation, there was another period of high daily production due to fast growth by fewer larger individuals. Most production occurred from March through June. At other times, daily production was relatively low. It may be more accurate to estimate production by predicting biomass from survivorship and growth functions than directly from sample data.
10-011|Monitoring water quality with aquatic insects as sentinels requires taxonomic knowledge of adult and immature life stages that is not available in many parts of the world. We used deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) barcoding to expedite identification of larval caddisflies from 20 sites in the headwaters of the Tigris River in northern Iraq by comparing their mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) sequences to a global reference library (the Trichoptera Barcode of Life). We obtained full-length DNA barcodes for 16 COI haplogroups from 11 genera in 9 Trichoptera families. The most haplogroups and genera were recorded from Sulaimani Province. Two distinct COI haplogroups were found for the genus
4095537|The effects of land use on the relationships among denitrification, NO
10.2307/1467460| Densities of freshwater mussel species in a small (430 ha), shallow (z<sub>max</sub>=1.8 m) lake in Rhode Island were determined by a SCUBA survey. The three dominant mussel species included Elliptio complanata (x=25.7/m<sup>2</sup>  12.6 SD), Lampsilis radiata (1.1  0.9) and Ligumia nasuta (0.5  0.6). Anodonta cataracta was found rarely in shallow, sandy areas. A morphological analysis of E. complanata showed that individuals living in silt substratum were larger, older, and narrower relative to those in sand. Growth rates, calculated using data on size (length, height, and width of shell) and age (determined by thin section), showed faster growth in the silt substratum. These results conflict with other ecomorphological analyses of E. complanata and other unionid species. The sand habitat may be worse and/or the silt habitat better for mussel growth, relative to similar contrasts made previously. 
10.2307/1467690|Hyporheic zone research is an area of rapidly growing interest in stream ecology. Several key points have emerged as important for consideration of future research in the hyporheic zone. Hyporheic researchers need to outline explicitly the spatial scale of their own research, from single sampling locations to entire catchments, and how research at this examined scale relates to finer or larger scaled processes. Spatial and temporal scale considerations are also important when planning sampling and experimental manipulations of hyporheic processes. Stream researchers need to examine the importance of the hyporheic zone as a boundary or ecotone that potentially controls or contributes to surface water and groundwater ecosystem dynamics. Inclusion of hydrologic considerations in the research design and analysis of hyporheic processes is a promising approach that will help elevate hyporheic research from a descriptive science to a predictive one, and may help to make future cross-system comparisons possible.
10.2307/1467481|A 20-m section of stream riffle was covered with black plastic to decrease light intensities and reduce algal standing crops. After four weeks, chlorophyll a concentrations were near zero and Baetis tricaudatus nymphs were far fewer in the experimental riffle than in control riffles above and below the shaded area. Also, Baetis adults, reared from pre-emergent nymphs collected in the experimental riffle, were significantly smaller than reared adults from the control riffles. After three months, we removed one half of the black plastic from the experimental riffle. The algae and B. tricaudatus nymphs recolonized the open section of the experimental riffle within 11 days. These results suggest that algae are an extremely important resource for B. tricaudatus, a collector-gatherer. Reduction of epilithic algae did not greatly influence Simulium, a filter feeder. Other macroinvertebrates that apparently were not influenced by the algal reduction included Asellus, Gammarus, Hyallela, Dugesia and Chironomidae.
1467983|We describe a low-cost sensor for measuring light intensity on the streambed that is simple and quick to construct. We also describe an amplifier circuit for use with the sensor. The sensor consists of a photodiode and diffuser encased in heat-shrink tubing. The sensor had acceptable spectral and cosine responses, a good linear relationship with a Li-Cor Quantum sensor, and withstood the rigors of the streambed environment. The low cost of the sensor makes it suitable for studies of spatiotemporal variation, where many sensors are required. In a field trial of the sensors conducted simultaneously at 10 sites, we characterized variation at a range of spatial scales and found a peak in the variance between 1-m plots within a site.
4095714|Dam removal is becoming an increasingly common management solution for aging dams, and evaluation of the impact of dam removal on basic attributes of streams such as nutrient uptake and transport is essential. The removal of 2 small dams from a forested, 2
10.2307/1467831|Hexagenia nymphs are large sediment burrowers that are sensitive to hypoxia. Major declines in some lake populations have been attributed to reduced concentrations of dissolved oxygen near the substrate resulting from eutrophication. This study was carried out on lacustrine populations of Hexagenia in the Quebec Eastern Townships (81 sampling sites in 12 lakes). It quantifies the suitability of littoral and sublittoral lake habitats for Hexagenia by means of discriminant functions that classify sites, with and without these larvae, in terms of a number of variables that are thought to be related to both sediment oxygen demand, and oxygen supply to sediments. These environmental variables include sediment oxidation-reduction potential, sediment water content (a surrogate of particle size), water column chlorophyll a concentration (a measure of lake trophic status), aquatic macrophyte biomass, and two morphometric parameters that reflect the physical energy regime (site exposure, and bottom slope). The biomass of Hexagenia was also related, by multiple regression analysis, to the environmental variables. The predictions from the habitat suitability models (discriminant functions and multiple regression models) were compared with independent data from the literature on the distribution and abundance of Hexagenia, and found to predict both presence/absence and biomass reasonably well. Furthermore, the models support the contentions made by previous authors that dramatic declines in lacustrine Hexagenia populations are the result of eutrophication. In addition, the suitability of a site for Hexagenia was positively related to bottom slope and exposure to waves at the site, and negatively related to the abundance of submerged macrophytes, especially when high macrophyte biomass was developed near the substrate.
10.2307/1467349|Despite evidence of the worsening condition of river and stream environments and alarming declines in certain aquatic species, the nation's policy leaders show little concern for their well being. Environmental and river conservation organizations are formulating new arguments to move aquatic species and river conservation to the forefront of the nation's environmental agenda, because the public is becoming more aware of their rapid decline. A general move within the environmental advocacy community is toward ecosystem thinking and the realization that rivers and streams contain rich biological diversity. Advocacy for the conservation of aquatic species will change over the next several years, becoming more sophisticated and involving more scientists. Reforms in federal public policy, and at the state and local level, could greatly benefit aquatic species conservation.
1468086|Longitudinal and temporal distribution patterns of freshwater ascomycetes and dematiaceous hyphomycetes on submerged wood were investigated at 3 sites along the Lam Tsuen River in Hong Kong. Two-hundred-and-six species were recorded. Ascomycete genera were dominated by Annulatascaceae, Halosphaeriaceae, Lasiosphaeriaceae, Lophiostomataceae, and Magnaporthaceae; the most common taxa were
10.2307/1467311| The contribution of bacteria to secondary production of black fly larvae (Simulium spp.) in a Coastal Plain blackwater river was examined. Production rates of filter-feeding invertebrates inhabiting submerged wood (snags) in these rivers are high, as is bacterial biomass within the seston. This study examined the prediction that the abundant bacterial biomass in the seston is important in supporting the observed production rates. Black fly larvae, which are among the most common kinds of filtering collectors on snags, were fed seston in which the bacterial DNA had been labelled with [<sup>3</sup>H]-methyl thymidine to measure assimilation of bacterial biomass. Assimilation of bacterial carbon was positively correlated with seston bacteria concentration from 7.0  10<sup>9</sup> to 1.8  10<sup>11</sup> cells/L. Larvae assimilated from 3.94  10<sup>5</sup> to 6.18  10<sup>7</sup> cells/hr. Bacterial carbon accounted for 20 to 67% of the daily black fly growth in unaltered river water. The percent growth attributable to bacterial carbon showed no clear relationship to bacterial concentration because growth rates were lower when bacteria were less abundant. Our results show that assimilation of bacterial carbon is quantitatively important in the diet of larval black flies in the Ogeechee River. 
10.2307/1467435| Over a 3-y period, we examined the biology of late-instar nymphs, adults, and eggs of the rate predaceous mayfly S. aerodromia at Tomah Stream, Maine, to identify life history attributes associated with the mayfly's movements between the stream channel and the bordering floodplain. Eggs were deposited in the stream channel in June and hatched in November and December. Embryonic development occurred in 47-92% of eggs from unmated females. With rising water levels following snowmelt in March or April, nymphs moved from channel to floodplain, where most nymphal growth and development took place. Sex ratios of nymphs in the floodplain were female biased (1 M:1.4 F in 1991 and 1 M:2.1 F in 1992). Nymphs molted to the final instar earlier in 1991 than in 1992 and male nymphs molted to the final instar before female nymphs in 1991 but not 1992. Time in the final instar decreased as the season advanced. Seasonal emergence was protandrous and lasted 10-11 d during late May and early June; timing of seasonal emergence in 1991, 1992, and 1993 was related to maximum air temperatures and persistence of standing water in the floodplain during May. Emergence of subimagos was female biased in 1991, but male biased in 1992. Diel emergence was from 0700 to 1700 h (EST) and occurred only when water temperature was >11C. 
10.2307/1467683|This introduction to six articles on the hyporheic zone notes the rise in the number of presentations on this topic at meetings of the North American Benthological Society, and traces the recent merging of "process-functional" perspectives with "population-community" approaches. Acquiring a broad understanding of the hyporheic zone and its role as a component of stream ecosystems requires the integration of ecological and hydrological techniques and perspectives.
10.2307/1467539|Debris dam structure and retention of coarse particulate organic matter were examined during a 17-mo period in Powdermill Run, a 3rd-order Appalachian Mountain stream. Through the use of detailed feature maps, changes in debris dam morphology were recorded, including the complete "life-cycle" (i.e., initial formation to destruction) of a dam. Stream sections in which dams were naturally destroyed became markedly less retentive. Leaves were used as tracers in retention experiments that varied in duration from 3 h to 4 wk. Results implied that migration over time occurred by a simple mechanism of leaves falling off rocks and settling into debris dams. A series of releases over 12 d showed increasing retentiveness as discharge decreased. Seasonal differences in retention potential were evaluated using 3-h releases conducted during winter, summer, and autumn. Summer was the most retentive season due to base-flow conditions. Debris dams were most retentive in autumn, less so in winter, and least retentive in summer. Cobbles showed the opposite pattern. Leaf retention ranged from 1.8 to 23.2% retained/m (-k: 0.02 to 0.26), depending on season. A significant negative relationship was found between mean depth and% retained/m, but the relationship of% retained/m to discharge was not significant. A consideration of season is necessary when comparing retentive abilities between streams.
20491155|Mussel populations and the environments they inhabit are heterogeneous and fragmented. We review 3 areas in which principles of landscape ecology might be applied to the scientific understanding and management of freshwater mussels. First, recent studies show that hydraulics can be used successfully to delineate patches of mussel habitat, but additional variables such as host fish, food, or predators are probably important under certain conditions. However, research on patch dynamics in freshwater mussels is in its infancy, and we do not know if existing methods to delineate patches are adequate. Second, mussel ecologists are starting to think about the importance of connectivity among habitat patches. Major challenges will be to determine whether connectivity can be estimated in the field and whether human activities that reduce connectivity (e.g., dams) have produced large extinction debts in mussel populations. Third, we need to better understand the links between events on the watershed (e.g., timing and amounts of water, nutrient, and sediment inputs) and the quality, extent, location, and connections among patches of mussel habitats. Because of its focus on patterns and processes, landscape ecology has the potential to improve scientific understanding and management of mussel populations and, in particular, to help define the best spatial scales for scientific studies and management activities.
10.2307/1467604|To test the hypothesis that a general relationship exists between morphology and developmental temperature, we quantified morphological variation in six species of aquatic insects. We examined three holometabolous species (Trichoptera: Dolophilodes dorcus, Rhyacophila vaccua, and Neophylax splendens) and three hemimetabolous species (Plecoptera: Malenka cornuta, Despaxia augusta, and Eucapnosis brevicauda) that differed in type of life cycle, maximum size, and timing of emergence. Body size was inversely related to temperature for three species (r = -0.40 to -0.71) but not for the other three (r = -0.09 to -0.24). Those species showing a relationship between size and temperature emerged in summer following periods of increasing temperature. The other species emerged either during late spring following a period of relatively constant temperature or during the period of declining temperature in autumn. Color and meristic variation showed no pattern of association with temperature across species. A development rate model of temperature-dependent growth appears to predict patterns for species with simple life-history patterns. However, the model fails to predict patterns for species with more complex life histories. We suggest that timing of growth and diapause may interact with temperature to affect observed individual size.
10.2307/1467312| Black fly larvae (Simulium spp.) were grown in 1.8-L circulating airlift chambers on the bank of the Ogeechee River, Georgia. Larvae were collected from the river, divided into size classes, and introduced into the stream chambers for growth trials whenever they were abundant during the year. Stream chambers were maintained at natural or experimental temperatures by immersing them in large tanks either supplied with a flow-through of river water or controlled by a heater or refrigeration unit. Daily mean river temperatures ranged from 11 to 30C. Stream chamber water was exchanged twice daily with river water to closely resemble naturally occurring seston quantity and quality. Although instantaneous growth rate (g) of black flies was correlated with temperature, we found considerable variation. A positive growth rate was measurable at temperatures as low as 6.5C and growth was not inhibited at ambient temperatures as high as 30C. Growth rates at natural temperatures varied throughout the year from 0.09 to 0.43 mg mg<sup>-1</sup> d<sup>-1</sup>. However, black flies grew more rapidly during the initial stages of high river discharge. Two predictive equations were developed relating growth to temperature; one for use during early stages of flooding, the other during late flood and low flow conditions. River flooding may increase seston quantity and quality and was associated with high larval densities of natural black fly populations. At the growth rates reported here, black flies are capable of completing larval development in less than 2 wk throughout much of the year. Such growth rates mean that annual production/biomass ratios will be several times greater than most values reported for temperate regions. 
10.2307/1467682|We sampled epiphytic invertebrates and algae on Typha shoots in Lake Padgett, Florida, on a weekly basis from June 1988 through June 1989. The most abundant invertebrate taxonomic groups were oribatid mites, cyclopoid copepods, naidid oligochaetes, chydorid cladocerans, and chironomid larvae. The epiphytic invertebrates had seasonal patterns of abundance that were markedly different from those in temperate lakes where abundances tend to peak in the summer. In Lake Padgett, invertebrates showed strong peaks in abundance in September and October, with weaker, secondary peaks in December, March, and April. The only taxa that were most abundant in summer were oribatid mites and cyclopoid copepods. Invertebrate densities were higher on senescent shoots. In temperate lakes, abundances of epiphytic algae and invertebrate grazers tend to show strong temporal correlations, whereas, in Lake Padgett, they tended to be weakly correlated.
10.2307/1467802|An unusually rich cave fauna of 41 species is reported from a 20-m stretch of a shallow groundwater stream in Western Australia. Epigean waters do not occur upstream of the cave and, downstream, cave waters emerge at the surface after flowing about 100 m through a system of limestone caverns and collapses. Most of the aquatic cavernicoles collected from the cave stream, therefore, appear to be confined to the subterranean realm. Potential food sources for the aquatic fauna of the cave were investigated. Inputs of dissolved organic matter, surface debris, cadavers, and guano into the cave stream were lacking or too small to provide sufficient energy for the abundant aquatic cavernicoles. Aquatic root mats were shown to be the only substantial source of food available. They belong to the native tree Eucalyptus gomphocephala and consist of fine, highly branched, feeder rootlets growing in mycorrhizal association with fungi. Most of the animals, both in terms of density and species number, also occur in the submerged root mats. At least some of the aquatic cavernicoles graze directly on the living rootlets, some feed on root mat detritus, and others are predatory. We propose that tree roots provide an important source of energy for subterranean fauna in shallow groundwaters both in Australia and elsewhere.
09-080R|We present a visually based method for the taxonomic identification of benthic invertebrates that automates image capture, image processing, and specimen classification. The BugID system automatically positions and images specimens with minimal user input. Images are then processed with interest operators (machine-learning algorithms for locating informative visual regions) to identify informative pattern features, and this information is used to train a classifier algorithm. Nave Bayes modeling of stacked decision trees is used to determine whether a specimen is an unknown distractor (taxon not in the training data set) or one of the species in the training set. When tested on images from 9 larval stonefly taxa, BugID correctly identified 94.5% of images, even though small or damaged specimens were included in testing. When distractor taxa (10 common invertebrates not present in the training set) were included to make classification more challenging, overall accuracy decreased but generally was close to 90%. At the equal error rate (EER), 89.5% of stonefly images were correctly classified and the accuracy of nonrejected stoneflies increased to 96.4%, a result suggesting that many difficult-to-identify or poorly imaged stonefly specimens had been rejected prior to classification. BugID is the first system of its kind that allows users to select thresholds for rejection depending on the required use. Rejected images of distractor taxa or difficult specimens can be identified later by a taxonomic expert, and new taxa ultimately can be incorporated into the training set of known taxa. BugID has several advantages over other automated insect classification systems, including automated handling of specimens, the ability to isolate nontarget and novel species, and the ability to identify specimens across different stages of larval development.
41318751|Establishment of dreissenid mussels in aquatic systems is often accompanied by major changes in the abundance, diversity, and community composition of benthic invertebrates. However, few studies have been published that address the effects of long-term dreissenid presence on the littoral benthos inhabiting hard substrata in lakes. We present the results of a depth-stratified, quantitative survey of littoral benthos conducted at 4 sites in 1993, just before dreissenid invasion, and in 2008, 14y after the establishment of dreissenids in Lake Simcoe, Ontario. Average densities of nondreissenid invertebrates were 45 greater in 2008 than in 1993. Amphipods, isopods, chironomids and oligochaetes underwent the largest increases in absolute abundance. The taxonomic diversity of the benthic invertebrate community ( diversity) increased significantly. Community structure was more similar within and between depths and sites in 2008 than in 1993, a result implying lower  diversity of the postdreissenid littoral benthos. In addition, fewer differences were found in the densities of organisms between sampling locations in 2008 than in 1993. We suggest that dreissenids increase resource availability to benthic organisms and homogenize the littoral benthos by increasing the evenness of the distribution of food and physical-habitat resources across sites and depths. The transformation of the littoral benthic community of Lake Simcoe reflects a major change in the distribution of energy in the lake and is consistent with a dreissenid-mediated redirection of production from the pelagic to the littoral zone.
20491121|Leaf-litter decomposition and associated macroinvertebrate communities were compared in standardized leaf packs across forest streams in recently clearcut (
4095659|River InVertebrate Prediction And Classification System
10.2307/1468446|Published data on stream periphyton, lake phytoplankton, and ocean phytoplankton were analyzed to 1) quantify regression models relating daily gross primary production (GPP) to chlorophyll a (chl a) standing stock and water temperature, 2) compare regressions across assemblages, and 3) compare the precision of regression estimates of daily primary production and of production integrated over time to those obtained by measurements using radioisotopes. Regression models predicting daily GPP explained between 29% and 86% of the variance in Log GPP with chl a accounting for 28 to 85% of the explained variance. Regression models differed significantly across assemblages. Chlorophyll-specific production, corrected for the effect of temperature, declined with increasing chl a standing stock presumably because of increased self shading, and was lower in stream periphyton than in lake or marine phytoplankton presumably because of reduced nutrient diffusion in algal mats. Gross primary production was more intensely related to water temperature in stream periphyton (Q<sub>10</sub> = 2.5) than in either ocean phytoplankton (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.2) or lake phytoplankton (Q<sub>10</sub> = 1.4). Precision, measured as the error factor (EF) by which means have to be multiplied or divided to obtain the limits of a 95% confidence interval, was lower for regression estimates of daily production (EF = 3.4-6.7) and for production integrated over time (EF = 3.4) than for measurements of daily production (EF = 1.2-2). Considering the reduced effort required to obtain estimates of primary production using these regression models, we argue that they could be useful when coarse production estimates are sufficient or when adequate resources are not available to make direct measurements.
10.2307/1467421|The American chestnut (Castanea dentata) was a dominant canopy tree throughout a large area of the deciduous forest of eastern North America until its virtual extirpation during the early 1900s due to an introduced fungal blight. It was replaced mainly by species of oak and, in places, hickory. This study examined some of the potential effects that this species shift may have had on headwater streams, focusing on processing rates and nutritional quality of chestnut versus red oak (Quercus rubra) and pignut hickory (Carya glabra), and on consumption rates and growth and fecundity of shredding macroinvertebrates fed the different leaf species. Processing rates of chestnut and hickory leaves were significantly faster than that for oak. Protein analyses showed that the nutritional quality of leaves varied in a manner similar to the processing coefficients. Laboratory studies showed that the limnephilid caddisfly Pycnopsyche luculenta consumed significantly more chestnut and hickory leaves than oak leaves. The cranefly Tipula abdominalis showed a similar but non-significant trend. Experiments with the nemourid stonefly Shipsa rotunda indicated that leaf species consumed did not affect emergence success, adult sex ratios, or mean time to emergence. However, individuals reared on chestnut had significantly faster specific growth rates and adult body mass than individuals reared on oak. There was a trend toward greater fecundity of females reared on chestnut versus oak leaves. Shipsa exhibited a response to hickory leaves that was similar to that for chestnut. Headwater streams in the area affected by the blight may have experienced subtle changes at the population, community, and ecosystem levels due to the demise of the chestnut.
20491130|Interest in understanding the influence of ultraviolet-B (UVB; 280320 nm) radiation in aquatic ecosystems has increased since the early 1990s. Pollution from historic mining operations coupled with physicochemical characteristics of Rocky Mountain streams that increase exposure of benthic communities to UVB provided an opportunity to examine how UVB interacted with heavy metal contamination to structure stream communities. We integrated a series of UVB addition experiments done in stream microcosms with a large-scale UVB shading experiment to test the hypothesis that effects of UVB were greater on benthic communities from metal-polluted streams than from reference streams. Microcosm experiments involved short-term exposure (710 d) of natural benthic macroinvertebrate communities collected from reference and metal-contaminated sites to lamp-generated UVB. In all cases, abundance decreased in UVB-treated streams compared to controls. Moreover, effects of UVB addition were significantly greater on communities from metal-polluted sites than from reference sites. The field experiment involved shading portions of the streambed from UVB for 60 d at 12 streams along a Zn gradient. Median Zn concentration at these sites ranged between 5 and 530 g/L, and mean UVB reaching the streambed varied from 6.5 to 29.0 J/cm
4095689|Live-trapping surveys recorded populations of the platypus,
4095676|Leaf breakdown, a key functional process, was examined in 3 glacial streams, 3 alpine springbrooks, and a rock-glacier stream in the Swiss Alps. Environmental conditions within each stream type were expected to significantly affect leaf breakdown rates among streams. Individual leaf packs (7 g fresh mass) of alder (
10.2307/1468369|We determined the extent of macroinvertebrate recovery in a former pesticide-treated stream (FTS) relative to a reference stream (RS) by examining macroinvertebrates colonizing red maple (Acer rubrum L.) litter bags between 5 to 10 y following pesticide treatment. Mean abundance and biomass, variability in abundance and biomass (using the coefficient of variation [CV]), and assemblage structure were compared both within and among years to assess recovery. The 5 y of study included 3 drought years followed by 2 wet years. Mean total abundance and biomass of macroinvertebrates, and that of most functional feeding groups (FFG) did not significantly differ between streams during this study, nor did within-year variability of these means, indicating macroinvertebrates in FTS had recovered relative to RS. Some exceptions to the above patterns (shredder abundance and mean annual gatherer biomass) resulted from the dynamics of a single taxon in each group (Leuctra and Paraleptophlebia, respectively). Macroinvertebrate assemblage structure in litter bags was similar between streams throughout the study as shown by their similar ordination scores; hence, assemblage structure had also recovered. In each stream, mean annual abundance and biomass of total macroinvertebrates and of each FFG, aside from shredder abundance, differed significantly among years. However, assemblage structure was generally similar among years. Among-year CVs were usually lower than within-year CVs because macroinvertebrate abundance and biomass fluctuated more during a year than it did from year to year, and different processes apparently contributed to the variation observed at these 2 time scales. For example, juvenile development time influenced within-year CVs, indicating that life-history characteristics affected temporal variability of macroinvertebrate abundance and biomass. Examination of both the means and their variances was useful for determining the extent of recovery and how macroinvertebrates responded to natural environmental variability. The detailed analysis of temporal dynamics at different time scales afforded by the CV supported our contention that FTS had recovered from the pesticide application relative to RS.
10.2307/1467596|Using the spiralling concept, this study assessed the relative importance of temperature, current velocity, leaf biomass, fine particulate organic matter, and leaf type in determining phosphorus retention in woodland streams. To accomplish this objective, streamside artificial streams and two contrasting leaf types were used. A labile leaf type (dogwood), typical of successional forest vegetation, and a more refractory leaf type (oak) characteristic of mature forest species were chosen. Leaves were picked just before abscission and air dried. Dogwood leaves were added to three streams and oak leaves to three other streams. Phosphorus uptake experiments were conducted in the streams during November 1987-June 1988 and November 1988-June 1989. All streams were least retentive of phosphorus in December, the coldest month of the year, and more retentive in the warmer spring and summer months. Phosphorus uptake was not correlated with microbial biomass or activity on leaves or with leaf biomass. However, streams with oak leaves were more retentive than streams with dogwood leaves. Measurements of penetrance (i.e., weight required to push a metal rod through the leaf) revealed that dogwood leaves were softer than oak leaves. The soft dogwood leaves were less effective at retarding water flow and therefore velocity was typically faster in dogwood streams (p < 0.05; Pearson's correlation). This higher velocity apparently contributed to lower retention. These results suggest that phosphorus retention under conditions of this experiment was governed primarily by temperature and water velocity. Coarse and fine particulate organic matter biomass and composition did influence retention, but their impact was secondary to the effects of temperature and velocity.
1468486|BRIDGES is a recurring feature of J-NABS intended to provide a forum for the interchange of ideas and information between basic and applied researchers in benthic science. Articles in this series focus on topical research areas and linkages between basic and applied aspects of research, monitoring, policy, and education. Readers with ideas for topics should contact Associate Editors Nick Aumen and Marty Gurtz.
1468092|Interactions between benthic predators and pelagic prey, such as larval odonates and
41318766|Small dams are ubiquitous yet poorly understood features in many streams. Dam removal is being used increasingly in stream restoration projects as a means to enhance habitat connectivity and ecosystem function. However, habitat- and assemblage-level effects of small dams on stream mollusk assemblages are poorly documented. We examined associations between stream physicochemical habitat variables and mollusk assemblages at 22 small (<10m) dams in 3
1468410|Detailed studies of stream N uptake were conducted in a prairie reach and gallery forest reach of Kings Creek on the Konza Prairie Biological Station. Nutrient uptake rates were measured with multiple short-term enrichments of
10.2307/1467732|We measured total polyphenol concentrations, condensed tannin levels, and processing rates in a temperate Australian stream for the leaves of 12 species of eucalypts, and six other species, of which six eucalypt species and two other species were tropical. Processing rates, polyphenol concentrations, and condensed tannin levels were not significantly different between the tropical and temperate species. There was a significant regression between tannin level and processing rate in degree days for the 12 eucalypt species, but no significant relationships between total polyphenol concentrations and processing rates, or tannin level and processing rate if the non-eucalypt species were included in the regression model. We suggest that the influence of tannin level on processing may only be apparent when the "noise" caused by variation in other aspects of leaf chemistry and between-site variability in overall processing rates is reduced.
