10.2307/3503635| Two native parasites of eugregarines viz. Leidyana subramanii and Retractocephalus dhawanii sp. n. from grasshoppers were evaluated for their pathogenicity on Atractomorpha crenulata (Fab.) in the laboratory. Third instars of A. crenulata were reared on castor leaves treated with different concentrations (0, 2 10
10.2307/3503546|The ensiferan family Anostostomatidae, formerly included in the Stenopelmatidae, or called the Henicidae or Mimnermidae is diagnosed and a world checklist of species is presented. Some longstanding nomenclatural problems are resolved through examination of most of the types and many new synonyms at the generic and species levels are presented. Two new monospecific genera are eastablished for species in Australia and New Zealand: Transaevum laudatum and Motuweta isolata
25473462|Although large size is considered an evolved antipredator defense for some vertebrates and shellfish, large size is generally not considered an adaptive defensive trait in insects. Here we propose that large size in chemically defended grasshoppers has evolved as a beneficial antipredator trait. The lubber grasshoppers Romalea microptera and Taeniopoda eques are the largest grasshoppers in North America north of Mexico. These closely related species escape most vertebrate predation by possessing powerful predator-deterrent toxins and by nocturnal roosting. We hypothesize that escape from vertebrate predation allowed lubbers to evolve a larger body size, increased fecundity and provided many other benefits, including defense against invertebrate predators. To test the hypotheses that large lubber size reduces predation, we conducted feeding trials with wolf spiders (Honga carolinensis), assassin bugs (Arilus cristatus), preying mantids (Tenodera aridifolia), fire ants (Solenopsis invicta), frogs (Rana pipiens), and birds (Sturnus vulgaris and Passer domesticus). Our results show that larger lubber instars enjoyed a highly significant advantage vis--vis predators, demonstrating the adaptive value of large size against both vertebrate and invertebrate predators. Adult lubbers were generally immune from predation. It appears that lubbers have evolved to occupy a relatively predator-free ecological space: they are too large to be attacked by most invertebrate predators and too toxic for most vertebrate predators. We propose an evolutionary scenario whereby a change in feeding behavior toward vertebrate-toxic plants served as an evolutionary breakthrough, setting in motion the subsequent evolution of increased chemical defense and large body size in lubbers. To determine if large size is associated with chemical defense in grasshoppers in general, we compared body sizes of  40 toxic vs  3,000 nontoxic grasshopper species. Our results show that chemically defended species tend to be larger than nondefended grasshoppers, supporting an association between chemical defense and large size in insects. Large size may be favored in insects when vertebrate predation is removed as a strong selective factor.
10.2307/3503454|To evaluate the effects of natural and formulated neem seed extracts (Azadirachta indica A. Juss), pure and Azadirachtin-enriched neem oil were tested on first and second instar nymphs of the variegated grasshopper, Zonocerus variegatus (L.), in laboratory, field cage, and field trials in the Republic of Benin (West Africa). All investigated neem products demonstrated a strong antifeedant effect. Feeding activity was also reduced when neem oil was topically applied to nymphs. Eight days after application mortality rates reached between 40 and 50%. These results are of practical relevance, since pronounced morphogenetic defects to antennae, wings, and legs occurred within the surviving population. The effects of neem oil on aggregation behavior of nymphs under field conditions proved to be very effective in reducing grasshopper populations to acceptable levels.
10.2307/3503580|A new grasshopper species, Physocrobylus tessa, collected from the East Usambara Mountains (NE Tanzania) is described and the genus Physocrobylus Dirsh, 1951 is assigned to the subfamily Coptacridinae on the basis of external and internal characters. Some notes on the ecology of the species are made. Modified keys to the African genera of the subfamily Coptacridinae and to the two species of the genus are given
3657124|We describe 2 new and closely allied tettigoniid species, recently discovered on mountain slopes in southwestern continental Greece. Though they differ in habitus, coloration, morphology (modified paraprocts) and habitat from most members of Rhacocleis, the new species have been arranged tentatively in this genus. Unknown morphological characters and faunistic data for some other poorly known Greek Rhacocleis species (R. ferdinandi Willemse & Tilmans 1987 and edentata Willemse 1982) are included.
23610412|Multiple paternity within clutches has been recorded among a variety of organisms. The degree of genetic similarity between parents may influence the number and viability of offspring. Females may therefore mate with several males as an insurance against sterile, low quality or genetically incompatible mates, but also to obtain half sibling offspring that are genetically and phenotypically more diverse. We examine the links between polyandry, multiple paternity and offspring phenotypic diversity in the color polymorphic pygmy grasshopper Tetrix subulata. By experimentally mating virgin females and genotyping the resulting offspring using microsatellite markers, we demonstrate that polyandrous females can produce offspring sired by different males. Analyses of microsatellite data and color patterns of captive reared families produced by wild caught females that were not mated in the laboratory, confirmed that multiple paternity occurs in the wild, and that it may increase color morph diversity among half-siblings. Polyandrous mating behavior may thus influence the evolutionary dynamics and maintenance of color polymorphism in this species.
23610403|The orchid mantis, Hymenopus coronatus (Insecta: Mantodea), is renown for its visual resemblance to a flower blossom. It has been hypothesised that the 'flowerlike' orchid mantis is an aggressive mimic that attracts pollinators as prey items. This is the first study into the morphology of the orchid mantis that explores this widely discussed hypothesis. We quantified color and shape patterns of orchid mantises that are likely to present visual cues to pollinators. We used spectrometry to measure their overall coloration and geometric morphometric techniques to quantify the shape of their 'petal-like' mid- and hind-legs. This was done for both juvenile and adult female orchid mantises. To investigate how this stimulus may be perceived by a pollinating insect we investigated within-individual color variation using physiological models of hymenopteran vision. Mantises were found to reflect primarily UV- absorbing white. Visual models indicated that within individuals, different body parts did not contrast highly in color. Femoral lobes showed patterns of bilateral symmetry with juveniles expressing similar patterns of shape variation to adults. The results are used to provide specific and testable hypotheses as to how the morphology of the orchid mantis may constitute a signal directed towards pollinating insects.
10.2307/3503513|Trimerotropine grasshoppers are characterized by high levels of chromosome variation - both within and between species - that has prompted a subdivision of the genus into 4 cytologically distinct groups. It has been suggested that some of the chromosomal variants may have played a direct role during species formation because of their negative impact upon meiosis, fertility, and viability. Consequently, such rearrangements have the potential to act as efficient isolating mechanisms that can initiate divergent evolution and species formation by severely reducing the fitness of any hybrids. We have analyzed an area of overlap between Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner and T. fratercula McNeill in New Mexico. Here, the blue/yellow wing and hind femora color differences used to separate the species in other areas are no longer diagnostic. However, the two species do differ in chromosome number due to a chromosome fusion difference involving autosomes 4 and 5. We identified 7 individuals from 3 localities that are heterozygous for the fusion and analyzed both the behavior of their chromosomes during meiosis and the production of aneuploid gametes after spermatogenesis. A comparison of these data, obtained from hybrids between two closely related species with previous analyses involving more distantly related hybrids but involving the same fusion, has allowed us to make an assessment of the role of this chromosomal rearrangement in inhibiting gene flow between taxa that still hybridize in nature. The analysis clearly indicates that, like the other chromosomes within the hybrid genome, the behavior of the chromosome rearrangement depends to a large extent upon the relatedness of the two parents. Consequently, we conclude that the chromosome fusion that distinguishes these two species has played no direct role as an isolating mechanism during the speciation process.
43738201|Early stages of narrow-winged saltbush grasshopper, Aeoloplides tenuipennis, have not been figured in the literature, hindering their separation from economically harmful or benign species of grasshoppers and hampering ecological or taxonomic investigations. During June and July 2015, five instars of A. tenuipennis were collected or photographed at two sites in Cochise County, Arizona, U.S.A. These are illustrated alongside a brief morphometric table. Notes on habitat, identification and polychromatism, and a comparison with 4th and 5th instars of the widespread snakeweed grasshopper, Hesperotettix viridis viridis, are included.
3503664| A project to develop a biological control strategy for locusts and grasshoppers is being conducted in Mexico. Major activities include: surveys of entomopathogenic fungi, laboratory screening of isolates, testing of methods for mass production, and formulation and field evaluation of virulent strains. The Centro Nacional de Referencia de Control Biolgico (CNRCB) has, in its entomopathogen collection, 40 isolates of Metarhizium spp. obtained from the Central American locust (Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons). The isolates MaaPL16, MaaPL25 and MaPL40 are among the most virulent. A comparative analysis on Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA patterns between two Mexican isolates of Metarhizium, MaPL40 and MaPL32, and an Australian isolate of Metarhizum anisopliae var. acridum (FI-985), showed that the Mexican isolates and the Australian isolate have similar DNA fingerprints, suggesting they may belong to the same variety. Field trials using oil formulations of the MaPL40 and MaPL32 isolates against hopper bands of S. piceifrons piceifrons, applied at a rate of 50g of conidia in oil, 1 l ha
25822719|We reared Baeacris punctulatus (Orthoptera: Acrididae) in cages under seminatural conditions in Cuiab, Mato Grosso, Brazil. Five nymphal instars were recorded. One generation required  82 d (24 d egg stage + 43 d nymphal development + 15 d preoviposition period). Colony females laid  4.4 egg pods during their 30-d adult life. Pods contained  13 eggs, and most eggs hatched, giving  56 offspring per female. Survival during the nymphal stage was 38.9%, with highest mortality in 4th-5th instars. Average and maximum lifespans from hatch to adult death were 73 and 80 d, respectively. Field sampling in Campo Novo do Parecis and Parecis Plateau regions of Brazil showed that adults and older nymphs were present in all months of the year, but that oviposition and young nymphs were scarce during the dry-cool months of May to mid-August. Overall, our study suggests that in the State of Mato Grosso, there are 3.9 to 5.1 generations per year. The various instars could be differentiated by the number of antennal segments, body size, and shape and size of wing pads. Annual and regional variation in temperature and moisture may influence the life history and population dynamics of B. punctulatus.
10.2307/3503441|A list and notes on species and subspecies of Orthoptera collected in western Turkey are given. One new genus, Bolua gen. n. and four new species, Poecilimon ataturki sp. n., Poecilimon kocaki sp. n., Bolua turkiyae sp. n. and Stenobothrus (Crotalacris) selmae sp. n. are described.
40344837|Microsatellite markers are preferred for fine-scale population genetic studies requiring high resolution. The grasshopper Hesperotettix viridis (Thomas) is an oligophagous species that feeds on composites and often exhibits locally restricted diets. Divergence in host plant use in some localities is seen where co-occurring subpopulations select alternate plant species, as expected with the evolution of host shifts and associated lineage divergence. To characterize the host-associated divergence patterns among populations of H. viridis, we developed markers from two microsatellite-enriched genomic libraries. Here we report the characterization and optimization of seven polymorphic di-and tri-nucleotide microsatellite loci for this species. One hundred and six individuals from 5 populations were tested for polymorphism. The number of aleles varied from 4 to 38 in all the populations. Ho ranged from 0.339 to 0.790. Homozygote excess was observed across loci, perhaps due to inbreeding. This is the first report of microsatellite markers for the subfamily Melanoplinae.
40344838|The species kiarae sp. nov. is described on the basis of an incomplete fossil specimen yielded by the Pennsylvanian deposit of Piesberg near Osnabrck (Germany). A second incomplete specimen is tentatively assigned to the species. The species is erected under the new cladotypic nomendatural procedure, but a proper Linnaean name is also provided (Vorjexala kiarae gen. and sp. nov.). The holotype (and most complete specimen) is interpreted as a hind wing, and the species assigned to the taxon Archaeorthoptera. The combination of a simple CuPa, a common stem MP + CuA (diverging from M + CuA) separating into MP and CuA at the point of fusion of CuA with CuPa, a brief connection of the anterior branch of MA with RP, and a branched CuPb, indicate that the new species does not belong to any of the Archaeorthoptera groups previously reported in the Pennsylvanian. According to the estimated hind-wing length of the species (ranging from 85 to 100 mm), kiarae sp. nov. is the largest Archaeorthoptera of the period, and one the largest ever. The new species shares the habitus of phasmatodeans, but definitive assignment to this group would require new investigations of the wing venation of its representatives.
40344835|The genus Lithodusa Bey-Bienko, 1951 is revised, including the description of a new species. Its two species differ in many aspects of morphology, mainly in genitalia, and can most easily be separated by length of tegmina. The calling songs of both species are quite similar in amplitude pattern, as well as in spectral properties. The genus is distributed from the Caucasus to northeast Turkey. The relationships of Lithodusa to other genera of the Tettigoniidae/-inae are discussed and a list of genera belonging to Drymadusini presented.
40344839|Vegetated inland sand dunes occupy thousands of square kilometers on the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States. Many of these dunes are found along rivers where during glacial times, west winds deposited sand from dry river bottoms onto eastern banks. One such dune system, known as the Ohoopee Dunes, is found along the Ohoopee and Little Ohoopee Rivers in eastern Georgia. Because the grasshopper fauna of these dunes had not been well documented, a faunal survey was initiated. Collections focused on sand dunes along the Little Ohoopee River. Twenty-two species of grasshoppers were collected in the scrub-like habitat of the dunes. Comparison of the fauna of this scrub habitat to scrub habitat in Florida revealed two different faunas. Eight species found in the dunes are typically restricted to sandy soils in the southeastern United States. Of these, several rare species including Melanoplus bispinosus, M. quercicola, (both new records for Georgia), M. carnegiei, and M. stegocercus, were found to inhabit the Ohoopee Dunes. Diagnostic characters of the genitalia of M. carnegiei and M. quercicola are provided for the first time.
10.2307/3503519|The singing rate of the bushcricket Steropleurus stali was examined, and it was found that males sang at different rates when they had a 'full-sized' spermatophore than when they had a smaller spermatophore (i.e. shortly after mating). Males are presumably redirecting energy into recouping losses after spermatophore transfer. The reduced song, however, can attract females, and males increase their chances of mating multiply by maintaining a low level advertisment, as the operational sex ratio is female-biased.
3503735| Bryophyma debilis, a poorly known grasshopper from the wooded savanna of West Africa, was reared for the first time under laboratory conditions. Morphological descriptions of adults and nymphs were made previously. We describe some behavioral traits (aggressiveness, stridulation, egg-laying), and record data on nymphal development and reproductive biology. /// Bryophyma debilis, un criquet peu connu des savannes arbustives d'Afrique de l'Ouest, a t lev pour la premire fois en laboratoire. Des descriptions morphologiques et anatomiques ont t faites sur les larves et les imagos. Nous dcrivons dans cet article quelques aspects de son comportement (aggressivit, stridulation, ponte) ainsi que le dveloppement larvaire et l'activit gnsique des reproductrices. 
10.2307/3503424|Extensive searching by Sandoval has discovered two more previously unknown species of the genus Timema, in southern California, one parthenogenetic, the other having both sexes.
4122953|The effects of four extracts of Solanum sodomaeum fruit peel (Solanaceae) were observed in the laboratory on Schistocera gregaria fifth instar larvae. Larvae fed with lettuce soaked in various extracts showed a decrease in their food consumption, due probably to a repulsive and antifeedant effect of this plant. Both survival and development were affected: prolongation of the fifth instar and the appearance of malformations at the imaginal molt.
10.2307/3503633| A lectotype has been designated for Carausius australicus Brunner 1907, which is listed as a new synonym of Carausius mercurius Stl 1877. This species and Lonchodes nigropunctatus Kirby 1896 (so far only reported from Queensland) have been transferred to a new genus, Austrocarausius, with L. nigropunctatus designated type species. Adults are redescribed. Eggs of both species are described for the first time. Figures of adults and eggs are given. 
10.2307/3503498| During the 1996/7 season, three field trials were undertaken to assess the effect of different formulations on field efficacy of Metarhizium flavoviride (isolate FI-985) for control of Australia's most serious grasshopper pest, Phaulacridium vittatum (Sjostedt), known as the wingless grasshopper. In the first trial, a mineral oil (Propar 12), a vegetable oil (canola), and a water-based spray were compared with a rice/conidia bait. All were applied at 4 10
41759704|The genus Necaxacris Roberts, 1939 (Acrididae: Melanoplinae) is endemic to Mexico. Two species were previously known for this genus: N. micans (Hebard, 1932) and a species collected by Roberts in 1936, mentioned in litteris by Descamps (1975) as N. moctezumae Roberts, 1975, but never formally described. We here describe and assign the name of N. tamazunchale n. sp. for this taxon and describe three additional new species: N. azura n. sp., N. afurculae n. sp. and N. davidi n. sp. A revision, description and illustration of diagnostic characters to identify the species that make up the genus are provided for the first time. Information on distribution and habitat of the species treated is also provided herein.
25622286|Grasshoppers are ecologically significant because many animals consume them as a major protein source and thus any change in their population dynamics may have detrimental effects on an ecosystem. This study evaluates effects of mercury (Hg) on the developmental periods of different instars of a common short-horned grasshopper, Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall). Newly hatched nymphs were fed foods treated with three sublethal concentrations of HgCl i.e., dose 1 (d1): 20 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, dose 2 (d2): 40 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, and dose 3 (d3): 80 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, until they reached the adult stage. The experiment was conducted for two consecutive generations (F1 and F2), tested in the same way for the same variables, in order to observe if there is any additional adversity in the latter generation. As HgCl concentrations in food increased, the Total Rearing Time (TRT) for each instar significantly increased, whereas survival, adult body weight and adult life span significantly decreased. The results for the F2 generation almost always showed more severe effects than those of the F1 generation.
20066577|Extensive areas of prairie were once found in the southeastern United States; however, in the last 200 y much of this habitat type has been destroyed. The largest of these prairie regions, the Black Belt Prairie, extended through portions of Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Because the grasshopper fauna of these endangered grasslands has not been well documented, a survey of grasshoppers was initiated, and collections made at 23 Black Belt Prairie remnants in Alabama and Mississippi over a seven-year period. A total of 33 grasshopper species, and the Melanoplus femurrubrum  propinquus intermediate, from two families and six subfamilies were found from the 23 sites. Several notable species, including one with a disjunct or discontinuous distribution, Pseudopomala brachyptera, were collected. An annotated list is provided.
3503701|Shistocerca gregaria, Dociostaurus maroccanus and Locusta migratoria remain the most fearsome orthopteran pests in Algeria. While multiple efforts are engaged in the forecasting and control of S. gregaria, Moroccan and migratory locusts draw less attention. Survey and antilocust control teams have indicated infestations of D. maroccanus in the western and eastern highlands and of L. migratoria in the Central Sahara. Field investigations reported here show that the initial swarming of both locusts may occur as a consequence of human agricultural practices that make them more successful in their new habitats: increasing locust densities are correlated with human-induced changes in vegetation structure. In this paper anthropogenic impact on locust population density is analyzed using various data methods.
25822718|Azadirachtin prolonged the incubation period and reduced hatchability of desert locust eggs. Many embryos suffered morphological deformation of the compound eyes and legs and incomplete development of abdominal segments. Histologically, the brain was poorly developed, this being reflected in the compound eyes, neurosecretory cells and entire ventral nerve cord. The embryonic cuticle was insufficiently deposited. The electrophoretic mobilities of the egg proteins after the addition of 200 ppm of azadirachtin were characterized by SDS-PAGE analysis and revealed the appearance of new protein bands and the disappearance of others. We conclude that after suitable field trials, the use of azadirachtin may be a viable alternative to chemical insecticides for control of grasshoppers in Egypt.
3503736|In contrast to pests developing in close association with a particular host crop, locusts and grasshoppers are often controlled in natural or semi-natural landscapes, exposing structurally and functionally diverse communities to agrochemicals, chemicals to which they are not adapted. This suggests that insecticide-induced perturbations may be severe. On the other hand, with acridids being highly mobile, exposure of non-target biota at any one location tends to be rare, and insecticides might be seen as yet another component in a canon of stochastic and deterministic, natural or human-induced environmental catastrophes and selective forces, shaping communities and ecosystems. Moreover, habitat loss is by far the most important single threat to biodiversity, so why should doubt be cast on the potential and resilience of populations to recover from occasional insecticide stress? This paper reviews the environmental impact, as well as ecological and conceptual characteristics of acridid pest control. It concludes that ecologically significant risks may arise, in particular in ecosystems exposed to multiple stressors. Four priorities in ecological risk assessment and acridid pest management are proposed: 1) delimitation and characterization of sensitive areas within locust and grasshopper habitats, 2) ecosystem-specific, long-term field studies and operational monitoring, 3) real-time stewardship of control campaigns, with adequate participation of stakeholders, and 4) incorporation of the precautionary principle into decision-making and risk management.
3657129|At the time of the major outbreak of desert locust in the late 1980s, FAO convened a meeting to discuss control operations in view of the worldwide ban on the use of dieldrin, hitherto regarded as the most important insecticide to control locusts. An outcome of the meeting was to set up an independent advisory body, the Pesticide Referee Group (PRG), to examine the scientific data obtained from laboratory and field trials submitted to FAO. The PRG was expected to make recommendations on which insecticides were effective and the dosage that should be used, either as a barrier treatment or for full-cover applications. The remit of the PRG was subsequently extended to consider environmental data and indicate the possible risk that the effective insecticides pose to various categories of nontarget fauna. The aim of the recommendations has been to give locust-affected countries a choice of suitable insecticides, to avoid the previous problems of maintaining stocks of only one insecticide, and to allow flexibility in relation to possible environmental impact. The need for ULV formulations, with specifications that include appropriate volatility and viscosity requirements, is stressed for operational reasons. Stocks of these formulations can be reformulated for use against other pests to avoid long-term storage or obsolesence. Attention has been given to new alternatives, including insect growth regulators and the biopesticide Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum. The PRG has requested feedback on operational use of insecticides, including these new products, so that the list can be refined and extended.
10.2307/3503593|Three Australian genera of apterous crickets of the Nemobiinae (Gryllidae) are described as new. Both Territirritia and Calperum, gen. nov., are described from a mallee habitat in South Australia where they occur in litter in sparsely vegetated areas. Both are monotypic. The other, Ngamarlanguia, gen. nov., similarily monotypic, is a troglobitic species from caves in the Cape Range region of Western Australia. This cricket is remarkably cave-adapted in lacking eyes, tegmina, wings and auditory tympana. It is pale brown in color and has extraordinarily long antennae. A discussion of the significant features of the cave fauna of the Cape Range peninsula, W. A. is presented. A table listing important diagnostic characters used in separating the genera of nemobiine crickets is provided.
10.2307/3503456|A long-term investigation of rangeland grasshopper assemblages in southeastern Wyoming has been undertaken to determine if: 1) population dynamics are eruptive or gradient, and 2) suppression of localized hot-spots (i.e., an infestion of economically damaging rangeland species at a density of  9.6 grasshoppers/ m
10.2307/3503603|Vanzoliniella sambophila a new genus and species of phalangopsid cricket is described from southeastern Brazil, and its acoustical emissions during courtship are described and figured. Courting males perform an amazing combination of forewing stridulation and foreleg drumming on the substrate
41759708|Grasshopper communities were sampled in three associated habitats of the Central Basin of Tennesee: cedar glades, xeric limestone prairies, and cedar hardwood forest. Twenty-five grasshopper species were collected across all three habitats. Eleven species were found in the cedar glades, 12 species were collected in the xeric limestone prairies, and six species were collected from the cedar-hardwood forests. A Principal Component Analysis of the resulting species lists indicated that grasshopper community composition differed significantly between each habitat. Four new state records for Tennessee were documented during this survey. An annotated species list is presented.
20066581|Reed (Phragmites australis) stands of the Amudarya River delta south of the Aral Sea in Uzbekistan serve as permanent breeding areas of the Asian migratory locust (Locusta migratoria migratoria). Locust swarms threaten agricultural fields adjacent to the delta. Every year, specialists from the Uzbekistan Plant Protection Service attempt to survey this vast delta to assess growth of reed which provides a habitat for locust nymphal infestations. Inferences regarding locust distribution are drawn and recommendations for chemical treatments made, based on very limited samples. This often results in blanketing wetland areas with broad-spectrum insecticides, thus harming nontarget fauna. In this study, early season Landsat data, coinciding with the locust survey planning stage, were used to generate a map of potential locust habitat. Using iterative image classification and reference data, a reed distribution map was generated with an overall accuracy of 74% (kappa agreement = 0.686). Landsat data were able to correctly identify 87% of the reed beds, but had some difficulty separating other vegetation when it was mixed with reeds. Minimizing these errors would improve the overall accuracy; however, this does not diminish the utility of this tool for locust habitat monitoring. Incorporation of remotely sensed data into current survey practices could provide precise information about the spatial distribution of reeds. Plant protection specialists could then use this to optimize planning and execution of antilocust treatments, reducing the negative environmental impact of these.
10.2307/3503608|In previous two-choice discrimination studies involving two males and one female of Amblycorypha parvipennis, we showed that heavier and louder males achieve greater mating success (Galliart and Shaw 1991) and that louder males attract more females (Galliart and Shaw 1992, Galliart 1993). In this study, we asked if heavier and/or louder males sing more continuously during their diel period of singing. We recorded four different singing males on 12 different nights and achieved records of 29 males for 7 h and eight males for 2.5-6.6 h. Mean percent time singing was 80% and 16 males sang for 100% of their recorded time. Male weight was positively correlated with percent time singing. Males lost an average of 7.8% of their initial body weight. Larger males lost more weight than smaller males but the percentage of weight loss did not differ. The ability of heavier males to sing longer than lighter males, while losing the same percentage of weight, suggests that heavier males have more energy to allocate to singing.
10.2307/3503589|The distributions of 117 Canary Island orthopteroid species belonging to Orders Blattaria, Mantodea, Orthoptera, and Phasmida are presented based on the authors' collections, museum specimens, and literature since the last list in 1954. The number of species in each order and the percentage endemic to the archipelago are: Blattaria 24 (50%); Mantodea 9 (67%); Orthoptera 83 (37%), and Phasmida 1 (0%). The same for families of Orthoptera follows: Arcididae 41 (41%); Gryllidae 18 (17%); Gryllotalpidae 2 (0%); Pamphagidae 4 (100%); Pyrgomorphidae 1 (0%); Tetrigidae 1 (0%); and Tettigoniidae 16 (44%). Orthopteroid species diversity and the number of endemics were greatest on Tenerife (82 species, 24 endemics), followed by Gran Canaria (64 species, 17 endemics), and La Gomera (49 species, 14 endemics); Fuerteventura had the fewest number of species (28) and the lowest number of endemics (5). Tenerife supported the highest number of single-island endemics (8) and La Palma had the lowest (1). The highest percentages of endemics, 27% to 29%, occurred on Tenerife, La Gomera, La Palma, Lanzarote, and Gran Canaria; Fuerteventura had 18% and El Hierro 17%. New species, changes in nomenclature, and unconfirmed records are discussed, as are taxonomic problems ecountered in taxa of the acridid genera Sphingonotus and Acrotylus.
3657135|The formation of new species involves the evolution of barriers to gene exchange. One such barrier is sexual isolation, where divergent mate preferences prevent copulation between taxa. Sexual isolation can evolve via a number of processes, including natural selection, sexual selection, genetic drift, and reinforcing selection to avoid maladaptive hybridization. Conversely, gene flow between populations generally erodes the evolution of sexual isolation. In Timema cristinae walking stick insects, some sexual isolation between populations evolved through ecological divergence in hostplant use, implicating a role for natural selection. However, reinforcement and gene flow also contribute, such that sexual isolation is strongest when migration between hosts is high enough to result in selection to avoid hybridization, but low enough to prevent gene flow from eroding adaptive divergence in mate choice. Both parallel and contrasting patterns can be seen in other Orthopteroids. This variation among groups might reflect 1) the degree to which different groups are intimately associated with their food resources, 2) the types of traits used in mate choice, and 3) how the geographic arrangement of populations affects the opportunity for reinforcement.
24367402|Development affects many components of life history and fitness, including body size. The present study examined the influence of developmental pattern, specifically the number of nymphal instars, on body size (pronotum length) in the praying mantid Stagmomantis limbata Hahn. Mantids were reared in the laboratory from hatching, on standardized diet, to examine variation in instar number. These lab data were then used to assess developmental patterns for field-collected female nymphs. Laboratory-reared males and females varied in number of instars. Most females required 6 nymphal instars to reach adulthood (64%), whereas 36% underwent 7 instars. Seven-instar females reached the 4th, 5th, and 6th instars faster than six-instar females, but had shorter pronota than the six-instar females at each of these stages. Seven-instar females were longer than six-instar females at adulthood. Interestingly, the total developmental period from hatching to adulthood was similar for lab-reared seven-instar and six-instar females. In the lab, most males (91%) underwent 6 instars, with the remaining 9% following a five-instar pattern. By the 4th instar, differences between the sexes began to appear. From the 4th instar onwards, females typically took less time than males to reach each instar. From the 5th instar onwards, females were longer than the males, and were longer as adults. Variation in developmental pattern (number of instars) was evident among siblings from the same ootheca; such intra-clutch variability in number of instars may be a bet-hedging strategy by ovipositing females in a variable environment. The laboratory data allowed for the detection of six-instar and seven-instar patterns among the field-collected females. The field-collected data suggest that females undergoing 6 nymphal instars reach adulthood later in the season, and at smaller body size, than seven-instar females.
25473416|Some observations on the mating behavior of the Mediterranean ground mantis Ameles decolor are reported. Sexual cannibalism occurred between female and male; cannibalism occurred between adult males and between adult females. A courtship behavior of the male before mating is described for the first time. Comparisons with other taxa and explanations of courtship occurrence are given.
10.2307/3503414|A population of Praephippigera pachygaster (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) was studied in a traditional agrosystem in Northeast Algeria for two consecutive years. A list of forty five plant species of fallows is given. Sampling and marking methods showed a directional movement related to the drying out of vegetation. Some fallow plants were used as perches by adults. Crop/fallow rotation increases the edge effects and therefore could maintain P. pachygaster populations in fallows
25622288|The elaborate courtship behavior of the gomphocerine grasshopper Stenobothrus clavatus, endemic to a few mountains in Greece, incorporates acoustic signalling and visual display elements to prime the conspecific female. The courtship song, produced by rubbing hind legs against an elytral vein, can be divided into four consecutive phases. The basic movements of phases I, II and IV consist of simple up and interrupted downstrokes, with sound produced during the downstroke only. In contrast, phase III is characterized by a fast sound-producing elevation of the femora, a kick of the tibiae and other visual display elements, such as a fast raising of the antennae with their dark spatulate tips during each movement cycle. The latter is strongly pronounced and therefore a characteristic feature of this species. The stridulatory file of each hind leg consists of two parts. The proximal part bears a double row of little pegs, whereas the pegs in the distal part are regularly aligned in a single row. The proximal part of the stridulatory file is incorporated in sound production only during phase III. However, frequency spectra from different sound elements produced during phase III were similar. Nevertheless, differences are found between phase I/II and phase III/IV, which are ascribed to variations in contact pressure of the stridulatory file against the forewing, rather than to different portions of the stridulatory file being involved.
4122935|Male prairie mole crickets, Gryllotalpa major Saussure, studied in Oklahoma, sing sexual advertisement songs from constructed burrows in the soil. Here we report on variation in shape of the acoustic burrow mouth not previously described for this or other mole cricket species. We have identified six distinct shapes, of which only the 'slit' form has been previously described. Since the surface opening acts as the system 'radiator', we hypothesized that variation in the shape would account for at least some of the measured variation documented since 1993 in the songs produced by the population studied. We looked for patterns in the variation of dominant frequency of advertisement calls and maximum amplitude of calls that were linked to shape of burrow openings, but found none. Future work will focus on the role of previously documented weak higher harmonics in the G. major calling song, which might vary with differences in burrow mouth shape.
3503766|We tested the response of individual adult lubber grasshoppers in a wind tunnel to the odors of 3 plant species and to water vapor. Grasshoppers moved upwind to the odors of fresh-mashed narcissus and mashed Romaine lettuce, but not to water vapor, or in the absence of food odor. Males and females showed similar responses. Upwind movement tended to increase with the length of starvation (24, 48, or 72 h). The lack of upwind movement to water vapor implies that orientation toward the mashed plants was not simply an orientation to water vapor. These results support a growing data base that suggests that grasshoppers can use olfaction when foraging in the wild.
10.2307/3503584|A new cricket from Venezuela, Adenophallusia naiguatana gen. et sp. n., is described. Its most distinctive feature is the presence of a pair of sac-shaped epiphallic glands. This type of gland is not uncommon in certain members of South American phalangopsid crickets, but the present case seems to be the first reported from the Eneopteridae.
3503689|The grasshopper genus Sinaloa Scudder is composed of 8 species, 5 of which are new: S. behrens, S. nitida, S. pulchella, S. sipuri n. sp., S. uri n. sp., S. garabe n. sp., S. jubaami n. sp., and S. isena n. sp. Barytettix peninsulae from the southern tip of Baja California was incorrectly placed under Sinaloa by Bruner (1908) and Hebard (1925). The genus is known only from western Mexico (Sonora, Sinaloa, Nayarit, and Jalisco) where it occurs mostly in the lowlands. The species are differentiated mainly by the configuration of the male genitalia.
3503739|The control of grasshoppers in Brazil has been based exclusively on chemical insecticides (fenitrothion and malathion). However, as these products are known to be harmful to the environment, their massive use has caused concerns. In the face of pressure against their use, the development of alternative methods became imperative. Some species of entomopathogenic fungi can supplement or even replace chemical insecticides in the control of grasshoppers. An integrated research project began in Brazil in 1993 with the specific objective of developing bioinsecticides based on entomopathogenic microorganisms, especially fungi, to control grasshoppers. Activities centered in surveys, characterization, production, formulation, and field evaluation. Emphasis was given to developing the fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum as the most promising biocontrol candidate. It is now known that this pathogen can be used efficiently in the control of Rhammatocerus schistocercoides in Brazil and we are verifying its effects on non-target organisms, including other Orthoptera, Diptera and Hymenoptera.
41759695|A new species of Oecanthus Serville, 1831 is described from Texas. Oecanthus walkeri n. sp. Collins & Symes occurs in southern Texas on Seep Willow (Baccharis salicipholia), Tepejuage (Leucaena iveruienta) and Sugar Hackberry (Celtis laevigata) trees. O. walkeri is currently known only the Rio Grande Valley. Song analysis revealed a pulse pattern of constant trilling, similar to other constant toilers of the O. nigricornis species group, although the early evening calling pattern shows characteristics of the O. niveus group. This species was only found in trees, which is uncommon for the O. nigricornis group. The antennal markings are consistent with the O. nigricornis group; however, this is the first species of that group to have pale abdomen, pedicel and scape, while also having black flagellae. Notes are provided on physical morphology, phenology, habitat and song pulse rates at given temperatures.
10.2307/3503650| In 1993, the National Center for Biological Control in Mexico started a research project testing native isolates of Metarhizium spp. against the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons. The M. anisopliae var. acridum isolate MaPL40 was formulated in various vegetable and mineral oils and at both 7 and 27C; a formulation in citroline oil remained viable the longest. When applied to nymphs of S. p. piceifrons, the Median Lethal Time (MLT) was less for citroline oil formulations of M. anisopliae than aqueous suspension formulations, providing 100% mortality within 7 days. /// El Centro Nacional de Referencia de Control Biolgico en Mxico, inici en 1993 un proyecto cuyo objetivo principal es lograr la utilizacin de cepas nativas de Metarhizium spp. para el control biolgico de la langosta centroamericana Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons. En este artculo se presentan resultados sobre la viabilidad de M. anisopliae var. acridum, aislamiento MaPL40, formulado en aceites vegetales y minerales, bajo dos condiciones diferentes de temperatura; as como sobre la virulencia de la formulacin mas adecuada sobre ninfas de S.p.piceifrons. La formulacin de M.anisopliae en citrolina proporcion a ambas temperaturas, 7 y 27 C, la viabilidad mas alta de las conidias. El Tiempo Letal Medio (TLM) fu menor para la formulacin del hongo en citrolina que el de la formulacin en suspensin acuosa, obtenindose el 100% de mortalidad a los 7 das de iniciado el experimento. 
10.2307/3503405|The known species of Chinese Tettigoniodea include all the long-horned grasshoppers, katydids, camel crickets, cave crickets and leaf-rolling crickets, but do not include true crickets and mole crickets of the suborder Gryllodea, in the Grylloptera. All known species are listed along with original references, synonyms, types, type depositories and known distributions in China. The geographical territory covered by this catalogue includes both mainland China and Taiwan, some parts of (outer) Mongolia, Ussurian region (border of Russia), Changbai Mt. (N. Korea), Ryukyu Is. of Japan, Himalaya (border of India and Nepal) and Tonkin (border of Vietnam).
20789569|Rangeland grasshoppers have long been considered pests of serious economic importance and are key components of grassland food webs. Sampling protocols inform decisions to control grasshoppers. Preliminary observations while sampling rangeland grasshoppers indicated differences in species diversity and numbers captured, depending upon time of day. To test these differences, we used USDA-APHIS sweep-net sampling protocols at various times at four rangeland sites during 2006-2007 and compared mean numbers collected. Sweep sampling every hour from 06:00 to 12:00 revealed that adult and nymphal grasshopper numbers were significantly higher at 06:00 than either 07:00 or 08:00. Captures were similar throughout the afternoon. These patterns were also observed for adults of the most common species, Melanoplus femurrubrum (DeGeer). The results of this study have important implications for rangeland pest management decisions and ecological studies that estimate insect biomass as an indicator of food availability. Our results indicate that standardized sampling of grasshoppers in mixed-grass prairie rangeland should be conducted between 10:00 and 16:00.
10.2307/3503476|The long spines on the fore- and midlegs to katydids are usually believed to assist in catching and holding prey. Recent observations indicate that this is not always the case. The meso- and metasternal processes, however, seem to be used to stabilize larger prey during feeding.
25473447|In many insect species, males with larger body sizes are more successful at securing mates. Previous studies on the brachypterous grasshopper Podisma sapporensis have shown that male mating frequency varies greatly among populations. Here we test the hypothesis that differences in male mating success among populations are linked to differences in body size and shape. To do so, we collected males and females from three localities and conducted cross-breeding experiments. Overall, we found no link between mean male body size and mean number of matings across populations. However, stepwise regression indicates that within the populations, males with longer thoraxes and shorter hind femurs, mated more frequently, whereas females with longer thoraxes mated more frequently. These results suggest that in males, having short hind femurs, relative to body size, rather than body size itself, contributes positively to mating success - perhaps because of an advantage in holding onto females while avoiding females' resistance.
25473419|We used mitochondrial (12s, 16s) and nuclear (18s, 28s) ribosomal gene sequences to derive a phylogeny of the Eumastacoidea, with the aims of a) clarifying the position of the Proscopiidae with respect to the Eumastacoidea b) testing the phylogenetic hypothesis and classification advanced by Descamps 1973b for the Eumastacoidea, and c) deriving a time scale for the phylogeny based on molecular clock calculations. Four different analysis methods were employed: maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining assuming minimum evolution, maximum likelihood and Bayesian analysis. The genes were analysed separately and after concatenation. The sample included 6 of the 7 families and 12 of the 31 subfamilies of the Eumastacoidea, and three proscopiids. We included tetrigoids (as outgroup) and tanaoceroids and trigonopterygoids to provide polarity. No analysis supported placing the Proscopiidae within any of the existing branches of the Eumastacoidea. Some placed the two taxa as sistergroups within a Eumastacoidea s. lat., and some indicated that they are separate superfamilies. We cannot distinguish between these two possibilities with the present data. Within the Eumastacoidea s.str. all of the groupings of subfamilies (i.e., families) proposed by Descamps were well-supported. Higher nodes of the phylogeny were in general only weakly supported. Descamps' suprafamilial groupings appeared in some but not all analyses. Of these groupings, the Cryptophalli (=Chorotypidae plus Episactidae) were not well supported, the Stenophalli (Eumastacidae plus Morabidae) were reasonably well supported, while the Disclerophalli (=Thericleidae plus Euschmidtiidae) were strongly supported, and additionally the Gomphomastacinae were associated with it. (The Euphalli, containing only the Indian family Mastacideidae, were not included in the analysis.) The sequence data did not allow the assumption of a molecular clock, and for this reason the nodes of the phylogeny could not be dated.
3503616|Six specimens collected in the Admiralty Islands have been examined and are described as 2 new species. Four of these are named Megacrania vickeri. The other 2 specimens are described as M. Artus. They are compared with the most closely related species of Megacrania.
25822725|Oecanthus alexanderi n. sp. Walker occurs in the lower Rio Grande valley of Texas and in Mexico as far south and west as Michoacan. Its song and morphology establish it as a member of the Oecanthus rileyi species group. Other members of this group of New World species include O. rileyi Baker, O. allardi Walker & Gurney, and O. fultoni Walker. Calling songs of the rileyi group consist of chirps or brief trills in which trios of pulses are produced in such rapid succession as to be indistinguishable to the human ear. The chirps/trills are easily countable and have a highly regular rate that varies linearly with temperature. Extrapolated regression lines tend to converge at 4C and an expected chirp rate of 0. Because of these relations, simple formulas can convert counts of chirps vs time into surprisingly close approximations of ambient temperaturejustifying the group's designation as "thermometer crickets".
10.2307/3503548| The new genera Espagnolopsis and Espagnolina are erected for 3 new species of Eumastacid grasshoppers from south and central Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. These grasshoppers inhabit three different high mountain areas (near and over 1,000 m) of the Cordillera Central. Espagnolina is brachypterous, while Espagnolopsis is macropterous. Most distinctive of both genera are the sexual ornamentations in the form of elevated and inwardly curving spines (1 pair in Espagnolina, 2 pairs in Espagnolopsis) projecting on the dorsal surface of the last one or two abdominal tergites of the males. These structures are homologous to those seen in Espagnola Rehn & Rehn (1939), horizontally attached on the last tergite of the abdominal dorsum. As evidenced by their internal genitalia, as well as their external morphology, both genera appear to be closely related to Espagnola. /// Se erigen los nuevos gneros Espagnolina y Espagnolopsis, para 3 nuevas especies de saltamontes Eumastcidos del sur y el centro de la Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Estos saltamontes habitan tres diferentes reas de alta montaa (cerca y sobre los 1,000 m) en la Cordillera Central. Espagnolina es braquptero, mientras que Espagnolopsis es macrptero. Lo ms distintivo de ambos gneros son las ornamentaciones sexuales en forma de espinas curvadas hacia adentro (1 par en Espagnolina, dos pares en Espagnolopsis) y que se levantan sobre la superficie dorsal del ltimo (o los ltimos dos) tergitos abdominales en los machos. Estas estructuras son homlogas a las encontradas en Espagnola Rehn & Rehn (1939), horizontalmente unidas al dorso del ltimo tergito abdominal. Como lo evidencian sus genitalias internas, as como su morfologa externa, ambos gneros parecen cercanamente relacionados con Espagnola. 
25473451|Life-history models predict populations under shorter growing seasons will invest earlier and more heavily in reproduction than populations under longer growing seasons. Populations of Romalea microptera inhabit distinctly different climates and differ in mtDNA cytochrome-b gene sequences. Previous work suggested a latitudinal trend in the trade-off among body-mass gain, age at first oviposition, and clutch mass, in populations from Miami FL, Lydia LA, and Athens GA: but this study was confounded by longitudinal variation. Hence, we compared the Miami and Athens populations to a population from Jacksonville, FL, which is equidistant from both, yet under a distinct climate. The Athens population had less body-mass gain and an earlier age at oviposition than the other two populations. When corrected for initial body mass or age at oviposition, the Athens population produced larger clutches. Developmental profiles of juvenile hormone and hemolymph lipids did not differ across populations. In comparison to the Miami population, the Jacksonville population showed a nonsignificantly greater body-mass gain and age at oviposition, in contrast to the latitudinal trend observed previously. These data suggest that reproduction in R. microptera involves a trade-off between body-mass gain and age at oviposition, which is consistent with a current vs future reproduction trade-off.
25622290|Discrepancies in scale dynamics often make cohesive structural conclusions difficult, especially when dealing with ecological variance. We studied presence and abundance of grasshopper species in similar, yet distinct, montane habitat of southeast Wyoming and northern Colorado, USA. By limiting ecological variance, grasshopper species structure at two behavioral scales (grouped species dynamics and individual species interactions) was maximized with regard to soil texture and vegetative canopy coverage. Combining univariate and multivariate statistical methods, we note montane grasshopper species interactions to be scale dependent.
43738205|The effect of diflubenzuron (DFB), a benzoylphenyl urea insecticide, on the cuticle in newly molted fifth-instar nymphs of Schistocerca gregaria was examined. While there was an increase in dry weight of the cuticle in untreated nymphs, DFB treated nymphs had a reduced cuticle dry weight, with significant reductions in chitin levels. In a second series of experiments, DFB significantly reduced (p < 0.05) ecdysteroid titers in the hemolymph during nymphal development, leading to disruption of molting.
3503709|A new genus and species of ovoviviparous blaberid cockroach, Simandoa conserfariam is described that lives in bat guano in a cave in Guinea, West Africa. The male's subgenital plate, styles, and genitalia clearly place it in the Blaberidae: Oxyhaloinae: Nauphoetini. It is close to Henschoutedenia and Nauphoeta, but lacks stridulating structures on the pronotum and tegmina which are present in some species of the other 2 genera. The taxon belongs in the "Guanobies" group of cockroaches and lives in bat guano that accumulates not far from the entrance of the cave where light is present: Simandoa shows none of the characteristics of a troglobite (obligate cave-dweller) which, compared to surface dwellers, has reduced eyes and wings.
25473420|Nicarchus enyalius Rehn (Ommatolampini: Vilernae) is synonomized with N. erinaceus Stl, leaving the genus monospecific. A redescription is given. The previously unknown male of Cryptacris costaricensis Descamps & Rowell is described, and the genus redescribed; its probable position within the Vilernae is reaffirmed, and it is newly recorded from Panama as well as from Costa Rica. A new species of Pauracris Descamps & Amedegnato, a genus previously known only from Colombia, is described from Caribbean Costa Rica (P. brachyptera). Christenacris Descamps and Rowell is provisionally transferred from the Ommatolampini to the Pauracrini. A new subspecies of Ateliacris annulicornis (Bruner) (A. a. pulchra) (Syntomacrini: Caloscirtae) is described from Western Costa Rica. It differs from the nominate form principally in the coloration of the male. The systematic position of Leptalacris Descamps & Rowell is reconsidered, and it is transferred from the Ommatolampinae: Clematodinini to the Eucopiocerae group. One new species (jagoi) and one new subspecies (chrysonota salazari) of Rhachicreagra are described from Costa Rica (Abracrini). Additional notes on Rh. gracilis Bruner, drymocnemensis Jago & Rowell and dierythra Rowell are given.
25473448|We used linear regression, nonlinear regression and principal component analysis to examine the relationships among morphology, fecundity, and mating variables for lab-reared adult female Romalea microptera (Beauvois) (fam. Romaleidae) grasshoppers. Morphological variables included head width, pronotum length, femur length, adult eclosion mass, maximum mass reached before the 1st oviposition, and maximum mass reached before the 2nd oviposition. Fecundity (= reproductive) variables included clutch size Pod 1, clutch size Pod 2, total eggs Pods 1 + 2, mass Pod 1, mass Pod 2, time between adult eclosion and Pod 1, time between Pod 1 and Pod 2, and time between eclosion and Pod 2. Mating variables included number of matings and age of 1st mating. Most morphological variables were strongly positively correlated, and morphological variables (especially femur length, eclosion mass, and maximum body mass reached prior to oviposition) predicted many fecundity variables. Maximum body mass reached prior to laying Pod 1 was highly correlated with maximum body mass reached prior to laying Pod 2 (r =0 .93), and clutch size Pod 1 predicted clutch size Pod 2 (r = 0.72). However, time to oviposit (= interval between adult eclosion and oviposition) was generally unrelated to body size, body mass, or clutch size or mass. Hence, clutch size and pod mass are strongly determined by body size and mass at adult eclosion, but timing of oviposition is independent of body size and mass at eclosion. The results also suggest that early mating speeds oviposition, but that excessive mating reduces female fecundity, as measured by clutch size.
25822709|Dichroplus elongatus is a South American grasshopper that shows simultaneous polymorphisms for B chromosomes and several supernumerary segments located in chromosome pairs S10, S9, and M6 (SS10, SS9 and SS6 respectively), in natural populations from Argentina. Heterochromatin characterization with DAPI-CMA banding reveals that B chromosomes show an interstitial GC-rich band. The distal SS10 segment seems to also be GC-rich, whereas the proximal supernumerary segments (SS6 and SS9) show two different heterochromatin regions: one GC-rich region (CMA+/DAPI-) and the other that has no specificity to AT or CG base pairs (CMA/DAPI dull). The results obtained permit us to distinguish two types of constitutive heterochromatin in the supernumerary segments of D. elongatus. The variation in the frequency of these chromosome polymorphisms was analysed with respect to some climatic and geographic variables. There is considerable B chromosome variation between populations, and this variation correlates negatively with latitude and positively with altitude and mean annual temperature. The incidence of the proximal SS9 segment is positively correlated with altitude. The pattern of chromosome variation is discussed in relation to the population's ability to maintain supernumerary DNA in more climatically favorable geographic regions.
3503620| L'effet des l'extrait des graines de Peganum harmala a t tudi sur des larves du cinquime stade et sur le dveloppement ovarien du criquet plerin dans des conditions de laboratoire. Les rsultats obtenus rvlent, chez les larves du cinquime stade, un retard de la mue imaginale de huit jours et un taux de mortalit de 100% atteint le 16ime jour du dbut du traitement. Chez les femelles traites  l'tat imaginal, 62.5% d'entre elles prsentent un blocage du dveloppement ovarien. Les survivantes montrent un retard de la ponte de huit jours et une rduction du taux d'closion. Par ailleurs, nous avons constat chez les insectes traits, une rduction de l'activit physique (immobilit, tremblement des appendices,...), une diminution du poids et une perte en eau sous forme de fces humides. Paralllement, une tude phytochimique mene sur le mme extrait ethanolique, a rvl la prsence de la majorit des alcalodes indoliques responsables de la toxicit de la plante. /// The effect of an extract of Peganum harmala seeds was studied on the 5th larval instar and on the ovarian growth of desert locusts under laboratory conditions. The results obtained show, in the 5th larval instar, an 8-d delay of imaginal moulting, and a mortality rate of 100%, reached on the 16th day after the beginning of the treatment. In females treated at the adult instar, 62.5% among them had their ovarian development blocked. Those surviving showed an 8-d delay of egg-laying and a decrease in hatching rate. We have noted, in the treated insects, a decrease in physical activity (immobility, trembling of appendages), a decrease in weight, and a loss of water in the form of wet faeces. Concurrently, a phytochemical study conducted on the same ethanolic extract has shown the presence of a majority of the indolic alkaloids responsible for the toxicity of the plant. 
25473425|Nutritional ecology of the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons was studied using specimens from Socorro Island, Mexico. They were fed in the laboratory with common plants obtained from the island: Ficus cotinifolia (Moraceae), Cordia curassavica (Boraginaceae), Nicotiana stocktonii (Solanaceae), and Psidium sartorianum (Myrtaceae). We measured nutritional and growth rates in dry weights: intake, gain in weight, as well as some Waldbauer indices equivalents: efficiency of conversion of ingested food (ECI), efficiency of conversion of digested (absorbed) food (ECD), and approximate digestibility (AD). We compared nutritional indices equivalents between female and male, between gregarious and solitary phases and between diets, employing ANCOVAs. We found no differences in metabolic efficiencies between female and male locusts, no differences between gregarious and solitary locusts. We found that F. cotinifolia is a food plant that favors the intake, nutritional efficiencies and steady growth of the Central American locust, in comparison to other food plants.
25473454|Morphometric condition (i.e., condition estimated from some aspect of body size) is frequently calculated from mass-size residuals, and is often used to infer something about an animal's energetic state. However, controversy exists about the validity of using mass-size residuals for this purpose. Recent work suggests the approach is appropriate in mammals, but it is unclear if morphometric condition is useful in the context of understanding the energetic state of grasshoppers and whether differences in morphometric condition are associated with variation in fecundity-related characteristics in females. To address this question, I examined male and female Dactylotum variegatum, sampled from a mosaic of grazed and ungrazed grasslands in southeastern Arizona, to determine whether morphometric condition corresponded with lipid and glycogen levels in males and a variety of reproductive characteristics in females. D. variegatum was found to be strongly sexually dimorphic relative to mass and femur length. The relationship between mass and femur length was linear for both males and females, an important assumption underlying the use of mass-size residuals as a measure of condition. Structurally larger males had more lipid and glycogen content. After controlling for the effect of size on lipid and glycogen content, a positive relationship was found between morphometric condition and lipid and glycogen levels, although the relationship was relatively weak for glycogen. In females, femur length, mass, and morphometric condition were not significantly associated with the number of ovarioles or the mean number of eggs or corpora lutea per ovariole. Only the mean number of resorption bodies per ovariole was significantly related to mass and morphometric condition, with larger and better conditioned females having fewer resorption bodies. The results of this study suggest that mass-size residuals in this species of grasshopper are related to energetic condition, but that other factors, such as variation in water and protein content, may weaken the relationship. Morphometric condition probably has limited value in estimating fitness of wild-caught D. variegatum females.
10.2307/3503425|Timema coffmani sp. nov. is described from southwestern Arizona. It is a specialist feeder on juniper (Juniperus). Morphologically it is similar to T. ritensis Hebard from southeastern Arizona. The previously unknown female sex of T. ritensis also is described and both sexes are compared with T. coffmani. Measurements and distinguishing features are given for both species.
20066580|Two new species, K. dicronophallus and K. licrophallus, are described from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica, and new localities are given for K. arboricola, the type of the genus. The genus is redefined and a key provided. The three species differ principally in their phallic structures, external differences are minimal and confined to small differences in coloration and the female subgenital plate.
10.2307/3503491| The genus Pterophylla occurs from northern United States to Mexico central-west region. Five species are known, three of them [Pterophylla beltrani, P. baezi and P. robertsi] occur in Mexico, while the other two (P. camellifolia and P. furcata) occur in United States (Bolvar and Bolvar 1942, Shaw and Carlson 1969, Barrientos 1988). These insects are unable to fly; their displacement is very slow and is often aided by air drafts that allow them to glide. The group has a history of taxonomic confusion due to its plasticity, intraspecific variation, and great acoustic and morphometric variation between allopatric populations of the different species (Bolvar and Bolvar 1942, Hebard 1941, Barrientos 1988, 1997, Shaw et al.., 1969, 1979). Mate choice and hybridization experiments were carried out among seven allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. occurring in the States of Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potos. During mate choice experiments males had the opportunity to choose between a homogametic or a heterogametic female. Remarkably, males preferred courting and mating with females within their own population. Isolation indices were not significantly different from 1 using the X2 test. It was confirmed that populations 1, 2, and 3 belonged to P. beltrani; while populations 4, 5, 6, and 7 belonged to P. robertsi. Three of these populations (4, 5, 6) are new reports for P. robertsi in south Tamaulipas. Nevertheless, mate choice and hybridization experiments showed genetic incompatibilities among populations and the existence of postzygotic isolating mechanisms. Morphometric studies confirmed these results by separating the populations into two groups, group one is made up of populations 1 to 3 (P.beltrani), group 2 for populations 4 to 7 (P. robertsi) (Barrientos 1997). Mating time(minutes=min) between homogametic individuals from the different populations showed an ascending clinal variation from north to south; the minimum average mating time was 37.19 min for population 1 of P.beltrani, the maximum 42.00 min for populations 6, 7 of P. robertsi. The nature of variation among allopatric populations of the species, their taxonomic relationship, origin and evolution are discussed. /// El gnero Pterophylla extiende su rea de distribucin desde el noreste de Estados Unidos hasta la regin centro-oeste de Mxico. Tres de las cinco especies conocidas [Pterohylla beltrani, P. (Balsasia) baezi and P. robertsi] se presentan en Mxico; mientras que las otras dos (P. camellifolia y P. furcata) se localizan en Estados Unidos (Bolvar y Bolvar 1942, Shaw y Carlson 1969, Barrientos 1988). Los miembros del grupo carecen de capacidad de volar, por lo que se desplazan planeando impulsados por las corrientes de aire. El gnero se caracteriza por una taxonoma compleja debido a la plasticidad y a la gran variacin intra e interespecfica en caracteres acsticos y morfomtricos entre poblaciones aloptricas de las diferentes especies (Bolvar y Bolvar 1942, Hebard 1941, Barrientos 1988, 1997, Shaw et al., 1969, 979). En el presente trabajo se realizaron experimentos de apareo e hibridacin entre siete poblaciones aloptricas de Pterophylla spp. presentes en los Estados de Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas y San Luis Potos. Durante los experimentos de apareo el macho tuvo la oportunidad de escoger entre una hembra homogamtica y una heterogamtica, observndose una marcada preferencia de los machos para cortejar y aparearse con las hembras de su misma poblacin. Los ndices de aislamiento obtenidos no fueron significativamente diferentes de 1 usando la prueba de X2. Sin embargo, se confirm que las poblaciones 1, 2, y 3 pertenecen a P.beltrani; mientras que las poblaciones 4, 5, 6, 7 pertenecen a P. robertsi. Para sta ltima especie se reportan tres poblaciones aloptricas previamente desconocidas (4, 5, y 6) en el sur del Estado de Tamaulipas. Tanto los experimentos de apareo como las cruzas (hibridaciones) mostraron, no obstante, incompatibilidad gentica entre las poblaciones y la existencia de mecanismos de aislamiento postzigticos. Los resultados anteriores fueron confirmados con los obtenidos en estudios de morfometra, cuyo anlisis discriminante separ las siete poblaciones en dos grandes grupos. El grupo uno est formado por las poblaciones 1 a 3 (P.beltrani), el dos por las poblaciones 4 a 7 (P. robertsi) (Barrientos 1997). El tiempo que dura el apareamiento entre individuos homogamticos de las diferentes poblaciones, mostr una variacin clinal ascendente norte-sur, siendo el tiempo promedio menor de apareamiento de 37.19 minutos (poblacin 1) y el mayor de 42.00 minutos (poblaciones 6 y 7). Se discute la naturaleza de la variacin entre poblaciones aloptricas de las especies en estudio, su relacin taxonmica, as como su origen y evolucin. 
23034220|Ottotettix smaragdopoda gen. et sp. nov., a brachypterous katydid from the eastern Andean foothills of southern Ecuador, is described. It is moderately common in rainforest understory along creeks and in vales between 850 and 1300 m. The male's ultrasonic calling song, which is also described, is apparently performed only sporadically, and males seem also to use substrate-borne signals. Se describe Ottotettix smaragdopoda gen. et sp. nov. El Grillo de Patas Esmeraldas es un insecto delgado de 24-27 milmetros con alas muy reducidas. Como en las mucho ms grandes especies de Panoploscelis, el nico otro gnero braquptero de Eucocconotini, las tegminas tienen aproximadamente la misma longitud que el pronoto. El color general es rojizo claro, con las rodillas negras, y en individuos vivos las tibias de verde luciente. Las tegminitas son oscuras con venas amarillentas. La distribucin conocida incluye tres lugares entre la Cordillera Oriental y la Cordillera del Cndor entre 850 y 1300 msnm en el sureste del Ecuador. Ac los insectos nocturnos se encuentran frecuentemente en la vegetacin del sotobosque de la selva, a menudo cerca de quebradas o en cuencas. El canto del macho se encuentra completamente en el ultrasonido, entre 26 y 38 kHz. Al parecer los versos de 500-600 ms son emitidos muy escasamente, y aparentemente compensados a corta distancia por seales de vibracin del sustrato.
3503753|During the concluding 20 y of the 20th century, numerous interesting finds of Polyneoptera have been made. These include the discoveries of a new higher taxon of recent Ensifera, new genera of relict recent Ensiferan groups, and new genera and species of recent Orthoptera and Dictyoptera with remarkable morphological characteristics. There have been a series of paleontological finds, including new higher taxa, oldest representatives of some other higher taxa, and several interesting problematic and enigmatic fossils. Some of these finds clarify difficult problems of classification and evolution of Polyneoptera. A new genus and species, Aboiloilomimus sichuanensis, is described.
10.2307/3503634| The systematics and life history of two new species of cephaline gregarines parasitizing grasshoppers from agro-ecosystems (Saccharum officinarum, Oryza sativa, Zea mays) of Tamil Nadu (India), are described. Retractocephalus dhawanii sp. n., infecting midgut and gastric caeca of Atractomorpha crenulata (Fabricius) (Orthoptera: Pyrgomorphidae), is characterized by an intracellular trophozoite, retractile epimerite, solitary gamont, spherical gametocyst, anisogamous gametes and barrel-shaped ocysts (spores). Hentschelia gillii sp. n. parasitizes the midgut and gastric caeca of Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall) (Orthoptera: Acrididae). It has intracellular trophozoites, an elaborate epimerite with a tube-like connection to the host cell, solitary gamonts, spherical gametocyst, isogamous gametes and barrel-shaped ocysts. 
10.2307/3503496| Following a survey of the area, five species of stick-insects are reported from Kakadu National Park, Northern Territory, Australia: Sipyloidea filiformis Redtenbacher 1908, Hyrtacus carinatvs (Sjstedt 1918), Anchiale spinicollis (Gray 1833), Arphax dolomedes (Westwood 1859) and Eurycnema osiris (Gray 1834). A table showing the key features of adults and eggs is included, along with brief notes on habitat and drawings of adults and eggs. 
3503698| To evaluate temporal changes in grasshopper communities over a 5-y period (1997-2001), density and species relative abundance were estimated at 27 sites in Benito Jurez county, Southern Pampas, Argentina, established across vegetation associations with different disturbance histories. A total of 22 grasshopper species were collected, Melanoplinae being the most abundant and diverse subfamily, followed by Gomphocerinae, Acridinae, Copiocerinae and Leptysminae. Results allowed us to categorize years into nonoutbreak (1997, 1998, 1999), transitional (2000) and outbreak (2001) based on the spatiotemporal characteristics of grasshopper density trends. On average, grasshopper density was over 7 times greater in 2001 than in nonoutbreakyears. During nonoutbreakyears, grasshopper densities showed no significant variation across disturbance categories. During the outbreak year, densities were significantly higher in pastures and halophilous steppes, with highly disturbed pastures being the most affected sites of all. Species richness changed significantly in outbreak versus nonoutbreak years: nearly twice as many species were collected during the outbreak year. Although 22 species were collected, results showed that a small number influence overall abundance from nonoutbreak to outbreak conditions. Although Dichroplus elongatus, Covasacris albitarsis, and Scotussa lemniscata were the three topranked species throughout the studied period, D. elongatus contributed most to overall shifts in grasshopper density. 
41759709|Based upon a week's field work in northwestern El Salvador, we add 14 species to the list of grasshoppers known from the country, increasing the count to 24 species. Habitat notes and photos are presented for some.
23610411|An important but under studied component of grasshopper ecology is how pathogens affect grasshopper population dynamics. However, insect population responses to disease may depend upon age demographics which vary temporally. In a field experiment, we varied grasshopper [Camnula pellucida (Scudder)] developmental stage (3rd instar, 4th instar, 5th instar, and adults) and fungal pathogen exposure (lab and field) and measured grasshopper mortality and survival. Lab exposed grasshoppers were directly inoculated with the pathogen, while field exposed grasshoppers were passively exposed to naturally occurring spores. Disease increased grasshopper mortality rates and decreased overall survival. However, this effect varied with grasshopper developmental stage and mode of pathogen exposure. Adults were far less susceptible to fungal infection than nymphs. Disease mortality was 52% higher in lab exposed grasshoppers compared to individuals exposed to a natural fungal epizootic in the field. Lab exposure decreased 3rd instar survival rates more than exposure to the pathogen in the field. In contrast, grasshopper survival was invariant with disease exposure for 4th and 5th instars due to peak levels of naturally occurring fungal spores. By August 2010, the field epizootic was declining and food availability became the most important determinant of adult grasshopper survival. Therefore, age demographics may need to be considered when predicting how grasshopper populations will respond to disease.
3503712|New records of hairworms (Gordioidea: Nematomorpha) and mermithid nematodes (Mermithidae: Nematoda) are reported from North American Orthoptera collected over the past 25 y. Several thousand Jerusalem crickets (Stenopelmatidae: Stenopelmatus spp.), field crickets (Gryllidae: Gryllus sp), and several hundred decticine katydids (Tettigoniidae: Tettigoniinae) were captured in the field and maintained alive, serving as potential hosts. A total of 36 specimens were found infected (most multiple), which resulted in the recovery of 19 hairworm lots associated with some 11 species of Stenopelmatus; 6 hairworm lots from 4 species of Gryllus and 2 decticine katydid genera, and 11 mermithid nematode lots associated with 5 species of Stenopelmatus, Capnobotes fuliginosus and a Gryllus sp. The present study identifies hosts of hairworms and mermithids collected from sites throughout central and western United States and much of Mexico.
20789570|The hearing system of the katydid genus Neoconocephalus functions in two contexts: intraspecific communication and predator (bat) avoidance. Male calls and bat echolocation signals differ spectrally and temporally. In order to respond appropriately, katydids must recognize and discriminate between signal types. We categorized bat avoidance behaviors and examined temporal recognition of bat cries behaviorally during tethered flight in Neoconocephalus retusus and Neoconocephalus ensiger. We used simulated bat approaches to categorize bat avoidance behaviors in Neoconocephalus. Four distinct behaviors were observed: steering, wingbeat interruption, dives and leg kicks. The first three behaviors were amplitude dependent and could be elicited by a single pulse of ultrasound. The final behavior only occurred during the terminal phase and was found to be pulse-rate dependent. Response probabilities of specific behaviors varied between species. A comparison of the two Neoconocephalus species showed that steering and leg kicks were performed consistently in both species. However, wingbeat interruptions and dives occurred more often in N. retusus than in N. ensiger. We also tested how temporal properties of model bat cries are used to recognize a signal as aversive. Single-pulse experiments showed that katydids respond best to pulses with relatively short rise times and a minimum duration. Very long pulse durations did not negatively affect responsiveness if rise times were short enough. No differences were found in temporal recognition between the two species.
25822716|The Mormon cricket (Anabrus simplex Haldeman) (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae) is a historic pest on millions of acres in the western US. During outbreak years, annual losses attributed to it have amounted to millions of dollars. Nonchemical controls are needed for environmentally sensitive areas  an increasing concern. Myco-insecticides are available but show an unpredictable and unexplainable lack of effect on Mormon crickets. This research sought to understand performance of Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium brunneum under field conditions, compared to studies showing excellent performance under laboratory conditions. Our objectives were: (1) to evaluate B. bassiana GHA and M. brunneum F52 for potential use against Mormon crickets; (2) to compare spray and bait formulations of each fungus against immature and adult Mormon crickets; and (3) to understand the effect of Mormon-cricket body temperatures on the speed of efficacy by the two fungi. No mortality of 3rd-instar Mormon crickets was detected in the field 14 d after treatment with fungal baits or sprays of either B. bassiana Strain GHA or M. brunneum Strain F52. Unexpected bait aversion may have adversely affected the success of the bait treatments. Lack of spray efficacy was also unexpected, given the laboratory infectivity of both fungi for the Mormon cricket. Possible body temperatures were estimated by thermal surrogates located on the ground and in the plant canopy within field cages. Surrogate temperatures below 18C, as well as above 30C, were common during the study. When cumulative amount of time at temperatures optimal for fungal growth (18 to 30C) was calculated for the duration of the post-treatment observation period, there was an insufficient number of fungal growth hours to produce mortality within the 14-d post-treatment period. Our data suggest that at least 32 to 43 d (M. brunneum) or 58 to 75 d (B. bassiana) should have been required for insect mortality to occur under the conditions of the test. In a second test, targeting seventh-instar nymphs and adults, the in-field mortality was not followed, but treated individuals were incubated both indoors and in outdoor cages. Infections by B. bassiana and M. brunneum in the indoor-incubated insects caused 69 and 100% mortality (corrected for untreated controls) respectively, with 71 and 80% mycosis in cadavers. Mormon crickets in outdoor cages succumbed to unexpected high temperatures. Our data illustrate the importance of Mormon cricket body temperatures and their effects on fungal infection. Because physical location and thermoregulation may alter the environ inside the insect, at least a month may be required after treatment for infections by B. bassiana GHA and M. brunneum F52 to cause mortality. Future studies should take this longer observational time into account. There is some potential for faster fungal growth in Mormon crickets under natural conditions, as opposed to our experimental cages, particularly in the immature stages. Mormon crickets aggregate in sheltered locations under inclement weather and at night. This behavior may conserve and actually promote body temperatures more favorable to fungal development. The potential value of this aspect of Mormon cricket behavior will require additional study.
10.2307/3503488|Atractomorpha crenulata was reared in the laboratory on Ricinus communis, and the haemocyte profile (total and differential counts) were studied with reference to different instars and various stages of adult life in both males and females. Instars do not show any significant variation in total haemocyte count within the same sex or between males and females. While there was no change in total haemocyte count in adult males as age progresses, there was fluctuation in haemocyte population amongst adult females. Early female instars had a higher percentage of prohaemocytes, while in adults, the percentage of prohaemocytes decreased with a corresponding increase in plasmatocytes. Senescence was accompanied with reduction in plasmatocyte percentage.
20066579|Poecilocloeus septentrionalis is described from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica. This is the first record of the genus from outside the Amazon basin, where it is highly speciose, with some 50 described species. The new species is morphologically a typical member of its genus.
3503742|Helicomastax n. gen. is externally almost identical with Homeomastax Descamps 1979, but has radically different genital structures. In the male the ectophallic sclerites give rise on their anterior medial surface to a pair of chitinous filaments. These enter the spermatophore sac dorsally, run in a circular course within the sac and emerge from its opening ventrally and posteriorly as two fine whip-like projections, which extend dorsally above the ectophallic sclerites. The complex of spermatophore sac, endophallic plate and ectophallic sclerites, forms a sclerotized capsule; the posterior extremities of the ectophallic plate are not inserted into the ectophallic membrane, as in other eumastacine genera, but are free and project to the exterior. The spermathecal duct of the female is longer and more convoluted than in other eumastacine genera, presumably in association with the filaments of the male, which are hypothesized to be inserted into the duct during copulation. The genus is represented by two new species (H. mnioides and H. copensis) from the mountains of Central and Western Panama. Both are sympatric with local species of Homeomastax.
3503720| The uhleri group of the genus Amblycorypha consists of A. uhleri Stl and 4 new species: arenicola, cajuni, longinicta, and rivograndis. The species are easily distinguished in the field by features of their songs, and most specimens can be identified by size and features of the ovipositor and male stridulatory apparatus. Males of the uhleri group produce the most complex calls known for ensiferan Orthoptera and thus earn the common name of "virtuoso katydids". Each species uses 4 types of wing-movement cycles to produce 4 types of syllable sequences. During these sequences there are gradual and sudden changes in intensity. The 4 types of sequences are produced in more or less predictable order, with a complete song requiring 4 to > 60 s depending on the species, the population, and the temperature. In response to these songs, sexually responsive females make nondescript answering "ticks" immediately before and during the place in the songs where the males produce "type IV" syllables. Available evidence suggests that sequences of type I and II syllables are of special significance in eliciting ticks from females, that type III sequences may function in causing females to approach the male from afar, and that type IV sequences may lessen the chances of cuckoldry by eavesdropping males. 
23610416|Forty-four species of Phaneropterinae are recorded from Dzanga-Ndoki National Park in the Central African Republic. Eight species collected within the park are described as new to science: Phlaurocentrum morettoi n. sp., P. paratuberosum n. sp., P. elegans n. sp., Myllocentrum raggei n. sp., Poreuomena sanghensis n. sp., Cestromoecha longicerca n. sp., C. magnicerca n. sp., and Goetia purpurea n. sp. An additional new species from Guinea is described from specimens preserved in the Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales of Madrid, Poreuomena huxleyi n. sp. Eurycorphya stylata Stl, 1873 is recorded for the first time from Burkina Faso and Brycoptera lobata Ragge, 1981 from Ivory Coast. The following synonyms are established: Enochletica affinis Bolvar, 1906 is synonymized with Enochletica ostentatrix Karsch, 1896, Poreuomena gladiator Bolvar, 1906 is synonymized with Poreuomena forcipata Sjstedt, 1902, and Azamia doriae (Griffini, 1906) is synonymized with Azamia biplagiata Bolvar, 1906. In addition, morphological characters of previously unknown females of Phaneroptera maculosa Ragge, 1956 and Eurycorypha canaliculata Karsch, 1890, and males of Myllocentrum stigmosum (Karsch, 1896) and Cestromoecha crassipes (Karsch, 1890) are described. The presence of titillators in four African genera (Gelotopoia, Brycoptera, Phlaurocentrum and Azamia) is recorded for the first time. In the genus Zeuneria, a sub-equally bilobed, dorsally curved, dorso-lateral abdominal appendage is described for the first time. This new structure apparently delimits an abdominal gland of unknown function on the second tergite.
10.2307/3503556|Sexual selection acting on male body size was investigated over a single episode of selection, the mate attraction phase, within a natural aggregation of the European field cricket, Gryllus campestris L. Males successful in attracting a female were significantly larger than those that failed to do so. The cross-sectional method of Wade and Arnold (1984a, b) was adopted to assess the intensity of sexual selection acting on male size during this study. The results are compared with those of similar studies made on North American field crickets.
41759711|After being unrecorded for approximately 70 years, Aztecacris gloriosus (Hebard, 1935) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) is documented from several sites in the Pajarito Mountains, Santa Cruz County, Arizona, USA. An association with Broom Snakeweed (Gutierrezia sarothrae) (Asteraceae) is suggested. The known range of the species is small and limited to Santa Cruz County. Habitat and associated orthopterans are discussed, as is an attempted mating by a male Melanoplus on a female A. gloriosus. Photos of A. gloriosus and its habitat are presented.
3503672|Twenty species of Tettigoniidae are recorded from Jordan, 13 of them for the first time. Two new species are described, Uvarovistia rammei and Parapholidoptera willemsei. New status is proposed for Paradrymadusa philbyi Uvarov (= Scotodrymadusa philbyi) and for Platycleis (Incertana) erecta Uvarov (= Platycleis (Decorana) erecta).
10.2307/3503642|The problem of maintenance of the frequency component of bush cricket calls is considered. Evidence is given that in Tettigoniidae a call constructed from a series of brief transients, producing a wide spectrum of sound, can be filtered to produce a call with a dominant frequency (the carrier frequency). This filtered amplification is brought about by the subalar air pocket. Inducing the insect to sing in heliox ( He O
10.2307/3503514| Chromosomal variation in the Moreton subspecies of the Australian grasshopper, Caledia captiva (F.), involves the transposition of the centromere from terminal to medial locations on all chromosomes within the genome (2n = 23  / 24 ). At each end of its distributional range - covering 1500 km along the east coast of Australia - populations show fixed differences in chromosome structure. Between these two extremes, populations are characterized by complex chromosomal polymorphisms that take the form of latitudinal clines along which the entire genome changes gradually and systemically from metacentric in northern populations to acro/telocentric in the south. To date over 600 different chromosomal rearrangements have been identified. Using a series of DNA and protein markers, we have shown that gene flow along the chromosomal clines is continuous, suggesting that the establishment and maintenance of the clines has involved selective rather than stochastic events. Moreover, we have also revealed that the concerted patterns of chromosome change are correlated with changes in development time. Development time is negatively correlated with changes in the number of degree days available for successful completion of the life cycle with increasing latitude and probably represents an adaptation to the gradual reduction in season length. Increased body weight is also correlated with acro/telocentric chromosomes and with a rapid development time. An explanation of this unusual relationship is presented, whereby it is proposed that the changes in the location of the centromeres on every chromosome lead to changes in nuclear volume by modifying the centromere-telomere disposition at telophase when the nuclear envelope is reassembled. This proposal is analogous to the known consequences of increasing nuclear DNA content which leads to larger nuclear volume, larger cell and body size, and reduced generation time. 
20789572|A taxonomic survey of the anareolate neotropical tribe Cladomorphini Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893 (subfamily Cladomorphinae) is provided, along with a redescription and keys to the seven genera now contained. Two genera previously only known from the females, are redescribed and revised at the species level. The monotypical Aplopocranidium Zompro, 2004 (Type-species: Bacteria waehneri Gnther, 1940) was misplaced in Cranidiini Gnther, 1953 and is here transferred to the tribe Cladomorphini Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893. It is closely related to Jeremia Redtenbacher, 1908 and Jeremiodes Hennemann & Conle, 2007, but differs from both by the prominent spines of the thorax. The previously unknown male is described and illustrated for the first time and a new extended generic description provided. The genus Jeremia Redtenbacher, 1908 (Type-species: Jeremia grossedentata Redtenbacher, 1908) is redescribed and a key provided to distinguish the two species contained (J. grossedentata Redtenbacher, 1908 and J. gymnota Gnther, 1930). The previously unknown male and eggs are described and illustrated for the first time. Jeremia is closely related to Jeremiodes and Aplopocranidium, but differs by the distinct ventral teeth of the middle and hind legs.
3657109|Alulatettix angustivertex n. sp. is described with illustrations of external morphology and female genitalia in detail. Comparison between the species A. angustivertex n. sp. and the other species of the genus Alulatettix is compiled into a table for identification. The distribution map of this species in Taiwan and its offshore islands is also provided.
20789561|Le Criquet plerin Schistocerca gregaria (Forsk., 1775) en phase grgaire est connu depuis longtemps pour sa grande polyphagie et la large varit de cultures attaques. Cette polyphagie semble plus limite en phase solitaire. Ne faisant pas de dgts en phase solitaire, son rgime alimentaire est peu connu. Le prsent travail traite de l'valuation qualitative et quantitative des prfrences alimentaires de S. gregaria  l'tat solitaire dans divers biotopes du Sahara algrien. L'valuation qualitative s'est faite en comparant la gamme des espces vgtales dans les biotopes acridiens avec la gamme des espces vgtales identifies dans les fces d'individus capturs sur le terrain. L'valuation quantitative s'est faite en comparant les frquences des espces vgtales observes dans les fces avec leurs abondances dans le biotope correspondant. La frquence d'une espce vgtale consomme a pu alors tre estime par le rapport du nombre d'imagos ayant consomm l'espce vgtale au nombre d'imagos prsents dans le biotope. La disparit observe entre la frquence des espces vgtales consommes et leurs abondances dans les biotopes atteste d'une nette prfrence alimentaire exprime par S. gregaria solitaire. La composition floristique des biotopes influence le rgime alimentaire en limitant les possibilits de choix pour l'acridien. Lergime alimentaire diffre peu en fonction du sexe des individus dans un mme biotope. Il apparat que le rgime alimentaire du Criquet plerin dpend  la fois de la composition du tapis vgtal et des choix qu'il opre dans sa qute de nourriture. Les plantes apprcies par le Criquet sont gnralement celles qui lui permettent le meilleur dveloppement et la meilleure reproduction. The Desert Locust, Schistocerca gregaria (Forsk., 1775), in gregarious phase has long been known for its great polyphagia and broad variety of attacked crops. This polyphagia seems more limited in the solitary phase. Not doing damage in this phase, its feeding regimen is poorly known. The present work treats qualitative and quantitative evaluation of food preferences of S. gregaria in the solitary state in various biotopes of the Algerian Sahara. The qualitative evaluation was done by comparing the diversity of plant species in the acridid's biotopes with the diversity of the plant species identified in feces of individuals captured on the ground. The quantitative evaluation was done by comparing the frequencies of the plant species observed in feces, with their abundances in the corresponding biotope. The frequency of a consumed plant species then could be estimated by the ratio of the number of imagos having consumed the plant species to the number of imagos present in the biotope. The disparity observed between the frequency of the consumed plant species and their abundances in the biotopes attests to a clear food preference expressed by solitary S. gregaria. The floristic composition of the biotopes influences the food mode by limiting possibilities of choice for the acridid. The feeding regimen differs little according to the sex of the individuals in the same biotope. It appears that the feeding regimen of the Desert Locust depends simultaneously on the composition of the flora and the choices by which it operates in the search for food. The plants appreciated by the Desert Locust are generally those which allow it the best development and the best reproduction.
25622285|Praying mantids determine prey-capture distances with the aid of binocular mechanisms and estimate distances to stationary objects such as jump targets with the aid of retinal image velocity. The latter mechanism makes use of the fact that the retinal image velocity resulting from translational self-motion (peering movements) is inversely proportional to the distance of the target object. The present study shows that for South African mantids Polyspilota sp., the interocular distance, an aspect of binocular vision, and the amplitude and velocity of peering movements, increase over the course of postembryonic development from 2nd instar to adult. In both cases there is a close positive correlation with body size. Calculated convergence angles and retinal image velocities indicate an improvement in absolute depth perception with increased body size. This is adaptive, because it allows the range of visual depth perception to increase with body size, strike distance and jumping capability, throughout the growth of the insect, from 2nd instar to adult.
40344844|The Central American locust, Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons Walker, economically important agricultural pest in Mexico and Central America. This species is characterized by its ability to gregarize and migrate long distances. High infestations of S. p. piceifrons have occurred in northeastern Mexico since 1998, particularly in the Huasteca region (South Tamaulipas, East San Luis Potos, North Veracruz and the State of Hidalgo). The aim of this study was to develop a model that relates the life cycle of the Central American locust with the climatic conditions of northeastern Mexico. The model is expressed in terms of a Thermal Time Clock calculated from mean monthly temperatures and photoperiod. Historic temperature data of 20 y, from 20 meteorological stations, were used to calculate average monthly $(\Psi _{month} )$ and yearly $(\Psi _{year} )$ values for thermal time (units are  C-days). these calculations we used the Allen sine method, a lower temperature threshold (k = 15.3 C) and an upper thermal threshold (k = 38.5 C). An average Thermal Time Locust Development Clock (TTLDC) was calculated using the relationship $(\Psi _{month} /\Psi _{year} ) * 360,$ which quantifies the monthly angular contribution on the clock ( = 10.6 ). Essentially, the clock is a translator between thermal time and calendar time (or vice versa) and may be used to forecast locust-stage development dates, starting from a given "Bio-fix" point. This clock can be used to program management activities of this pest. Field observations from 2001 to 2008, on population density and development stages of the Central American locust, were consistent with the development times recorded in the TTLDC. /// La langosta centroamericana, Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons Walker, es una plaga agrcola de importancia econmica en Mxico y Centro Amrica; esta especie se caracteriza por su capacidad de gregarizacin y migracin. A partir de 1998 se presentaron severas infestaciones de esta plaga en la regin noreste de Mxico, particularmente en la regin Huasteca (Sur de Tamaulipas, Oriente de San Luis Potos, Norte de Veracruz y Estado de Hidalgo). El objetivo del presente trabajo fue desarrollar un modelo que relacione el ciclo de vida de la langosta centroamericana con las condiciones climticas del noreste de Mxico. El modelo se expresa por medio de un Reloj en Tiempo Trmico Promedio para el Desarrollo de la Langosta (RTTDL), calculado a partir de temperatura media mensual y fotoperodo. Se calcul el tiempo trmico promedio mensual y anual, a partir de datos histricos de temperatura de 20 aos, provenientes de 20 estaciones meteorolgicas ubicadas dentro del rea de influencia de la plaga. Para estos clculos se utiliz el mtodo de la curva sinusoidal de Alien, una temperatura umbral mnima (k=15.3 C) y mxima (k=38.5 C). Los datos permitieron calcular un Reloj en Tiempo Trmico Promedio (RTTDL) promedio, mediante la relacin $(\Psi _{mes} /\Psi _{a\~n o} )* 360,$ que cuantifica la contribucin angular de cada mes en el reloj $(\Psi = 10.6\alpha ).$ Bsicamente este reloj es un traductor del tiempo trmico y el tiempo calendario (o viceversa) y puede usarse para pronosticar las fechas en que se presentarn los distintos estados del ciclo de vida de la langosta, a partir de una determinada fecha "punto Bio-fix"; lo cual permite programar actividades de manejo de esta plaga. Las observaciones de campo de 2001 a 2008 sobre densidad de poblacin y estados de desarrollo de la langosta centroamericana fueron congruentes con los tiempos de desarrollo consignados en el RTTDL.
10.2307/3503585|Eighteen gomphocerine genera are redefined or described and Leva I. Bolivar 1909 gen. res. and Stenohippus Uvarov 1926 given full revisionary treatment. Luenia Uvarov 1953 and Aulacobothrus I. Bolivar 1902 are restored from synonymy under Dnopherula. Three genera are newly synonymised-Milleriola Uvarov 1953. Syn. n. and Afrohippus Uvarov 1941. Syn. n. under Rhaphotittha Karsch 1896, Bodenheimerella Uvarov 1933. Syn. n. under Leva Bolivar 1909. Three genera are restored from synonymy and reviewed-Berengueria I. Bolivar 1909, Leva Bolivar 1909 and Pseudoarcyptera Bolivar 1909. Seven genera are described as new-Crucinotacris, Pseudoberengeuria, Melinohippus, Leionotacris, Megafrohippus, Minihippus, and Neoleva. The important genera Eleutherotheca, Faureia, Luenia, Pseudogmothela, Ramburiella and Kraussella are not given full redefinition or review because no taxonomic changes are intended at present. They have, however, been included in the key to genera.
3503711|A small-scale study investigating the directional dispersal patterns of Chorthippus parallelus in a grazed pasture was undertaken in 2002 and 2003. The study site was divided into 4 quadrants with a central release circle. Nymphs and adults were marked, released and resighted at varying intervals throughout the day, when the distance and direction moved (taken from the center) were recorded for each individual. Significant directional movements to the north of the release circle were evident for both nymphs and adults. These movements were probably in response to habitat factors and topography outside of the release area. Both nymphs and adults moved uphill from the heavily grazed 'spatially hostile' release circle, to patches of tall ungrazed grass beyond the release area. These patches of ungrazed grass could have afforded shelter, from predation and inclement weather, not provided by the short vegetation inside the release area.
25822726|Grasshoppers are thought to be herbivores that primarily feed on plant leaves. But, many grasshopper species actually are omnivorous and will consume a wide range of living and dead organic matter. We documented the feeding behavior of the Western Lubber grasshopper, Taeniopoda eques, on a coyote, Canis latrans, carcass in Arizona, USA. The number of adult T. eques on the carcass ranged from 1 to 8 during each of six visits to the site and were predominantly female. Nymphs were not observed on or immediately adjacent to the carcass, although they were present in low numbers in the surrounding population. We observed females attempt to consume hair, dried hide, and especially dried tissue adhering to the bones. Our observation that most of the individuals feeding on the carcass were female, suggests that egg production requires nutrients that may make vertebrate carrion a complement to a herbivorous diet. T. eques lives in a desert habitat with a short and highly variable growing season, so carnivory/necrophagy may be adaptive by providing essential nutrients, thereby speeding oocyte maturation and increasing the likelihood that females will be able to develop and lay eggs before the onset of winter.
10.2307/3503574|The genus Orthoscapheus is compared with its nearest relative Abracris, and redefined in order to include a new species, Orthoscapheus noronhensis n. sp., from the main island of the Fernando de Noronha Archipelago. This new species clearly differs in its external characters from any of the species found in the mainland, though its genitalia reveals a very close affinity with O. rufipes (Thunberg 1824). All species in the genus are compared in tabulated form.
3503686|The genus Melanoplus is currently subdivided into numerous species groups, mostly informally by arrangement in collections. Most of the groups need further study. This paper treats the Viridipes Group which previously included 11 species. In this paper we have described two new species: M. lilianae n. sp. and M. benni n. sp. One species, M. gracilis, probably does not belong to this group. I have included it here because its affinities with other Melanoplus species remain unknown. Like the Viridipes Group it is characterized by its green legs. The members of this group are distributed mostly east of the Mississippi River. Two species, M. sylvatica and M. beameri, are known from west of the river. Most of the species emerge as adults in the spring or early summer and some are believed to overwinter in later nymphal stages. These species also prefer woodland habitats, especially along woods margins and small openings in woods. But sometimes they may be found some distance from the woodland edge, especially on larger balds in the southern Appalachian mountains.
3503769|Within the family Proscopiidae Serville 1839 (Orthoptera, Caelifera) the majority of the described general belong to the subfamily Proscopiinae Liana 1980. They show sufficient differentiation to justify being divided into tribes. The present work deals with the first of these, Tetanorhynchini tr. nov. This tribe consists of a homogenous assemblage of genera, viz. Cephalocoema Serville 1839, Tetanorhynchus Brunner von Wattenwyl 1898, Orienscopia Bentos-Pereira 2000, Scleratoscopia Jago 1989, Pseudoastroma Jago 1989, and Mariascopia Bentos-Pereira (in this issue) comprising at least 53 certain species and 31 doubtful ones, the types of the latter having been lost. All of these doubtful species belong to the genera Tetanorhynchus and Cephalocoema and the majority of them were described by Toledo Piza. Here I present characters of the tribe. They are based on the external morphology and the male and female genitalia. A key to identify each genus is given. I further discuss the origins and relations of the family Proscopiidae, based on the distribution and characteristics of all the genera of the family, and postulate a center of origin in the Pre-Andean-Chaco shield.
25473439|Complex interactions between an individual's genotype and its environment determine characteristics such as body size. However, gene-environment interactions should not be seen as being restricted to individual ontogeny: the diversity of the local gene pool can be greatly influenced by habitat variables and population history (e.g., landscape connectivity and propagule size). In this paper I use a model species, the bushcricket Metrioptera roeseli, and data from long-term experimental population introductions to examine individual body size as an indicator of the constraints placed on the gene pool by ecological variables following colonization of new environments. These broad-scale population-environment interactions are useful in understanding species ecology, species invasions and in managing successful reintroductions in conservation biology.
3657106|In female Romalea microptera grasshoppers, the interval between ovulation and oviposition is flexible. Females kept without sand laid their 1st egg clutch an average of 7 d later (Day 36) than females maintained on moist sand (Day 29). When we examined the ovaries of females who had recently laid, females denied sand had longer primary oocytes (5.7 vs 3.3 mm) and smaller follicle resorption bodies (0.61 vs 0.83 mm diameter) than females kept on sand, confirming that mature oocytes had been retained in the lateral oviducts of females denied sand. Some females kept without sand retained their 1st clutch until the 2nd clutch was ready to be ovulated. This suggests that grasshoppers exhibit adaptive flexibility in their ability to retain ovulated oocytes in the calyses of their lateral oviducts until a suitable oviposition substrate is found. The results also imply that using oviposition as a marker for underlying physiological/hormonal events or treatment/environment effects is problematic, because oviposition may not reliably indicate time of oocyte maturation or ovulation.
3503661| Population dynamics of an acridid grasshopper, Diabolocatantops pinguis, were monitored for 3 y, from October 1990 to September 1993, at two sites in Tamil Nadu, a southern state of India. The fluctuations in the population at the two sites were related to abiotic factors, such as maximum and minimum temperatures, rainfall and relative humidity, using Kendall's correlation coefficient test. We tested a hypothesis that the effects of each abiotic factor may be varying, i.e., from immediate to delayed. These analyses involved several correlation coefficient tests. Hence we also performed a sequential Bonferroni test to eliminate levels of significance that emerged due to sheer chance. Maximum temperature imposed a significant delayed negative effect on the population of this species that was prolonged 2-3 mo. Minimum temperature had a significant negative lag effect of about 2 mo. at Tambaram. Rainfall had a significant positive effect on the population immediately at Tambaram or with a lag ( 1 mo.) at Chinglepet. Relative humidity had a significant positive lag effect of about a month at Chinglepet only. The trends in the immediate effects of abiotic factors on the population of D. pinguis in both the study sites were comparable. 
3657108|We surveyed the lakeshore dunes on Lakes Michigan, Huron, and Superior in the state of Michigan to determine the extent of the range and number of populations of the threatened Lake Huron locust (Trimerotropis huroniana Wlk.) (Orthoptera: Acrididae). The locust's distribution is determined by a combination of historical and recent influences. Historical factors include the glacial history of the state and probable competition from other banded-wing locusts. Recent factors are primarily anthropogenic, including major habitat disturbances in the form of development, recreational use, and revegetation efforts; but lake level changes may also influence small local populations. Our surveys indicate that the species is fairly tolerant of disturbance and currently secure in Michigan. The status of the species in adjoining Wisconsin and Ontario is not well known.
20789573|Penetration of the cuticle of Locusta migratoria by the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae was investigated using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that conidia of M. anisopliae attached mostly to the sockets of the setae and to the intersegmental membranes. Fourth instar nymphs of locusts treated with the fungus were maintained at 28C. At this temperature, the fungal conidia germinated and produced appressoria on the cuticle of the locust within 1 day postinoculation. The penetrant structure entered directly through the epicuticle and exocuticle, with no lateral development. A fusiform penetrant structure then extended laterally between the layers of the endocuticle, with the spaces between the layers being enlarged due to lysis of the layers close to the penetrant. The penetrant structures exhibited various forms; most were fusiform, with many lysosomes and mitochondria, but no vacuoles. The penetrant hyphae ultimately invaded and colonized the haemocoele.
25822712|Huastecacris alexandri n. sp., is described from the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve in southern Tamaulipas, northeastern Mxico. Geographic distribution is limited to the highlands of the reserve where it occurs from 1300 to 1700 m in open areas on natural, low vegetation. This species is most related to Huastecacris zenoni Fontana & Buzzetti 2007, which is found in the lowlands of the reserve, extending the distribution of the genus along the Eastern Sierra Madre up to Cd. Victoria's mountain range. The species are distinguished by details of the male cerci, supra-anal plate, genitalia and color pattern.
25622284|Oreophoetes topoense n. sp. from Ecuador, Tungurahua Province, Rio Topo is described and illustrated for both sexes; eggs are described. It differs from all other species in the genus Oreophoetes Rehn, 1904, by a striking coloration and by morphological features of the insects' genitalia and eggs. Keys are provided to distinguish the four known species of Oreophoetes Rehn, 1904. The holotype of Oreophoetes topoense n. sp. is deposited in the State Zoological Collections Munich, Germany (ZSMC), paratypes in ZSMC and the private collections of the two first authors (coll. OC and coll. FH).
10.2307/3503413|Seventy two traps each composed of modified soft-drink bottle and peanut butter as bait were laid out from July to September, 1990 in a nursery of Paulownia fortunei and a 40-year plantation of Taiwan incense ceder (Calocedrus formosana) at Nantou, Taiwan. A total of 210 crickets, representing at least 6 genera and 9 species were collected with 1620 traps. Among the collected crickets, nymphs, female and male adut instars were 23%(49/210), 57%(119/210) and 20%(42/210), respectively. Crickets were not necessarily more diverse in either of the two habitats. Advantages, disadvantages and applications of this effective and convenient peanut butter bait trap are discussed.
10.2307/3503606|The three species of Mexican katydids Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar and Bolivar 1942), Pterophylla robertsi (Hebard 1941) and Pterophylla baezi (Bolivar and Bolivar 1942) are morphologically very similar. P. beltrani and P. baezi exhibit "green" and "pink" morphs while P. robertsi was only recorded in the green form. The shared colour forms plus the morphological similarity has caused taxonomic problems, particularly between P. beltrani and P. robertsi. Here we describe the acoustic signals of P. beltrani and P. robertsi and use these signals to clarify their taxonomy. Calling and courtship signals of both species consist of phrases made up of pulses. The highest degree of separation between the species (98%) was obtained in a discriminant analysis of the courtship signals. Phrase rate per minute, duration of pulse no. 1 and duration of pulse intervals were the most important discriminating variables. Factors causing variation in P. beltrani and P. robertsi acoustic signals are discussed and the role of acoustic signals as a Specific Mate Recognition System is stressed. Acoustic results are supported by morphometric studies which enabled a 100% separation between the species and provided diagnostic characters. Hybridization tests failed to produce any offspring.
3503726|Crickets are known to be inefficient sound producers. When calling, typically less than 1% of their metabolic energy is converted into sound. This low efficiency has been attributed to losses within the insect and to poor acoustic coupling with the environment. A previously uninvestigated factor that might contribute to low efficiency is ultrasonic radiation. If the impacts of the plectrum and file teeth excite vibration in the ultrasonic range, then the sound pressure level meters typically used to measure acoustic power would not accurately detect it. We made audible and ultrasound recordings of the calling songs of a phylogenetically diverse group of 6 cricket species, and, for comparison, 2 katydid species. In most of the cricket species, energy was present well into the ultrasonic region as a series of harmonics of the carrier frequency. However, the energy in these peaks was very small in comparison to the audible-range harmonics. There was no evidence of significant oscillations that were not harmonics of the carrier frequency. In all but one cricket species, over 97% of the total audible and ultrasonic energy was contained in the carrier frequency band.
3503724|Acoustic signals used during the pair-forming behavior of Isophya modesta modesta are described for the first time. Specimens from Hungary, Rumania and the Ukraine have been studied. The male calling song of I. m. modesta is composed of single syllables. Each syllable consists of a shorter main impulse-series (120 to 240 ms) and a longer terminal impulse-series (200 to 2500 ms), separated from each other by a silent interval of 4 to 9 s. Uniquely in I. m. modesta, females can produce 2 response songs during 1 syllable of the male: after the male's main impulse-series, and most frequently, after the terminal impulse-series. Playback experiments revealed that the second female response song is related to the end of the male's terminal impulse-series. I. m. modesta and I. m. rossica were formerly regarded as two different species only subtle morphological differences being known between the 2 taxa. But as the male calling songs are apparently identical, and with the present state of our knowledge, it is reasonable to treat "I. rossica" as a subspecies of I. modesta. The only remarkable difference in the pair-forming acoustic communication of the 2 subspecies is the different timing of female response song, indicating that the 2 taxa have diverged from each other to a certain degree.
25473456|Grasshoppers, like all other organisms, are composed of a combination of elements, but little is known about the extent to which the elemental composition in grasshoppers changes over the course of nymphal development. In this study the grasshopper Schistocerca americana was reared on a diet of seedling wheat and wheat germ; nymphs of various mass were collected and analyzed for elemental composition. In total, 12 different elements, including the macroelements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus, were quantified. Results show that the amount of a given element increased linearly with increasing body mass, but that the rate of increase differed depending on the element. Results also show that the concentration of some elements dropped dramatically over the course of development. We discuss our results in the context of limiting nutrients and ecological stoichiometry.
3503676| The acridid grasshopper genus Dellia Stl is redescribed and compared to other genera of Copiocerinae. Two new species of Dellia (Dellia karstica spec. nov. and Dellia maroona spec. nov.) from the Cockpit Country, Jamaica, are described and illustrated. General morphology and coloration indicate that D. karstica is closely related to the previously described D. gemmicula Rehn & Hebard from the Jamaican Blue Mountains. 
20066569|Two new species of a new genus of katydids collected in the understory of rainforests of northern Peru are described and figured. Observations on one species suggests that both may be predaceous or, at least, opportunistic predators. Placement of this genus into either Copiphorinae or Agraeciinae has not been resolved and demonstrates the need for studies to refine subfamilial and tribal relationships among the tettigoniids. /// Dos nuevas especies de un nuevo genero de tettignidos (Tettigoniidae) recolectadas en el substrato y areas adyacentes del bosque tropical en el norte del Peru son dibujadas y descritas. Observationes en una de las especies sugiere la posibilidad de que ambas son depredadoras o tal vez depredadores oportunisticos. La pertenencia de este genero a los Copiphorinae o Agraeciinae no ha sido resuclta, esto demuestra la necesidad de ms estudios que identifiquen las relaciones de tribu y sufamilia entre los tettignidos.
20789560|Necroscia ovata Chen & He, 2008 is synonymised with Necroscia shukayi (Bi, Zhang & Lau, 2001) comb. nov. and here transferred from the genus Sipyloidea Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893. The egg is illustrated for the first time.
25473441|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in animal species can result from the interplay between natural and sexual selection. In this paper we review the impact of sexual and natural selection on grasshopper body size and the evolution of SSD. Mate choice by females, and natural selection on female fecundity could explain an evolutionary trend to increase SSD in species in which females receive nutritional benefits during mating. In general, sexual selection is stronger in males than females. However, when females receive nutritional resources from males during mating, selection could be stronger in females than males. These resources constitute high energetic costs to males and it is expected that this promotes an increment in male mate selectivity. Higher female-biased SSD might evolve as a result of polyandry in species where males transfer nutritional benefits in the ejaculate. This hypothesis is testable at both macro- and micro-evolutionary levels. Finally, we discuss the relationship between body size and mate-guarding duration and its evolutionary implications and propose future studies to analyze the evolution of SSD and mate-guarding duration in grasshoppers.
10.2307/3503469|Based on written sources, locust outbreaks are traceable in the history of the Carpathian Basin to about a thousand years ago. Supposedly, these outbreaks attributed mainly to the Asiatic Wandering Locust (Locusta migratoria migratoria L.), which almost totally disappeared following the desiccation of the Pannonian Plain around the 18 or 19th century. Regulating river flows and desiccation of the Pannonian Plain brought about vast areas suitable as habitats for the Moroccan Locust (Dociostaurus maroccanus Thunberg), which occurred in the Carpathian Basin as the northernmost zone of its distribution area. A somewhat similar history in this region is known for populations of the Italian Locust (Calliptamus italicus L.). In a short report in 1993, I predicted the increasing possibility of locust outbreaks in Hungary. Three months later, after an interval of several decades, an outbreak began in June, caused mainly by the Moroccan Locust. Our prediction concerning possible causes of the outbreaks was based on the following: (a) decreasing pesticide pressure caused by both environmental (IPM approach) and economical concerns; (b) increased area of fallow land, mainly as a result of the uncertain situation of the present agrarian reform; and (c) the increasing number of drought years since the 1980s. In mid-June, 1993, mosaic-like outbreaks began across several hundred hectares in central Hungary. Partially separated by small groves and plantations, the diverse local populations consisted mainly of Dociostaurus maroccanus, D. brevicollis, and Calliptamus italicus. However, only D. maroccanus formed a restricted, but relatively dense, population (up to 150-300 specimens/ m
10.2307/3503542|This study, includes species of the order Mantodea (Insecta) living in the Malatya vicinity (Turkey) and some remarks on the mantises of Anatolia. Two species of Empusidae and five species of Mantidae were identified in the research area and a key to species was prepared. Figures of the genitalia of Rivetina fasciata, Bolivaria brachyptera and Bolivaria kurda are given. In a zoogeographical evaluation, data showed that Mediterranean elements are dominant in the research area
10.2307/3503480|The Orthopteroid fauna of the Maldive Islands in the Indian Ocean is poor. Species known to occur in the archipelago comprise eight species of cockroaches, most, if not all, of which have been introduced by human agency; a termite; four species of bush-crickets, all widely distributed elsewhere; a mole cricket, also widely distributed; eight species of true crickets (with a possible ninth), at least two of them introduced by human agency; four widely dispersed species of grasshoppers; a groundhopper; and five species of earwigs, at least four introduced. If the list is extended to include the southernmost island of the Laccadive (Lakshadweep) Islands, Minikoi, another cockroach, a mantid, another cricket, the Bombay locust, and possibly another groundhopper may be added to the recorded species. The Chagos Archipelago to the south has one more species of cockroach, a termite and another cricket which could occur in the Maldives. Most of the non-cosmopolitan fauna seems to be of southern Indian or Sri Lankan origin, but some has African affinities by way of the Seychelles. No species endemic omly to the islands is known. Note.-Because the manuscript of this paper was mislaid after submission, only a brief abstract (Kevan, 1990b), not the entire paper, was published at the time intended.
3503675| This work summarizes the preliminary taxonomic information available on the Orthoptera fauna of Hispaniola. Valid names, synonyms used in pertinent references, data on type specimens and species distributions are included. One hundred and three extant plus eight fossil species in Dominican amber are treated: Tridactylidae (1), Tetrigidae (12), Eumastacidae (10 + 1 fossil), Acrididae (20), Pyrgomorphidae (2), Tettigoniidae (22), Gryllidae (30 + 7 fossils), Anostostomatidae (3), Gryllacrididae (1), and Gryllotalpidae (2). Two genera of Tettigoniidae are recorded for the first time from the island. /// Este trabajo resume la informacin taxonmica preliminar disponible sobre la fauna de Ortpteros de la Hispaniola. Se incluyen nombres vlidos, sinnimos usados en referencias pertinentes, datos sobre especmenes tipo, y distribucin de las especies. Se tratan 103 especies vivientes ms ocho especies fsiles en mbar Dominicano: Tridactylidae (1), Tetrigidae (12), Eumastacidae (10 + 1 fsil), Acrididae (20), Pyrgomorphidae (2), Tettigoniidae (22), Gryllidae (30 + 7 fsiles), Anostostomatidae (3), Gryllacrididae (1) y Gryllotalpidae (2). Dos gneros de Tettigoniidae son citados por primera vez para la isla. 
25473459|Among crickets and katydids calling carrier frequency is often inversely related to body size. Within species, this relationship is so far found consistently for species employing nonresonant stridulation, but not always among those using resonant stridulation. Metrioptera sphagnorum, is an unusual acoustic species in making two different spectra, one by nonresonant, one by resonant, stridulation. The nonresonant carrier of this insect correlates inversely with body size; the carrier of the elastic-resonant song part does not. Complex-wave pulses made over the distal half of the stridulatory file, give a nonresonant spectrum with a broad audio band, peaked near 19 kHz; sinusoidal pulses, made over the proximal half of the file, give an ultrasonic peak near 35 kHz. The sometime absence of a body-size effect in resonant stridulation may arise from the importance in this mechanism of tooth-contact rates: these provide a way of affecting carrier independent of isometry. Another possible factor in expressing body size acoustically is that nonresonant radiators may show less departure from natural vibration modes. Sound intensity in M. sphagnorum, though affected by temperature, could not be correlated with size.
3503749| Ce travail a port sur l'utilisation de deux entomopathognes, Beauveria bassiana et Metarhizium flavoviride sur le 5me stade larvaire et les adultes de Locusta migratoria. Les individus du criquet migrateur proviennent de la rgion d'Adrar, oasis situe  1600 km au sud d'Alger. Les champignons entomopathognes sont de provenances diffrentes: B. bassiana a t isole  partir de cadavre d'adulte de Schistocerca gregaria chantillonn  Adrar en dcembre 1996. M. flavoviride est une souche isole  partir de Locusta migratoria originaire de Madagascar. L'inoculation s'est ralise par injection de 25 ml de l'entomopathogne dont les doses sont de 6.60 10
3503671|New data on the distribution and systematics of Turkish species of Poecilimon Fischer, 1853, are presented. A new species (Poecilimon demirsoyi sp. n.) and the insufficiently known females of Poecilimon birandi Karabag and Poecilimon haydari Ramme are described, and some new distributional records given.
20789567|For the past 250 y, tremendous advances have been made in the field of grasshopper systematics. There have been several breakthroughs that have pushed the field forward, and behind these breakthroughs were numerous visionary taxonomists. This article is a celebration of those taxonomists and their achievements. In this review, I provide a general overview of the field and describe major advances that have shaped our understanding of grasshopper systematics. Specifically, I review the pattern of species description in Acridomorpha (Orthoptera: Caelifera) since Linnaeus, and highlight the achievements of important taxonomists. Finally, I end with some of the problems that we grasshopper taxonomists are facing today and challenge the field as a whole to move forward.
4122939|The prairie mole cricket (Gryllotalpa major Saussure) is a native of the tallgrass prairie ecosystem of the south central United States. The largest of North American crickets, its populations have declined with the reduced availability of suitable grassland habitat. Prairie mole cricket populations were surveyed at The Nature Conservancy's Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Oklahoma in the spring of 2005. We located 95 acoustic burrows occupied by calling males and recorded the calling songs of 55. We measured 3 morphological characters for 8 of these field-recorded males and characterized each male's calling song for 7 key acoustic variables. Statistically significant relationships were discovered between male body length and 2 song parameters: syllables
3503615|Rehn's (1955) two subgenera Microtylopteryx (Microtylopteryx) and Microtylopteryx (Tristanacris), each comprising several species and subspecies, are here each considered to represent a single species, M. hebardi Rehn 1905 and M. fusiformis Rehn 1905 respectively. I arrive at this conclusion on the basis of a) the genital anatomy, and b) morphometric analysis of all the previously named taxa and several previously unsampled populations. There are no differences within each of these taxa in internal or external genital structure. In the morphometric analysis, measures specifically designed to correspond to Rehn's diagnoses were used, and new material was collected from the various type localities to supplement the original material. The results show that the original diagnoses, which were based on small samples, do not adequately represent the populations from which the type series were drawn. Virtually every geographically circumscribed population which has been investigated differs from the rest, often significantly, in the average of one or more quantitative characters. However, the degree of overlap between the different populations in the range of these characters is typically very large, and often complete, and individual specimens therefore cannot be allocated reliably to particular populations on the basis of their morphology. All such overlapping populations are here considered to belong to a single taxon. Where, exceptionally, there is no overlap between populations in some character, and individuals can be reliably allocated to a specific population on its basis, subspecific ranks have been allocated. Within Microtylopteryx (Microtylopteryx), M. hebardi caligo Rehn is synonymized with M. hebardi Rehn, and M. nigrigena Hebard is relegated to subspecific rank as M. hebardi nigrigena. Within M. (Tristanacris) two species (talamancae Rehn, tristani Rehn) and one subspecies (fusiformis lamprus Rehn) are synonomized with M. fusiformis Rehn. M. worthi Rehn and M. chiapensis Rehn are relegated to subspecific rank within M. fusiformis, and one further new subspecies (M. f. fastigiata n. ssp) from Western Panama is erected. Each of Rehn's subgenera thus becomes monospecific, and it is suggested that the division into two subgenera is now redundant. A key to species and subspecies is given, and distribution maps.
23071990|Many of the most primitive neotropical bush katydids (Phaneropterinae)  including species of Cosmophyllum Blanchard, Stenophylla Brunner von Wattenwyl, Marenestha Brunner von Wattenwyl, Anisophya Karabag, Coryphoda Brunner von Wattenwyl and Burgilis Stl  are endemic to Chile. The Chilean species, Isophya schoenemanni Karsch, is herein re-affirmed to belong to the genus Anisophya. Two new species of Anisophya from Chile are also described. One is dimorphic in wing length. In 1986 APHIS/PPQ intercepted this species in a shipment of apples from Chile, but it is not likely to be a pest of apples or other pome fruits.
3503752| In Australia, where approximately 80% of the land area is arid or semiarid, rainfall is the major factor limiting acridid populations. Rainfall is not only limiting in terms of quantity but also in being highly variable, both temporally and spatially. In this paper, the main adaptations seen in Australian Acrididae to overcome limiting rainfall are discussed with special reference to economically important species. In the arid to semiarid subtropics (lat 23-33S) rainfall is slightly summer-dominant but extended dry periods can occur in any season. Chortoicetes terminifera, the main pest species, avoids dry periods through embryonic diapause or survives dry periods as quiescent eggs or adults. Migration is critical for survival as it allows locusts to locate areas of localized rainfall. Outbreaks are frequent and develop when enough rain falls to allow continuous breeding over three to four generations. In temperate areas of subcoastal southern Australia, summers are dry and most rain falls in winter or early spring. Austroicetes cruciata, a univoltine pest species, avoids the dry summers by having an embryonic diapause between summer and early winter. In the tropical north (lat 13-23S), rainfall is strongly summer-dominant and Austracris guttulosa, another univoltine species, survives the dry winter as immature adults in reproductive diapause. Adults mature after feeding on the green vegetation present following early rains of the wet season. But the early rains are often localized and adults migrate until they encounter these localized areas of rain. Adults then mature and lay, but the survival of their offspring eggs and very young nymphs is assured only if there is further rain within 6 weeks. Outbreaks develop only when there are several years of regular rains both in outbreak areas and adjacent areas of the arid zone. Locusta migratoria does not have a stage that can survive extended dry periods. Consequently, it is mainly restricted to subcoastal areas of moderate rainfall. In the main outbreak areas of subtropical Queensland, populations often decline during the commonly dry winters but outbreaks develop when good rain falls in all seasons. 
20789576|In Australia, locusts are controlled using an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) system that aims to find and rapidly treat most gregarious locust populations. Many outbreaks have significant breeding in the arid interior of Australia during summer and treatments begin in the interior, to keep locust invasions of the agricultural zone to manageable levels. This preventive control program relies on IPM: moderately accurate forecasting and rapid response survey, followed by treatments of bands and swarms with a range of proven readily available products. IPM begins with a Decision Support System that uses data on weather and previous locust distributions to model locust development and possible migrations, so as to provide moderately accurate forecasts as to when and where locusts are likely to be present. When locusts are reported or forecast as likely to be in a region, surveys are conducted to locate any infestations and if bands or swarms are found, they are rapidly treated using a variety of techniques. Bands are commonly visible from an aircraft flying overhead and when bands are seen, the areas containing bands are normally treated using "barrier" treatments of fipronil, where synthetic insecticide is applied every few hundred meters. Swarms are located by helicopter and sprayed, using fast-acting organophosphorous compounds like fenitrothion. But an increasingly important part of IPM in Australia is having an environmentally friendly option. Locusts can then be treated even if they are found where synthetic insecticides cannot be used such as near waterways, where there are rare and endangered species, or on organically managed properties. It was the switch to produce organic beef for Japan by a number of properties in locust breeding areas in the interior that was an initial driver for the development of an alternative to synthetic pesticides for locust control in Australia. The result of an intensive research and development program was the mycopesticide Green Guard, which has as its active ingredient the FI-985 isolate of the fungus Metarhizium anisoplae var. acridum. Green Guard has played an important part in the IPM of locusts and grasshoppers in Australia, including large-scale control operations, with more than 100,000 ha treated since operational use began in 2000. However, while Green Guard plays an important part in the IPM of locusts and grasshoppers, it still accounts for only about 10% of the area treated. Green Guard costs more than synthetic insecticides and locust and grasshopper mortality is delayed when temperatures are mild. An additional factor limiting its use is a lack of biological control products for most other pests, so that synthetic insecticides are still used in most cropping systems, resulting in residues being present in most products and in most environments. As restrictions on synthetic pesticides generally increase and biological alternatives become more available, it is expected that Green Guard use should expand to become an increasingly important component of locust and grasshopper IPM.
10.2307/3503438|Serious outbreaks of oriental migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria manilensis (Meyen 1835), were reported on different islands of the Indonesian archipelago during the rainy season of 1997-98, especially in southern Sumatra. In the long term, the intensive deforestation that has been under way over the last 20 years is certainly partially responsible for these outbreaks. The drought that prevailed in the region in 1997 also seems to be a major recent factor that prompted these outbreaks.
3503695| This catalogue lists all genera and species of stick insects recorded or described from New Zealand. Genera are listed in alphabetical order within established subfamilies and tribes. Some taxonomic changes are made, with major changes as follows: 2 new genera in the subfamily Pachymorphinae are erected - Niveaphasma (type species - Pachymorpha annulata Hutton 1898) and Asteliaphasma (type species - Spinotectarchus jucundus Salmon 1991). Mimarchus tarsatus Carl 1913 is reduced to synonymy under Argosarchus horridus (White 1846), resulting in Mimarchus Carl 1913 becoming a synonym of Argosarchus Hutton 1898. Lectotypes are designated for Argosarchus schauinslandi Brunner 1907, Clitarchus interruptelineatus Brunner 1907, Clitarchus laeviusculus Stl 1875, Micrarchus parvulus Carl 1913, Micrarchus tarsatus Carl 1913 and Pachymorpha bouvieri Brunner 1907. Keys to adults and eggs of genera are given. The bibliography includes all references containing descriptions of species recorded or described from New Zealand. 
3503691|Members of 3 families of Orthoptera (Acrididae, Gryllacrididae, Tettigoniidae) were sampled in clearcuts, burned forest, and undisturbed forest in a coniferous forest ecosystem in northern Utah, USA. Sampling was conducted during July and August, 1995 to 1997, by use of pitfall traps. The camel cricket Ceuthophilus fusiformis (Gryllacrididae: Rhaphidophorinae) was the most commonly trapped species in forested plots, where otherwise very few orthopterans were collected. Many more orthopterans were taken in clearcuts and burns and these had equal species richness and total orthopteran abundance. However, the orthopteran assemblages differed between these two treatments. Band-winged grasshoppers (Acrididae: Oedopodinae) tended to be trapped more frequently in clearcuts, especially Camnula pellucida. Burned plots provided greater numbers of Ceuthophilus fusiformis and Steiroxys pallidipalpus (Tettigoniidae: Decticinae).
10.2307/3503508|The black field cricket, Teleogryllus commodus (Walker), is a serious pest of pastures in the winter rainfall zone of western Victoria. The most damaging stages in its life cycle are late instar nymphs and young adults, which occur in March and April. Current control is with a malathion/cereal bait applied each season from the air over large areas. In response to farmer demands for a biological alternative, the use of a mycoinsecticide with conidia of Metarhizium anisopliae as the active ingredient was investigated. Natural infections of M. anisopliae are widespread but rarely kill more than 5% of the population. A number of isolates are available and all are genetically very similar. In 1995, a small field trial was established with FI-1099 applied at the rate of 2 or 4 10
10.2307/3503462|The leaf-mimicking katydid Pterochroza ocellata resembles a dead or diseased leaf when at rest. When disturbed, this katydid elicits a threatening eyespot display, presenting visual elements similar to those found on an avian face. Behavioral components of this display are described and quantified. The threatening display was found to vary in duration, and in several cases was followed by escape behavior and the resumption of a cryptic attitude differing from the initial resting posture. Both male and female P. ocellata have the same primary defenses (camouflage/leaf resemblance) and secondary defenses (eyespots/threatening display)
10.2307/3503592|An individual's risk to predation is influenced by the foraging strategies of its predators, its own anti-predator mechanisms, and the physical characteristics of its habitat. In this study, three grasshopper species (Amphitornus coloradus, Ageneotettix deorum, and Melanopus sanguinipes) were tethered and placed in single grasshopper species patches of 10, 20, and 30 individuals in two different habitats to examine factors that affect grasshopper susceptibility to predation. Species tended to be less susceptible to vertebrate predation in areas most similar to their naturally chosen microhabitats. M. sanguinipes was less susceptible to vertebrate predation than either A. deorum or A. coloradus.
3657111| We report the occurrence in Western Panama of several previously unsuspected species of the genus Hylopedetes, including H. fuliginosus n. sp. and H. nigrithorax panamensis n. ssp. H. gemmeus Rehn 1929, previously known only from Costa Rica, is also recorded. A further spp. of Hylopedetes, H. punctatus n. sp. is described from W. Central Costa Rica. We also describe Chiriquacris quadrimaculata, n. gen, n. sp., from W. Panama, and Oedalacris cambrai n. sp. and O. lesbiae n. sp. from Eastern Panama. Oedalacris was previously known only from Colombia. We describe the previously unknown female of Piezops ensicornis (Stl 1878) and provide information on the distribution and biology of that species in Panama. 
40344849|A new species of Odonturoides Ragge, 1980 is described from the east African highlands. O. hanangensis Hemp, n. sp., occurs on the lower border of the montane forest of Mt Hanang, the third highest mountain ofTanzania. Morphological and ecological data are presented for all known species of this genus.
25473418|A new species of Usambilla Sjstedt, 1909, is described from the highlands of northwestern Tanzania. U. hanangensis Hemp n. sp. occurs in the montane zone on Mt. Hanang and on montane grasslands of the Mbulu District. Notes on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given. The known species of Usambilla are compiled with information on their ecology and biogeography.
10.2307/3503587| The Afro-Oriental hemiacridine grasshopper genus Leptacris Walker (1870), together with three related African genera, Acanthoxia I. Bolivar (1906), Sudanacris Uvarov (1944) and Meruana Sjstedt (1909), gen. rev., are revised. Keys are provided to the males and females of all genera and their included species and subspecies. The genus Meruana is restored from synonymy under Leptacris (Walker) as a valid genus, while a second genus Metapa Stl (1878) (synonymised under Leptacris Walker) is recombined under the Acanthoxia genus group. Three new species Acanthoxia aculeus sp.n., A. brevipenne sp.n. and Sudanacris cholawo sp.n. are described. Leptacris greeni and Ischnacrida fusca are newly synonymised under Leptacris filiformis, Leptacris violacea under Leptacris monteiroi monteiroi, Ischnacrida gracilis under Leptacris monteiroi vittata, Ischnacrida pretoriae under Acanthoxia natalensis and Meruana nyuki under Meruana usambarica. Three species are unplaced because material is unobtainable. Suggested determinations for the three species are given. 
25622287|A new species of the genus Acinipe (Rambur, 1838) is described from Catalonia (in the northeast of the Iberian Peninsula). Acinipe eulaliae n. sp. was collected in an intact calcicolous rosemary scrub dominated by rosemary (Rosamarinus officinalis). A. eulaliae n. sp. is characterized by the rounded shape of its fastigium, concave in contact with the vertex, and by a penis that is slender and directed upwards. This new species is compared to the similar species A. deceptoria (Bolvar, 1878) and A. segurensis (Bolvar, 1908).
25473432|We compared adult body size among six populations of the flightless lubber grasshopper Romalea microptera from south Florida, USA. The most distant populations were 113 km apart. We tested whether size differences among populations are correlated with local mean precipitation or temperature, and specifically investigated whether smaller average size is correlated with climate-related short-growth season, as has been shown for other grasshoppers. We found significant size differences among the populations for both males and females. Mean body size of R. microptera was greatest for a central population at Shark Valley South, declined toward the northwest, and less strikingly, toward the south. R. microptera females had a greater mean size at sites with high precipitation in May and low precipitation in November, suggesting that earlier onset of the wet season is positively associated with mean size. Further, mean size increased with increasing mean minimum temperature in January. These differences in adult size of R. microptera suggest that differences in local environments lead either to evolution of local differentiation in adult size or local differences in growth and development that result in differential expression of phenotypic plasticity in adult size.
3503618|In the perspective of the general review of the 'archaeorthopterid' insects (including Orthoptera and the extinct orders Caloneurodea and Titanoptera), a redescription of Protophasma dumasii Brongniart 1879, type species of the Protophasmatidae Brongniart 1885, is provided. The forewing morphology allows the assignment of this taxon to the Archaeorthoptera, but the hindwing morphology is very similar to that of Blattodea, with some particular features. Protophasma dumasii shares several symplesiomorphies with the Blattodea and Neoptera. Thus, this species is a good candidate to be the absolute out-group for the future phylogenetic analysis of the Archaeorthoptera.
25473434|We studied geographic body-size variation in males and females of 25 populations of the South American melanopline grasshopper Dichroplus pratensis Bruner, 1900, along more than 22 degrees of latitude (S) and between 0 and almost 2500 m of altitude. Using mean body length of each sex and factors obtained from PCA analyses of six morphometric linear characters, it was shown that D. pratensis follows the converse to Bergmann's rule, becoming smaller at higher latitudes and altitudes. Variability of body size increased with latitude and altitude in males and females. Body-size trends were statistically significantly correlated with ambient temperature (annual mean, minimum and maximum), precipitation (annual mean, minimum and maximum), and two estimators of seasonality, the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures, and the difference between maximum and minimum precipitation for each locality; both nonparametric correlations were positive. Body size was also positively and significantly correlated with Actual Evapotranspiration (AET), a measure of primary productivity, and with Potential Evapotranspiration (PET), a measure of ambient energy, but not with water balance (WB). Some allometric relationships also showed geographic variation. We suggest that the observed decrease in size with latitude and the increase in morphological variability, are joint consequences of the shortening of the growing season towards the south, the increasing seasonality and climatic unpredictability, lower primary productivity (as represented by AET); and that the species exhibits protandry, which contributes in the south, to smaller and more variably sized males, and smaller but more constant body size in females.
3657104|The male of Pylaemenes guangxiensis (Bi & Li 1994) is described and its distribution range extended to Japan and Taiwan. Recent confusion regarding Pylaemenes species is discussed and a corrected list of species included.
41759702|We reared Oriental Migratory Locusts, Locusta migratoria manilensis (Meyen) in the laboratory from 3rd instar until adult death, at five constant temperatures (18, 21, 24, 27 and 30C), and recorded life history variables. Temperature strongly influenced growth, development and behaviors. Growth and development rates were both positive linear functions of temperature, with low thermal thresholds for nymphal growth (15C) and development (13C). There was no mating at 18C and no oviposition at 21C and below. Rearing temperature did not significantly influence mass at adult molt, except for the 18C-nymphs who molted to adults with significantly smaller mass. Females laid their first egg pod significantly later at 24C than at 30C. Hiere were strong but nonsignificant trends for low-temperature females to die earlier and lay fewer and lighter egg pods; 24C-females averaged less than half the dry lifetime egg mass as 30C-females. Our results show that L. m. manilensis is a warm-climate species, and explain its current range and phenology in China. Knowledge of the thermal physiology and thermal ecology of L. m. manilensis will aid in its control and in predicting future outbreaks.
3657120|Host and geographical ranges are updated for the microsporidium Paranosema locustae; this pathogen was developed in the USA as a long-term microbial control agent of grasshoppers. Currently known to be susceptible to P. locustae, either naturally or experimentally, are 121 species of Orthoptera from North and South America, Africa, Australia, China, and India. Most belong to the Acrididae (112), and within this family, to the Melanoplinae (36), Oedipodinae (35), and Gomphocerinae (35). The host range of P. locustae, as presently understood, is based largely on morphology and could change if molecular techniques revealed cryptic species. The North American isolate is not only the best studied, but the one established after its introduction into Argentina, and produced and used in China: it can be considered a generalist pathogen. As such, P. locustae may have the ability to alter, through differences in host susceptibilities, the structure of grasshopper assemblages in areas where it was not present before. Long-term careful monitoring of key grasshopper species in areas of pathogen introduction/establishment may reveal such effects.
40344840|On the basis of material collected over several years, 13 genera and 33 species of Melanoplinae of northeastern Mxico are treated. Four species are considered as new records: Melanoplus arizonae Scudder, 1878, M. bivittatus (Say, 1825), M. regalis (Dodge, 1876) and M. sanguinipes sanguinipes (Fabricius, 1798). A new species is described: Huastecacris fariensis n. sp. Twenty species are endemic to Mxico: new information on geographic distribution and relative abundance is provided for all species treated. Melanoplus Stl, 1873 and Phaedrotettix Scudder, 1897 were the most diverse genera, with 13 and five species, respectively. The most common species, in order of abundance, were Phaulotettix compressus Scudder, 1897 (231 specimens), Phaedrotettix violai Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (229), Huastecacris zenoni Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (188), Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas, 1872) (161), Melanoplus flavidus Scudder, 1878 (110) and Huastecacris truncatipennis Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (109). Simpson's index (D) was estimated at 0.07 and Simpson's biodiversity index (1-D) at 0.93. AFLP molecular analysis supported morphological separation for some of the taxa studied and confirmed the presence of a new species of Huastecacris: H. fariensis n. sp.
23034227|The world is facing severe biodiversity loss and agencies worldwide are attempting to stem this threat. However problems arise when a rare or threatened species is also an agricultural or medical pest. In this paper we discuss the case of Aularches miliaris, the spotted coffee grasshopper. This species exists as several subspecies across south Asia, perhaps representing local genetic adaptation. It is polyphagous and a minor agricultural pest, and is usually managed via insecticides and egg-bed destruction. For much of its range, populations appear healthy and are not threatened. In contrast, within the Western Ghats Biodiversity Hotspot in south India, A. miliaris is sparse and listed as Near-Threatened. In this area the insect is an occasional minor agricultural pest. Considering its local rarity, versus its abundance in other geographic areas, we recommend that in south India A. miliaris needs to be conserved at the present time. During localized outbreaks, we recommend that A. miliaris be managed via mechanical collection of nymphs and adults, and destruction of egg pods, rather than intervention using insecticides.
3503697| This paper investigates the habitat preferences of Chorthippus albomarginatus, Chorthippus brunneus and Chorthippus parallelus in relation to sward height and vegetation composition. Using 2  2-m quadrats, the grasshopper fauna of 15 sites was surveyed in July and August of 2000 and 2001. The results obtained highlight the importance of sward height and vegetation composition in determining grasshopper abundance. The three Chorthippus species were found to favor sward heights between 100 to 200 mm. C. brunneus and C. parallelus in particular, were positively associated with fine-leaved grass species such as Agrostis spp. or Festuca spp. (p < 0.05) and negatively associated with Lolium perenne L. and Poa trivialis L. (p < 0.01). Both C. parallelus and C. brunneus were found to be in significantly higher abundance at heathland sites than in agricultural habitats. This may have been because the farmland sites were dominated by L. perenne, which may not be a suitable food resource for grasshoppers, whereas heathland swards tended to be composed of fine-leaved grass species such as Agrostis capillaris, which might be more favorable for adult feeding. The lack of suitable swards on agricultural land may severely restrict the occurrence of these grasshopper species. This could have important conservation implications for rare farmland bird species, such as Emberiza cirlus which utilise grasshoppers as a food source. 
3503708|We present a phylogeny of the Proctolabinae derived from their 12S and 16S mitochondrial ribosomal gene sequences, using 15 genera and 24 species. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using 4 different methods embodying different assumptions (maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, maximum likelihood and Bayesian probability methods), all of which result in closely similar trees. The results largely corroborate the relationships and classification previously suggested by morphology. A phylogenetic tree including members of the Oedipodinae, Proctolabinae and Melanoplinae, fulfills the criteria of a molecular clock, which we calibrate using the divergence of the Oedipodinae from the other acridid subfamilies (Gaunt & Miles 2002). The major "star-burst" radiation of acridid subfamilies, previously documented by the present authors on the basis of a different analysis, and here represented by the divergence of the Proctolabinae and Melanoplinae, is estimated to have occurred 60 Mya, at the K/T boundary. The modern tribes and subtribes of the Proctolabinae were established in the subsequent 10 My, and most of the current genera were established between 25 and 35 Mya. We examine the phylogenetic distribution of food-plant specialisation, and of the correlated traits of flightlessness and of endo- and epiphytic oviposition, primarily within the subtribe Lithoscirtae. The original specialisation of this group was apparently on the Solanaceae, soon after the origin of that family around 38 Mya, with later radiation onto the Asteraceae and other unrelated families. The spectrum of food plants used is not based on relationship but rather on ecological proximity. Oviposition in or on the food-plant is primitive for this subtribe, and has been developed in different ways in the various clades. The power of flight has been lost and/or regained and wing form modified independently in several different lineages throughout the subfamily. The modern and historical biogeography of the subfamily is discussed in the light of its apparent antiquity and of the current understanding of Central American plate tectonics.
25822714|Pterodichopetala cieloi n. gen. n. sp. from Mexico is here described. The song of the male is outlined and affinities with the genera Dichopetala Brunner v. W., 1878 and Marenestha Brunner v. W., 1878 discussed.
3503660| The insect growth regulator diflubenzuron (Dimilin) is used to control locusts and grasshoppers on rangeland and croplands worldwide. Ingestion of diflubenzuron by immature insects results in disruption of chitin formation and deposition that affects the cuticle and the molting process. Symptoms of diflubenzuron intoxication include: death, physical abnormalities (such as loss of limbs), lethargy and cessation of feeding. Field trials with diflubenzuron on grasslands are reported in this paper and support previously published work showing it to be effective in broadcast treatments or alternating swaths and barriers. Affected insects were observed 3 d after application but maximum control of populations occurred by 14 d. Low grasshopper population counts the year after application suggested fewer eggs hatched from adults exposed to diflubenzuron. This bears out results of earlier laboratory and small-scale experiments. Diflubenzuron applications to rangeland did not seriously affect the populations of nontarget arthropods. 
3503706|A new phaneropterine species of Stylomolpa Karny 1926 is described, Stylomolpa montana. This species was found in the submontane zone (1000-1500m) of Sabah, Borneo.
23034219|Based upon 18 specimens collected at two sites in southeastern Arizona during 2009 and 2010, Dichroplus notatus is added to the orthopteran fauna of the United States. Habitat descriptions, lists of sympatric orthopterans and comments on its taxonomic position are presented. Basado en 18 especmenes recogidos en dos lugares durante 2009 y 2010 en el sudeste de Arizona, se presenta un registro nuevo de Dichroplus notatus que no estaba reportado previamente por los estados unidos. Las descripcines del hbitat, listas de orthopteros simpatricos, y commentarios sobre su posicin taxonmica son incluidos.
3503745|Locust control in Africa has been the focus of considerable controversy over the last 15 y. Many control aspects were called into question following the last large plagues of 1987-88 (Desert Locust) and 1996-2000 (Malagasy Migratory Locust): recommended preventative strategy, environmental impact of insecticides used, socioeconomic importance of the locusts. Many projects were launched to improve survey and control methods and find alternative solutions to chemical pesticide treatments. Recent progress is reviewed. Survey and application techniques showed dramatic improvements with GIS, GPS technology and precision spraying. Barrier applications are again available, thanks to new persistent pesticides. Biological control with mycopesticides now appears very promising and undoubtedly the technique will gradually be adopted. The environmental aspects are taken into better account and an IPM approach is now possible. The EMPRES program of FAO is committed to reinforcing national early warning and early reaction capacities for preventative control of the Desert Locust. In Madagascar, a new National Locust Center has recently been set up. In many places local research capabilities are improving. However, certain very fundamental aspects remain unsolved. Among others, the sustainability of preventative control systems is an important concern. Many affected countries are amongst the poorest in the world. They currently do not have sufficient financial resources to fund intensive control campaigns, nor even the basic minimum to ensure prevention. A realistic solution to prevent locust plagues requires stronger commitment of governments and donors, sustainable small but flexible national locust control units for prevention, and especially the creation of emergency action plans, ready to quickly mobilize and organize complementary resources in the event of an upsurge. Emergency funds are thus essential and should be created. Locust control seems now to depend more on political and institutional choices than on scientific and technological innovations.
10.2307/3503485|We carried out feeding studies on fourteen species/subspecies of grasshoppers belonging to six subfamilies on rugged, well-vegetated La Palma and on relatively flat, semidesertic Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. Together, these three islands of the Canarian Archipelago provide a diversified, biologically interesting orthopteran fauna on which there is a paucity of feeding information. Our investigation involved a habitat analysis of selected stations and the following characterization of the grasshoppers living there: mouthpart adaptation to provide insight into feeding preferences; differential feeding tests to disclose feeding preferences under conditions of essentially uniform plant availability; and feculae composition to ascertain food selection in nature. Seven of the grasshopper species were phytophilous or thamnophilous, five were geophilous, and two were intermediate in their choice of perch; eight were essentially dicot feeders and six were grass feeders. The geophiles were noted to become scavengers on dried plant debris and sometimes arthropod remains in response to summer drought. Dericorys sspp. proved to be specialized feeders, largely on Chenopodiaceae. Our study of this limited assemblage of grasshoppers demonstrated a relationship between their food availability and food selection and suggested that food availability may be as important a factor as preferences in determining their host plant selection.
4122952| Les auteurs dressent un bilan bio-cologique et bio-gographique comparatif des deux principaux locustes ravageurs du Prou. Schistocerca cf. interrita Scudder 1899, qui de 1997  2003 a grgaris et envahi les dpartements de Lambayeque et Cajamarca et Schistocerca piceifrons peruviana Lynch Arribalzaga 1903 dont les pullulations chroniques perdurent dans le centre-sud du pays. Les donnes analyses ont t collectes, entre 2000 et 2003, au cours du "Programme d'assistance  la lutte anti-acridienne au Prou" (FAO-SENASA, Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria). Une meilleure connaissance de la bio-cologie permet d'affiner les stratgie de surveillance et de lutte prventive contre ces deux ravageurs. /// The authors set up a bio-ecological and biogeographical assessment between the two main locust species in Peru: Schistocerca cf. interrita Scudder 1899, which from 1997 to 2003 has gregarized and invaded Lambayeque and Cajamarca regions and Schistocerca piceifrons peruviana Lynch Arribalzaga, 1903, whose outbreaks last for long time in the central south part of the country. Analysed data were collected between 2000 and 2003 during the "Assistance programme on locust control in Peru" ((FAO-SENASA, Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria). A better understanding of the bio-ecology of these two pests will permit a refinement of the strategies of survey and preventive control. 
10.2307/3503477|Sakai (1970-1993, Dermapterorum Catalogus: Vols. I-XXV, 9,247 pp.) compiled much of the relevant taxonomic information and references on worldwide valid and invalid dermapteran taxa since Linnaeus (1758). The global biodiversity of Dermaptera is recognized in 4 suborders, 6 superfamilies, 11 families, 55 subfamilies, 208 genera, 1,930 species, 34 subspecies, 37 varieties and 9 forms. It is interesting to consider the way in which the diversity of features in the Dermaptera seems to be concentrated in the male forceps, pygidium, manubrium, and genitalia-including shapes of the virga and paramere. The citations in Steinmann's Catalogue (1989) and Das Tierreich (1986, 1989) on Dermaptera have sometimes overlooked important taxonomic references. The suprageneric names at subfamily level in Steinmann (1989) are incorrect; for example, "Carcinophoridae" for "Anisolabididae" and "Labiidae" for "Spongiphoridae". Sakai (1990) indicates that many incorrect synonyms were cited in Steinmann's World Catalogue and Das Tierreich. These references are useful, but take several different approaches from Sakai's Catalogus and other references. A new genus, Paralabella, erected by Steinmann (1989) on the basis of paramere shape of the male genitalia, is an example of the excellent treatment of Dermapteran classification by Steinmann (1989).
41759699|Aegimia Stl, 1874, a Neotropical katydid genus of the Phaneropterinae (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae), is revised based on the examination of 106 specimens from Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia and Brazil. The genus is recognized by a long sword-shaped fastigium, mid- and hindtibiae strongly flattened, and leaf-shaped tegmina. The following species are redescribed: A. catharinensis Piza, 1950, A. cultrifera Stl, 1874 and A. elongate Rehn, 1903. Two new species are described: Aegimia maculifolia sp. nov. (from Costa Rica, Panama and Colombia) and Aegimia venarecta sp. nov. (from Costa Rica). Geographic distribution of A. cultrifera is expanded to Costa Rica. The female of A. catharinensis remains unknown. A pictorial key to all species is presented and details of the male genitalic characters described and illustrated.
10.2307/3503455| The zone of natural Yacutia grasslands is situated between 60-64N and 130-135E. Vegetation of the meadow-steppe occupies vast glades dispersed in woodlands. These glades are inhabited by a dozen grasshopper species, three of which (Chorthippus albomarginatus, Aeropus sibiricus, and Omocestus haemorrhoidalis) are of economic importance. Most (up to 98%) of the grasshopper population consists of C. albomarginatus, which can produce mass outbreaks in years with deficient rainfall. Overgrazed pasture grasslands are particularly subject to grasshopper depredation. A recent outbreak took place in 1986-87, and an upsurge was observed in 1992. Prospective control strategies are under discussion-including rotational grazing, grassland management, and effective utilization of appropriate chemical measures on limited areas based on phenology forecasts. Special consideration is given to the search for and possible utilization of alternative control agents. 
25473449|Body size affects many aspects of an organism's performance, including reproduction. Ecologists have shown an increased interest in linkages between body size variation and population dynamics. Fecundity in a number of insect orders is often positively correlated with body weight or structural size, but reproductive characteristics and body size are not always positively correlated, particularly in field studies. Numerous biotic and environmental factors can influence individual body size and reproduction in grasshoppers under field conditions. Intraspecific relationships between reproductive traits and individual body size in melanopline grasshoppers were examined using data from four field experiments. Significant positive correlations between body size and reproductive traits occurred in three of four field experiments involving Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius) and Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas) where per capita resource availability was manipulated, with a highly significant relationship between femur length and functional ovarian follicles when statistical results were combined from all correlations. In addition, individual femur length was a significant covariate for at least one reproductive trait in three experiments. Biotic factors such as food availability and predation could be more important than body size in determining reproductive output under field conditions, but further work is required to examine under what conditions individual body size affects reproduction in grasshoppers.
10.2307/3503426|Rehn (1942) described the genus Elysiacris and designated Tropinotus angusticollis Blanchard 1851 as its type species. But this species had been misidentified; it was in fact an undescribed species which has here been named Elysiacris ensicornis n. sp. The genus Tropidostethus was described by Philippi (1963) with Batrachopus? bicarinatus as its type species. But this species was a junior synonym of Tropinotus angusticollis Blanchard (1851). Here this latter species is treated as the type species of Tropidostethus.
40344843|The morphology of the proventriculus may supply useful taxonomic characters for some species of crickets. This study evaluated if the proventriculus can be used to distinguish three species of Nemobiinae crickets: Phoremia sp. n., Zucchiella sp. n., and Amanayara sp n. In crickets the proventriculus presents six lobes, each one bearing eight appendices along its longitudinal axis. In Phoremia sp. n., the central portion of the first appendix has a tooth like a spear, with two denticles; the central portion of the second appendix presents one plate formed by five denticles, whereas in Zucchiella sp. n., the apex of the first appendix is U-shaped with denticles absent, and the second appendices differ from those of Phoremia sp. n. by the number of denticles. In Amanayara sp. n. the central portion of the first and second appendices form a long and sharpened tooth, the denticles are lacking. In the other proventricular appendices there was variation in the number of denticles and in their shape. These results indicate that the morphology of the proventriculus can provide auxiliary characters for taxonomy of Nemobiinae, especially useful for this subfamily, since for many species the external morphology is insufficient for characterization of genera and species.
10.2307/3503535| Populations of Pterophylla beltrani and P. robertsi were studied along the Eastern Sierra Madre, in the States of Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas and San Luis Potos. Thirty colonies of Pterophylla spp. were located between the Cinega, State of Nuevo Len and the city of El Maz, San Luis Potos. Geographic distribution limits for both species are established for the first time. P. beltrani occurs from the State of Nuevo Len to the surroundings of Cd. Victoria and Jaumave, Tam., while P. robertsi occurs from Llera, Tam. to the city of El Maz, San Luis Potos. Three allopatric populations of P. robertsi previously unknown are reported in South Tamaulipas. Acoustic activity of both species is associated with factors, such as temperature, relative humidity, solar radiation, rain, wind, presence of sexually mature females or conspecific individuals, whether or not the male carries a spermatophore, predators, etc. P. beltrani suspends singing activity from 3:00 to 7:00 hours (temperature 19-21C and 70-75% relative humidity) and from 12:00 to 17:00 (temperature 33C: 40% relative humidity - at this time heat and solar radiation are most intense). P. robertsi's singing activity period is from 19:00 to 4:00, being shorter compared to P. beltrani. Factors associated with singing activity, geographic distribution, intra and interspecific variation are discussed 
25822710|The present study is a sincere tribute from some of the cytogenetic laboratories of Madrid involved in the study of grasshopper meiosis, for the inestimable contribution of Professor Michael J.D. White to orthopteran cytogenetics, on the 100th anniversary of his birth. Here we review the knowledge accumulated over almost 90 y on the meiosis of the grasshopper Stethophyma grossum, especially on the male side, because of the very unusual meiotic characteristics shown by the spermatocytes, namely: whereas the three shortest bivalents achieve full synapsis and do not show chiasma localization and the single X chromosome remains asynapsed, the remaining eight bivalents show restricted synapsis and proximal chiasmal localization. In addition, supernumerary segments and accessory chromosomes are present in some natural populations. Special attention is paid to the relationships among cohesin axis morphogenesis, initiation of recombination events and synapsis achievement.
3503621|A new katydid from the tropical rainforests of northern Australia, Leucopodoptera eumundii gen. et sp. nov., is described. Morphological examination, scanning electron microscopy imaging and cytological preparations were used to establish defining characteristics. Principal taxonomic characters include the stridulatory file of the male and the ovipositor of the female. Laboratory and field-based observations give insight into the distribution, ecology and life-history of the species.
3503762|A new species of Pseudosaga (Tettigoniidae: Mecopodinae: Aprosphylini), P. maraisi sp. n. is described from Brandberg Massif in western Namibia. It differs from other members of the genus in the development of the male stridulatory structures and the female subgenital plate. A key for identification of all known species of Pseudosaga is provided.
25822699|The history of the study of orthopteran chromosomes is coincident with the formulation of the chromosome theory of heredity and the rediscovery of Mendel's laws, thus with the birth of cytogenetics. We review the early contributions of grasshopper chromosomes to the chromosome theory, the understanding of sex chromosomes, the phenomena of mitosis, meiosis, linkage, crossing over and recombination, the problems of chiasma localization and terminalization, reproduction and parthenogenesis, the nature and behavior of B chromosomes and supernumerary segments, and the role of chromosomal rearrangements in microevolution and speciation. We also discuss the influence of early works on later research, and emphasize the fundamental contributions of Michael J. D.White to modern cytogenetics and evolutionary biology in general.
43738202|In the woods around the famous Iguaz Waterfalls were discovered numerous individuals of a little walking leaf identified as Typophyllum inflatum, a species long ago described from Bolivia, and apparently never reported again. So far this population represents the southernmost known record of katydids comprising the leaf-mimicking family group Pterochrozinae or Pterochrozini. Males of T. inflatum produce a continuous low-ultrasound pure-tone song, which could reveal the presence of this species in other areas with suitable habitat. This song is astonishingly similar to that of T. erosifolium, an allopatric species distributed in northwestern South America. Typophyllum inflatum shares with other Typophyllum species the pre-copulatory riding of the tiny male on the much bigger female, but this occupies only a few hours compared to up to several days in a species from Ecuador. This could be related to a possibly lower prdation pressure in the subtropical region. The same may be true of the lower variability of body color, unless this only reflects adaptation to a drier environment. In contrast to tropical species, T. inflatum in northeastern Argentina most likely is seasonal, with adults probably appearing during the south-hemispherical summer.
23034228|To understand the driving forces of speciation in grasshoppers of the subfamily Gomphocerinae, we compared a molecular phylogenetic tree with the distribution of the song pattern complexity and courtship behavior. In 50 grasshopper species of Gomphocerinae, a barcoding region of mitochondrial gene COI was sequenced and analyzed. A plesiomorphic pattern of calling song was shown to be predominant in the species of the most basal clusters, including the tribes Chrysochraontini, Dociostaurini and Arcypterini. In the tribes Stenobothrini and Gomphocerini, plesiomorphic pattern of the calling song was found in less than half of the species studied; others demonstrated increasing song complexity. The species of the basal cluster of the phylogenetic tree did not show complex courtship songs. Courtship songs that are different and more complex than the calling songs were only found in about half of species belonging to the tribes Stenobothrini and Gomphocerini. Most species with complex courtship (species of Stenobothrus genus, of Chorthippus albomarginatus group) were shown to be recently diverged species. Comparison of visual displays accompanying complex courtship song, revealed similarities between the species from different groups. According to the molecular phylogeny, complex courtship behavior in Gomphocerinae evolved independently and convergently. Since the courtship song can be used by a female to judge mate quality, sexual selection is suggested to be the main driving force of rapid speciation in these young species.
3657130|Sustainable development was defined in 1987 by the World Commission on Environment and Development as a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Sustainability has since become a guiding principle and basis for action in all fields of agriculture, including pest management. The principle is stipulated in the Declaration on Environment and Development of 1992 which calls for "research and development into pesticides that are target-specific and readily degrade into harmless constituent parts after use", as well as in the 'Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development' of 2002 which calls for "promoting programs for the environmentally sound, effective and efficient use of ... pest control". How do these obligations translate into the reality of locust control? The present paper addresses this question from different perspectives, representing the 3 pillars of decision-making for sustainable development: capacity, understanding and willingness. It concludes that substantial progress has been made over the last decade in improving the technological capacity for more target-specific control (application technology, biological control, barrier treatment). However, despite all evidence, these innovations are often perceived with suspicion by locust control practitioners and the public. The paper identifies a lack of confidence in the efficacy of some of the new technologies as a major constraint to their adoption. Improving the understanding of these technologies is key to overcoming this constraint. This may require believing what one does not see immediately. Only then may decision makers be willing to include new and more environmentally sound technologies into their control portfolios-and so progress towards sustainable locust control.
23610402|A new species, Entoria hei sp. nov., is described and illustrated. Notes on the status of the genus from Hong Kong are given. A key and important figures of the Entoria species of Hong Kong are provided.
20066585|Turkish taxa of Asiotmethis were studied. Asiotmethis limbatus limbatus (Charpentier, 1842), described from Turkey, is compared with Asiotmethis turritus armeniacus Ramme, 1951, known only in Armenia. The species described as Glyphotmethis arasi Salman, 1978 is proposed as junior synonym of Asiotmethis turritus armeniacus, the latter recorded for the first time from Turkey. A neotype is designated for A. limbatus limbatus from the European part of Turkey known as this taxon's type locality. Diagnosis, distribution, references to Turkey and doubtful records are given for both taxa, with a key, distributional map, illustrations and measurements. The need for a revision of the complicated genus Asiotmethis is explained, with some notes on problems of specific taxa. A checklist of all known species of the genus, their type localities and distributions is tabulated.
20066566|Until now, of the total 53 or so species of cave crickets in the genera Troglophilus Krauss 1879 and Dolichopoda Bolivar 1899, seven are known from Turkey. Collecting journeys in 2000 and 2001 allowed us to obtain samples from the Pontic Mountains (northeastern Turkey). Based on this material, we now describe two new species, one for each of the above genera. Dolichopoda noctivaga sp. n. is very closely related to the transCaucasian species D. euxina and D. hyrcana, but can be distinguished from them by the shape of the epiphallus, rounded not truncate apically, by the occurrence of styli on the male subgenital plate, and by the unemarginate apex of the female subgenital plate. The second newly discovered species, Troglophilus tatyanae sp. n., differs from all other Turkish species in the uniformly brown coloration of its body, and by its small size -- the smallest species known for the genus Troglophilus. Both T. tatyanae and D. noctivaga are apparently limited to the Black Sea region of northeast Turkey. D. noctivaga has been found in four localities scattered across the Pontic Mountains. By contrast, T. tatyanae occurs only in one locality, that in the Artvin district where it is syntopic with D. noctivaga. Both species have only a slight degree of adaptation to cave habitats, which seem to be used only as seasonal shelter.
10.2307/3503533|Reduced area and agent treatments (RAATs) for management of rangeland grasshopper infestations were compared with blanket applications of 2 standard compounds at traditional rates (100% of infestations treated with carbaryl applied at 16 oz/ac or malathion applied at 8 oz/ac) in southeastern Wyoming during 1995-96. Two RAATs applications of carbaryl (12 oz/ac applied in alternating swaths to 66% of infestations [12-66] and 8 oz/ac applied in alternating swaths to 50% of infestations [8-50]) were essentially indistinguishable from the standard treatment, with 80 to 90% grasshopper mortality. A carbaryl 8-33 treatment resulted in only 40 to 60% control. Mortality following application of 4 oz/ac of malathion in alternating swaths to 80% of an infestation (4-80) was indistinguishable from the standard application, with 75 to 90% control. However, a malathion 4-50 treatment resulted in only 55 to 65% control. Fipronil (14 oz/ac) applied to 25% of an infestation resulted in 80 to 90% control, comparable to the highest rates of mortality with the other RAATs. The greatest benefit: cost ratios (>2.8: 1) were seen with the carbaryl 8-50, malathion 4-80, and fipronil 14-25 treatments. The RAATs strategy appears to depend on movement of grasshoppers from untreated to treated swaths and on the conservation of natural biological control agents. Had RAATs methods been used during the 1986-88 outbreak in the western US, pest managers would have saved $38 million and used 34 million metric tons less insecticide
41759714|Shorthorn grasshoppers (Orthoptera:Acrididae) are the most economically important pests of rangeland throughout much of North America. Their densities are estimated using a number of methods, including sweep sampling. Economic thresholds are usually set at 8 adult grasshoppers per square yard, despite differences in range conditions associated with geography and weather patterns. Several authors have concluded that grasshopper numbers are higher in ditch areas and the economic threshold in these habitats is often set substantially higher. This study compared grasshopper numbers and species composition at 120 rangeland sites across ~ 400 km of northern Nebraska in 2007 and 2010. By taking sweep net samples in the ditch, parallel with the fence inside the pasture, and approximately 30 meters into the pasture, we found the numbers and composition of grasshoppers differed significantly across this area. Mean adult grasshopper capture was highest in the ditch samples (22.4  1.9 grasshoppers captured per 20 net sweeps) compared to fence (10.3  1.0) and field samples (15.9  1.6). Mean adult capture increased from east (4.8  0.4) to west (25.5  2.1). The same trends were observed when nymphal numbers were included in analysis. Based on these results, rangeland grasshopper sampling should be conducted more than 30 meters from the fenceline, and thresholds in roadside ditches should be higher than for rangeland pastures.
4122944|Aerotegmina shengenae is described from the montane forests of the South Pare Mts of Tanzania. A habitat description is given and co-occurring Saltatoria registered. By the morphology of the acoustical chamber, A. shengenae is more primitive than A. kilimandjarica. Speciation processes are discussed for Aerotegmina species.
10.2307/3503517| Endecous betariensis, a new species of cricket collected in a limestone cave from the Ribeira Valley Speleological Province, state of So Paulo, Brazil, is described and its calling song characterized. Male and female genitalia as well as the calling song of Endecous itatibensis Rehn, 1918 are also represented for comparative purposes. 
10.2307/3503632|The distribution and mobility of singing male Steropleurus stali were examined in the field. At two sites with relatively low densities of singing males, the males were highly mobile and sang at comparable rates. At a third site, with higher densities, the males sang at a lower rate and were much less mobile. Plasticity of mate attraction and searching behavior in different habitats are discussed in the light of these results.
20789563|A new genus and species of cricket, Anomaloterga mantiqueirae, here described, is the first representative of Strogulomorphini to be reported from Brazil. The specimens were collected at night from the lower portions of live tree trunks in a summit forest located on the Mantiqueira Fault Escarpment, State of So Paulo.
10.2307/3503601|The life history, community ecology, population ecology, and pest management of grasshoppers on the typical steppe of Inner Mongolia were compared with those of the Great Plains of North America. Although the life histories of grasshoppers are similar, the Inner Mongolian grasslands have two distinct developmental cohorts, and all species are believed to have four or five nymphal instars. Grasshopper species are not known to overwinter as nymphs on the Asian steppe. A relatively high proportion of Chinese species show sexual dimorphism and brachyptery, although no Asian steppe species have aposematic coloration. The community structure of grasshoppers is similar in both regions, with the flora apparently playing an essential role. However, the Asian fauna is dominated by Gomphocerinae (particularly Chorthippus) while the North American fauna is dominated by both the Gomphocerinae and Melanoplinae (primarily Melanoplus). Thus, Chinese grasshopper communities are principally graminivorous (with no known cannibalism) and no species is perceived to be economically beneficial, while the North American fauna is characterized by both grass- and mixed-feeders, some of which consume weeds. Population dynamics in both ecosystems are linked to weather, but North American grasslands appear to support four times more grasshopper biomass per unit of forage than the Asian steppe. Predators and parasites are potentially important regulators of low population densities in both ecosystems, but pathogens appear to play a more significant role in North America. An average of 0.5% of the land is treated (primarily with malathion) each year in both regions. Although the cost of treatment is similar, the economic threshold is perceived to be higher in Inner Mongolia.
3503746|Two new species of Megacrania Kaup in Indonesia are described and compared with other related species. There are now three confirmed species in Indonesia.
43738204|Dichroplus maculipennis is one of the most damaging grasshopper species of Argentina. Individuals of this species at high density are historically known to show aggregation behavior and dispersal flights, attributes that might suggest that it does exhibit to some extent phase polyphenism in relation to population density. Phase polyphenism is a complex phenomenon and the amplitude of phase change is usually species-dependent. Morphological differences between gregarious and solitarious locusts can be measured and analyzed in order to characterize the phase status. The objective of this study was to evaluate morphometric differences between individuals of a D. maculipennis field population in the southern Pampas region of Argentina during non-outbreak and outbreak conditions including the magnitude of sexual size dimorphism related to variation in density. Collected individuals in the outbreak condition totaled 804 (422 females, 382 males) and those in non-outbreak condition were 325 (141 females, 184 males). Six morphometric characters were measured and two ratios (F/C and E/F) usually used to discriminate between solitarious and gregarious individuals in true locust species were calculated. Results show that size traits of D. maculipennis change over time at the population level, and that these changes correlate with outbreak vs non-outbreak populations. Females and males of D. maculipennis in outbreak conditions are significantly larger than in non-outbreak conditions. Furthermore, significant change over time was recorded in values of the two ratios calculated. D. maculipennis showed female biased sexual size dimorphism in both outbreak and non-outbreak conditions. There is a smaller difference in body size among females and males in outbreak conditions than in females and males in non-outbreak conditions. These results may be an indication of the presence of densitydependent phenotypic plasticity in this species, but additional experiments are required in order to establish a causal relationship between population density and changes in size traits.
3503767|Ottedana cercalis, a new genus and species of luzarine phalangopsid cricket, is described from the Araucaria forest on the Serra da Mantiqueira range of southeastern Brazil.
20066568|New species of Rhainopomma and of Altiusambilla from the northern part of the Eastern Arc mountains of Tanzania are described, based on morphological, molecular and geographical data. Ancestors of the genera Usambilla, Rhainopomma and Altiusambilla probably spread when a different climatic regime favored forest cover connecting presently isolated high mountains of East Africa. After forests retreated, allopatric speciation was the driving force resulting in the biographical pattern of closely related lentulid species we see today in the Eastern Arc mountains and inland volcanoes of Tanzania and Kenya.
41759707|Topographic homology conjectures (= THCs) in fore-and hind wing venation of extant king crickets, raspy crickets and weta are re-evaluated. Based on the premises that topological homology is established so that the amount of transformation that has to be assumed to explain differences between patterns is minimized, a new set of THCs (= STHC), based on morphological data on the species cf. mexicanus de Saussure, 1859: 209, laudatum Johns, 1997, ornata Willemse, 1963, cf. bicornis Karny, 1929a, pinguipes 7. Rentz in Morton & Rentz, 1983, pinguipes Rentz in Morton & 1983, an undetermined species, punctipennis Walker, 1869, and ruf ovara Kirby, 1888, is elaborated. Among other transformations, the occurrence of a re-routing of MP along CuA (i.e., the basal M + CuA stem splits into MA and MP + CuA, instead of into MA + MP and CuA) is demonstrated for pinguipes, punctipennis, and ruf ovara. Concurrently, intra-specific variability in forewing venation is appreciated for laudatum, ornata, cf. bicornis, pinguipes, punctipennis, and rufovaria. A dadotypic-compliant nomenclatural scheme is elaborated based on the proposed THCs. The taxon Agryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, CuA + CuPaa with two distal branches only'; the taxon Tagryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. defined based on the character state 'in forewing, M + CuA splits into MA and MP + CuA'; the taxon Etagryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, CuA + CuPaa keep fused'; the taxon Metagryllacns nom. nov., dis. Zeuner, 1939, typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, MA fused with R at wing base'. Based on new data, the species perfecta Sharov, 1968 is identified as a member of the taxon Agryllacris, and the fossil species tmegaptera Gorochov, 1987a, simplicis Gorochov, 1987a, elongata Gorochov, 1987a, madygenioides Gorochov, 1987a, perlonga Gorochov, 1987a, and idevexa Gorochov, 1987a are considered as junior synonyms of perfecta. The nomenclatural treatment is extended to the unrelated taxon Bintoniellidae nom. Handlirsch, 1938, dis. Sharov, 1968, typ. nov., defined based on the character state 'in forewing, no distinct base of CuPaa diverging from CuPa (and fusing with CuA or M + CuA)'. Belonging to this taxon, the species primaria Sharov, 1968 is considered as a junior synonym of triassica Sharov, 1968: 168. A consequence of the assignment of perfecta to Agryllacris is that this group stems in Triassic, at least, i.e., ca 170 million years earlier than previously assumed. As a result, the loss of the complex 'tettigonid-gryllid-like' (i.e., Grylloptera) stridulatory apparatus is no longer needed to account for the morphology of king crickets, raspy crickets and weta forewing. Finally, a refinement of the concept of parallelism is proposed based on transformations observed in the taxa Agryllacris and Bintoniellidae, and on their polarity and frequency occurrence. The concept of parallelism is narrowed down, those of atavism and reversal discussed, and the concepts of iteronatism, cryptoparallelism, and pronatism proposed.
20789575|Wide use of chemical pesticides to control locust invasions is a central concern and alternatives a growing necessity. But it is not so easy to find alternatives to these chemicals and to integrate them into operational campaigns. The following paper introduced a symposium on 'Integrated pest management for locusts and grasshoppers' held at the 10th Orthopterists' Society meeting in Antalya, Turkey in 2009.
3503690|Description of a new species of the genus Eupholidoptera Maran. This new species, E. jacquelinae, was found on the Greek island of Gavdos, south of Crete. Its relation with other members of the genus is discussed on the basis of morphological traits.
3657107|Pterotiltus hollisi n. sp. is described from the forests of Southern and Western Uganda, and compared with the type of the genus, P. impennis. The new species is the most easterly known representative of the genus. It feeds on broad-leaved monocotyledonous plants, especially of the families Marantaceae and Commelinaceae. The eggs are laid in groups of 4 to 6 in packets of foam, sandwiched between leaf surfaces of these foodplants. The female ovipositor valves have a form extremely like those found in unrelated epiphyllous egg-layers in the Neotropics, such as Tela (Acrididae, Proctolabinae) and the details of oviposition are similar to those of Euprepacris (Romaleidae, Bactrophorinae). On the basis of the ovipositor, it is postulated that the related genera Badistica and Digentia probably also have epiphyllic oviposition habits.
3503770|Females of Panoploscelis specularis present a dramatic modification of their forewings for stridulation. The female generator is illustrated and its distinct from contrasted with that of males. The physical form of the signals that females might produce is inferred; male calling and protest signals are characterized. The male of P. specularis is described for the first time.
3503763| A new genus and species of tetrigid, Antillotettix nanus, is described from several mountain localities (1000 to 1500 m) in the Bahoruco and Central mountains of the Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. Antillotettix is characterized by a very small and rounded body, a frontal costa opened some 30 and a slightly tectate and roundly truncate pronotum that covers just over half the abdomen. It is the smallest of known Hispaniolan tetrigids. /// Se describe el nuevo gnero y especie de tetrgido Antillotettix nanus a partir de varias localidades de montaa (1,000-1,500 m) en la Sierra de Bahoruco y Cordillera Central de Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Antillotettix se caracteriza por ser muy pequeo y redondeado, tener una costa frontal abierta unos 30 grados y un pronoto algo tectiforme y truncado en forma redondeada, que cubre algo ms de la mitad del abdomen. Este es el tetrgido ms pequeo conocido de la Hispaniola. 
10.2307/3503610| Although recognized since 1918 as the principal Acridid pest of Trinidad, Coscineuta virens (Thunberg, 1815) commonly known as the Moruga grasshopper or Courtac, has been studied relatively little. Living in harmony with its dense forest environment, the species is difficult to observe and control, and most of the information about it refers to campaign reports and sporadic records of crop damage. This paper reviews the available information on C. virens including its taxonomic position, the diagnostic characteristics of the developmental stages from the egg to the adult, the annual life cycle, its natural environment in Trinidad and its behavioural and ecological peculiarities, its choice of food plants and economic importance. Its phase status is however ambiguous, for while in some respects, C. virens resembles classical locusts, notably in its highly gregarious behaviour in all its active stages, no phase transformation has ever been recorded. Monitoring and control of the populations is made difficult by their dense forest environment, their arboreal existence, their patchy distribution and the contagious nature of outbreaks. A diversified integrated pest management approach applying tested control methodology is advocated so as to ensure cost effectiveness of control operations coupled with due measures for safeguarding a highly sensitive and fragile island environment of great scientific value. /// Bien que dclar depuis 1918 comme principal acridien ravageur de l'le de Trinidad, Coscineuta virens (Thunberg 1815), encore appel Moruga grasshopper ou Courtac, est relativement peu tudi. Vivant en harmonie dans un milieu forestier dense, cet acridien est trs difficile  observer et  combattre aussi dispose-t-on surtout de documents relatifs  des oprations de lutte, aux constatations de dgts aux cultures et aux plantations. Ce document fait le point sur les connaissances relatives  Coscineuta virens concernant sa position taxonomique, les caractristiques morphologiques de l'oeuf  l'imago, son milieu naturel dans l'lle de Trinidad, son temprament cologique, son cycle biologique annuel ainsi que ses prfrences alimentaires et son importance conomique. Le statut phasaire de l'espce est ambigu, car si certains aspects le rapproche des Locustes, en particulier un comportement grgaire trs prononc, par contre aucune transformation phasaire n'a jamais t observe. La surveillance et la lutte sont rendues difficiles par l'importance du couvert forestier o vit l'insecte, son comportement arboricole et le caractre contagieux des pullulations. Une stratgie diversifie de lutte combinant diffrentes mthodes d'intervention devrait amliorer la rentabilit des interventions antiacridiennes tout en mnageant un co-systme insulaire fragile et d'un grand intrt cologique et scientifique qu'il est impratif de protger. 
23610413|This article describes and names a new species of Oecanthus Serville, 1831 from the western United States. Oecanthus texensis n. sp. Symes & Collins is currently known from southern Oklahoma, Texas, southern Arizona, and southwestern Idaho. Habitats include desert, prairie, weedy fields, and woody secondary growth. O. texensis has been collected in oak, walnut, pinyon pine, and mesquite, as well as a variety of landscaping hedges and shrubs. The Oecanthus genus contains four clusters of species. The tegmina shape, song structure, and antennal markings suggest that O. texensis falls within the varicornis group. The structure of the call is similar to the other members of the varicornis species group, but the pulse rate is unique. Song analysis shows that at 25 C, O. texensis produces a continuous trill with approximately 41 pulses per second and a dominant frequency of 3.8 kHz, making it the slowest pulsing member of the varicornis group.
3503715|The preoccupied genus name of Eurasian grasshopper Primnoa Fischer-Waldheim 1846 (Arthropoda: Orthoptera) (nec Lamouroux 1812 [Cnidaria: Alcyonacea]) was replaced by its oldest synonym, Prumna Motschulsky 1859. The current work reviews the authorship and availability of Primnoa and its type species. Additionally, it generally resolves the nomenclatural issues associated with these names, one of which includes providing Prumnini nom. nov. as a replacement name for the tribe Primnoini syn. nov. Subtribe Primnoae becomes a new synonym of Prumnini. Sharovia Otte 1997 is synonymized with Sharovella Gorochov 1985 and Archibrunnea Otte 1997 syn. nov. with Brunneus Hong 1983. Linhagla nom. nov. is provided as a replacement name for Parahagla Lin 1982 and Phyllophora pizaerosifolia nom. nov. replaces Ph. erosifolia Piza 1981, primary homonym.
10.2307/3503421|The family Cooloolidae is represented by a single genus, Cooloola Rentz from Queensland, Australia. Three species have been described to date, all from the south-central portion of the state. This paper presents an additional species from South Percy Island, some 85 km SE of Mackay in the Coral Sea. The new species is described, its relationships considered and a key to the four species presented.
25822715|The relationship between species-richness of Orthoptera and remotely sensed land cover was investigated at a grain size of 100 km within an area of 9,900 km in central southern England, using species data extracted from county and national atlases. Gradients in landscape composition, identified using multivariate ordination, reflected agricultural intensification (associated with increasing acreage of arable crops) and urbanisation. The number of species declined as the area under arable crops increased, yet even in the most agriculturally intensive grid-squares there appeared to be sufficient nonarable land to support all species. A range of factors such as fragmentation and degradation of nonarable habitats may become more important as the area of cropped land increases. Investigation at greater spatial resolution is needed to confirm this hypothesis. No relationship was found between species richness and urbanisation, but it was concluded that the extent of urban development was too limited to enable detailed investigation of this phenomena. The study demonstrates that coarse-grained species data within county and national atlases, combined with remotely-sensed land cover data, can be useful in detecting and interpreting spatial variation in orthopteran species diversity at the regional scale. The relationship between species richness and land cover quantifies past human impacts and suggests the approach may be useful for monitoring and interpreting future changes.
25822724|L'effet du DIMILIN (25 WP), une formulation commerciale du diflubenzuron, a t d'abord examin sur le poids des ovaires et le poids des oeufs pondus par les femelles du criquet plerin Schistocerca gregaria. L'insecticide est administr par ingestion pendant 24h  une dose de 30 mg/ml d'eau  des femelles ds l'exuviation adulte. Le DFB rduit le poids des ovaires  8, 12 et 16 jours comparativement aux sries tmoins de mme ge. De plus, le traitement insecticide provoque galement une rduction significative du poids des oeufs pondus. Dans une seconde srie d'expriences, l'action du DFB a t value sur l'volution des titres des ecdystrodes dans les ovaires et dans les oeufs de S. gregaria. Le traitement rduit la production des ecdystrodes par les ovaires des femelles traites pendant le premier cycle gonadotropique. Le DFB rduit galement la teneur des ecdystrodes libres et conjugus dans les oeufs pondus par les femelles exprimentes comparativement aux tmoins. The effect of DIMILIN 25 WP, the common name of diflubenzuron, was first examined on the weight of ovaries and on the weight of eggs laid by females of Schistocerca gregaria. Treatment was made 24h earlier by ingestion at 30 mg/ml. DFB reduces the weight of ovaries at 8, 12 and 16 days, compared to control series of the same age. Moreover, the insecticidal treatment causes a significant reduction in the weight of eggs laid. DFB action on ecdysteroid levels in ovaries and in eggs in females was also evaluated. The compound reduced ovarian ecdysteroid titres of the first ovarian cycle. In laid eggs of S. gregaria females, we measured ecdysteroid content before and after enzymatic hydrolysis, to compare free and conjugated ecdysteroids in both control eggs and after DFB treatment during embryonic development. DFB significantly reduced the levels of both free and conjugated ecdysteroids compared to the control.
3503619| Au cours de la campagne de lutte antiacridienne effectue dans le sud marocain durant l'anne 1995, une tude quantitative a t entreprise concernant des mesures morphomtriques de 586 adultes des deux sexes ou Schistocerca gregaria. Les rsultats obtenus rvlent que ces populations prsentent une structure en mosaque avec prdominance de la phase grgaire dans les localits de Foum-Bousseroual et M'Rikha situes au Sud -Est d'Errachidia ( Z
20789571|Ten species of the genus Anterastes Brunner von Wattenwyl (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) show insular distribution in mountain meadows of Anatolia and the Balkans. Current understanding of the taxonomy and species relationships within the genus is based on morphological characters. However, the extent to which morphological characters are phylogenetically informative, when used to define taxonomic groups or to elucidate detailed evolutionary relationships within Anterastes, is in need of further examination. Moreover, because little is known about the historical biogeography and diversification factors in members of this genus, additional datasets are necessary to test the robustness of species, relationship hypotheses and associated biogeographic patterns. Here we specifically examined, using 16S rDNA sequences, the evolutionary relationships and species boundaries of three closely related species of Anterastes (i.e., the A. serbicus group, comprising A. serbicus, A. burri and A. antitauricus). Additionally A. tolunayi, a species not in the A. serbicus group, but morphologically very similar to members of the group, was included in the molecular analysis to locate the species of the A. serbicus complex within a phylogenetic frame. Hence, the phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic interpretation of the species complex appear more intricate than previously hypothesized. The current molecular data do not allow us to identify A. serbicus, A. burri and A. antitauricus as distinct phylogenetic species, but rather suggest that these morphospecies are themselves a complex of cryptic taxa. Despite the incongruencies among the phylogenetic trees and nonmonophyly of each the three morphospecies, the median joining network resulted in haplotype grouping consisting of four clusters that are definable by geography. Thus, based on the congruency between geography and gene clusters, and the molecular clock estimate, it can be interpreted that 1) a strong correlation between the radiation of the group and the topography of their ranges may exist, 2) the radiation of the group dates back to Late Pliocene or Early Pleistocene and 3) there is a break between the Anatolian and the European lineages, in respect to range change of cold-preferring forms, dating back prior to the last four glacial periods.
25473458|Scientific literature often touts the many advantages of large body size, but seldom addresses the value of small body size. Yet selection for large size must be counterbalanced by selection for small size, otherwise, all animals would be large. In this paper, we demonstrate female-biased size dimorphism and a strong copulatory advantage for small males in a Jerusalem cricket (JC) (Stenopelmatus) from central California. We selectively paired male and female JCs of diverse body sizes and recorded their ability to copulate. All copulations were successful for males smaller or equal in size to females. In contrast, when the male was 6.1 mm longer than the female, copulation had only a 50% chance of occurring successfully. In general, as the difference between male and female body length increased (i.e., as males became longer than their mates), the probability of successful copulation decreased. These patterns of mating resulted in net selection for small male size and large female size. We also detected positive linear direct selection on male hind leg length, which may explain why male JCs have longer legs than females. The copulatory disadvantage of large males derives from the odd mating behavior of this group, in which males must contort and precisely align their bodies to couple. We believe that this is the first example of small-male advantage based solely on the physical aspects of copulation. In this species, small, not large, males have a copulatory advantage.
10.2307/3503460|The tettigoniid Requena verticalis Walker controls the apportioning of energy between calling and spermatophylax production during courtship and copulation. Males delay the onset of calling following mating and during this period nutrients are mobilized to the production of a large nutrient-rich spermatophylax as well as to the production of sound. Experiments, using males reared on high and low quality diets (Simmons et al. 1993) examined the distribution of metabolic resources during this post-copula refractory period. An experimental set of males was allowed to call in a period immediately following copulation, while a control group of animals was prevented from calling by waxing the wings together. Males maintain spermatophylax size, regardless of the quality of the diet, but delayed the onset of calling; those on a high quality diet were able to invest energy into further reproduction. Contrary to prediction, males prevented from calling did not produce a larger spermatophylax, which suggests that males control the apportioning of energy reserves during this critical period. It is argued that where energy reserves are required for the production of a spermatophylax, less energy may be available for calling and so calling strategies should evolve that allow for the more efficient use of metabolic energy for sound production. Calling efficiency is a measure of how males convert metabolic energy to sound power. Efficiency was estimated by measuring the metabolic costs of calling and the power of sound radiation from the calling insect. Metabolic costs of calling in R. verticalis are compared with those of conehead tettigoniids such as Neoconocephalus robustus where calling appears to require more energy per unit of sound. The efficiency of conversion of metabolic energy to sound in R. verticalis is 6.4% while that for N. robustus is 2% (Bailey et al. 1993). Another cost of calling is exposure by the male to acoustically orienting predators. Such predators may include tachinid flies, insectivorous bats and predaceous females. I discuss experiments where a species of vespertilionid bat is shown to orient to the call of R. verticalis (Hosken et al. in press). Males may also be subject to cannibalism by orienting females. I describe experiments where females are released within 2m of calling males and where males show a high degree of female rejection. In the confines of a small container, where each sex cannot retreat from the other, a male smaller than the female is far more likely to be eaten by the female than males paired with females of comparable size. In this context, I discuss how male coyness (a reluctance to mate) may be due, in part, to sexual role reversal and thereby under sexual selection, or due to female cannibalism, and thus selected through survival.
10.2307/3503417|The feeding behaviour of herbivorous insects has become the focus of renewed interest in recognition of its critical importance in screening cultivated plants for resistant germplasm. Determination of biotic potential was viewed as the ultimate test for resistance to grasshoppers in agro-ecosystems dominated by cereal monoculture, because of the direct relationship between it and population dynamics. Such studies, however, are labour-intensive and may extend over several months. As an alternative to more time-consuming assay procedures, in this study we examined a behavioural assay and some of the factors that influence the results. In the majority of assays in the present study, the total number of grasshoppers visiting the plants were lower on the second day than the first day using second instar grasshoppers. In contrast, the total numbers of grasshoppers recorded on the plants was higher on the second day than the first day for the majority of assays using neonates. The extent of defoliation also was noticeably greater on the second day, except when both plants available to the grasshoppers were non-preferred. This difference which was reflected in greater sensitivity of the assays using neonates serves to highlight one of the problems when grasshoppers at later stages of development are used in binary preference assays. The observations of feeding patterns are discussed in terms of some recent concepts and discoveries in insect feeding behaviour.
10.2307/3503495|Two species of Eurycnema occurring in Australia are described and figured. Previously, various species were linked together in the literature and Australian specimens invariably listed as Eurycnema goliath (Gray 1834). Brief notes on distribution, biology, and habitat are presented, in addition to keys to adults and eggs and the first descriptions of the males of Eurycnema osiris (Gray, 1834) (Australia) and Eurycnema nigrospinosa Redtenbacher 1908 (Papua New Guinea). Eggs of all four Eurycnema species are figured for comparison and published synonyms are corrected. Lectotypes have been designated for E. goliath, E. viridissima Kirby 1904 (a synonym of E. goliath) and E. cercata Redtenbacher 1902. E. stenocerca Redtenbacher 1908 and E. cercata are listed as new synonyms of E. osiris, and E. magnifica Kirby 1904 is a new synonym of E. goliath.
10.2307/3503518| Nine new genera and 12 new species of Cladonotinae tetrigids are here described from the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba, this being the first report of the subfamily for Hispaniola. Eleven of the 14 known Neotropical genera of Cladonotinae are exclusive to the Greater Antilles. /// Se describen aqu 9 nuevos gneros y 12 nuevas especies de tetrgidos Cladonotinae de la Repblica Dominicana, Hait y Cuba, siendo este el primer reporte de la subfamilia para la isla Hispaniola. Once de los 14 gneros de Cladonotinae Neotropicales conocidos son exclusivos de las Antillas Mayores. 
4122937|Three new species from the Western Cape of South Africa are described and figured: Clonaria cederbergensis, Clonaria montana (Diapheromeridae: Pachymorphinae: Gratidiini) and Macynia mcgregororum (Bacillidae: Macyniinae: Macyniini). The first two species have close associations with the Cederberg Wilderness Area and Table Mountain, respectively. M. mcgregororum has been found near Citrusdal. Keys are provided.
3503707|The species of the genus Raptrix Terra are revised. Of the 3 known species, only R. perspicua (F.) is recognized as valid. A. westwoodi Saussure & Zehntner, previously treated as synonym of R. perspicua, is returned to species status. R. occidentalis and R. intermedia are new species. As regards their specific differentiation, a parapatric speciation mechanism is supposed.
3503750|Control of grasshoppers and locusts has traditionally relied on synthetic insecticides, and for emergency situations, this is unlikely to change. Most locust control operations in Africa are conducted in 'crisis mode', and are affected by military situations which leave little room for flexibility. Nevertheless, there is a growing awareness of the environmental impact of acridid control options and the demand for a biological product is strong. A decade of research on the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum has led to some very positive field results. Trials in Niger and Australia have shown that the fungus can be formulated and applied under standard operating conditions, and that control is effective and long-lasting. Most importantly, the products are highly selective, safe to use and we have not been able to detect any side-effects. This means that the natural enemy fauna is preserved and may contribute to control. Metarhizium is nonetheless slow-acting compared with chemical pesticides, and its place in an Integrated Pest Management framework needs to be considered with this property in mind. We can see an emerging IPM framework, based on good detection and prediction, chemical pesticides for swarm control and real emergencies, and Metarhizium for outbreaks with no immediate risk of crop damage. With Metarhizium established as part of the IPM portfolio, there will be scope to explore further biocontrol options, such as the microsporidian Nosema locustae and the hymenopteran egg parasitoids Scelio spp.
3503761|Nine Isophya species were studied from the Bati Karadeniz Region of Turkey and one new species, Isophya yaraligozi, described. Distributions, previous records, type material and type depositories are given. A key to the species of the region is provided.
10.2307/3503544|The species Dyscophogryllus onthophagus is transfered to genus Endecous. The male genitalia of this species and that of the syntype of Endecous arachnopsis are illustrated and described. Male meiosis of E. onthophagus from two localities was studied
3503693|A new genus, Novadrymadusa, and a new species, N. karabagi, are described. A new combination, N. kurda (Uvarov), is established. Together with a key to species in the new genus there is a short account of its geographical distribution and that of related genera.
10.2307/3503432|The dynamics of leaf feeding by the small rice grasshopper Oxya nitidula (Walker) was studied under laboratory conditions on eighteen commonly grown rice cultivars from the state of Tamil Nadu (India). The plants were categorized into five growth stages, based on fifteen days interval, namely 31-45 days after sowing (DAS) (Stage I), 46-60 DAS (Stage II), 61-75 DAS (Stage III), 76-90 DAS (Stage IV), and 91-105 DAS (Stage V). Feeding tests involved the caging of ten adult females for 24 hours on each of the five growth stages of all eighteen cultivars and assessing the quantity of leaf consumed. Oxya nitidula showed preference to growth stages II and III in all cultivars.
10.2307/3503474|Cuticular structures of the stomodeum in insects, such as ridges, teeth and spines, have been found to have value as systematic characters in some insect groups. This study evaluates the usefulness of these characters for the identification of species belonging to the orthopteran families Acrididae, Eumastacidae, Proscopiidae, Ommexechidae, Pauliniidae, Romaleidae and Tristiridae. Characters examined were the pattern of stomodeal spines in crop and proventriculus in zones I to IV, the arrangement of the ridges of the intima, and the shape and size of the spines. These cuticular structures were found to have considerable value as taxonomic characters.
3503677| A new species of the genus Neometrypus collected in Cardoso Island in the Atlantic littoral of So Paulo State is described. The species is 2n=14 (male) - 14 (female) with a neoXY-XX sex determining mechanism originated in an X-autosome tandem fusion. Illustrations of the male and female specimens, male meiosis and drawings of the male genitalia sclerites are added. 
10.2307/3503422|The seasonal breeding cycle and host plant associations of Oedaleus nigeriensis Uvarov were studied along a transect throughout different vegetation zones of Nigeria. Data from the field showed O. nigeriensis to be associated with 12 species of grasses distributed within 9 genera and 4 tribes. At Ogbomoso, Ilorin, Toro, Bauchi and Potiskum, two generations were found and they generally overlap. The exact time each generation commenced in the different areas varied with the advance of the rains. At Ile-Ife, the population is sparse and probably represents the southern limits of its distribution.
25473461|Body size is a crucial element of an organism's ecology and evolution, and is known to be influenced by natural selection. Here, we estimated the strength of temperature-mediated selection on body size in a wild population of the striped ground cricket, Allonemobius socius. We found that extremely high, but naturally occurring temperatures, selected for larger body sizes, as expected. The strength of this selection pressure was strong, with the univariate selection gradients being  = 0.591  0.237;
10.2307/3503628|Male crickets sing to attract females. This exposes them to potential predators. A field study of singing male Scapsipedus meridianus showed that in this species, which uses burrows constructed by other animals or natural fissures, males that sing from burrows sing for longer and succeed in attracting females. Males who sing from exposed leaf litter are more mobile, sing less and were not found accompanied by females. Burrow males were larger than leaf litter males and were able to defend their burrows against small leaf litter males.
3503656|We measured hemolymph Na
4122955|In the laboratory, we measured the nonfeeding periods that precede and follow molting and hatching in the lubber grasshopper, Romalea microptera. New hatchlings first fed ~ 16h after egg eclosion. A similar ~ 12-h nonfeeding period was observed after each molt. In contrast, the premolt nonfeeding period increased from 25 h for the 1st molt, to 64 h for the adult molt. In total, hatch- and molt-related nonfeeding periods comprised ~ 272 h, or 21% of the total 54-d nymphal development period. Scientists need to be aware of molt-related nonfeeding periods in arthropods, because they could influence nutrition, growth, physiology, feeding ecology, predator exposure, and life history. They may also hamper pest control, because short-lived poison baits or ingestion-dependent insecticides will not harm individuals that are not feeding. In this study, grasshoppers tended to molt near the beginning of the photophase. Early morning molting might have nutritional, thermal, humidity or antipredator benefits for grasshoppers in the field.
3503768|Mariascopia is a new genus with 3 species. It belongs to Proscopiinae, Proscopiidae. The structure of the spermathecae suggests it is closely related to Orienscopia; both genera have 3 different spermathecae. The genus is erected on the basis of the phallic complex. External features are similar to those of species of Tetanorhynchus, Cephalocoema, Orienscopia, Scleratoscopia and Pseudastroma. Mariascopia shows preferences for grasslands in the Chaco biogeographical region.
10.2307/3503646|The new genus Orienscopia is described on the basis of some of the species previously placed in the genus Astromascopia Jago 1989. Astromascopia itself is synonymized with Cephalocoema Serville 1839. The species of Orienscopia are redescribed, and various synonyms established. The genus and its species are defined by means of tables of measurements, male and female genitalia and external morphological characters.
10.2307/3503579|In the dry tropics, the main nutrient influx into caves, which occurs during monsoonal flooding, is closely simulated by the deliberate introduction of wet leaf litter into the cave environment. We describe the construction and use of a wet leaf litter trap which exploits the attractiveness of wet leaf litter to orthopteroid insects inhabiting such caves. The traps collect a greater diversity of species per unit time and a greater total number of individuals per unit time than other techniques. Apart from the efficiency of the traps they can be used to allow sampling with replacement. This technique has a minimal impact on populations of cave invertebrates, and we therefore recommend its use where sampling is likely to pose a conservation threat to the fragile cave ecosystem.
10.2307/3503489| Pterophylla robertsi Hebard is an endemic, forestal species occuring in South Tamaulipas and northeastern San Luis Potos in Mxico. Until 1988 the only information known on P. robertsi was its original description (Hebard 1941). It was reported for many years that the distribution of P. robertsi' was limited to the State of San Luis Potos (northern Mxico), in oak forests near El Naranjo and Cd. del Maz. Presently, this species is distributed south to Tamaulipas, with some populations located between Llera and Cd. Mante, Cd. Mante-Ocampo and Ocampo-Tula, Tam. Apart from oak (Quercus spp.), P. robertsi feeds on a great variety of host plants, such as Manguifera indica, Psidium sp., Acacia farnesiana, Juniperus sp., Cnidosculus texanus, Acacia coulteri, Guazuma ulmifolia and Mirandeceltis monoica (Barrientos y Montes 1996). P. robertsi males-like those of P. beltrani, a species occurring in the State of Nuevo Len and West Tamaulipas-are characterized by the loud calling sounds produced when they are sexually mature. These acoustic signals are useful not only for recognizing conspecific individuals, but also for locating colonies or populations of the species, whose singing activity may be heard in the field from mid-July to October-November. Eggs pass through the winter, and hatching begins by mid-March, depending on temperature and relative humidity, as well as elevation of the area where the population is found. Under laboratory conditions nymphs of P. robertsi passed through 6-7 instars. From a total of 15 adults, 7 passed through six instars (5 males:2 females), while 8 developed seven instars (5 males:3 females). The average duration from instars one to seven is as follows: 13.5, 0.6, 12.6, 12.5, 12.7, 12.8, and 13.5 days, respectively. The nymphal stage had a minimum duration of 62 days, maximum of 126, with an average of 80.5 days, under 26.5C of temperature and 43.5% of relative humidity. Durations of nymphal stages were not significantly different from those of P. beltrani [with nymphal stage averaging 81 days, minimum 57 and maximum 137 days, under 30C of temerature and 60% relative humidity, Barrientos et al., 1984)]. However, adults of P. robertsi do not form large aggregations, like P. beltrani, and males sing mainly at night between 19:00 to 04:00 hours. /// Pterophylla robertsi Hebard es una especie forestal de carcter endmico en el sur de Tamaulipas y noreste de San Luis Potos, hasta 1988 el nico antecedente conocido era su descripcin original (Morgan Hebard 1941). Durante mucho tiempo, se consider que el rea de distribucin geogrfica de P. robertsi se limitaba al Estado de San Luis Potos, reportndose en los alrededores de El Naranjo y Cd. del Maz, sobre el bosque de encino. Actualmente, sabemos que esta especie extiende su rea de distribucin al Sur de Tamaulipas, localizndose poblaciones entre Llera y Cd. Mante, Cd. Mante-Ocampo y entre Ocampo-Tula, Tam. Adems del encino, P. robertsi se alimenta de una gran cantidad de plantas hospederas, ej., Manguifera indica (mango), Psidium sp., (guayabo), Acacia farnesiana (huizache), juniperus, sp., (cedro), Cnidosculus texanus (mala mujer), Acacia coulteri (guajillo), Guazuma ulmifolia y Mirandeceltis monoica (Barrientos y Montes 1996). Los machos de esta especie, al igual que los de P. beltrani (especie presente en los Estados de Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas), se caracterizan por el fuerte canto de llamado que producen cuando estn sexualmente maduros. Estas seales acsticas son importantes para localizar las poblaciones que empiezan a observarse/escucharse en el campo desde mediados de julio, prolongndose hasta octubre-noviembre. Pterophylla robertsi inverna en estado de huevo cuya eclosin se inicia a mediados del mes de marzo, dependiendo de las condiciones de temperatura, humedad relativa y altitud a la que se localice la poblacin. Bajo condiciones de laboratorio las ninfas pasan por 6-7 estadios, de un total de 15 adultos, 7 (5 machos:2 hembras) pasaron por seis estadios y 8 (5 machos:3 hembras) por siete; la duracin media de los estadios primero a sptimo es de 13.5, 10.6, 12.6, 12.5, 12.7, 12.8 y 13.5 das respectivamente. El estado ninfal tuvo una duracin mnima de 62 das, mxima de 126 y media de 80.5 das, bajo una temperatura y humedad relativa promedio de 26.5C y 43.5%, respectivamente. La duracin del estado ninfal y estadios de P. robertsi, no mostr diferencia significativa respecto a los de P. beltrani, cuya duracin mnima es de 57 das, mxima 137, promedio 81 das (Barrientos et al. 1984). Sin embago, P. robertsi no se ha encontrado formando agregaciones y los machos cantan principalmente durante la noche, 19:00 a 04:00 horas. 
23071989|The eggs of several Phasmatodea (stick insects) species bear strong resemblances to plant seeds. Such mimicry could increase predation on the eggs by vertebrate granivores, especially on eggs that are not buried by ants. In contrast, predation could be beneficial to the insects if the eggs can survive the digestive tract and hatch afterwards. This experiment tests the hypothesis that granivorous birds can act as dispersal agents for phasmid eggs. The eggs of three walking stick speciesExtatosoma tiaratum, Ramulus nematodes, and R. artemiswere offered to two species of terrestrial, granivorous bird: quail (Coturnix japonica) and chickens (Gallus gallus domestica). The birds consumed the eggs eagerly. Examination of the resulting manure showed that most eggs were completely digested. Only one unbroken egg was recovered out of nearly one thousand eggs fed, suggesting that these bird species could not disperse phasmid eggs. Seed-mimicry's fitness costs must be mitigated in nature to explain its prevalence in the Phasmatodea.
25622291|Four katydid species are treated taxonomically and/or acoustically. Two new species of Ecuaneduba are described from Colombia: E. gambitaensis sp. nov. and E. inzaensis sp. nov. A closely related new species from Ecuador is placed in a new cognate genus: Acanthoraculus milagro gen. et sp. nov.; its call is analysed and also the calls of Ecuaneduba aequatorialis. Since these genera, Ecuaneduba and Acanthoraculus, comprise at present the only New World representatives of the subfamily Hexacentrinae, we include them in their own tribe Ecuanedubini. A similar situation exists for a small group of Mecopodiane, for which the tribe Tabariini is proposed. Pronotal shapes, subnotal and subtegminal spaces  adapted for sound generation  are diverse in these four taxa; costal fields may function as acoustic baffles that reduce short-circuiting.
4122958|New species of Horatosphaga Schaum 1853 are described from the East African highlands. Horatosphaga sabuk n. sp. occurs in montane forest clearings of the Kenyan highlands, while Horatosphaga nou n. sp. is found in montane forest clearings of the Manyara District of Tanzania. Notes on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given.
10.2307/3503597| The Peruvian Crayola katydid, Vestria undescribed species, responds to disturbance by everting a small odoriferous gland from near the tip of its abdomen. Three pyrazines have been characterized from the secretion of this gland, which is present in both sexes of this insect. It is argued that the gland serves for dissemination of a warning odor. A second undescribed species of Vestria, sympatric with the Crayola katydid, also produces pyrazines. 
3503713|Correlation between morphological and karyological characters in the different genera of Landrevinae is discussed. Difficulties distinguishing the genera Duolandrevus and Repapa are considered. Two new species, male genitalia of 1 species and karyotypes of 6 species are described for the first time. A new synonymy for one species is established
25822702|We analyse here three components of reproductive success (egg fertility, egg clutch size and embryo clutch size) in several temporal samples from different Spanish and Moroccan populations of the grasshopper Eyprepocnemis plorans. The analysis of spatial and temporal variation suggests that egg clutch size, but neither embryo clutch size nor egg fertility, depends significantly on both year of sampling and population of origin. While the former effect could mainly be due to year-to-year variation in food availability (essential to egg production but not to hatching success), the spatial variation may also include population-dependent genetic factors. We also tested the effect of the presence of supernumerary (B) chromosomes carried by many individuals in most natural populations of this species. We found a slight but significant decrease in egg fertility associated with the presence of B chromosomes. We discuss possible causes of the observed variation for these three reproductive traits at both spatial and temporal levels, as well as the effect of B-chromosome presence as a parasitic element disturbing reproduction of carrier females.
10.2307/3503458|A laboratory study of food preferences of a common Indian grasshopper, Acrida exaltata (Walker), of the laterite zone of West Bengal, India, involved offering as food a total of 51 plant species belonging to 23 families. Of the 51 species, 31 were always rejected, with the remaining 46 either sampled briefly or eaten as food. Only 15 were regularly accepted as food. Plants of the family Poaceae were most preferred by A. exaltata.
10.2307/3503594|In the majority of bushcrickets, copulation terminates with the transfer of a spermatophore which consists of two parts: an ampulla which contains the sperm and a spermatophylax which the female eats during sperm transfer. Recently, the function of the spermatophylax in bushcrickets has heen the subject of considerable debate. Here, I describe prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer which appears to replace the spermatophylax in function in Meconema meridionle and M. thalassinum. I contrast this with the more usual copulatory behavior and spermatophores of the related Cyrtaspis scutata. In M. meridionale and M. thalassinum, copulation following spermatophore transfer continues for an average of 81 and 17 min. respectively, and there is no spermatophylax. In Cyrtaspis scutata, on the other hand, copulation following spermatophore transfer lasts for only one minute, thirty seconds and males produce a spermatophylax. As predicted by the hypothesis that prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer functions to ensure complete ejaculate transfer, the longer duration of copulation in M. meridionale, compared with M. thalassinum, was found to be associated with the production of significantly heavier spermatophores which contained more sperm. The presence of the spermatophylax in the Meconematinae and virtually all other bushcricket subfamilies suggests that prolonged copulation has replaced this structure in the genus Meconema. The occurrence of prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer in other members of the sub-order Ensifera is reviewed.
43738203|We present a list of grasshoppers from the Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke, a preservation area in the outskirts of Manaus, State of Amazonas, Brazil. The Ducke Reserve has been an indispensable tool for scientific development due to its considerable floristic richness. It has provided ample material for studies and research, promoting the conservation of Amazonian rainforest flora and fauna and the protection of endangered species. This checklist is intended to provide basic information on the regional grasshopper fauna, expand the current knowledge of species occurrences, and serve as a basis for systematists interested in revisionary and biogeographic work with a focus on Amazonian endemic areas. We sampled the Ducke Reserve for fifteen days using active and visual searching methods. We collected 38 species of terrestrial and semi-aquatic grasshoppers, 23 which belonged to the Acrididae and 15 to Romaleidae. Twenty four species and subspecies of grasshopper were registered for the first time for the locality and three new species and one new subspecies were recorded for Brazil.
10.2307/3503420|The species composition and community structure of the acridoid fauna in selected habitats of a moist deciduous forest in India were studied over the course of a year. The habitats represented a range of anthropogenic disturbances, including an undisturbed site, a naturally recovering site (deforested and replanted 20 yr earlier), a moderately disturbed site (lightly grazed by cattle), and a severely disturbed site (artificially reforested and heavily grazed by livestock). The former three study sites were mixed forests, dominated by Shorea robusta Gaertn.f. and Mallotus philippinensis Muell- Arg., and the latter site was a plantation of Tectona grandis Linn. F. The sites supported a total of nine species of Acrididae and Pyrgomorphidae. Oxya velox Fabr. Cantantops humilis humilis Serv., and Atractomorpha crenulata Fabr. were the most abundant species, representing 17 to 27% of the total number of individuals collected. With respect to potential indicator species, 93 to 100% of Tylotropidius varicornis Walk., Eupropocnemis alacris S., and Chrotogonous trychypterus Bl. were found only in the sites that were not currently disturbed. Conversely, in the disturbed habitats, O. velox and A. crenulata were ca. 1.7 times more abundant than in the other sites. The diversity, evenness and richness of the sites tracked the intensity of disturbance, the greatest values being associated with the undisturbed site, followed by the naturally recovering site, the moderately disturbed site, and the severely disturbed site. The undisturbed site had the greatest acridoid abundance, while the other sites supported less than one-third as many grasshoppers. In all ecological measures, the effects of disturbance were much greater than the changes associated with seasonality. Thus, it appears that grasshopper communities are sensitive to anthropogenic disturbance, and the community structure of acridoids may be a viable diagnostic tool in assessing environmental conditions.
23610407|The identity of Japanese Megacrania Kaup is clarified. Yamasaki"s Megacrnia alpheus adan is a synonym of Megacrania tsudai Shiraki.
10.2307/3503497|The quantitative response of parasitism by mermithid nematodes to rainfall was found to be complex. It was influenced by physical site characteristics, the phenology of the mermithid nematodes especially in relation to the sequencing of rainy periods, and the stage of the host outbreak cycle. Geophysical factors, such as soil permeability and terrain, determined the "effective rainfall", and biological factors, such as relative size of the reserve of mature eggs accumulated in the soil by the mermithid nematode population and whether the population is declining as during the recessionary phase of a host outbreak or increasing as during the period of peak host abundance, determined the response to effective rainfall. Parasitism occurred more frequently and was generally higher in valleys than on ridges, but the infrequent response on ridges was often attenuated due to the presumed accumulation of mature eggs during the prolonged interval between responses. Parasitism was highest in response to the first rainy period following prolonged dry or drought conditions in the previous season, again due to the build up in mature eggs under dry conditions. Parasitism following high seasonal rainfall often declined as the reserve of fully developed eggs was depleted due to hatching. Wet conditions in mid-spring resulted in nematode egg hatching prior to the hatching of summer grasshopper species and depressed the subsequent response in parasitism to rainfall, especially during the early phase of host outbreak development when mermithid nematode populations were low and relatively synchronized.
20066576|Population fluctuations of short-horned grasshoppers have been linked to the interactions of numerous factors including precipitation, temperature, vegetative growth, latitude, and timing of rainfall events. In some areas, grasshopper populations decline with increased moisture, potentially as a result of direct mortality from raindrops, or from indirect factors including the increase of fungal pathogens. Grasshoppers may also become submerged by flooding events and suffer mortality from drowning. However grasshopper survival of immersion has not been quantified in controlled experiments. We tested nymph and adult survival of immersion of seven species of rangeland grasshoppers. Under laboratory conditions, the
10.2307/3503564|Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar and Bolivar) is probably unique among Pseudophyllinae; populations may reach very high densities and males may sing during the day as well as at night. This study analyzed singing activity in the laboratory under a 12L:12D cycle (lights on at 0600; off at 1800 hr) and cage conditions simulating high population density. Mean singing time was maximum (77-84%) during the day from 0700 to 1700 hr. It decreased to 34% from 1800-1900 and then increased to a nighttime maximum (44-58%) which was maintained until 0200 hr. After 0200 singing decreased markedly with few or no males singing from 0400-0600 hr. With the onset of light at 0600, singing time increased dramatically to the 0700-1700 hr peak. Time of singing varied among days. The highest percentage of variability occurred during the periods of reduced singing (0200-0600; 1700-1900 hr). The periods of reduced time of singing were also characterized by one or a few katydids singing sporadically. Although the lab L:D cycle was slightly shorter and did not simulate all daily changes in light intensity and other environmental factors in the field, the overall pattern of singing was remarkably similar to that of a colony observed near Cd. Victoria, Mexico by Barrientos.
10.2307/3503427|Two new species of crickets of the genus Phoremia are described. Information on phallic sclerites and karyology of both species is provided. Some novel interpretations of the phallic sclerites are added.
3503665|With the trend towards crop diversification, there has been a gradual increase in production of crucifer oilseed crops (canola and mustard) in the Prairie Ecozone of western Canada. Developments in germplasm of Brassica spp. and Sinapis alba L. have resulted in cultivars with improved drought resistance, making them more acceptable for production in arid regions of the prairies. This, in turn, has resulted in increased overlap in areas of grasshopper infestation and oilseed production. Grasshoppers are the most chronic insect pests of annual crops in the Prairie Ecozone. The primary threat to production of annual crops arises from migration of the hatchling populations into cropland from roadsides, headlands and field margins at the beginning of the growing season. As a result, grasshopper damage is most acute at the early stages of crop growth. In this study, the impact of early season grasshopper feeding on canola and mustard crops was quantified in field studies, 1996 to 1998. Immatures of Melanoplus sanguinipes (the lesser migratory grasshopper) were allowed to damage eight Brassicaceae cultivars and breeding lines of four species: Brassica juncea Czern ('AC Vulcan' and 'J92-223'), B. napus ('AC Excel' and 'Midas'), B. rapa ('AC Parkland' and 'Echo') and S. alba ('AC Pennant' and 'Ochre'). The overall yields of defoliated plants were 27.8% less than those of control plants (p = 0.0001). Yield reductions were greatest for AC Excel (47%) and least for AC Vulcan (19.6%). The results are discussed in the context of grasshopper management strategies.
10.2307/3503626| A detailed comparative study is presented utilising morphology and bioacoustics of four nemobiine cricket species: Bobilla neobivittata Otte & Alexander, Bobilla plurampe Otte & Alexander, B. gullanae sp. nov. and B. illawarra sp. nov. The former two species are redescribed. In addition, the male genitalia of seven other Australian Bobilla species have been re-examined and are illustrated. The four species of Bobilla have distinct calling and courtship songs. The calling songs differ among species in (1) the pulse rate, (2) chirp rate and (3) carrier frequency. Other than B. plurampe which has a trill calling song, the chirp of B. neobivitatta consists of 11-12 pulses, that of B. gullanae sp. nov. consists of 9-19 pulses, and that of B. illawarra sp. nov. of 2-3 pulses. The courtship song is a long trill with a different pulse rate in each of the three species. B. gullanae sp. nov. and B. illawarra sp. nov. lay white or yellow eggs which hatch in the laboratory after two weeks at 27C. The first-instar nymphs of these two species appear similar except that those of B. illawarra sp. nov. have distinct white maxillary palpi. The developmental stages of B. neobivittata and B. plurampe are unknown. The number of moults in known Bobilla species ranges from seven to eight. 
10.2307/3503443|The present paper is a taxonomic study of the subfamily Oedipodinae which resulted in the identification of 11 species under 10 genera including the description of a new species, Oedipoda neelumensis. A key for the local genera is also provided.
4122945|Orthoptera songs are widely used for the description and diagnosis of new species. Most of the corresponding sound recordings are in analogue format (tapes), widely scattered among institutions, and only a small fraction is accessible as an organized collection ('phonothek'). Approximately 12,000 Orthoptera sound recordings, representing about 4,000 species from all biogeographic regions, have been digitized and stored in a database during the DORSA project (Digital Orthoptera Specimen Access - www.dorsa.de). Together with images and collection data of voucher specimens, the DORSA serves as a 'Virtual Museum', summarizing distributed collections and phonotheks from several German researchers and institutions. A subset of recordings was used to develop automatic sound recognition tools, by using neural networks fed by acoustic parameters. Relevant parameters, such as carrier frequency and pulse repetition rate, were determined by a special software module, which could then be used to extract those features from all cricket songs hitherto available in the DORSA database. These parameters were then added as annotations to the individual song recordings within the database. The enriched database tables were analysed, revealing outliers due to low-quality recordings or misidentification, permitting a cleaning of the data. For recordings from a limited geographic range, pulse intervals and carrier frequency are sufficient to identify plausible matchings between archived songs and new sound recordings.
23071991|We propose that subfamilies Acridinae (including Truxalinae), Gomphocerinae and Oedipodinae are not monophyletic, and that, as a collective, originated in Africa some time before 100 mya. Our conclusions are based on a phylogenetic analysis of portions of 5 mitochondrial genes, totalling up to about 2.7 kilobase pairs, in 117 species collected in the Americas, Eurasia, Africa and Australia. Sequences were analyzed by weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods. Pyrgomorpha conica served as the outgroup. Biogeographic origins and patterns were inferred by applying the programs "DIVA" and "r8s", for spatial and temporal analyses, respectively. Maximum sorting of taxa using parsimony was achieved by assigning differential weights to the three codon positions. Resolution was, however, generally poor. Bayesian methods, by contrast, yielded a topology which was virtually identical to the maximum likelihood tree and, for the most part, fully resolved and interpretable. We provide arguments in support of favoring the use of the Bayesian tree to infer relationships and biogeographic origins. Neither subfamily, as defined in the current on-line Orthoptera Species File 2, proved to be monophyletic. Instead, taxa assorted themselves into 3 broad categories: 1) Gomphocerinae, plus a small subset of acridines; 2) a sister group consisting of Oedipodinae, plus another small subset of acridines; and basal and paraphyletic to this pair, 3) the remaining taxa, all African and primarily members of the Acridinae. Very few tribes within these subfamilies proved to be monophyletic. This phylogenetic pattern is reflected biogeographically and points to a common African origin for the subfamilies. The following migrations, initially those of (most likely) proto-acridines, are further suggested by the data: 1) movement from Africa to South America establishing genera of that continent's Gomphocerinae (e.g., Jagomphocerus) and Acridinae (e.g., Metaleptea), followed by incursions into North America, leading to species such as Amblytropidia mysteca; 2) a somewhat circuitous sequence of events involving a reverse migration from South America to Africa (establishing genera such as Thyridota) with ensuing dispersals to Eurasia (forming genera such as Myrmeleotettix) and to North America (leading to, for example, Brunneria and the bulk of that continent's Gomphocerinae); 3) almost simultaneous with the first event, migration of other early acridines from Africa to Eurasia, establishing the latter continent's Oedipodinae (e.g., Angaracris). Subsequent dispersals to North America and the South Pacific led to genera such as Camnula and Austroicetes, respectively.
25822727|The identity of the subspecies Megacrania batesi speiseri Carl, 1915 (Carl spelled batesii as batesi in error) from Malo, New Hebrides is clarified. Carl's subspecies is elevated to the species Megacrania speiseri Carl, 1915 and morphological characters are redescribed with measurements. A key of the genus Megacrania is provided.
24367396|A new species of grasshopper (Orthoptera: Pamphagidae, subfamily Thrinchinae) from the western edge of the Alashan plateau semi-desert in Southern Mongolia is described. The morphological characters of Mongolotmethis michidi new species and some characters of Mongolotmethis gobiensis, the most closely related species, are described.
25622292|Swimming behavior of the meadow grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was observed in an acid pool on Sunshine Plain in Epping Forest, UK. To quantify the success or otherwise of attempts at swimming by grasshoppers, 1 spent 2 h watching C. parallelus nymphs on 7 June 2009. Early-instar nymphs of C. parallelus were observed to commonly use their hind legs in a kicking motion to swim in the surface film of the pool. These nymphs managed to reach the edge of the pool, whereas two late-instar nymphs (probably 3-4) after becoming submerged for more than 3 min, did not manage to exit the pool. Various escape strategies were used by late-instar nymphs that became submerged, including an underwater 'hop' and climbing up rush (Juncus) stems.
4122954|Species of the tettigoniid genus Isophya are indicators of biogeographical history and also measures of the state of nature conservation in the Carpathian Basin and in Europe. We surveyed the occurrence and habitat preference of five species (I. camptoxypha, I. costata, I. kraussii, I. modesta, I. modestior) living in the Transdanubian region (the western part of the Pannonian biogeographical region) to determine the potential for the preservation of the insects and their habitats. Statistical analysis shows the optimal habitats of I. camptoxypha are patches of herbaceous plants and lower shrub layers within natural forests dominated by tall or medium-height broad-leafed (mainly dicotyledonous) mesophytic forest species. For I. camptoxypha smaller clearings, and the forest ecotones containing the aforementioned plant species are suboptimal, and populations of the insect species occur there at a significantly lower density. Present-day I. costata find optimal conditions in highly natural, loess grasslands or mesophytic hayfields and steppe grassland-hayfield transitions rich in plant species. This same Isophya species at a lower density can be found in grasslands having suboptimal conditions, but with a similar habitat physiognomy, adjoining the above-mentioned grasslands or developing through their slight degradation. Based on a critical literature review and our own sampling, we also comment on the habitat choice of a further three species (I. kraussii, I. modesta, I. modestior).
24367404|Bucrates weissmani n.sp. is known from four localities in southern Arizona. It is smaller and more slender than the other four species of Bucrates, making it superficially similar to the Central American copiphorine Caulopsis cuspidata, but more fundamental features refute the notion that it belongs in Caulopsis rather than Bucrates. Four other species of Bucrates are known. Two of these, capitatus (De Geer) and clausus (Scudder), occur in sympatry in Central America and tropical South America; lanista Rehn is known only from southern Brazil; and malivolans (Scudder) is restricted to the southeastern United States. All are easily distinguished morphologically and, for the three for which the songs are known, by their songs. Unlike the two other species of Bucrates for which the habitat is known, B. weissmani occurs on altitudinal islands at the edge of a desert. The calling song of B. weissmani resembles that of numerous species of Neoconocephalus, whereas the songs of B. malivolans and B. capitatus, resemble each other more than either song resembles that of B. weissmani.
23034226|A new species of Plagiotriptus is described from the Taita Hills of Kenya, East Africa. Data on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given and an updated key provided to the species of Plagiotriptus.
10.2307/3503577|The genus Galeicles was described by Descamps (1977). He included in the genus two species. G. teocchii Descamps (as type species) and G. parvulus Descamps, both from the Central African Republic. In the present paper a new species G. kooumani is described from Chad.
23610414|There are few suitable monitoring tools for assessing the effectiveness of management for threatened insect taxa. This is especially true for cryptic arboreal species of nocturnal flightless orthopterans in the genus Deinacrida from New Zealand. Systematic searching of habitat during the day was compared with footprint tracking tunnels baited with peanut butter as methods for monitoring the arboreal giant weta Deinacrida heteracantha and Deinacrida mahoenui (Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae). Searching by day required more time (3h per transect) than operating tracking tunnels (1.4h). Lines of 30-35 tracking tunnels spaced 30 m apart could be quickly set to sample large areas. Searching may provide additional information including the species, age class, and sex, whereas tracking tunnels yield presence/absence data for giant weta that were larger than other anostostomatid present. Both methods provide indices of relative abundance: it is impractical in tall forest to accurately estimate absolute density whereas tracking tunnel results are related to the activity of weta. Weta activity may depend on vapour pressure deficit modulated by the temperature. For conservation and monitoring purposes, we recommend that tracking tunnels be used first to detect giant weta and only then search for them if further data is required.
41759710|Five neotropical wasp-mimicking species of the genus Aganacristwo known only from females and three from malesare reviewed. Based on observation of interspecific interactions and morphological comparison, it is shown that sexual dimorphism occurs within species, and that female species are conspecific with sympatric male species. This is reinforced by field observations in northern Peru of a pairing between A. pseudosphex and A. nitida, wherein the male was in the process of secreting a spermatophore. Aganacris sphex and A. pseudosphex are morphologically nearly identical and probably represent variants of a single species. Since those species known from females only are both senior to sympatric male species, the number of species is reduced from five to two - A. nitida (A. pseudosphex and A. sphex designated herein as junior synonyms) and A. velutina (A. insectivora designated herein as a junior synonym).
23034229|Wetapunga (Deinacrida heteracantha), New Zealand's largest insect, were formerly abundant in forests of northern New Zealand. However, they are now restricted to one population on mammal-free Little Barrier Island (3083 ha). This study investigated the movements, habitat use and behavior of 22 adult wetapunga fitted with miniature radiotransmitters for up to 18 nights. Adult wetapunga appeared to be quite mobile, with males (16 m per night) moving further than females (8 m per night). Differences in the distances travelled by adult male and female wetapunga between daytime refuges appear due to differences in reproductive behavior. Wetapunga were associated with silverfern, nikau palm, kanuka, and kohekohe within second-growth coastal forest on Little Barrier Island. The majority of wetapunga were found above ground level, but were also occasionally found moving on the ground. In addition, adult wetapunga were found in relatively open sites with little or no cover and were clearly visible by day. Wetapunga were generally solitary and the majority of their activities, such as feeding, movements and oviposition, occurred at night. The one exception is mating (actual copulation and pre-, post-copulatory behavior), which usually occurred during daylight after weta had paired during the previous night. During the study, one male wetapunga was eaten by an unknown avian predator. Radiotelemetry has extended our knowledge of adult wetapunga behavior and this monitoring technique could be readily applied to other large invertebrates.
41759694|The meadow katydid Orchelimum superbum was previously known from scattered localities along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of North America. We found this species to be widespread and locally common on the Great Plains in a variety of habitats, including tallgrass prairie, wetlands, and roadsides. We found no evidence for cryptic species after studying the morphology of the male terminalia, comparing body size, and analyzing 14 calling song characters. Individuals from the Great Plains are consistently larger in body size than individuals from the historical range. From patterns of body size variation and abundance, we hypothesize that the eastern Great Plains is the center of distribution for O. superbum and that the coastal localities, including the type locality, are peripheral populations. We compare the songs of O. superbum and O. vulgre, showing that these two sympatric allochronically separated species share most buzz-mode characters including statistically indistinguishable syllable repetition rates of 60 s at 25C.
10.2307/3503649|Grasshopper species composition, diversity and abundance on five grasslands and shrublands in northern La Pampa province were determined. Plant species composition, richness and a diversity index are reported for the different sites. A total of 24 grasshopper species were collected. The subfamily Melanoplinae was dominant, followed by Gomphocerinae and Acridinae. The highest abundance of grasshoppers was registered in shrubland communities in 1992. Dichroplus pratensis and Neopedies brunneri were the most abundant species in grasslands, while D. vittatus and D. pratensis were in shrublands. D. pratensis and Euplectrotettix ferrugineus were broadly distributed in both community types. N. brunneri was broadly distributed in grasslands and Scyllina signatipennis in shrublands. A total of 16 species were uncommon or rare, being collected only in certain years, in low numbers, and only in some locations. Species richness and diversity indices ranged from 11-4, and from 1.68-0.42, respectively. Although species richness in grasslands and shrublands was similar, diversity was, in general, lower in the latter.
3657131|The present paper arose from a symposium at the 9th International Conference of the Orthopterists' Society held in Canmore, Canada, from 14-19th August 2005. Most of the major groups working on locust phase polyphenism were inattendance (Table 1), offering the opportunity to review the rapid progress that has occurred in this field over recent years. To maintain momentum in this research, areas where results from different groups are at odds were debated, and ways to reconcile such discrepancies proposed. The symposium also provided researchers with a forum to consider how to coordinate core facilities and resources across laboratories, to make best use of national and international funding opportunities. Participants presented their results spanning a range of aspects of phase polyphenism research: molecular analyses, physiology, ecology and phylogenetic reconstruction of the evolutionary history of phase change. The symposium was followed by a detailed discussion session, attended by members of the audience as well as the symposium speakers. The present paper provides a synopsis of that discussion and is structured according to the major issues considered. Unless otherwise stated, the paper concerns the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, which has been the subject of most of the recent research.
25473453|Variation in body size exists within any natural population. Moreover, variation in this fundamental physiologically based trait often translates into variation in demographic rates. Here we explore the effects of variation in the initial body size of individuals on the mean survival trajectory of a generalist herbivore living in a seasonal environment. We first present the results from an individual-based model, which provided expectations for the form of the relationship between mean survival and standard deviation in initial size. We then develop a heuristic analytical model that captures the essentials of the influence of initial-size variation on mean survival to end of season. Both theoretical formulations demonstrate that as initial body size variation increases, mean survival might initially increase; however, this initial positive effect is eventually reversed, causing mean survival to fall steeply as size variation becomes high. We then test these qualitative predictions in the field by manipulating the magnitude of initial size variation in experimental populations of the generalist grasshopper, Melanoplus femurrubrum. We show good qualitative congruence between model predictions and experimental results. Because herbivore survival is strongly linked to the strength of food-web interactions, we suggest that adopting such a combined theoretical and empirical approach can provide a profitable avenue toward a full understanding of the interplay between individual trait variation and higher-level dynamics.
40344847|Three lectins, designated as Sg , Sg and Sg, were identified in the serum of the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria. With the use of (NH)SO fractionation, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and affinity chromatography on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B, three pools, each containing one of the putative lectins, were obtained. IEF, native PAGE and SDS/PAGE revealed that the three pools contained Sg, Sg and Sg, respectively, with pI = 6.39, 8.11 and 6.8; native PAGE Rm = 0.44, 0.32 and 0.32; SDS/PAGE subunits approximate molecular weights = 21.5, 44.5, and 43.9 kDa, respectively. Under reducing conditions, SDS/PAGE has separated each of Sg and Sg into two bands that indicate the presence of covalent interactions between their subunits, which are not present in Sg. The three lectins are more highly specific for rabbit RBCs than for those of other vertebrates. The HA of lectins are Cadependent, heat-labile, and are inhibited strongly by -linked-D-galactosides, followed by L-(+)-rhamnose.
20066587|The genus Megacrania Kaup is revised. Types or paratypes of all species were examined. Two new species, Megacrania obscurus and Megacrania spina, are described and illustrated. A key is given to the species.
10.2307/3503435|Oxya nitidula was reared on four monocotyledonous host plants, viz. Oryza sativa, Panicum maximum, Pennisetum glaucum and Zea mays. The duration of post embryonic development and food utilisation indices such as consumption, growth rate, approximate digestibility, efficiency of conversion of ingested and digested food, were evaluated to assess adaptability by O. nitidula to these monocot hosts. The duration of post-embryonic development of both sexes of O. nitidula were least on P. maximum while the consumntion index and growth rate were the highest, when fed on P. maximum in comparison to the other three host plants. The consumption index and growth rates of nymphs varied on the different hosts. The approximate digestibility ranged between 72% - 91% in nymphs and adults on the various host plants with the mean value being maximal when fed on P. maximum. The efficiency of conversion of digested and ingested food into the body tissues varied, viz., ECD ranged between 3% to 9% among the different host plants with the highest mean of 8% on P. maximum. ECI ranged between 2% to 8% with the highest mean of 6.8% on P. maximum. The data suggests that O. nitidula is more adapted to P. maximum followed by O. sativa, P. glaucum and Z. mays.
25822722|We present a first preliminary molecular analysis of relationships among a sample of living members of the Gryllotalpidae, based on partial nucleotide sequence data of the 16S mitochondrial gene. Our analysis defines five groups that diverged from each other approximately 196 to 284 Mya in the Mesozoic era. This study supports the monophyly of the genus Scapteriscus and its placement in the subfamily Scapteriscinae, as well as the inclusion of the genus Triamescaptor in the subfamily Gryllotalpinae. The monophyly of the large genus Gryllotalpa is not supported, suggesting a revision of the genus is needed.
3503748|Scale is the fundamental conceptual problem in assessing the sustainability or value of controlling grasshoppers or locusts. Using case studies from North America (United States: Wyoming), Africa (Eritrea), and Asia (Russia: Irkutsk), we analyzed the viability of control programs. There are at least four dimensions to acridid pest management. At the geopolitical scale, all three cases reveal that although the greatest cost/risk of acridid outbreaks accrues locally, distant governments play a primary role despite recent, undirected trends toward decentralization. Examination of the social scale reveals that in all three cases, the individual farm/ranch is the fundamental unit of concern, but these units place high value on preventing acridid infestations from spreading to neighboring lands. None of the systems appear to be driven by the agrochemical industry; rather, the motive force is food security (Eritrea), food quality (Wyoming), or both (Irkutsk). With respect to the interest scale, in all three systems agriculturalists have nothing to gain and much to lose from acridid outbreaks, as compared to the general public (no gains, modest losses), agrochemical industries (low gains, no losses), and governments (low gains, modest losses). In terms of the temporal scale, extremely rapid (and localized) losses and short-term (annual) productivity define the situation for farmers/ranchers, while governments exhibit far slower and longer-term responses and perspectives. From these findings, the keys and obstacles to sustainable acridid pest management are discussed.
40344845|A list of Libyan Orthoptera is presented based on specimens preserved in Museums, incorporating all (previously published or unpublished) label information. Overall, 141 species are included, of which four are new records for the country. Given within "species incjuirendae" are another six species, with the reasons for confirming their presence. Libya's orthopteran fauna is probably not rich, but our knowledge of it is far from exhaustive.
3503725|Description of a new subspecies of Poecilimon mytilenensis Werner 1932. Both the new and the nominate subspecies occur on the island of Lesbos, Greece. Both subspecies differ mainly in the length of the tip of male subgenital plate. In addition to morphological data and a detailed distribution map, descriptions and oscillograms of male song of both subspecies, female song of the nominate subspecies and some data on the unusual mating behavior (ampulla mass 15% of male body mass) are provided.
10.2307/3503641|Monitoring rangeland grasshopper movements with a mark-release/resight technique demonstrated that these insects have a tendency to move upwind in a native rangeland habitat with flat topography. This directional dispersal was observed with both late instar nymphs (4th and 5th instar) and adult grasshoppers, 60 h after release of marked individuals. Significantly more of the marked grasshoppers (34%) were in the northwest quadrant of the plots than in any other quadrant, and the wind was primarily from the northwest. At a native rangeland site with varied topography, where winds were also from the northwest, significantly more grasshoppers moved into the northwest quadrant than the southeast quadrant, 36 and 60 h after release; 35 and 32% of resighted grasshoppers were present in upwind quadrants, respectively. Grasshoppers showed no detectable tendency for movement with respect to topographic aspect in this habitat. An understanding of rangeland grasshopper movement in the context of abiotic factors (wind and topography) is relevant to refining grasshopper control programs that employ Reduced Agent-Area Treatments (RAATs).
3657133| A density-dependent change from a cryptic to an aposematic antipredator strategy has recently been suggested as a possible functional explanation for phase change in the desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria Forskl). Predators learn to avoid locusts that have fed on toxic plants faster when they are in the brightly colored gregarious phase than when they are green and solitarious. We review recent work comparing acquisition of a defensive compound via food selection between solitarious, transiens (solitarious locusts in transition to the gregarious phase) and gregarious locusts. Lab experiments showed that solitarious locusts were deterred at first contact with hyoscyamine, a plant compound that protects against predators, but later habituated to the compound and incorporated it into the diet (albeit at a low rate). By contrast, gregarious and transiens locusts fed readily on the compound. A computer simulation showed how low-density, solitarious locusts would not benefit much from consuming the compound, because they escape predation by avoiding detection. However, for high-density transiens and gregarious locusts, for whom crypsis is no longer an option, acquiring toxicity dramatically decreases predation risk. A survey of the literature showed that solitarious locusts exhibit a narrower diet breadth than gregarious locusts, suggesting that solitarious locusts avoid defensive plant compounds, whereas gregarious locusts use a mix of compounds in the gut as a defence against predators. Gut-mediated antipredator defences might be more widespread among Orthopterans, especially brightly colored species, than has previously been realized. In particular, it remains to be investigated whether density-dependent aposematism and changes in food selection toward chemical defense, play a role in phase change in other locust species. 
41759693|The tribe Viadaniini n. trib. (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) is characterized in this paper. It includes twelve genera (two are new): Anaulacomera, Grammadera, Tomeophera, Viadana, Abrodiaeta, Proviadana, Bolivariola, Agennis, Parapynhicia, Pleothrix, Montealegrezia n. gen., and Tenellulus n. gen. A diagnosis of the tribe is provided and a key to its genera. Special consideration is given to the genus Anaulacomera Stl, 1873; its problematic history is outlined, and organization into species groups based on males' characters provided, as well as a key to these new groups. The genera Pararota Piza, 1973 n. syn. and Paracora Piza, 1977 n. are synonymized under Anaulacomera. A. darienica Griffini, 1896 n. is synonymized with A. furcata Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1878. A. pizai n. nom. & n. comb, is the new name for Pararota gracilis Piza, 1973 n. The new species described are as follows: A. alexanderi n. sp., A. ferchoi sp., A. hernandezi n. sp., A. sarmientoi n. sp., A. ludivinae n. sp., A. parisae n. sp., A. juanchoi n. sp., A. davidi n. sp., A. chirivii n. sp., A. didieri n. sp., A. richteri n. sp., A. valentinae n. sp., A. franciscoi n. sp., M. amacayacu n. sp., T. ariasi n. sp., all from Colombia. The male of V. difformis is here reported and described. With this re-organization the tribe Viadaniini is made up of 153 valid species. La tribu Viadaniini n. trib., (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) es caracterizada en el presente artculo. Tal como se presenta, est conformada por doce gneros, dos de ellos nuevos: Anaulacomera, Grammadera, Tomeophera, Viadana, Abrodiaeta, Proviadana, Bolivariola, Agennis, Parapyrrhicia, Pleothrix, Montealegrezia n. gen., and Tenellulus n. gen. Se proporciona una diagnosis de la tribu y una clave para los gneros que la conforman. El gnero Anaulacomera Stl 1873, es tratado especialmente, abordando la problemtica histrica del gnero. La nueva organizacin se bas en caracteres morfolgicos de los machos y se construy una clave para el reconocimiento de los nuevos grupos aqu creados. Los gneros Pararota Piza 1973 n. syn., y Paracora Piza 1977 n. syn., son sinonimizados con Anaulacomera; al igual que la especie A. darienica Griffini, 1896 n. syn., es sinonimizada con A. furcata Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1878. A. pizai n. nom. & n. comb., es el nuevo nombre para Pararota gracilis Piza, 1973 n. syn. Los nuevos taxones aqu descritos son: A. alexanderi n. sp., A. ferchoi n. sp., A. hernandezi n. sp., A. sarmientoi n. sp., A. ludivinae n. sp., A. parisae n. sp., A. juanchoi n. sp., A. davidi n. sp., A. chirivii n. sp., A. didieri n. sp., A. richteri n. sp., A. valentinae n. sp., A. franciscoi n. sp., M. amacayacu n. sp., T. ariasi n. sp., el macho de V. difformis es reportado y descrito. De acuerdo con esta nueva organizacin la tribu Viadaniini est compuesta por 153 especies vlidas.
10.2307/3503643| A new genus and species of acridid grasshopper Duartettix montanus Perez and Otte is described from high mountain valleys of the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. D. montanus is very small, brachypterous and apparently the highest altitude inhabiting acridoid grasshopper in the West Indies. The genus is placed in the subfamily Melanoplinae. This is the first record of the subfamily Melanoplinae for the Greater Antilles. /// Se describe un nuevo gnero y especie de saltamontes acrdido Duartettix montanus Perez y Otte de valles de alta montaa en la Cordillera Central, Repblica Dominicana. D. montanus es muy pequeo, braquptero y aparentemente el saltamontes acridoideo que habita a mayores alturas en las Indias Occidentales. Este es el primer registro de la subfamilia Melanoplinae para las Antillas Mayores. 
10.2307/3503600|Growth, development and mortality of nymphs of Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabr.) fed diets of one of 12 species or cultivars of perennial grasses were monitored over a 3-week period in early summer, 1991 and 1992. Mean dry weight of grasshoppers was significantly higher (P < 0.05) on Western wheat grass (cv. S-8580) than any other grass, and lowest on smooth brome grass (cv. Carlton and Signal). Development of grasshoppers was significantly more rapid (P < 0.05) when feeding on Western wheat grass (cv. S-8580) and Intermediate wheat grass (cv. S-9051) than any other grass. Smooth brome grass had the greatest negative impact on grasshopper development. Mortality among grasshoppers fed these grasses was not significantly different over the 21 days. Analysis of historical grasshopper abundance survey data showed that mean grasshopper densities in 15 of 18 years (1975-1992) were significantly lower (P <0.05) in roadsides containing brome grass and alfalfa than in roadsides containing a high proportion of weeds. This relationship also held true for cropland that was adjacent to these respective roadsides. In 11 of 18 years of the adult grasshopper survey, mean grasshopper density was significantly higher (P <0.05) in crops that were next to weedy roadsides compared to those next to brome grass/alfalfa. In no year was the inverse true, that is, grasshopper density in brome grass/alfalfa was never significantly higher than in weedy roadsides. Records from the annual grasshopper abundance survey (1975-1992) indicate that about 30% of roadsides in Saskatchewan are weedy. Grain producers may be able to reduce grasshopper damage if these roadsides were seeded to brome grass or brome grass/alfalfa mixture
40344846|There has been a considerable range expansion for Roesel's bushcricket Metnoptera roeselii in Essex since 1980, and it is often assumed that the macropterous (long-winged) form (f. diluta) has played an important role. A systematic study of the occurrence and distribution of this bushcricket in the county shows that this range expansion has corresponded with a significant increase in air temperature and the availability oftall grassland on farmland, due to the introduction of set-aside and agri-environment schemes such as Countryside Stewardship. These tall grasslands are particularly important for M. roeselii in areas of the county (e.g., the northwest) where hedgerow removal has been severe since the 1940s. This study indicates that the previous year's air temperature may be the most crucial climatic determinant of macroptery, hot weather leading to successful breeding and high population densities in the following year. These populations may then produce macropterous individuals in response to overcrowding; this may explain the occurrence of long-winged M. roeselii in years with cool and damp weather. However, this study fails to provide conclusive evidence of this due to a lack of quantitative macropter data. Nevertheless, a clear link is established between high temperatures and the early appearance of macropters, hot weather from April to July leading to accelerated nymphal development and earlier sightings of macropterous bushcrickets.
3503694|O. nigeriensis Uvarov is widely distributed in the moist grassland habitats of Nigeria. Although this area is used for intensive agricultural activities, providing more than 90% of the grains needed in the country, the insect has been reported to cause only minor damage to agricultural crops while the closely related O. senegalensis is a serious pest of crops. The reason for the minor pest status of O. nigeriensis is unknown and only adequate study of the insect/host-plant relationship will provide some clues. Nymphs and adults of O. nigeriensis were reared on selected food plants (grasses) in the laboratory; this included Axonopus compressus, Cynodon dactylon, Eleusine indica, Seteria gracilipes, used singly and as a mixture of all four. Development of the nymphs was shortest when rearing was on a mixed diet: 60 d compared to 105 to 127 d for single host plants. Rearing the adults on S. gracilipes promoted faster oocyte development than the other treatments. The present pest status of the insect is discussed based on the data obtained.
10.2307/3503596|A cockroach, Periplaneta japonica, is known to have a semivoltine life cycle in northern snowy areas. In the present study, nymphal development, nymphal diapause, and reproduction of a southern population were studied under laboratory and outdoor conditions to understand the life cycle strategy of this species. Nymphal development proceeded faster at a longer photoperiod, but diapause was induced at any photoperiod. The longer the photoperiod the later the nymphal instar at which diapause occurred. A sample collected early in the spring suggested that the overwintering population comprised two distinct size groups, corresponding to early and late nymphal instars. This favored the conclusion that this species requires two years to complete the life cycle, as reported for northern populations. However, by rearing cockroaches under outdoor conditions, it was found that some of the nymphs hatching early in the summer overwintered as late nymphal instars and emerged as adults in the following year. This pattern of development was observed not only in a year with an unusually hot summer but also in a year with an unusually cool summer. This species has a mixture of univoltine and semivoltine life cycles, and such a mixed voltinism appears to be adaptive for insects with a long reproductive period. The time of first oviposition was earlier at a higher temperature, but mean ovipositing interval was the shortest at around 25C and tended to be prolonged at a higher temperature. These results indicate that P. japonica is adapted to northern climates and has a highly flexible life cycle.
10.2307/3503473|Xylophagy in cockroaches has been considered a rare attribute, inherited from a common ancestor with termites. This point of view is discussed in a phylogenetic perspective for two independent tropical cockroach lineages: the subfamily Polyphaginae and the group (Zetoborinae + Blaberinae + Gyninae + Diplopterinae). A phylogeny was constructed for each of these two lineages. Xylophagy occurs in Cryptocercus in the subfamily Polyphaginae and has recently been discovered in Parasphaeria (subfamily Zetoborinae). This allows one to propose, in reference to phylogenies, that xylophagy is recently derived, that slow development is a correlate of xylophagy rather than a prerequisite, and that xylophagy appearance preceded the conquest of temperate areas at least once.
25822721|This article describes the acoustic characters of Copiphora gorgonensis, a new species endemic to Gorgona Island National Park, Colombia. It is closely related to C. brevicauda, a congener distributed in the Pacific rainforest of Ecuador and Colombia, and also reported in Central America and other countries of northern South America. Here we provide diagnostic characters for identification; we study the mechanics of stridulation using laser vibrometry and optical motion detectors. Distinguishing features include: the highly tonal song of males with a carrier frequency peaking at 23 kHz; pulses repeated with a high rate of nearly 50/s and wing motion exhibiting a typical subsinusoidal pattern, as has been described for other Copiphorini. The natural frequency of the right forewing is close to that of the calling song and the wing-motion patterns indicate that sound vibrations are the result of sustained tooth impacts, corresponding to the natural frequency of wing vibration, i.e., the tonal characteristic of the calling song in this species is the result of resonant stridulation. This resonance, and the amplitude component of the song, are attributed to the mirror frame and its surrounding cells and veins. These results are contrasted and discussed in regard to published literature on tettigoniid stridulation.
10.2307/3503651|The bioacoustics and ecology of twelve species of Phalangopsinae from Ecuadorian rainforests are described. All of the species are new to science. They belong to eight genera, five of which are new. One species, currently under study by Desutter-Grandcolas (Species PhalOtLP2), remains unnamed. The genera and species included are as follows: Hattersleya clandestina new genus and species, Aclodes chamocoru new species, Aclodes mococharu new species, Aclodes hypoxyros new species, Paraclodes cryptos new species, Escondacla thymodes new genus and species, Paragryllus crybelos new species, Desutteria epiplatys new genus and species, Ecuazarida recondita new genus and species, Dambachia eritheles new genus and species.
3657134|Locust phase polyphenism is a spectacular example of density-dependent phenotypic plasticity. It is generally interpreted as an adaptation to heterogeneous environmental conditions brought on by high population density. However, several nonlocust species are known to express phase-like traits, which is difficult to explain from an adaptive perspective alone. Here I attempt to explain this phenomenon by 1) taking a reaction norm perspective in understanding the mechanisms underlying locust phase and 2) taking a phylogenetic perspective to study how individual reaction norms of locust phase might have evolved. I argue that locust phase polyphenism is a complex syndrome resulting from interactions among different density-dependent plastic reaction norms, each of which can follow a separate evolutionary trajectory, which in turn can be reflected in a phylogeny. Using a phylogeny of Cyrtacanthacridinae (Orthoptera: Acrididae), I explore the evolution of plasticity in density-dependent color change. I demonstrate that locusts and closely related nonlocusts, express similar phenotypic plasticity due to phylogenetic conservatism. Finally, I argue that it is crucial to study the evolution of locust phase polyphenism from both adaptive and phylogenetic perspectives.
3657121|A comparison of hybrid zones between chromosome races of the tree weta Hemideina thoracica (White) found that the chromosomal rearrangements that involved the greatest proportion of the genome apparently had the least effect on fitness of hybrids. In order to further explore the nature of chromosomal rearrangements that differentiate weta races, relative DNA content was compared between 2 races of H. crassidens (Blanchard) (known to differ by 2 Robertsonian (Rb) translocations) and 4 races of H. thoracica, using flow cytometry. Where Rb translocation was the inferred process (H. crassidens 15 vs 19; H. thoracica 17 vs 15') no change in relative DNA content was detected, as expected. The 19-karyotype of H. thoracica was predicted to have more DNA due to a duplication/loss compared to the 17-karyotype of H. thoracica, but here too, no change in relative DNA content was detected. In contrast, significantly more DNA was found where less was predicted; the 13-karyotype of H. thoracica was thought to have less DNA than the 15'-karyotype, due to a duplication/loss, but in fact this race has significantly more DNA than any of the 3 other races of H. thoracica examined. Due to the differential staining of A-T bases by the stain used in flow cytometry, 4'-6'-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), it is possible the increased DNA estimate for the 13-karyotye is due to a significant shift in A-T base bias throughout its genome. However, it is more likely that the absence of the very small acrocentric autosomes that characterize many of the karyotypes of H. thoracica, result from translocations to larger autosomes than from a change in total DNA content and a simultaneous change in base ratio.
25473431|This review discusses body size and mass as they relate to the Orthoptera (crickets, katydids, grasshoppers) and the Phasmatodea (walkingsticks). It addresses the expression, causes and consequences of size in these insects. Topics include: methodological problems in body-size research, gravity vs surface forces, allometry and scaling. Dyar's law, ontogenetic scaling, size-invariant traits and nonallometric scaling, the influence of size on physiology, function, behavior, life history, mating, fecundity, population dynamics, ecology, and community, size-clines, Bergmann's rule, sexual size dimorphism, Rensch's rule, protandry, the environmental, genetic, and physiological control of size, the evolution of size and the influence of size on evolution. Hypotheses are presented to explain why insects remain small in comparison to other taxa.
4122957|The new species Espagnolopsis exaltata Perez-Gelabert & Rowell is described from the mountains north of Ocoa, Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. Also described is the hitherto unknown adult male of Antillacris explicatrix Rehn & Rehn 1939, a relatively rare high mountain species. The variation exhibited by the most widely distributed episactid species in the island, Espagnola darlingtoni, is investigated through a comparative analysis of male and female genital features in several populations. Usually the female subgenital plate of eumastacoids shows a species-specific morphology. We find that most of the apparent variation between populations is confined to the female subgenital plate, while the males are much more homogeneous. We conclude that our sample represents a single, somewhat variable species. Additionally, the transfer of Tainacris divergentis Perez et al. 1997 to the new genus Neibamastax Rowell & Perez-Gelabert (see paper this issue) prompted the need to review the evidence for the distinctiveness of the two other species included in Tainacris. Differences are found in both the female subgenital plate and the male internal genitalia. The earlier conclusion that these populations represent different species is supported.
20789574|In this study we reconstructed the molecular phylogeny and attempted to infer historical biogeography of a sample of cricket species, most of them cave-dwelling, belonging to the subfamily Macropathinae (Orthoptera, Rhaphidophoridae) which shows a clear Gondwanan distribution. We sequenced fragments of 4 genes (12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, 18S rRNA and 28S rRNA), for a total of 1993 bp. We present here preliminary data based on a total of 17 species, 11 belonging to Macropathinae and representative of the main regions of Gondawanaland, 7 to Aemodogryllinae and Rhaphidophorinae from India, Bhutan, China, Philippines and the Sulawesi Islands. The use of relaxed molecular clocks by means of Bayesian analysis allowed us to estimate the timing of the main cladogenetic events, using calibration of a molecular clock; the clock is based on the plate disjunction of Africa from South America, Australia from Zealandia (New Zealand), or Australia from Antarctica. The latter was considered at two different datings on the basis of two alternative palaeogeographic hypotheses. Node dating using separation of Africa or a model of earlier separation of Australia from Antarctica, suggests that the main cladogenetic events in the Macropathinae phylogeny could be explained by vicariance hypotheses, related to the Gondwana fragmentation. However, two other equally valid calibrations suggest that lineage formation is not consistent with vicariant processes and requires either some long-distance dispersal, or an inconceivable age of origin of this family of insects, enabling the prior existence of all lineages in Gondwanaland with subsequent regional extinction.
3503705|An up-dated list of species of the genera Agriacris and Staleochlora, whose karyotypes were previously published, is accompanied by fresh information on the chromosomes of A. jucunda and S. fruhstorferi. The connection between cingulum and dorsal valves in the phallic structure of both species is discussed.
43738193|Melanoplus punctulatus (Uhler) occurs only in the USA and Canada, where its current known distribution extends west only to the eastern quarter of the Great Plains States. In 2014, we discovered two new populations of M. punctulatus in the Pine Ridge area of western Nebraska. This discovery extends the known range of this species westward by over 600 km. The species appears to be strongly associated with green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica) in the western part of its range. Our results suggest that M. punctulatus may have been previously overlooked, due to its behavior and crypsis, and may actually occur across much of the Great Plains in woodland areas.
3503655|The Moroccan Locust Dociostaurus maroccanus is a pest species, regularly harmful to pastures and agricultural output in numerous circum-Mediterranean regions and particularly in Morocco. Species belonging to the same subfamily (Gomphocerinae) are mostly grass-feeding and oligophagous; very few are monophagous or polyphagous. Instars and adults of D. maroccanus are characterized by a high degree of polyphagy. Linked to this diet is mandible type; chemoreceptor organs (antenna and palp sensilla) are related to odor or taste (e.g., labrum sensilla). As labrum sensilla plates are correlated with labrum width, we eliminated this source of bias with linear regression statistics. We first studied the genesis of type A sensilla through the different stages of D. maroccanus. The relative numbers of A 10 increase in adults. Then we tested if the variation of sensilla number relates to the systematic position of the genus or to diet. Comparisons concerned the relative numbers of different sensilla categories in 10 species of acridians. In all its sensilla types, the genus Dociostaurus is closer to the mostly polyphagous Oedipodinae than the mostly oligophagous Gomphocerinae. Thus diversification of diet in the genus Dociostaurus is linked to an increase in the number of labrum sensilla.
20066586|A new species of Horatosphaga Schaum, 1853 is described from east African highlands. Horatosphage tenera Hemp, new species, occurs on savanna plains of south-central Kenya. Notes on the phenology, habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given.
10.2307/3503470|This study of food selection and feeding behavior in the Orthoptera sens. lat. of the Balearic Islands, Spain, took place near Santo Tomas, representative of Menorcan sublittoral grassland and scrub, and Na Xamena, representative of Ibizan coastal mountains and foothills. It involved habitat analysis, investigation of 15 species of Orthoptera by differential feeding tests, field observation of behavior, light microscopy, and, for the first time in Orthoptera, scanning electron microscopy of mandibular adaptation and fecal structure. It also involved less detailed study of six additional species by analysis of mandibular adaptation and crop content. The investigation disclosed: 1) the late-season mandibular wear characteristic of many Orthoptera; (2) the similarity of food habit in the species of the two major stations notwithstanding the insular separation and disparities in local host plant availability; and (3) a food selection that is generally consistent with that of the insects' taxonomic group elsewhere in the Mediterranean region and in the adjacent Atlantic islands.
10.2307/3503457| Abiotic factors, principally rainfall, drive the population dynamics of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetes terminifera (Walker), in semi-arid source areas. However, with the possible exception of the low summer rainfall southern invasion areas, biotic factors-especially scelionid, sarcophagid and nemestrinid insect parasitoids and mermithid nematode parasitoids-become increasingly important in reducing survival in successive generations following outbreaks, while the abiotic factors assume a more indirect role through their influence on biotic factors. Parasitoids of acridids have a relatively stable population of acridid hosts, principally eastern plague grasshopper, Oedaleus australis Saussure, on the western plains and wingless grasshopper, Phaulacridium vittatum (Sjstedt), on the western slopes and tablelands, because of the high summer rainfall in these invasion areas. The host-parasitoid relationship of each parasitoid is distinctive and exhibits temporal variation in relation to the outbreak phase of C. terminifera and alternative host abundance. Typically the unlimited availability of hosts during outbreaks allows full realization of the reproductive capacity of the parasitoids. In the future parasitoid induced recessions may be initiated at an earlier stage in the outbreak cycle because of the increasingly efficient control of C. terminifera in semi-arid source areas and consequent reduction in the density of populations invading the Southeast. However, parasitoid-accommodating control strategies, including the demarcation of districts in which a "do nothing" strategy would be appropriate in some seasons, need to be adopted so that the supplementary control of C. terminifera afforded by parasitoids can be maximized. 
20066578|Mating and laying sites of Uromenus brevicollis insularis, a Cyrno-Sardininian micro-endemic species, are described from observations conducted at night in several Corsican localities. Asphodelus ramosus was found to be a key host species as both mating and oviposition of this insect take place mainly on the erect dry stems of the plant. Some aspects of the meeting of the sexes are assessed: male stridulation does not appear to play an important role. The females lay their eggs, creating vertical lines in the stem by chewing regularly spaced holes containing nearly 3 eggs per hole. One to three laying lines can be observed on a single stem. Ferula communis is frequently used as an alternative laying site when A. ramosus is absent or rare, but in this case, the eggs can be attacked by woodpeckers (Dendrocopos sp.) or parasitized by Hymenoptera. /// Les sites d'accouplement et de ponte d'Uromenus brevicollis insularis, micro-endmique cyrno-sarde, sont dcrits  partir d'observations nocturnes de terrain dans plusieurs localits corses. Asphodelus ramosus est une espce cl dans la mesure o ses tiges sches dresses sont le lieu principal de ces deux activits de reproduction. Les modalits de la rencontre des sexes sont dcrites et il ne semble pas que la stridulation des mles joue un rle prpondrant. Les femelles pondent selon des lignes verticales sur la plante en creusant des trous rgulirement espacs, contenant en moyenne prs de trois ufs chacun. On peut rencontrer de une  trois ranges de ponte sur une tige. Nous avons pu observer que les pontes dposes dans Ferula communis, espce qui semble tre particulirement recherche en cas d'absence ou faible densit de l'asphodle, peuvent subir des attaques de pic (Dendrocopos sp.) ou encore d'hymnoptres parasitodes, notamment.
10.2307/3503575|The genus Radacridium was described (Carbonell 1984) on the basis of a single species, R. nordestinum, from the Caatinga plant formation of northeastern Brazil. Two new species are described here; R. adamantinum, from Chapada Diamantina in the interior of the State of Bahia and from the northeastern part of the State of Minas Gerais, and R. mariajoseae from the plant formation called "Agreste", which lies between the arid Caatinga and the humid Atlantic Forest (Mata Atlantica), of the State of Pernambuco.
10.2307/3503540|Two new subspecies from Iran and one new subspecies from Sudan-Somalia region in the species Pyrgomorpha (Pyrqomorpha) cognata are described. They are P. (P.) c. kevani, P. (P.) c. caputorugosa and P. (P.) c. caputagrava. A key to subspecies of Pyrgomorpha (P.) cognata Krauss is provided. The type specimens are deposited in the Lyman Entomological Museum of McGill University. /// Deux nouvelles sous-especes de l'Iran et une nouvelle souse spece de la region du Soudan-Somalie dans l'espece Pyrqomorpha (Pyrgomorpha) cognata sont decrites. Elles sont P. (P.) c. kevani, P. (P.) c. caputorugosa et P. (P.) c. caputagrava. Une cle pour les sous-especes de Pyrgomorpha (P.) cognata Krauss est incluse. Les specimens types sont deposes dans la collection du Musee d'Entomologie Lyman de l'Universite McGill.
20066565|Male and female nymphs of Heteracris littoralis were topically treated with serial concentrations of azadirachtin. Effects on mortality, development, oogenesis and spermatogenesis were observed. Mortality was dose-dependent; fourth and fifth instars died about the time of ecdysis. Overaging took place at low concentrations. Ovaries in treated adult females showed complete shrinkage with abolished oocyte growth, and the number of deposited egg pods/female decreased from 4 to 9 in normal females, to 1 to 3 pods in treated insects. Deformation in sperm tubes was observed in treated males. Electronmicrographs revealed disintegration and destruction in follicular cells and mitochondria in females. In males the testicular epithelia and the spermatids completely disintegrated. Treatment with higher doses inhibited cyst formation around the spermatogonia.
3503681|A new genus, Aerotegmina is proposed for an East African Listroscelidinae species occurring in the montane forests of Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania. Notes on distribution and habitat are given.
10.2307/3503545| A laboratory study was conducted to determine some life history parameters of the gregarious phase of the South American locust, Schistocerca cancellata. An age-specific life table was constructed based on laboratory data. Duration of egg, nymphal and adult female and male stages was 151.005, 33.241.302, 87.6034.84, and 89.8026.85 days, respectively. The mean life of the cohort was 175 days, and sex ratio of emerging adults was 1:1. Survivorship curve showed a high survival during most of the life time of the cohort. 9.10% of the cohort mortality occurred during nymphal instars V and VI and 90.90% during adult stage, most of it during the last 5 weeks. Mean fecundity was 160.793.10 eggs/female and the number of eggs per pod was 7318.94. Maximum values of the fecundity rates were reached at the age of 17 and 18 weeks. The reproductive values curve indicated that the highest contribution to the future population occurred at week 17. The values of the intrinsic rate of increase (r), the net reproductive rate ( R
10.2307/3503464|Intraspecific polymorphism with respect to color is reported in the leaf-mimicking katydid genera Pterochroza, Typophyllum, and Roxelana. Representative species of these genera as adults have three or more distinct color forms in at least some anatomical features. These color variants are described, and photographic illustrations are provided to facilitate their identification.
3657122|The arboreal camel cricket, Gammarotettix bilobatus Thomas, is abundant and widespread in California. It emerges in mid to late February, survives into late May and early June, and utilizes 8 host-plant species (coast live oak, barberry, Christmas berry, California lilac, California buckeye, Monterey pine, black locust, and California bay), some of which are toxic. It appears that G. bilobatus switches host plants intraseasonally and possibly acts as an inadvertent pollinator of some of its host plants.
4122938|We undertook a comparative study in 2004 at Writtle College, Chelmsford, Essex, UK, using box quadrat, open quadrat and transect sampling techniques, to ascertain the significance of emigration and immigration of individuals from survey plots during sampling and the implications for abundance estimation and subsequent calculation of assemblage diversity. Both open quadrat and transect techniques consistently produced underestimates of total Orthoptera density, Chorthippus nymph density and Chorthippus parallelus adult density, when compared to box quadrat sampling, although the differences between techniques were not statistically significant. We suggest that these underestimates of density using the former techniques were due to individuals escaping from the observer during sampling, whereas individuals jumped onto the high sides of the box quadrats. Both open quadrat and transect monitoring tended to miss the tettigoniids Metrioptera roeselii and Conocephalus discolor, leading to underestimates of species richness when compared to box quadrat sampling. We suggest that if surveyors wish to ascertain bushcricket abundance or species richness at a study site, methods that constrain movement of individuals, such as box quadrats, should be used.
10.2307/3503444|We examined the effects of mating and social grouping on the fecundity and fertility of female eastern lubber grasshoppers, Romalea microptera (Beauvois) in the laboratory. Our experimental design consisted of three treatments: (1) virgin females held in individual containers with no male contact, (2) females kept under similar conditions as Treatment 1, but mated three times, and (3) groups of females kept communally with groups of males throughout their adult life, and allowed to mate at will. Virgin females laid their first egg pod significantly later than isolated-mated females (Treatment 2) or grouped-mated females (Treatment 3). The grouped-mated females (Treatment 3) laid smaller 2
10.2307/3503412|Inevitably when a person attempts to catalog a group of organisms, some taxa are missed, some data is missed, or the author fails inadvertently to follow the latest, and presumably correct, treatment of a taxon. The following two pages contain new and revised data added to the computerized Orthoptera Species File in Philadelphia. I am especially thankful to T. J. Walker at the University of Florida for pointing out some problems with OSF 1. I urge other experts on crickets to be unmerciless in their attempts to find errors and omissions, for only then can rapid progress be made in building a stable taxonomy of crickets.
10.2307/3503629|Intersex individuals (phenotypic females with male genitalia) associated with parasitism by mermithid nematodes are reported for the first time in Orthoptera.
10.2307/3503423|A new grasshopper species, Parodontomelus luci n. sp., collected from the Udzungwa Mountains (Tanzania) is described and compared with the other species from the genus. Some notes on the ecology and phenology of the new species are made. The history of the genus Parodontomelus Ramme, 1929, is reviewed and a list of species with distribution records is given. Parodontomelus arachniformis Jago, 1983 is revived from synonymy. The main morphological characteristics for the taxonomy of the genus Parodontomelus are summarized and a modified key to the species is presented. The genetic distances of certain mtDNA sections (12S rRNA, ND1, ND5) between P. arachniformis and P. luci suggest a long period of isolation.
10.2307/3503538|The egg pods of grasshoppers with long egg diapause can be successfully cultured in sealed polypropylene cups. Females are allowed to oviposit directly into the sand-filled containers, which are then sealed with a tight-fitting lid. Sealed cups maintain a nearly constant soil moisture for several months and apparently hold enough oxygen for egg development and hatching. The method is simple, inexpensive, efficient, flexible and amenable to experimental manipulation.
3503710| The Neotropical genus Xyleus is revised. All existing types were examined, and many specimens from several large collections in different museums borrowed for study. A general confusion regarding Xyleus' species and their geographical distribution was found in the existing literature. Of the 25 specific names published between 1817 and 1935, only 13 were found to be valid, either as species or subspecies. Five new species and 1 new subspecies are described in this revision. The most reliable characters for the separation of species were found in the phallic complex. According to the materials studied, the genus has a discontinuous geographical distribution. A northern section includes Southeast Mexico, Central America, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela. A southern section includes most of Brasil, Paraguay, Uruguay, parts of Argentina, Bolivia and Per. Most species of the genus have been found north of parallel 4N or south of parallel 5S. While in the northern area only subspecies of Xyleus discoideus have been found, all known species of the genus are present in the southern one. Specimens of all species are figured, together with important characters for their identification. Maps of the known distribution of all species are given. 
10.2307/3503419| El desarrollo embrionario de la langosta mediterrnea o marroqu Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) que en condiciones naturales se prolonga por espacio de 9-10 meses, se complet en condiciones de laboratorio, por primera vez, en 3 y 3,5 meses cuando los embriones en diapausa, estado XIV, incubados a 20C y 25C se sometieron a 30 y 60 das de enfriamiento a 10C respectivamente. A la temperatura de 30C el estado de diapausa se alcanza con mucho retraso y adems, para continuar el desarrollo embrionario, la intensidad de la diapausa exige 90 dias de enfriamiento a 10C. /// The embryonic development of the mediterranean or maroccan locust, Dociostarus maroccanus (Thunberg), extends in natural conditions for 9-10 months. This development has now abreviated for the first time to 3 and 3,5 months at laboratory conditions when diapausing embryos at stage XIV and incubated at 20C and 25C, were chilled at 10C for 30 and 60 days respectively. At 30C the diapause stage is reached with delay and the eggs need 90 days of chilling at 10C to resume the embryonic development. /// Le dveloppement embryonnaire du criquet mditerranen ou marocain, Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg), qui dans des conditions naturelles s'tend sur 9-10 mois, s'accomplit au laboratoire, pour la premier fois, un 3 et 3,5 mois, lorsque les embryons en diapaus au stade XIV, incubs  20C et 25C sont soumis respectivement  30 et 60 jours de refroidissement  10C. A 30C la diapaus s'installe avec beaucoup de retard et, l'intensit de la diapause exige 90 joirs de refroidissement  10C. 
10.2307/3503609|A new species of Arachnoscelis is described from Costa Rica and compared with other members of the genus.
25822706|Scaphura nigra has a unique chromosome complement among approximately 100 species studied so far belonging to the subfamily Phaneropterinae. It is formed by 2n () = 26 and a FN = 29 and derived from the ancestral karyotype of the group 2n () = 31, FN = 31, by means of two centric fusions and one tandem fusion. The first between the X chromosome and a medium-sized autosome giving rise to a neo-XY sex chromosome mechanism of recent origin, and the second between two acrocentric ones, the bigger and a medium size, that gave rise to a large submetacentric element whose length is very uncommon in the subfamily. This process has created a bimodal karyotype that contrasts with the majority in this group, whose chromosomes usually can be arranged in a decreasing order of size. A third rearrangement incorporating the chromatin of a medium-sized autosome to the bigger one, explains the reduction observed in the number of chromosomes and the enlarged size of the submetacentric elements. These features demonstrate the effectiveness of chromosome number, their morphology and the change of the sex mechanism as useful tools for taxonomy.
23610405|In nature, Eastern Lubber Grasshoppers, Romalea microptera, tend to hatch in the morning, thus exhibiting a daily hatching rhythm. They also show high intra-pod hatching synchrony. We tested the hypotheses that both diel-hatching rhythmicity and intra-pod hatching synchrony are elicited by a daily temperature cycle. In the laboratory, we exposed egg pods to either a daily 15:26 C temperature cycle (12 h at each temperature) or a constant 26 C temperature regimen. Under the daily temperature cycle, hatching was strongly rhythmic, with peak hatching at 3 h after the beginning of the warm phase. Under the constant temperature, hatching rhythmicity was greatly reduced and eggs hatched throughout the 24-h period. There was little intra-pod hatching synchrony under either treatment. We propose that in nature both daily hatching rhythm and intra-pod hatching synchrony are controlled by a thermal threshold for hatching.
43738206|Two new species of the euryphymine genus Phymeurus are described, one from Moroto Mountain, eastern Uganda (morotoensis n.sp.), and the other from West Central Tanzania, near Lake Tanganyika (kisuluensis n.sp.). The genus now contains 20 species, the majority in southern Africa.
3503688| The predaceous katydid species Arachnoscelis meriti, n. sp. (Listroscelidinae) and Phlugiola arborea, n. sp. (Meconematinae) are described herein. Keys to species of both genera based on morphological differences are also provided. Both species were collected from rainforest canopies in northern Peru. Based on the numbers of additional new forms collected, sorted and identified during the course of this study, many species in addition to these are new to science, providing evidence of a very rich and diverse arboreal fauna in northern Peru. After reviewing literature on the tribe Phlugidini, Tenuiphlugis Kevan (with 4 species) is herein synonymized with the genus Lucienola Gurney /// Se describen las especies de grillos carnvoros Arachnoscelis meriti, n. sp. (Listroscelidinae) y Phlugiola arboreus, n. sp. (Meconematinae). Se incluyen claves de las especies de ambos gneros basadas en diferencias morfolgicas. Ambas especies fueron recolectadas del dosel de las selva la tropical en el norte Peruano. De acuerdo con los numeros de las nuevas formas recolectadas, clasificadas e identificadas en el transcurso de este estudio, existe fuerte evidencia de una fauna muy rica y diversa en la regin norte del Per. Despus de une revisin de la literatura en de la tribu Phlugidini, el gnero Tenuiphlugis Kevan (con 4 especies) pasa a ser sinnimo del gnero Lucienola Gurney. 
10.2307/3503583|A new species, Taiwanemobius formosanus Yang and Chang from Taiwan is described and illustrated. The character sets of coloration, external morphology, male genitalia and habitat are described in more detail. The external morphology and genitalia of the new species are compared with the holotype and the paratype of Apteronemobius darwini Otte and Alexander 1983. Additional descriptions of Apteronemobius darwini are also provided here.
3503673| We describe the development and appearance of Follicle Resorption Bodies (FRBs) and Oocyte Resorption Bodies (ORBs) in the grasshopper Romalea microptera (= guttata), and demonstrate that these structures can be used to determine the past ovipositional and environmental history of females. In R. microptera, one resorption body is deposited at the base of each ovariole following each gonotropic cycle. These structures are semi-permanent, and remain distinct for at least 8 wks and two additional ovipositions. Ovarioles that ovulate a mature, healthy oocyte, produce a cream-colored FRB. Ovarioles that resorb their oocyte, produce an orange-colored ORB. The number of FRBs equals the number of eggs laid, and the number of ORBs equals the number of oocytes resorbed. Healthy, well-fed R. microptera resorbed about a quarter of their developing oocytes. Starvation or other environmental or physiological stress increased the rate of oocyte resorption and thus increased the number of ORBs. By counting the number and type of resorption bodies in each ovariole, we determined the number of times a female laid, the number of oocytes resorbed, and the clutch size during each oviposition. These data were used to estimate the relative environmental stress experienced by laboratory females during each gonotropic cycle. Oocyte resorption occurred frequently in 1 oocytes, and rarely in 2 oocytes. In healthy, well-fed females, oocyte resorption was temporally staggered, and thus the number of resorbing oocytes increased toward the end of each gonotrophic cycle. Adult virgin females maintained at low density with no male contact, resorbed fewer oocytes than females maintained at higher densities with males, suggesting that high densities or continual male harassment stressed females. In comparison to locusts, R. microptera were relatively slow to initiate oocyte resorption following starvation, requiring > 12 d without food before massive resorption was detected. /// Nous dcrivons l'apparition et le dveloppement des follicules de rsorption ovocytaire (trace de ponte) (FRB) et des corps de rgression ovocytaire (ORB) chez le criquet Romalea microptera et nous dmontrons que ces structures peuvent tre utilises pour reconstituer l'historique du fonctionnement ovarien et pour valuer la qualit de l'environnement o les femelles avaient vcu. Chez Romalea microptera, il se forme  la base de chaque ovariole un corps de rsorption (folliculaire ou ovocytaire)  la fin de chaque cycle gonotrophique. Ces structures semi-permanentes sont discernables pendant au moins 8 semaines et aprs 3 pontes. Les ovarioles ayant ovul un ovocyte sain et mr, produisent une trace de ponte de couleur blanc crme (FRB) alors que les ovarioles ayant rsorb un ovocyte, produisent un corps de rgression de couleur jaune orang. Le nombre de traces de ponte est gal au nombre d'oeufs pondus et le nombre de corps de rgression au nombre d'ovocytes ayant rgress. Les R. microptera en bonne sant et nourris en abondance rsorbent environ le quart de leur ovocytes en croissance. La privation de nourriture ou le stress physiologique entrainent une augmentation du taux de rgression ovocytaire et par consquent du nombre de corps de rgression (ORB). Si l'on compte les traces de ponte et les corps de rgression dans chaque ovariole, on obtient le nombre de pontes, le nombre d'oeufs par ponte et dans une certaine mesure le niveau de stress caus par l'environnement durant chaque cycle gonotrophique. Les rgressions ovocytaires se produisent d'abord chez les ovocytes de rang 1, rarement chez les ovocytes de rang 2. Chez les femelles bien nourries et en bonne sant, les rgression ovocytaires sont temporairement retardes et le nombre d'ovocytes ayant rsorb augmente vers la fin de chaque cycle ovocytaire. Des femelles adultes vierges, leves sous faible densit, et sans contact avec des mles, rsorbent moins que celles leves sous forte densit et en prsence de mles. Ceci suggre que les fortes densits ou le harclement permanent des mles crent des situations de stress. Par rapport  des locustes, les R. microptera, lorqu'ils sont privs de nourriture, apparat comme une espce qui commence  rsorber les ovocytes relativement tardivement. 
4122936|Two new arboreal katydid species (Pseudophyllinae) were recently discovered from northern Peruvian rainforest canopies using pesticide-fogging methods. Although these two species are in different tribes, they share the distinction of being the smallest of the pseudophylline katydids. One species, belonging to the platyphylliine genus Brachyauchenus Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895, is known only from the male sex and differs from both described species of that genus by its more elongate pronotum, the mother-of-pearl markings on the pronotal disc, and differences in the shape of the male cercus and subgenital plate. The other new species belongs to the pleminiine genus Bufotettix Caudell 1918, but is easily distinguished from B. alpha Caudell by its unusually expanded pronotum and by genitalic characters. Both sexes of this species are described. The occurrence of these species in rainforest canopies suggests that many species of katydids may yet be discovered as this poorly known habitat is studied in more detail.
10.2307/3503471|This paper represents the only study of praying mantids of Pakistan since it became an independent country in 1978. The study focuses on seven additional species from Sindh Province, which are added to the previously confirmed number of five. The male of Iris splendida Uvarov is described for the first time. The following species are recorded for the first time from this area: Mantis religiosa L.; Parhierodula coarctata Saussure; Statilia ocellata Uvarov; Iris oratoria L.; Creobroter sp., and Hestiasula brunneriana Saussure.
3503721|The evolutionary relationships of the New Zealand representatives of the family Anostostomatidae were examined using DNA sequence data. All species of giant weta (Deinacrida), tree weta (Hemideina) and tusked weta (Anisoura, Motuweta) were included in the study plus 4 taxa from the large genus of New Zealand ground weta (Hemiandrus). Sequence data from 2 mitochondrial genes (COI and 12S) were analysed to obtain a hypothesis of the evolution of these species. The 3 New Zealand tusked weta species formed a monophyletic clade with respect to the ground weta and to the giant and tree weta clade. We found no support for the placement of Anisoura nicobarica Ander within Deinacridinae as has previously been suggested. The giant and tree weta (Deinacridinae) consistently formed a monophyletic clade with respect to the tusked and ground weta. However, we found little support in our data for the reciprocal monophyly of the tree and giant weta genera. The tree weta Hemideina broughi (Buller) appears to be more closely related to Deinacrida pluvialis Gibbs and D. talpa Gibbs than to any other Hemideina species. The deinacridine radiation of leaf-eating weta comprises at least 6 comparatively ancient lineages (Hemideina and Deinacrida). Habitat-specialisation in South Island appears to have evolved in response to habitat diversification associated with Pliocene mountain building.
3503666|The species of cricket Cicloptyloides americanus has males with 2n = 14 and females with 2n = 16 chromosomes. The autosomes are metacentrics and the sex determining mechanism is of the X
40344834|The Nicarchi (sensu Descamps 1976) are a group of flightless genera within the Vilernae, characterized by living on trunks of trees and by a series of mostly adaptive morphological features. They also have relatively wide thoracic sternal interspaces. It is shown here that this last is due to two processes: development of relatively wider thoraces and reduction in the size of the sternal lobes. The latter correlates with loss of flight and of the wings, as shown by a series of genera from within the Vilernae, and is associated with the atrophy and/or loss of the indirect flight musculature. A probable selective advantage of both processes is to increase the space available for the crop, the major organ of food storage and digestion.
20789566|Taxonomy is investigated and revised for some prophalangopsid insects, yielded by the Middle Jurassic Jiulongshan and Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous Yixian formations in China. Flexaboilus retinervius Li, Ren & Meng, 2007 and Furcaboilus excelsus Li, Ren & Meng, 2007 are considered as synonyms of Allaboilus gigantus Ren & Meng, 2006. Protaboilus lini Ren & Meng, 2006 is considered a synonym of Aboilus stratosus Li, Ren & Wang, 2007. Hebeihagla Hong, 1982b, Habrohagla Ren, Lu, Guo & Ji, 1995, Grammohagla Meng & Ren, 2006, Trachohagla Meng, Ren & Li, 2006 are considered as synonyms of Parahagla Sharov, 1968; Athehagla Meng & Ren, 2006 is considered a synonym of Ashanga Zherichin 1985. Genera Allaboilus, Circulaboilus Li, Ren & Wang, 2007 and Ashangopsis Lin, Huang & Nel, 2008 are revised. In addition, one new genus Scalpellaboilus gen. nov. and four new species: Scalpellaboilus angustus sp. nov., Circulaboilus priscus sp. nov., Allaboilus robustus sp. nov. and A. hani sp. nov. are described. Some wing venation variability in Prophalangopsidae is briefly discussed.
10.2307/3503631|A dark mutant of Schistocerca gregaria, which appeared in a laboratory colony, is described. In this mutant, the coloration of the nymphs is similar to that of the normal phenotype and only the adults become dark a few days after fledging. The mutant is named, therefore, as "dark-adult". Crossing experiments demonstrated that this mutation is controlled by a single recessive Mendelian unit. This "dark-adult" mutant seems to be different from a conspecific "melanic" mutant described in the literature: in the latter, the coloration of both the nymphs and the adults is dark.
3657110| Fourteen new species of the predaceous katydid genus Phlugis Stl, 1860 (Meconematinae), collected using pesticide-fogging methods, were recently described from northern Peruvian rainforest canopies. This paper reports the presence of 2 new species of Phlugis from rainforest canopies in Costa Rica. Although most of our representation of Phlugis species in museums consists primarily of easily collected understory species, the occurrence of a very diverse fauna in rainforest canopies, suggests that many species of this genus are yet to be discovered. /// Catorce especies nuevas de esperanzas del gnero predador Phlugis Stl, 1860 (Meconematinae) fueron descritas recientemente del canap de la selva pluvial al noreste de Peru, se colectarn utilizando una nube de pesticida. Este articlo reporta la presencia de dos especies nuevas de Phlugis en los canaps de la selva pluviosa en Costa Rica. Aunque la mayor parte de las especies de Phlugis representadas en nuestros museos consiste principalmente de especies colectadas fcilmente. La gran diversidad de la fauna en los canaps de la selva pluviales sugiere que faltan mucho mas especies de este gnero por ser descubiertas. 
10.2307/3503429|A new species of the genus Strinatia Chopard is described. The new species differs from S. brevipennis Chopard, the only other known species of the genus, in body color pattern, chromosome number and the structure of the male and female genitalia sclerites. Strinatia shows affinities with Eidmanacris-they both have low chromosome numbers, a reduction of the tegmina to small pads, and the absence of tibial tympanum. However, they differ in the size of the stylet, which is very short in Strinatia and elongated in Eidmanacris species, and in the shape of the distal ectophallic sclerites.
20066567|There are several factors that may affect sampling with pitfall traps. Here we test the hypothesis that the mere walking of the researcher proximate to the traps could cause an increment in the capture of crickets. This would occur if the walking provoked vibration in the litter, to which crickets showed a jumping response, thus falling into the pitfall traps. We mounted 126 traps in 14 groups of nine. The traps within a group were positioned in three parallel rows of three traps each, one meter apart from each other. Each group of nine traps was separated from the other groups by at least 5 m. Each group of nine traps was submitted to one of seven levels of disturbance frequency. Exposure time was 7 d for all traps. Treatments (disturbance frequencies) were allocated randomly among trap groups. For the data analyses we adjusted mixed-effects polynomial models. We captured 723 cricket individuals, distributed in 10 genera, most in the nymphal stage. As expected, the number of captured individuals, as well as the number of genera, increased with disturbance frequency. However this response was not linear: at higher disturbance frequencies there was a decrease in captures. There was also an effect of trap positioning within each group: central traps were more affected by disturbance than peripheral ones, while peripheral traps captured more individuals and genera in the absence of disturbance. Therefore we recommend areas near pitfall traps not be visited during the trapping period. Alternatively, to enhance sampling efficiency, the researcher may do programmed visiting to the trapping area, but this must be rigorously designed to provoke exactly the same disturbance for all traps. Enhancing the distance among traps will augment efficiency in capturing individuals and capture larger cricket diversity. Further studies of the interaction between methodology and cricket behavior will refine our ability to design and interpret pitfall studies.
10.2307/3503487|Wernerella rugosa Bland n. sp., a small oedipodine grasshopper from Fuerteventura and Lanzarote, Canary Islands, Spain, is described and compared to the eight known species of African Wernerella.
3503741|Seven new species of Homeomastax are described, two from Panama and five from Costa Rica; a further new species from Colombia is noted, but not described owing to the lack of a male. The genus now contains 22 species. On the basis of the male genitalia the genus can be divided into 4 species groups, represented by the species surda, bouvieri, kressi and silvicola respectively; those species known only from the female (dentata, richteri, annulipes, and the new Colombian form) cannot yet be arranged in this scheme. Apart from male phallic characters, the species are externally recognizable only by the male and female subgenital plates and by morphometric ratios, especially E/F (elytron: femur). Of the three species redescribed by Rehn & Rehn (1934), the originally missing male of surda Burr and the female of veraguae Hebard are shown to have been correctly assigned by those authors. Their redescription of H. dentata Saussure, however, is invalid, as the type is a different taxon. The phallic complex of the genus is described in detail, and observations on copulation and the nature of the spermatophore are presented. We suggest that the hooked and tapered end of the spermatophore may be used as an intromittent organ by the copulating male. The natural history and geographical distribution of the genus is reviewed; it occurs west and north of the Andean chains, though it extends up the major inter-Andean valleys of Northern Colombia, and ranges from Ecuador to Honduras. The four species groups are largely disjunct geographically. The bouvieri-group is South American, with an outlying species (brachyptera) in Central Panama; the surda-group is confined to the Pacific slope, the kressi-group to the Caribbean slope, and the silvicola-group is known only from the Caribbean slope and mountains of northern Costa Rica and southern Nicaragua.
4122951|The song of Metrioptera caprai baccettii Galvagni 1958, an endemic subspecies of the Monti Sibillini region of Central Italy, is here described. The calling song consists of long series of polysyllabic echemes and differs from conspecific subsp. in having the lowest echeme repetition rate. The main differences between the subspecies lie in morphological characters: male subgenital plate, female ovipositor, lowest number of stridulatory pegs.
4122940|This research sheds light on the phylogenetic position of the recently described Caribbean species Duartettix montanus. Morphologically most similar to the Melanoplinae, especially the North American genus Melanoplus, it was assigned to that subfamily. The Orthoptera Species File, curiously, assigns Duartettix to the South American tribe Dichroplini. The present molecular phylogenetic analysis of portions of four mitochondrial genes, however, strongly rejects that allocation and instead supports an association with the northern melanoplines. Within the context of an "Out-of-South America" hypothesis proposed earlier for the subfamily's origin, it is speculated that the antecedents of Duartettix arose from ancestors on their northward movement, traversing a series of island arcs that intermittently connected the two Americas during the late Cretaceous. Of possible taxonomic interest, phylogenetic information is also provided for a number of South American melanoplines, notably members of the tribe Jivarini, which have not been previously analyzed using molecular methods.
20066562|A revision of the genus Zoniopoda is made on the basis of the material of several museums and also on that collected by the author. The genus as known at present is a rather small one, with nine valid species described from 1831 to the present, and an additional species described here. Among the names in the literature for species of this genus, three are here considered to be junior synonyms. This generic name has also been used for three species now placed in other genera. Species in this genus are of medium size, and fairly similar in form. They are divided in this text into two groups: the species in one of them have very distinctive colors and color-patterns, while those in the other are all rather uniformly colored green, and can be told apart only by some rather slight differences. All known species of this genus live in the southern part of South America, east of the Andes. Among the romaleine genera, Zoniopoda seems most closely related to Chariacris Walker 1870 and Diponthus Stl 1860, from which, however, it can be readily separated by some evident characters. All the species of the genus are illustrated, both in habitus and in some taxonomically important details.
10.2307/3503536|Gryllacridid behavior and morphology is referred to an unusual Raspy Cricket from south-east Queensland is described in a new genus and species, Urogryllacris gwinganna gen. & sp. nov. The species is unique in the Gryllacrididae in having an extraordinarily developed male subgenital plate which terminates in an elongate whip-like structure. The new genus and species are described with emphasis given to the proventriculus, the male subgenital plate and the egg. A mating sequence is described with a discussion concerning the possible function of the peculiar subgenital plate.
10.2307/3503561|The southern African genus Rhachitopis Uvarov of the Euryphyminae is revised. Six species and two subspecies are recognized, one specific synonymy is established, one new species, and one subspecies are described. A key is given to the species, both for males and females. Types or paratypes of all species were examined. All species are illustrated.
10.2307/3503437|The genus Loboscelis Redtenbacher is reviewed, and a new species from Peru is described. The phylogenetic affinities of this unusual genus with other copiphorines is currently under investigation and information derived from the descriptions herein will be helpful in evaluating other copiphorines under study.
40344848|A new species of Parasphena is described from southwestern Tanzania, occurring in the montane zone of the third highest mountain, Mt Hanang. Morphological details are given for P. hanangensis n. sp. and for species on the northern branch of the Eastern Arc mountains, Mt Kilimanjaro and the Kenyan highlands, morphologically related to this new species. A coenological comparison is made between several high mountains of East Africa; patterns of present-day distribution  the result of climatic fluctuations of the past  are discussed. Information on distribution, habitat and altitudinal ranges are given for all species of the genus Parasphena.
25822713|Melanoplus packardii Scudder was described in 1897. Three additional closely-related species were later described and their status as species has been questioned on numerous occasions. We examined morphology from specimens collected in Nebraska which fit descriptions of three of the four forms and specimens that appeared to be hybrids. We found distinct morphological characters suggesting species status for M. foedus and M. packardii, but not for M. foedus fluviatilis. Examination of aedeagi of these three forms suggests that M. foedus and M. packardii are each distinct, but that the aedeagi of M. f. fluviatilis and M. f. foedus cannot be distinguished. Molecular analyses of the three groups did not produce clear separations and suggest gene exchange between these three forms may be ongoing. Together, these data suggest that M. foedus and M. packardii should be recognized as sibling species, but M. foedus fluviatilis is best considered a form of M. foedus, typically found in low lying areas.
25473450|Body size is of primary interest to biologists because of its often positive correlation with fitness, in particular fecundity. The size-fecundity relationship is well established both within and among species. However, little is known about how the size-fecundity relationship differs among populations of the same species or whether it differs in response to environmental conditions experienced by a single population. This study examines the size-fecundity relationship in the pallid-winged grasshopper (Trimerotropis pallidipennis: Acrididae, Oedipodinae) among seven populations that extend along an aridity gradient in the southwestern United States. Results showed a positive relationship between body size of field-caught females and precipitation along the gradient, but only among those populations that receive less than 12 cm rainfall a year. There was a positive relationship between body size and the number of mature oocyte in the ovaries and with the number of hatchlings. Potential fecundity, measured as the number of ovarioles, was not correlated with body size in any analysis. All analyses showed that populations differ in their size-fecundity relationships. This relationship was also examined in laboratory conditions that mimic years of high, versus low, food abundance. Results indicate that across the whole aridity gradient, the size-fecundity relationship is largely a function of available resources. The populations at the xeric end of the gradient however, change their reproductive strategy in years of low food abundance and invest more into reproduction per unit size than they do in years of high food abundance. Together, these results caution against assuming, a priori, a positive relationship between size and fecundity; results indicate this relationship depends on the measure of fecundity used, that populations can differ in this relationship and that this relationship can change with changes in environmental conditions. Last, when examined among individuals, body size explained less than 20% of the variation in fecundity, suggesting that body size is not the main determinant of reproductive success in this species.
10.2307/3503428|A new genus Paranurogryllus, closely related to Anurogryllus Saussure, and two new species, P. capricornio and P. boraceia, are described. Photographs of male and female of the species and illustrations of the phallic sclerites and photographs of the chromosomes are provided. The species diverge in body size, shape of the endophallic sclerites and karyotype.
3503734|Version 2 of the Orthoptera Species File Online is now available on the Internet. The database tables are designed to provide improved reliability of the data contained. Other improvements include availability of more ranks in the hierarchy, more flexibility in the user's selection of information to be displayed, new search options, better conformity with the International Rules of Zoological Nomenclature, and automation of many editing functions. Current data cover Ensifera; data for Caelifera will be added. Orthopterists are invited to participate by editing data for groups in which they are working.
25473445|Insects are predicted to prefer larger partners for a number of reasons relating to fitness. In species where males provide an expensive nuptial gift, male and female preferences for a larger partner are likely to be more pronounced. In nuptial-feeding insects however, models of sperm competition and female choice predict that males and females should also prefer virgin partners. Here we test the relative importance of size vs virginity in a Greek bushcricket, Poecilimon laevissimus, in which males offer typically large nuptial gifts during mating. While only a small number of replicates could be implemented, and there is a clear need for further analysis, we found that all males and females preferred to mate with virgins, despite the fact that nearly 90% of the virgins were smaller in size than the nonvirgins offered. In terms of mate choice, virginity therefore appears more important than body size in P. laevissimus.
10.2307/3503404|Grasshoppers of the genus Taramassus Giglio-Tos 1907 (Acrididae: Eyprepocnemidinae) are unusual in having several segments in the apical half of the antenna of the male expanded to form a fringe. Courtship behaviour patterns of Taramassus from three widely separated localities in Kenya were analysed as part of a study of the possible function of the antennal fringes and of the relationships among populations with differing fringe morphology. Grasshoppers from the three localities utilise the same set of behaviour patterns, including several types of antennal movement. However, analysis of behavioural sequences demonstrates marked differences in the structure of courtship. Significant assortative mating was observeq between two of the stocks.
23071987|Although most pest grasshopper species in North America overwinter as eggs and hatch in late spring or early summer, some species hatch in late summer, overwinter as nymphs, and become adults in late spring. It is not well understood how nymph-overwintering species impact densities of later-developing pest grasshopper species. In an earlier study examining temporally separated competition, nymphal survival of an egg-overwintering species Ageneotettix deorum, was reduced when high densities of adult nymph-overwintering grasshoppers strongly reduced grass biomass. However, in nature, early instar A. deorum nymphs overlap in time with declining densities of nymph-overwintering grasshoppers, and thus may experience direct competition from them. A field experiment was conducted to examine competitive effects from nymph-overwintering grasshoppers on the survival of A. deorum when phenologies overlapped. Precipitation and grass production during the experiment were well above the long term average. Although the maximum density of nymph-overwintering and egg-overwintering grasshoppers was 100 per m, interspecific exploitative competition was weak. This study suggests that in years with above-average precipitation, competition between nymph-overwintering adult grasshoppers and later-developing nymphal grasshoppers is likely to be weak, even when densities are high.
10.2307/3503560|Five new species of phalangopsid crickets belonging to three new genera are described from the Atlantic Forest Morphoclimatic Domain of eastern Brazil.
24367397|The semiaquatic grasshopper Cornops aquaticum Bruner, which is highly specific of Eichhornia crassipes (Pontederiaceae), constitutes one of the most abundant herbivores in the Neotropical wetlands and a possible biological control agent of this weed in South Africa. The aims of this study were 1) to assess the performance of each age category of C. aquaticum on crop plants and the host plant E. crassipes; 2) to assess the feeding preference of this grasshopper on crop plants in the presence and absence of E. crassipes; and 3) to determine the presence of nymphs and adults of this grasshopper on crops and in the adjacent wetlands where Eichhornia plants are present. Crop plants included in this study were Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Saccharum officinarum and Ilex paraguariensis. The age categories of C. aquaticum population were nymphs A (instar I and II), nymphs B (instar III to VI) and adults (females and males). To assess grasshopper performance on E. crassipes and crop plants, survival and oviposition were recorded during the no-choice tests. To evaluate feeding preference, choice tests with crop plants in the presence and absence of E. crassipes were performed. Abundance of C. aquaticum in the crop patches and the wetlands vegetation was assessed using an entomological net. During the no-choice tests, high survival of most C. aquaticum individuals was observed on Z. mays and E. crassipes, except for nymphs A fed on Z. mays. Ovipositions were registered in E. crassipes, Z. mays and S. officinarum, but only eggs laid in E. crassipes were endophytic and viable. C. aquaticum showed high preference to E. crassipes, whereas Z. mays and S. officinarum were the preferred plants in the choice test without E. crassipes. We did not find C. aquaticum individuals in the crop patches of Z. mays, O. sativa and S. officinarum, whereas abundance of this grasshopper varied between 28 and 62 individuals captured per minute on Eichhornia floating meadows near these cultivated areas. Our results confirm the high specificity of C. aquaticum to E. crassipes because eggs laid on crop plants are not viable and nymphs A have no possibilities of surviving when fed on these plants. Finally, we recommend carrying out choice tests and field samplings throughout the whole native range of C. aquaticum.
41759712|I analyzed chapter VIII of William Henry Hudson's "The Naturalist in La Plata", a popular book published in 1895. Herein the famous naturalist ornithologist and writer relates many observations made by him in his youth in a region of Buenos Aires, Argentina, accounts of a large number of natural phenomena especially pertaining to animal life. Chapter VIII is called "Mimicry and Warning Colours in Grasshoppers ". Although very interesting by virtue of Hudson's considerations of aposematism and Batesian mimicry in grasshoppers and katydids, this chapter contains essential errors of identification of the orthopteran species he discusses.
3503727|A better understanding of the relative effects that nymphal and adult resource availabilities have on reproductive allocation is needed, given the potentially important implications for the prediction of grasshopper population dynamics. I conducted a field experiment to examine the importance of nymphal and adult resource availabilities on reproductive allocation in the grasshopper Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius). Female nymphs were reared on either high or low nymphal resource availability, with watered and ambient-level adult resource treatments. Adult resource treatments were initiated below the carrying capacity, to allow an examination of food limitation effects on reproductive allocation, while minimizing strong density dependent effects. Although nymphs reared with ad libitum resources had higher adult body mass, nymphal resource availability did not affect reproductive allocation or adult survival. Female M. sanguinipes grasshoppers responded to the increased host plant availability in the watered treatment, by increasing reproduction allocation over the course of the experiment. M. sanguinipes females did not reduce vitellogenesis in response to decreased adult resource availability, but completed development of a lower percentage of ovarioles that initiated development. Although resource dynamics in semi-arid grasslands can change rapidly during grasshopper development, there were no direct effects of limited resource availability for developing nymphs that subsequently affected per capita reproduction of adults.
10.2307/3503439|This paper provides taxonomic description for 16 species of pseudophylline katydid. Analysis of the calling songs is given for all but one. Among 14 genera Mystron and Stetharasa are new. Eleven new species are described from four Provinces in Ecuador: Morona Santiago, Pichincha, Los Rios and Napo, and two southern Departamentos of Colombia: Valle del Cauca and Risaralda. The diverse species-specific calling songs of Pseudophyllinae are comprised of either transient or sinusoidal pulses. The carrier frequency song spectrum occurs in conjunction with these two pulse types, as either a band (transient pulse, low Q) or a single dominant narrow-peak carrier (sinusoidal, high Q). And stridulatory file morphology differs accordingly. Principal carriers in the songs of the species described here range from the audio to the low ultrasonic (20-30 kHz); overall among pseudophylline species whose songs are known (n = 65), a majority (75%) incorporate high Q pulses.
10.2307/3503433| Bryophyma debilis (Karsch, 1896), a rare West African grasshopper species, is described in some detail here, on the basis of material from Yagma, Ouagadougou region, Burkina Faso. Morphological and anatomical characters (including external and internal genital structures of both sexes, the egg pod and the chorionic structure of the egg) are given to describe the West African sub-species, whose taxonomic status has not yet been clearly established /// Bryophyma debilis (Karsch, 1896), un criquet rare d'Afrique de l'Ouest, est dcrit  partir de spcimens capturs  Yagma, dans la rgion de Ouagadougou au Burkina Faso. Diverses donnes morphologiques et anatomiques (gnitalias externes et internes, oothque, structure chorionique de l'oeuf), sont rassembles pour dcrire la sous-espce rencontre en Afrique de l'Ouest, dont l'identit taxonomique n'est pas encore clairement tablie. 
25822717|Insects of mesic and hydric habitats may be affected by increased frequency of summer droughts brought about by climate change, in addition to habitat degradation caused by scrub encroachment. The common green grasshopper Omocestus viridulus prefers moist grassland and is relatively rare in the County of Essex, perhaps being limited by low precipitation in southeastern England. The abundance and distribution of O. viridulus populations were compared for high- (Epping Forest) and low-precipitation areas using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software. Populations were aggregated in Epping Forest (population isolation: 1 km), a high precipitation area (ca 69 cm precipitation/yr), and present on both well and poorly drained soils where acid grassland/wet heathland occurred. Outside of the Forest, where precipitation was generally lower (ca 58 cm/yr), populations of this grasshopper were highly isolated (isolation: 4 km) and more often present on clay soils with high water retention in winter/early summer than on well-drained soils. However, there was no significant difference in the abundance of this grasshopper within Epping Forest or outside it, and there has likely been an overall decline of 50% since 1997 for this insect in Essex Co. The decline has partly occurred due to unmanaged scrub encroachment and loss of favorable open grassland/wet heathland habitat. Intensive grazing (particularly by large numbers of rabbits Oryctoloagus cuniculus), regular mowing, and trampling by walkers, led to the creation of short swards (< 10 cm in height) in midsummer, effectively extirpating this tall-grassland grasshopper from many of its former sites not threatened by natural succession to woodland. Unfortunately, the predicted decline in summer rainfall may lead to this grasshopper becoming scarce in southeastern England, outside of relatively high precipitation areas such as Epping Forest. Given concern about this grasshopper it may be important to prevent further drainage of ecologically valuable wetlands and to promote appropriate conservation management of the remaining sites (such as cattle grazing in Epping Forest). Large-scale wetland creation should allow populations of this declining grasshopper to exist in a changing climate.
3657136|A new species of Miracanthops Roy, 2004 from Tambopata, Peru is described: Miracanthops eseejja n. sp. The diagnosis of the genus Miracanthops is also completed, with the description of the male, which was previously unknown. Based on the characters of the male, Acanthops occidentalis Lombardo & Ippollito 2004 is transferred to Miracanthops as M. occidentalis (Lombardo & Ippollito 2004) n. comb.
25473426|A modified Petraborg index is proposed to correct an underestimation error in the original formula and its use illustrated in censusing singers of Oecanthus niveus in Mexico. The unmodified index departs widely from observed densities; the modified index does not.
10.2307/3503442|The mandibular adaptation of the sixteen species of grasshoppers, including four families, five subfamilies, and five main mandibular types and subtypes, in the grasslands of Inner Mongolia was investigated using scanning electron microscopy. The insects were collected from a wide variety of habitats, ranging from meadow steppe, steppe, semi-desert to desert. Although the grasshopper species we examined are different from those of Europe and North America, the evolution of taxonomic groups with specialized food habits is very comparable. The mandible structures of graminvorous and forbivorous forms of these grasshopper species entirely agree with their food-habits. However, the herbivorous mandibles are not distinctly associated with the food-habits of these grasshopper species. The depth of central concavity in molar surface is positively correlated well with the proportion of dicot plants in food utilization
25473442|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) can be the result of sexual selection (SS) or natural selection (NS). Due to male-male competition for access to females, SS could favor an increase in male body size. On the other hand, larger size in females could be favored by NS, since egg production is directly correlated with body size. Rensch's rule states that SSD increases with increasing body size in animals, where males are the larger sex, and decreases when females are larger than males. Thus, Rensch's rule predicts that in those insects where females are larger than males, SSD should decrease with increasing body size, when comparing populations and species. We analyzed SSD in 19 Argentine populations of the grasshoppers Dichroplus vittatus and 25 of D. pratensis. Both species show latitudinal and altitudinal variation in body size, following the converse to Bergmann's rule: body size decreases with increasing latitude and decreasing ambient temperature. SSD occurs in both species across their geographical distribution ranges, also involving differences in allometry and shorter developmental times in males. In D. vittatus, the degree of SSD increased significantly with general body size, whereas in D. pratensis SSD decreased as body size increased. A plausible explanation of SSD is that SS favors a differential increase in female body size related to a preference by males for more fecund females. Given the close phylogenetic relationship between both species, the differences in SSD between them may be the result of differential natural and sexual selective pressures. In D. vittatus both sexes could be reacting differently to environmental conditions regarding body size, while in D. pratensis protandry could be the main factor behind SSD.
10.2307/3503410|Densities of M. sanguinipes were estimated during spring and summer 1985 in two pastures (LI and HI) of crested wheatgrass. On each sampling date, adult females were collected and brought to the laboratory. Specimens were dissected to check for parasitoids and to determine the status of ovarian development. The parasitoids recorded were Diptera of the following species: Blaesoxipha reversa, B. hunteri, Sarcophaaa kellyi, S. opifora, Neorhynchocephalus sackenii, and Acridomyia canadensis. These parasitoids showed a complete temporal coincidence with adult M. sanguinipes populations. Observations suggest that when the female was parasitized at or before the beginning of vitellogenesis, the parasitoid probably prevented any egg development. Parasitism of females that had advanced egg development or eggs in the oviduct resulted in a high proportion of egg resorption (59%).
41759706|Green-colored hatchlings appeared in the 2nd generation of inbred family lines in Locusta migratoria L. Female adults collected in Tsukuba, Japan were kept individually and eggs collected from them. Locusts of the first generation from each female were reared in a group and eggs of the 2nd generation obtained from them. Green and normal-colored (fawn) hatchlings appeared together from the same egg pods, originating from 2 of the 34 family lines established. When they were reared together in the same cage, the green morph suffered from a high rate of mortality. A few green-morph female individuals attained the adult stage with light body coloration, but died without producing any eggs. Although no information is available about their genetic background, it seems likely these green morphs represent a recessive, semilethal trait that appeared after inbreeding of wild-caught female adults. Photographs of hatchlings, nymphs and adults are presented.
40344836|We studied the calling patterns of common true katydids (Pterophylla camellifolia) from sound recordings made during August through October 2007 in an oak-hickory forest in western Maryland. Nightly patterns of calling frequency were determined using 1-s samples spaced five min apart. The relationship between calling frequency (i.e., the number of twelve 1-second samples per hour in which singing occurred) and time of night, date, and weather variables, was modeled using logistic regression. Model predictability was high (73% of variance explained), with temperature and two rainfall-related variables having the most influence on calling frequency. This species of katydid exhibits a highly predictable degree of consistency in calling frequency, and consequently is well suited for use in ecological, distributional and status surveys.
10.2307/3503509| A new species Propedies microsanguineus (Melanoplinae) is here described from the "Chaquea" biogeographic province in northern Argentina. P. microsanguineus is considered to belong to the fusiformis species group described for the genus and is closely related to P. sanguineus (Bruner). 
3503662|A new species of Phlugidia (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae: Meconematinae) is described from the East Usambara Mts, Tanzania; a list is given of Saltatoria species occurring in the same habitat.
41759703|Topical application of a series of concentrations of lufenuron, a chitinsynthesis inhibitor, on the neck membrane of newly molted fifth-instar desert locusts, Schistocerca gregana, gave various ultrastructural changes in ovarioles, including a disintegrated follicular epithelial cell layer, vacuolated cytoplasm and the appearance of lysosomal bodies. In males, electron micrographs showed loosely disrupted testicular tissues with vacuolated testicularepithelia. In both sexes the neurosecretory cells in the pars intercerebralis exhibited trapped neurosecretion without normal liberation into their connecting nerves and the mitochondria appeared to be losing their cristae.
10.2307/3503467|Species of Phaneropterinae form sexual pairs as a result of males and/or females moving toward the sounds produced by the opposite sex. A heretofore undetermined pair-forming phonotaxic strategy is described in which conspecific males and females simultaneously move toward constant intensity sounds produced by the opposite sex. This contrasts to three previously described phonotaxic strategies, in which only the male or the female moves at a given time, and in which differences in sound intensity may elicit different responses.
20066574|Oedipodine grasshoppers occur throughout the major continents, making them the most widely distributed of the 30 subfamilies that comprise the Acrididae. Most species have been allocated to one of 15 tribes; some remain unassigned. The subfamily, according to Vickery, had an ancient origin, just after the breakup of Pangaea but before the separation of Laurasia from Africa. Thereafter, Oedipodinae continued to evolve in separate continental centers; some Nearctic species apparently descended more recently from Palearctic ancestors when land bridges still connected the two continents. Our objectives are to independently assess these biogeographic accounts, to examine the validity of several tribal constructs, and to shed light on problematic taxa such as Stethophyma and Machaerocera which have had, over the years, an ambivalent affiliation with Oedipodinae. To realize these goals, we sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed portions of four mitochondrial genes (coding for cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, cytochrome b, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit V), totaling up to 2254 bp, in specimens collected in the Americas, Eurasia, Africa and Australia. Methodology entailed applying weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian techniques. A member of the Pyrgomorphidae served as the outgroup. The ages of evolutionary divisions were estimated using the program "r8s"; the date of 100 Mya, previously estimated as the time of divergence between the subfamilies Oedipodinae and Gomphocerinae, was used to calibrate our chronogram. In general, taxa appear to assort themselves according to continental land mass, rather than by tribe. Aiolopini, Bryodemini, Oedipodini and Sphingonotini proved to be nonmonophyletic, whereas there was no evidence to reject monophyly in Acrotylini, Chortophagini, Locustini and Psinidini. Phylogenetically, both Machaerocera and Stethophyma were well-positioned within the Oedipodinae, with Machaerocera closely aligned with Chortophaga and Encoptolophus, and Stethophyma tightly linked to Aiolopus. Duroniella, presently regarded as an oedipodinid, emerged strongly connected to the Gomphocerinae. The current biogeographical distribution of Oedipodinae is the result of widespread intercontinental dispersion. In particular, with the assistance of DIVA analysis, we argue that Asiamerica was the center of initial oedipodinid radiation about 94 Mya. Through a series of early dispersals, the remaining clusters of taxa were established. Somewhat surprisingly, this includes the branch leading to the Australian genera Austroicetes and Chortoicetes. In contrast, the multiple dispersals to the African continent occurred more recently. It would appear that North American oedipodinids had both an ancient and a more recent ancestry. The single South American species analyzed evolved very recently from North American ancestors.
25473440|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is a common phenomenon in animal taxa. While males are the larger sex in many birds and mammals, female-biased SSD predominates among insects, including Orthoptera. We analyzed size differences of 1503 Orthoptera species, suggesting that SSD is rather uniform in Ensifera, with the females being on average 9% larger than the males (ranging from -20 to +40%). In contrast, SSD is usually much stronger in Caelifera (37%) and also more variable (ranging from -20 to +140%). Caelifera with larger females exhibit stronger size differences than smaller species, whereas in Ensifera SSD decreases with male body size, but is not related to female size. Sexual size differences in Orthoptera are usually associated with a higher number of nymphal instars in females, leading to an earlier emergence of adult males (protandry). Both growth rates and the number of instars seem to be affected by genetic and environmental cues. Two major hypotheses have been proposed to explain the ultimate causes for SSD: the intersexual competition hypothesis and the differential equilibrium hypothesis. The first suggests that sexual dimorphism is a mechanism to reduce intraspecific competition, enabling the sexes to specialize on different food items. The differential equilibrium hypothesis proposes that the different body sizes represent sex-specific fitness optima, which are caused by their specific life-history strategies. Females may maximize their reproductive success by increasing the number (or size) of eggs (fecundity selection), whereas males may maximize their reproduction by being more mobile and fertilizing many females in a short period of time. These fundamental differences in the life-history strategies of the sexes may also lead to sexual selection, which has sometimes been referred to as an additional hypothesis. There is still a need for more empirical research on the ultimate causes for SSD. At present, there is much more support for the differential equilibrium hypothesis, but the intersexual competition hypothesis has rarely been tested. We propose some experimental approaches to test both hypotheses in micro- and macroevolutionary contexts.
25473460|We investigated the relationship between body size (weight) and hearing sensitivity in response to a high-frequency, bat-like stimulus in a number of phaneropterine katydids on BCI, Panama. These phaneropterines are nocturnal flying species and thus potential prey of various insectivorous bats on the island. We tested the prediction that larger species compensate for the disadvantage - of producing stronger echoes for searching bats - by being more sensitive to bat calls, thereby increasing safety margins towards this predator. Contrary to this prediction, larger katydids were not more sensitive. This was corroborated in neurophysiological experiments in the nocturnal rainforest, where simultaneous recordings of the T-fibre activity in response to searching bats revealed no substantial difference between small and large katydids. We offer three explanations for the lack of correlation between body size and high-frequency sensitivity in these species.
10.2307/3503500|A preliminary observation on the effects of food plant on Eurycantha calcarata Lucas is given. Twenty plants were tested for the preference of food plants. Three of them were selected for the experiments on the insects biological development.
10.2307/3503565|Adjacent males of Amblycorypha parvipennis Stal alternate 4-5 s phrases. Phrases of different males overlap frequently and, where overlap occurs, phrase subunits are synchronized. Females "tick" in response to male phrases and males move to ticking females. In previous two-choice discrimination tests, in which males were free to move to ticking females, females preferentially mated with louder and heavier males and males that were more successful in initiating phrases without overlap. The current study involved two-choice discrimination tests in which females moved to sound-producing, caged males. We suggested that if females use the same parameters in determining phonotaxis, these parameters would be implicated in female mate choice. The results were that females moved to louder males, males that produced longer phrases, and males that overlapped their competitors' phrases for a shorter period of time then vice-versa. Since movement to louder males may indicate a mechanism by which females move toward larger (= louder) groups of males, we have provided no convincing evidence for female mate choice. The finding that females tick more in response to the male they eventually move toward uncovers another potential signal for the mating game.
25473437|We studied geographical body-size variation and sexual size dimorphism in three isolated populations of the bush-cricket Pholidoptera frivaldskyi in Central Europe (Slovakia). We measured six body traits in females and seven in males, from 93 individuals (46 males and 47 females): lengths of body, right hind femur, right hind tibia, pronotum, right cercus or ovipositor, length of wing (only in males) and body weight. Not all linear traits in both sexes were correlated with body weight. Generally, females were significantly bigger than males in all parameters. Although discriminant function analysis indicated some significant differences in male traits, there were no strong morphological difference among local populations. Morphological variability among the three populations was not higher than that within populations. This relative somatic uniformity should be verified on the level of genetic variability of the studied populations, since cryptic species diversity can be expected.
3503674|During early 1999 the second author made an extensive search for specimens of Timema in southern and central California. Two undescribed species were found, T. petita and T. landelsensis. New collections provided additional data on T. monikensis Vickery & Sandoval, T. boharti Tinkham, and T. knulli Strohecker. The latter is reinstated as a valid species. A third new species, T. morongensis, received from a another researcher, also is described.
10.2307/3503570|A study of coloration in Rhammatocerus schistocercoides (Rehn 1906) grasshoppers in natural conditions revealed substantial variability, with evidence of a new case of chromatic polymorphism. Green coloration is much more common in this species than previously assumed. The percentage of green adults, or those with a partially green integument, varied seasonally within the same generation according to the phenology and especially the sexual maturity of the population. The most important coloration change occurred in September, during the sexual maturation period, when the grasshoppers turned progressively from brown to green or partially green. The present study also highlights evidence of a geophagy phenomenon (consumption of large amounts of soil) that has never before been reported in locusts or grasshoppers. This yet unexplainable behaviour was particularly spectacular in terms of its scale.
10.2307/3503461|More than 370 species of katydids have been identified and many of them observed over extended periods of time at three collecting sites in Loreto Province, Peru (40-160 km NW Iquitos). Defensive adaptations against diurnally active predators are reported in detail in this paper. Strategies include (1) primary defenses or adaptations to avoid contact with predators, including camouflage (e.g., green and brown color generalism, and bark-, twig-, lichen-, and leaf mimicry), concealment within leaf parts or forest debris, and territoriality in the form of defending roosting sites against other competing katydids, and (2) secondary defenses or adaptations used when contact is made with predators, including colorful displays by distasteful species, various forms of aggressive counterattacks, aposematic wasp mimicry, and visual and/or acoustical alarm displays by otherwise cryptic species. These strategies are quantified for the first time for an entire tettigoniid fauna in a neotropical rainforest habitat. Of the 378 species, 71.4% exhibited color generalism (208 green, 46 brown, and 19 with both green and brown morphs), 13.8% showed a more refined level of camouflage (2 wasp mimics, 5 bark mimics, 13 twig mimics, 29 leaf mimics, 4 lichen mimics), 4.8% were hidden from view during the day by concealing themselves within vegetation, debris, etc., and 9.8% could not be categorized because of lack of sufficient data based either on observations or relationships with similar species that had been observed. Most species with generalized color patterns were phaneropterines; most species with more specialized primary defenses of mimicry and concealment were either phaneropterines or pseudophyllines; while those with specialized secondary defenses were mainly listroscelidines, agraeciines, and copiphorines. All species that conceal themselves in debris, vegetation, etc. were observed returning just prior to dawn to the same site for up to twenty-one consecutive days; some of them were observed to successfully defend their roosting sites against other katydids. Twig mimics alter their substrates-twigs-by chewing notches on the undersides of the twigs and nestling their bodies into the depressions. Though exposed to view, katydids of these species are well concealed. They too return daily to the same site over a period of several consecutive days.
10.2307/3503522|In the laboratory, female lubber grasshoppers, Romalea guttata (Houttuyn) (Orthoptera: Romaleidae), aggregate when ovipositing. We examined the stimuli that mediated site selection and group oviposition in a series of two-choice trials. Females preferentially oviposited in sand containing egg pods, suggesting that egg pods release attractive or arresting pheromones. Females also preferred to oviposit near tethered live conspecifics, paper decoys, sticks, and near images of grasshoppers taped to the walls of the test container. These results suggest that visual, and possibly chemical and tactile stimuli influence oviposition site preference in this grasshopper.
40344850|The genus Chromothericles is reviewed. Data on distribution, habitat and ecology are given for most species and four species new to science described. Along with a key to all species (excepting C. pulchripes Descamps, for which only the female is known), phenological data are provided for C. uguenoensis n. sp. and C. kanga Sjstedt. I discuss climatic fluctuations of the past as the driving force for patterns of allopatric speciation found in several flightless Saltatoria taxa in East Africa.
24367403|Concise characterization of allergy is presented and allergy to insects is discussed. Three kinds of allergy to locusts and grasshoppers are reviewed: 1) occupational allergy, i.e., allergy of personnel working with rearing and breeding these insects; 2) allergic reactions to acridid aggregations in the field; and 3) food allergy. Occupational allergy is the major subject, detailing the results of several relevant studies. Some inconsistent issues regarding reports on field allergy are illuminated and anaphylactic reaction to consumption of locusts/grasshoppers is discussed. Prevention and treatments of allergy to locusts and grasshoppers are described. Approximate molecular masses of locust allergens, as found in three studies, are summarized. A major allergen is the peritrophic membrane (today often termed peritrophic matrix or peritrophic envelope) which is secreted by the gut and excreted as a wrapping around the feces. It is concluded that the molecular stmcture of locust and grasshopper allergens should be revealed for full characterization.
3657114|The effects of different food plants (spinach, carrots, organic and nonorganic lettuce, defrosted frozen oak leaves) on the longevity, growth rate and survival of the Annam stick insect Medauroidea extradentata (Brunner von Wattenwyl) were studied. Among the food plants tested, organic lettuce and defrosted oak leaves were the best food alternative during winter time for maintaining live cultures of M. extradentata.
3657127|Acridid pests, locusts and grasshoppers, pose continuing threats to rural communities in developing countries, including sub-Saharan Africa, where human and material resources for controlling these insects are meager to none. The past 15 y have witnessed invasions, upsurges and/or plague of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, mixed at times with the migratory locust, Locusta migratoria migratorioides, and the Senegalese grasshopper, Oedaleus senegalensis-in outbreak and invasion areas in the Sahel, northwestern Africa, the Red Sea region, and southwest Asia. Strained by lack of resources to develop and implement integrated pest management strategies that embrace effective preventive control alternatives, affected countries often resort to spraying enormous quantities of synthetic chemical pesticides to control these pests. During the 2003-05 and 1993-94 upsurges, and the 1986-89 locust/grasshopper plague, close to 25 million liters of pesticides were sprayed, largely with the help of the international community. At current estimates, that may have meant upwards of US$500 million in control cost alone, not to mention associated environment and nontarget costs. This paper attempts an overview of the challenges, impacts, and implications of the current approach, its perceived and actual benefits to rural communities and the dilemma in donors' actions or inactions. It also tries to capture lessons learned and experiences gained from recent and past campaigns and to draw conclusions and offer recommendations for future directions.
25822723|Recent palaeo-oceanographic work (Ali & Huber 1910) shows that strong surface currents existed from the East Africa coast to Madagascar and beyond in the Palaeogene, making the rafting of masses of African vegetation possible during this period. Source Euschmidtiinae are common on the East African coast. The only African relative of the Miraculinae is the chorotypid genus Hemierianthus of West and Central Africa. This leads to the hypothesis that the Miraculinae are closer to the Chorotypidae than to the Episactidae, as suggested by Descamps (1973), which is testable by molecular systematic methods.
10.2307/3503524|Anurogryllus typhlops n. sp. is described from Isabela Island, Galapagos Archipelago, Ecuador. A second species, known only from a nymph, occurs on Santa Cruz Island. These are the only member of the subfamily known from Ecuador. They are blind subterranean species, and considered to be a relicts which descended from an earlier and now extinct epigean colonist.
23034221|Adeclus is a genus of Neotropical thorny katydids composed of two species: A. spiculatus (Stl, 1873) from Colombia and A. brevipennis Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895 from Mexico. A new species of this genus, A. trispinosus n. sp., is here described from the Colombian Andes and the species A. spiculatus is redescribed. Information on distribution data, biological notes, and a key to separate the three species is also provided. Adeclus es un gnero poco numeroso de pseudofilinos espinosos neotropicales, que consta de dos especies: A. spiculatus (Stl, 1873) de Colombia y A. brevipennis Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895 de Mxico. En el presente artculo se describe una nueva especie de este gnero, A. trispinosus n. sp., proveniente de los Andes colombianos y se redescribe la especie A. spiculatus. Adicionalmente se proporciona informacin sobre distribucin, notas biolgicas y una clave para separar las tres especies.
23610415|In this paper seven new species are described: Machimoides sofiae n. sp., from the Colombian Andes, Lichenodraculus holgeri n. sp., from the Guiana Shield and Venezuelan Amazon, Markia nicolasi n. sp., from Costa Rica, M. agudeloi n. sp., from Guyana (previously British Guiana) near the border with Suriname, M. bolivarensis n. sp., from the states of Bolvar and Amazonas in Venezuela (located on the Guiana Shield), M. guerreroi n. sp., and M. gaianii n. sp., from the Venezuelan Andes. A female of Apolinaria hygracantha (Karsch, 1896) is described and illustrated. Keys to species of all genera treated here are provided. The distribution of the genera Markia and Machimoides is discussed; for the latter genus discussion focuses on the current status of its species. Description of new species treated herein expands considerably the distribution range of the genera studied, also the generic diagnostic characters are enriched and reinforced. En este artculo se describen siete nuevas especies: Machimoides sofiae n. sp., de los Andes colombianos, Lichenodraculus holgeri n. sp., proveniente del Escudo Guyans y amazonia venezolana, Markia nicolasi n. sp., de Costa Rica, M. agudeloi n. sp., de la Guyana (antigua Guiana Britnica) en los lmites con Surinam, M. bolivarensis n. sp., de los estados de Bolvar y Amazonas en Venezuela (ubicados sobre el Escudo Guyans), M. guerreroi n. sp., y M. gaianii n. sp., de los Andes venezolanos. Tambin se describe e ilustra una hembra de la especie Apolinaria hygracantha (Karsch, 1896). Se proporcionan claves a especie de todos los gneros abordados. Aspectos sobre distribucin geogrfica de especies y grupos de los gneros Markia y Machimoides son discutidos; la discusin sobre el ltimo gnero se centra en el estatus actual de sus especies. La descripcin de las nuevas especies aqu tratadas, expande considerablemente el rango de distribucin para los gneros en estudio. De igual manera, los caracteres genricos de diagnstico son fortalecidos y enriquecidos.
3503723|Understanding the relationships between intraspecific diversity and habitat has been greatly enhanced with the advent of molecular markers. Such understanding may help to elucidate complex microevolutionary processes. Melanoplus alpinus, a montane/alpine grasshopper species found in the central and northern Rocky Mountains, has a disjunct distribution with highly divergent mtDNA lineages, structured among meadows and drainages within mountain ranges. Previous analyses showed that genetic differentiation is not distance driven, so habitat factors may account for genetic structuring and diversity within the species. In this study, 3 mtDNA lineages were analyzed for their association with ecological variables, and PCR-RFLP haplotype genetic diversities were analyzed for relationships with elevation, elevation-latitude index, and meadow size. Chi-square analysis revealed mtDNA lineage predominance in particular soil textures, indicating the potential of soil to function as a limiting environmental factor in the distribution of lineages within this species. Genotype-habitat associations did not extend beyond soil, however. No significant relationships existed between genetic diversity within meadows and elevation, elevation-latitude index, or meadow size.
25473446|During mating, male insects of certain species transfer a costly nuptial gift, a large spermatophore, which is eaten by the female as sperm transfer into her. The spermatophore components (the sperm-free spermatophylax and the sperm ampulla) vary greatly in size between species, and have a direct influence on male fitness. Studies of the relationship between spermatophore size variation and male fitness have concentrated on associations between evolutionary changes in spermatophylax size and either ampulla size or sperm number. Two main hypotheses have been put forward to explain the function of the spermatophylax: the ejaculate-protection hypothesis and the paternal investment hypothesis. A strong correlation between the spermatophylax and ampulla or sperm number suggests an ejaculate-protection function because it protects the ampulla from being removed prematurely. However, comparative support comes mainly from disparate bush-cricket species (Tettigoniidae), that vary greatly in relatedness and diet. Furthermore, data are often from animals reared under laboratory conditions. Our study describes the significance of size variation in bush-cricket nuptial gifts, with an analysis from field populations of 33 species within the genus Poecilimon. Poecilimon share similar diets and the variation in spermatophore size within the genus approximates family-wide variation, so confounding influences from diet and relatedness are, to a certain extent, controlled. Previous support for the ejaculate-protection hypothesis is almost universal, so we expected to find similar results. However, unlike previous studies, there was no relationship between body mass and each of the three spermatophore components when body mass was accounted for, or between spermatophylax mass and sperm number. We also found only a weak relationship between ampulla mass and sperm number, suggesting that caution is needed when using ampulla size to predict sperm number or sperm number to predict ejaculate size. In support of the ejaculate-protection hypothesis we found a positive relationship between spermatophylax size and ampulla mass. While our results support the ejaculate-protection hypothesis, they are not inconsistent with the paternal investment hypothesis.
10.2307/3503636|The single Megacrania species of Australia is described and compared with M. tsudai Shiraki, M. wegneri Willemse and the lectotype of M. batesii Kirby. We conclude that it is M. batesii.
10.2307/3503434|Hopper instars of Bryophyma debilis, an acridian species from Burkina Faso, are described here for the first time. Males have a five instarcycle and females six. Each instar is fully described on the basis of ten different morphologic and pigmentation characters, thus facilitating field reports on this poorly known West African grasshopper.
25473415|A revision of the genus Aleuas is made, and the genus is redefined. Four known species are redescribed on the basis of the examination of their types and of newly collected specimens. Four new species are described from materials collected by the author or found in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Museu Nacional of Rio de Janeiro. All species of the genus live in the southern part of S. America, east of the Andes. The genus Zygoclistron is closely related, and together with Aleuas, these genera constitute the tribe Aleuasini of the Acrididae Copiocerinae. The position of the Aleuasini within the Copiocerinae has been recently contested on the basis of certain anatomical and cytological evidence.
10.2307/3503539|In the majority of bushcrickets, copulation ends within minutes after the transfer of a spermatophore which consists of two parts: a sperm-containing ampulla and a spermatophylax which the female eats during sperm transfer. Recently, the function of the spermatophylax in bushcrickets has been the subject of considerable debate. Here, I describe prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer which appears to have partly replaced the spermatophylax in function in the bushcricket Uromenus rugosicollis (Ephippigerinae). I contrast this with the copulatory behavior of 15 other members of the Ephippigerinae. In U. rugosicollis, copulation following spermatophore transfer is long, lasting about 100 minutes, and the spermatophylax is small, representing about 7% of male body weight. This stands in contrast to the 15 other species of ephippigerine, in which copulation following spermatophore transfer is typically brief, lasting an average of about 5 minutes, and the spermatophylax is large, representing over 20% of male body weight. The association of prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer with the considerable reduction in spermatophylax size in U. rugosicollis suggests that the spermatophylax and prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer are analogous in function. This supports the hypothesis that the spermatophylax functions to prevent the female from eating the ampulla before complete sperm transfer, but does not rule out the possibility of the spermatophylax additionally functioning as a form of paternal investment in offspring
10.2307/3503440|Hatchlings of Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) (the lesser migratory grasshopper) were fed for five days on Triticum aestivum L. (wheat cv Katepwa), Avena sativaL. (oats cv Harmon) or one of the following perennial grasses; Andropogon gerardii Vitman (big bluestem), A. scoparius Michx. (little bluestem), Bouteloua gracilis (HBK) Lag. (blue grama), Bromus inermis Leyss. (smooth brome), Festuca ovina 'glauca' L. (sheep's fescue), or F. sulcata Hack. (sheep's fescue). Survival of the grasshoppers fed B. inermis and F. sulcata was comparable to those fed wheat (86%), whereas survival of the grasshoppers fed on the remaining grasses was lower than those fed oats (73%), ranging from 68% on F. ovina down to 27% on B. gracilis. The mean weights of surviving grasshoppers after the five-day feeding interval followed a similar trend, except that all the grass-fed grasshoppers were significantly lighter than those fed either wheat (13.7 mg) or oats (9.6 mg). The mean weights of these grass-fed grasshoppers ranged from 8.5 mg on those fed F. sulcata down to 6.3 mg on B. gracilis. In a spot test for tannins, only the two species of Andropogon tested positive. With the exception of A. scoparius, leaf homogenates from each species were assayed for their capacity to inhibit trypsin and chymotrypsin in grasshopper digestive fluid. Trypsin activity was reduced from 6.6% (F. sulcata) to 40.6% (B. inermis), and chymotrypsin activity was reduced from 13.5% (B. inermis) to 18.9% (Harmon oats), whereas A. gerardii, both species of Festuca and Katepwa wheat homogenates enhanced chymotrypsin activity. The results are discussed in the context of herbivore resistance through known defense mechanisms and their significance to grasshopper management strategies.
3503692|We propose a hypothesis of relationships in a subset of the mole cricket family (Gryllotalpidae), based on morphology and call type. Living and preserved specimens of six species were examined and a literature analysis conducted, as preliminary steps in a comparative study of this family, known world-wide in tropical and temperate regions. In the literature, 76 species in 5 extant genera are described; we included in our analysis 34 species from four genera for which the most complete morphological data were available. All analyses were rooted by the outgroup method, with Gryllus texensis Cade & Otte as the outgroup and the presence of mole-like digging forelimbs as the synapomorphic character diagnosing the ingroup. Seven other characters in the analysis were restricted to discrete traits for a total of 8 characters in the analysis. Phylogenetic analyses of the complete data set yielded >15,000 trees to which we applied various consensus analyses by PAUP without high levels of resolution. The Adams method, however, revealed a resolved group of 14 ingroup taxa from four genera, but mostly from the genus Gryllotalpa, that we subjected to re-analysis with PAUP. Two equally parsimonious trees were roughly organized into clades by call type. Our hypothesis supports previous work that has placed the genus Scapteriscus in a separate subfamily and other work that suggested the New Zealand endemic, Triamescaptor aotea Tindale, is more closely related to two Australian species of Gryllotalpa than to Gryllotalpa species as a whole. Additional field studies of songs of this family and addition of characters based on molecular data are important to resolving relationships suggested by our hypothesis.
10.2307/3503605|Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar & Bolivar 1942) is an important forest pest in north-eastern Mexico. The species exhibits green and pink morphs. Allopatric populations differ greatly in size, wing venation and colour. To gain insight into the status of different populations, we studied variation in acoustic signals and morphometric characters within and between three allopatric populations of P. beltrani. Some divergence in acoustic signals has occurred but a discriminant analysis of the signals failed to separate the populations completely. Despite the divergence in acoustic signals males and females from all populations still recognize each other as mates and readily mate if brought together. Divergence in morphology has ocurred more rapidly than in acoustic signals as the populations can be completely separated by a morphometric analysis. Indications of genetic incompatibilities between the populations were revealed by lower numbers of eggs laid, reduced percentage of egg hatch and distorted sex ratios of interpopulation crosses. From these results we suggest that P. beltrani is one species consisting of several subspecies which are in the process of developing into separate species
3657123|Very little research has been conducted into the impact of grassland management on insect populations of Culm grasslands located in northwest Devon, UK. This paper presents the effects of agricultural improvement and burning on Orthoptera populations of these wet, heathy pastures at Dunsdon National Nature Reserve. The results from this 2-year study should aid conservation management of this important UK habitat. Orthoptera populations and habitat variables of improved (drained and cropped from 1840-1875) and unimproved pastures, were monitored in 2002 and 2003. There was no significant difference in Orthoptera abundance between pasture cropped from 1840-1875 and unimproved grassland, suggesting that mobile grasshopper species such as the meadow grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus, recolonised the improved swards from surrounding pastures, after a lengthy period of arable cropping in the 1800s. Winter burning led to higher numbers of Orthoptera in the post-burn year, perhaps due to the reduced sward height and biomass on the burnt swards, making them more favorable for postdiapause development.
10.2307/3503602|An Israeli population of Locusta migratoria (L.) is described. It does not exhibit density related changes in morphometrics and in the abundance of small basiconica, antennal sensilla presumably involved in contact chemoreception. In these respects it differs from L. m. migratorioides (Reiche & Fairmaire) and could be described as "persistently solitariform". Solitariform characteristics are retained in the F
3503751|We studied the occurrence of glands in preserved specimens of Vanzoliniella spp., using a new comparative scanning electron microscopy technique. The method proposed here is an alternative to histological studies that cannot proceed due to the unavailability of well-preserved or recently collected specimens. It can also be used to study other subsurface structures. Some hypotheses to explain the function of the meso and metanotal glands in male crickets are presented.
10.2307/3503515|Management of locust populations requires an accurate understanding of the critical factors leading to population increase. The spur-throated locust, Austracris guttulosa (Walker), is common in tropical inland Queensland, with reproduction occurring during the summer wet season. The normal patchy rain in the inland means many areas do not receive rain during egg and/or early nymphal development, leading to substantial mortality. Outbreaks originate after several seasons when there is widespread rain early in locust development that ensures egg and nymphal survival. Outbreaks of the migratory locust Locusta migratoria (L.), follow rain during winter that provides soil moisture for the survival of overwintering eggs. These critical factors occurred in 1995 for both species, leading to the implementation of a preventative control program. Preventative control aimed to reduce population increase by controlling a significant proportion (half or more of the locust population) each generation. The most difficult part of control was actually finding the locusts because locust swarms cover only a small percentage of the area. An estimate of the area that needed to be sprayed was made to allow an earlier shift of resources from time-consuming search to control. With the spur-throated locust during 1996, the Queensland State government provided a 50% subsidy of insecticide costs for direct crop protection, and over 270,000 ha were sprayed by landholders to protect crops. Another 23,000 ha of very dense swarm were sprayed in the inland by the Queensland Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and the Australian Plague Locust Commission (APLC) to reduce further invasions of cropping areas. Few swarms survived the control and, in spite of good rains for survival during 1996-97, there was limited invasion of cropping areas and only 3,000 ha of crop were sprayed by landholders. With the migratory locust, there were 7 generations between the winter of 1995 and the winter of 1997, and during 4 of the last 5 generations, more than half of the locusts were controlled by landholders and the Queensland DNR. As a result, populations of the migratory locust did not increase and the population of this species is well below the plague levels that occurred after the same number of generations in the past.
3503696|Studies on the rarely reported Australian leaf insects reveal that Phyllium species from northern Queensland, P. frondosum Redtenbacher 1906 and P. siccifolium (L.), are misidentifications. Consequently, a new species Phyllium (Phyllium) monteithi is described and figured, including the egg. Nanophyllium pygmaeum Redtenbacher 1906 is confirmed as Australian, although it may be a different species, similar in appearance or related to Phyllium (Phyllium) frondosum Redtenbacher. Females are needed to clarify its position. A third Australian species is also reported, Chitoniscus lobiventris (Blanchard 1853), based on a single museum record from 1903. Keys are provided to distinguish Australian leaf insects.
3503687| Proscopiidae is an orthopteran family endemic to South America. Some species, such as Stiphra robusta, are considered sporadic pests in drought areas in the northeastern region of Brazil. This study establishes, for an undescribed Stiphra species, parameters for stadia and mortality that accompany its postembryonic development, as well as the sex ratio of females (no. female: total emerged adults) under laboratory conditions (67.4% mean relative humidity and 26.7C). The adult stages were attained by three different developmental regimes involving different numbers of instars: four (4.8% of the population, males only), five (64.5%, sex ratio 0.24) and six instars (30.7%, sex ratio 0.94). The species is univoltine with the following mean duration for postembryonic development: males 71.8 d to complete four instars, 83.8 d for five instars, 110.7 d for six instars; females 85.6 d for five instars and 103.1 d for six instars. Overall mortality from neonates to adults was 13.1%, highest in the first instar. 
20066570|Comparing closely related species from disparate habitats can uncover habitat-specific adaptations. We compared 32 environment and oviposition characteristics in two closely related grasshoppers from opposite environments: Romalea microptera from the Florida Everglades wetlands vs Taeniopoda eques from the Chihuahuan Desert. These closely related species can interbreed, but differ in oviposition characteristics. Desert T. eques deposited long, straight, deep pods containing more eggs, and tended to lay within vegetation where they were shaded and hidden from predators. They did not oviposit in the early morning, late afternoon or evening, and males did not mate-guard. In contrast, wetlands-inhabiting R. microptera laid smaller pods closer to the soil surface, and often laid exposed to full sunlight on elevated ground away from water and nearby vegetation, in the morning or even after dark, and were usually mate-guarded. Oviposition phenology also differed, with R. microptera ovipositing in the summer and T. eques in the fall, possibly as a consequence of life-history shifts driven by local seasonal rainfall patterns. Our results suggest rapid trait divergence in these sister species. These divergent behaviors appear to be adaptive, given the divergent (desert vs wetland) environments of these species.
10.2307/3503569|The cuticular hydrocarbons of four groups of grasshoppers were identified and quantified by capillary column gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) and GLC-mass spectrometry (GLC-MS), including samples of: 1) a modern species, M. sanguinipes (Fabricius), 2) a morphologically similar extinct species, M. spretus Walsh, 3) 650-year old fragments recovered from a receding glacier in southwestern Montana, and 4) 140-year old whole bodies from a glacier in northwestern Wyoming. Quantitative data from 20 n-alkanes and methyl- and dimethyl-branched alkanes were compared using discriminant analysis, which showed differences in cuticular hydrocarbon patterns between the putative species M. sanguinipes and M. spretus. The resulting discriminant model classified the glacially preserved whole bodies as M. spretus, but the identity of the fragments remains ambiguous
23034222|The genus Dysonia White, 1862 (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) is revised in the present paper. Large morphological differences between species that currently make up the genus, justify separation into three new genera: Lichenomorphus n. gen., Lichenodentix n. gen., and Valna, the latter is removed from synonymy and separated into two subgenera. Taxonomic keys for the Dysonia complex and species lists, relocating all species in this new classification, are herein provided. In addition two new species are described: Dysonia holgeri n. sp., and Lichenomorphus montealegrezi n. sp., as well as a true female of Dysonia alipes (Westwood, 1844). Locusta sellata Stoll, 1787 and Dysonia ephippium (Stoll, 1813) are considered as nomina oblita of Lichenomorphus fuscifrons n. comb. & nomen protectum. En el presente artculo se revis el gnero Dysonia White, 1862 (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae). Las grandes diferencias morfolgicas entre las especies que actualmente integran el gnero, son suficientes para separarlo en tres gneros ms: Lichenomorphus n. gen., Lichenodentix n. gen., y Valna; ste ltimo es revivido y dividido en dos subgneros. Se proporcionan claves taxonmicas para el complejo Dysonia y listados, reubicando las especies en esta nueva clasificacin. Adicionalmente se describen dos nuevas especies: Dysonia holgeri n. sp., y Lichenomorphus montealegrezi n. sp., as como la hembra verdadera de Dysonia alipes (Westwood, 1844). Locusta sellata Stoll, 1787 y Dysonia ephippium (Stoll, 1813) son consideradas como nomina oblita bajo Lichenomorphus fuscifrons n. comb. & nomen protectum.
3503669| The reproductive system and sexual maturation in Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) were studied by dissecting males and females. The number of ovarioles per ovary ranged between 31 and 36: the closer a female is to the gregarious phase, as indicated by the ratio between the length of tegmen and the hind femur, the larger the number of ovarioles. Changes in the length of terminal oocyte and of body weight are associated with maturation of females, as revealed by the high correlation between these two parameters until the first oviposition in both field-collected and laboratory-reared females. Using these criteria, field samples of females were classified into nine categories, which correspond to the first three gonadotrophic cycles. Among field-collected D. maroccanus females, the number of corpora lutea per ovariole provides a good estimate of the number of egg pods laid per female. None of the field-collected females showed more than 2 corpora lutea. The male genitalia are composed of a pair of testes, enclosed within a common sheath, with about 60 follicles, 15 pairs of accessory glands and one pair of seminal vesicles. Spermatogenic activity within the testicular follicles was studied by histological analysis. Spermatogonia divide mitotically throughout nymphal and adult life. Meiosis is first observed in the third instar and spermiogenesis begins late in the fifth instar, being finished at adult emergence, at which time fully formed spermatozoa are observed. The number of sperm ultimately produced by a cyst was 64. Increasing body weight of males is proposed as a "marker" of sexual maturation since the presence of sperm in the seminal vesicle was not detected in any (>120) dissected males before they reached their basic weight, 7-10 days after emergence. This work provides simple criteria for assessing the maturation of D. maroccanus females and males and the realised reproductive potential of the species under field conditions. /// El sistema reproductor y la maduracin sexual de Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) han sido estudiados mediante la diseccin secuencial de machos y hembras. En la hembra, el nmero total de ovariolos oscila entre 31 y 36, es mayor a medida que aumenta el grado de gregarizacin determinado mediante el cociente entre la longitud del litro y el femur posterior. La maduracin de las hembras est asociada a cambios en la longitud del oocito terminal y en el peso corporal, revelada por la gran correlacin existente entre estos dos parmetros hasta la primera oviposicin tanto en hembras de campo como de laboratorio. De acuerdo con estos criterios, las muestras de hembras de campo fueron clasificadas en nueve categoras, que corresponden con los tres primeros ciclos gonadotrpicos. En las hembras de campo, el nmero de corpora lutea por ovariolo proporciona una buena estimacin del nmero de ootecas que pone cada hembra. Ninguna de las hembras recogidas en campo mostr ms de 2 corpora lutea. La genitalia del macho est compuesta por un par de testculos, encerrados en una membrana comn, con un nmero total de 60 folculos testiculares, 15 pares de glndulas accesorias y un par de vesculas seminales. La actividad espermatognica en los folculos testiculares fue estudiada mediante histologa. Las espermatogonias se dividen mitticamente a lo largo de todos los estadios ninfales y el estado adulto, la meiosis I se observa por primera vez en el tercer estadio y la espermiognesis, que comienza al final del quinto estadio ninfal, est terminada al emerger el adulto, momento en el que se observan espermatozoides completamente formados. El nmero de espermatozoides producidos en cada cisto fue de 64. Se propone el incremento del peso del macho como un marcador de maduracin sexual puesto que la presencia de semen en la vescula seminal no se detect en ninguno de los ms de 120 machos diseccionados antes de que se alcanzara el peso bsico, 7-10 das despus de la emergencia. Este trabajo proporciona criterios sencillos para evaluar la maduracin sexual de hembras y machos de D. maroccanus as como su potencial reproductor en condiciones de campo. 
10.2307/3503465|The adult female leaf-mimicking katydid Typophyllum bolivari Vignon is described for the first time, based on specimens collected or reared from northeastern Peru. Descriptions of all nymphal instars are also presented, representing the first time all stages of development of a leaf-mimicking katydid have been documented. The differences in diurnal resting postures exhibited by immature individuals compared with those of adults are correlated with morphological differences. Abdominal lobes, wing pads, and other ornamentation on the nymphs combine with protective coloration to convey an appearance of twigs, forest debris, or leaf fragments that have accumulated on vegetation, resulting in effective camouflage for immature forms of this species. For adults, the presence of fully developed tegmina presents a leaflike appearance that, when combined with its diurnal resting posture, effectively camouflages the insect in this stage of its development. Photographs of all life stages are presented.
3503682|Two new species of the genus Amytta (Meconematinae) are described from the submontane and montane forest of Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (East Africa). Notes on habitat demands of the species and the occurrence of syntopic Saltatoria are given.
23034223|This paper proposes new synonyms and combinations for species of Bolidorhynchus, Cephalocoema, Orienscopia, Pseudastroma and Scleratoscopia; phallic complexes, seminal receptacles and distributions are illustrated. Most of the synonymized species were originally described by Dr. Salvador de Toledo Piza Jr., whose types were found in the collection of the Museu da Escola Superior de Agricultura "Luiz de Queiroz", Piracicaba, So Paulo, Brasil. Tetanorhynchus insignis Hebard, 1931 is transferred to Bolidorhynchus; T. montanus Piza, 1977 and T. fornicator Piza, 1981 are synonymized under Cephalocoema dubia (Mello-Leito, 1939), and the lectotype of T. fornicator is designated; T. rostratus Piza, 1977, T. proximus Piza, 1981 and T. spitzi Piza, 1981 are synonymized under Cephalocoema sica (Serville, 1839); T. guairai Piza, 1981 is synonymized under Cephalocoema simillima (Piza, 1943); T. uruguaiensis Piza, 1977 is synonymized under Orienscopia angustirostris (Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1890); Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1890 is transferred to Pseudastroma and Cephalocoema leonardosi Mello-Leito, 1939 is synonymized under it; T. taeniatus Piza, 1981 is synonymized under Pseudastroma perducta (Mello-Leito, 1939) and Tetanorhynchus silvai Rehn, 1957 is transferred back to Scleratoscopia and T. mamanguapensis Piza, 1981 is synonymized under it.
41759713|A new genus and two new species of phalangopsid crickets are described from the High Andean forest surrounding Bogot city, Colombia. Lecticusta n. gen. is placed in the C ensemble, considering its internal genitalia characters, such as development of ectophallic apodemes and presence of epiphallic projections (Desutter 1990). Se describe e ilustra un nuevo gnero y dos nuevas especies de grillos falangpsido, provenientes de los bosques alto-andinos prximos a la ciudad de Bogot, Colombia. Lecticusta n.gen., fue ubicado en el ensamble C por los caracteres de su genitalia interna, tales como desarrollo de apodemas ectoflicos y presencia de proyecciones epiflicas (Desutter 1990).
41759705|Short-winged adults appeared in the 2nd generation of inbred colonies of migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria, originating from Tsushima Island, Japan. Of 14 family lines, two produced several short-winged adults in the 2nd generation. These short-winged adults also had shorter hind femora than long-winged adults, indicating they may represent 'the short-winged morph' rather than monsters with abnormally short wings. The two wing morphs could be separated by the ratio of forewing length to head width. Crosses between the two wing morphs revealed that the short-winged morph was controlled by a simple recessive Mendelian unit. It is unknown whether the short-winged morph occurs in the field.
3657118| Lobeatta schneideri gen. and sp. nov., Anegertus cubitalis Handlirsch 1911, and Nectoptilus mazonus gen. and sp. nov., from the deposit of Mazon Creek (IL, USA; Upper Carboniferous), are described. They are shown to be close relatives of the genera Eoblatta Handlirsch 1906 and Ctenoptilus Lameere 1917. The latter genera, from French deposits nearly contemporaneous with Mazon Creek (Commentry, Montceau-les-Mines), have been previously assigned to Archaeorthoptera Bthoux and Nel 2000. Additional evidence of archaeorthopterid affinities of the Mazon Creek species is provided. Ongoing reviews of North American and European Upper Carboniferous insect faunas might reveal more similarities than expected in their respective composition, although at a suprageneric taxonomic level. 
10.2307/3503638|The degree of mandible abrasion was investigated in three species of adult short-horned grasshoppers reared on grass leaves and cabbage. Age estimation was possible from SEM photographs of right mandibles of female and male Chorthippus parallelus from eight age groups (0-7 weeks). More precisely, in this grass-fed species the incisor length/width ratio declined linearly with age. In two other species, Locusta migratoria and Pezotettix giornae, the length of the second incisor did not change markedly with age. We conclude that mandible wear is a useful measure for adult age in grass-feeding Gomphocerinae in the field.
10.2307/3503516|Spermathecal secretion of the female Atractomorpha lata Motschulsky consists of variable prominent protein fractions ranging from 31 to 75 kD in 0 day-old females and from 30 to 140 kD in day 10 to 50 fernales. The number of prominent fractions in mated fernales at 20, 40, and 50 day-old were more than those of the unmated females of the same age. The protein patterns, appreciable number bands in once- and twice-mated females are similar. The staining intensity and the distribution of fractions were not affected by differences of sex ratio during maintenance and repeated matings. The present study suggests the flushing out of sperm from the spermatheca of female A. lata before the male copulates
3503704| Mauritiophasma n. gen. (Phasmatidae: Acanthomimini), which includes the sole species M. motalai n. sp., is described; Mauritiophasma is close to the genus Anophelepis Westwood 1859, which is transferred to the tribe Acanthomimini. Another genus, Monoiognosis n. gen. (Anareolatae, incertae sedis), is described; it includes 2 species: M. bipunctata n. sp. (type species) and M. spinosa n. species. Epicharmus guerinii (Phasmatidae: Xeroderinae) is synonymised with E. marchali. All these taxa are endemic to Mauritius at the generic level. They all feature eggs glued to a support by an operculum, a character new for Phasmatodea, believed to be the result of convergent evolution. /// Mauritiophasma n. gen. (Phasmatidae, Acanthomimini), qui comprend l'unique espce M. motalai n. sp., est dcrit; Mauritiophasma est proche du genre Anophelepis Westwood 1859, lequel est transfr dans la tribu Acanthomimini.. Un autre genre, Monoiognosis n. gen. (Anareolatae, incertae sedis) est dcrit; il comprend 2 espces: M. bipunctata n. sp. (espce type) et M. spinosa n. sp. Epicharmus guerinii est mis en synonymie avec E. marchali. Ces taxons sont endmiques de Maurice au niveau gnrique. Ils prsentent tous des ufs colls  un support par l'operculum, caractristique nouvelle pour les Phasmatodea, considre comme le rsultat d'une volution convergente. 
25822707|This contribution briefly reviews the importance of grasshopper chromosomes in evolutionary studies and in achieving a comprehensive view of cytogenetics, emphasizing that meiotic chromosomes have been the traditional means for analyzing the nature of such problems. Structural changes occurring in the sperm, as a direct consequence of some chromosomal changes, have received less attention. We propose that grasshopper sperm could be a good model for the study of: 1) aspects of genome territoriality, and 2) consequences in the sperm DNA molecule, derived from a compromised meiotic process, linked with naturally forced genome hybridization. The results presented here, by using appropriate DNA probes for genome regionalization, allow the proposal of a grasshopper sperm chromosome organization. Centromere regions are distributed and concentrated at the proximal end of the sperm head where the flagellum is inserted. Also, chromosome arms are longitudinally organized from the proximal to the distal end, where the telomere of the longest autosome is the most distant genome region from the flagellum insertion. Subsequently, and because the length of the chromosome arms is different among non-homologous chromosomes, the telomeres are distributed along the length of the sperm head. Sperm DNA quality was analyzed using the sperm chromatin-dispersion test, demonstrating that in sperm nuclei of early spermatids containing fragmented DNA, there exist large haloes of dispersed chromatin, while those nuclei remaining compact, contain an intact DNA molecule. Interestingly, and as a main difference with respect to other analyzed species, the DNA loops remain attached to a central proteic core. The aforementioned observation is clearly visible in partially elongated spermatozoa and the DNA loops forming the halo expand from this central region. This aspect of sperm chromatin organization found in grasshoppers is a new contribution to orthopterology. Further, it provides a unique insight and allows questioning the possible existence of this kind of chromatin organization in other noninsect species, where reproduction is based on gamete production.
23610404|The second known specimen of the genus Oshwea Ramme 1929 was captured in Southern Uganda; it appears to be the unknown male of O. dubiosa, previously recorded only from West-Central Congo. At present it seems best to retain it in the subfamily Catantopinae, though it differs from other members of that taxon in several anatomical features.
10.2307/3503563|The present paper refers to the acridoids that have been heretofore included in the genera Agriacris, Camposia and Elaeochlora. The latter two generic names are junior synonyms of Agriacris, which thus becomes the only genus available for the whole assemblage. The presence of two well defined groups of species within these insects is here recognized by the erection of the new genus Staleochlora for one of them. Agriacris s. str. comprises nine valid species, one of them with three subspecies, two of them here described as new. Thirteen additional specific names are here treated as junior synonyms, and other two considered to be nomina dubia. Staleochlora includes nine species, one of them with two subspecies and other with three; two species and three subspecies are here described as new. All species are redescribed and illustrated. A table and a figure are given for the separation of the genera, and also keys for the separation of species in both of them. Geographical distribution is indicated in the treatment of each species and in three maps. Species distribution is also related to biogeographic provinces of the Neotropical Region, as defined by Cabrera and Willink (1973). Out of 83 papers containing references to the insects studied, 42 have been selected as the most important and are included in the reference list at the end.
3503670|Phasmotaenia lanyuhensis sp. nov. is described from four female and three male specimens collected in Lanyuh Island (south-east Taiwan). This species is characterized from others in the genus by its shorter hind wings, and shorter length of operculum. A key to females of the genus is provided; males have not previously been recorded. Adults and eggs are described and figured.
20066575|A study was made of Orthoptera assemblages of crossfield and headland (field-edge) public footpaths in the Chelmsford area of Essex, UK, in 2006. Orthoptera populations were monitored using a standardised transect counting procedure in both footpath types to determine whether headland footpaths provided benefits to Orthoptera on intensively managed farmland. Species richness of Orthoptera was significantly higher on headland footpaths (6 species) than on crossfield rights of way (3 species), suggesting that footpaths along the edges of fields may provide refuges in arable farmland. It seems that the absence of regular ploughing on the headland footpaths may be beneficial to mesophilous grasshopper species, the crossfield footpaths constituting too much of an ephemeral habitat (due to annual ploughing and cropping) to support the full range of species. Abundance of all Orthoptera and of individual species was not significantly higher on headland footpaths, although replicates on the sheltered and sunny eastern side of hedgerows had relatively high densities.
10.2307/3503411|Five species in the genus Hadrolecocatantops Jago are redefined and three described as new: ohabuikei, royi and uvinza. Five species in the genus Vitticatantops Sjostedt are redefined and two species described as new: botswana and moxico. A new species is described in the genus Catantops Schaum (C. kasengo). bringing the number of described species in that genus to fifteen. Species are defined on male characters since females are very similar within a genus. Keys are given to adult males.
43738196|The sparse descriptions of the stick insect (Phasmatodea) digestive system as reported/provided in the literature are highly contradictory. This paper describes the digestive systems of several families of Phasmatodea (Timematidae, Heteropterygidae, Diapheromeridae, Pseudophasmatidae, and Phasmatidae) plus the gut microbiome of these and one other (Phylliidae) to both verify past findings and provide a general description of the Phasmatodea alimentary canal. The constrictions imposed by this anatomy on phasmid gut microbiology, its connections to recently released Phasmatodea transcriptomes, and how it differs from the anatomy of related orders in the Polyneoptera are discussed. All Phasmatodea have ridged proventriculi lined or covered with small spines. Anterior projections of the midgut, sometimes described as gastric caeca, are only found in Euphasmatodea and often obscure the proventriculus. We define the cardia as the complex of foregut and midgut tissue where the type II peritrophic matrix is produced. Appendices of the midgut are an autapomorphy for Phasmatodea, but Timema have fewer and larger appendices relative to body size. We suggest caeca-like projections and the loss of large, proventricular teeth are apomorphies of Euphasmatodea. We identify a possible facultative symbiosis in Eucalyptus-feeding species that requires further study.
25822705|All four species of the genus Dichromatos now cytologically analyzed, including D. montanus and D. corupa (Cigliano 2007), studied in the present paper, are 2n = 21()/22() (FN = 23/24) with a XXY  / XXXX  sex-determination mechanism. The possibility that this mechanism arose from a single ancestral species from which a rapid process of speciation and dispersion took place is discussed.
3503657|Lactista eustatia n. sp. is described from St. Eustatius, West Indies. This is the first record of the genus in the West Indies.
3503747|Studies on the genus Extatosoma Gray 1833 have revealed that there are two valid Australasian species represented by Extatosoma tiararum tiaratum, Extatosoma tiaratum bufonium stat. n., Extatosoma popa popa, and Extatosoma popa carlbergi stat. n. A lectotype has been designated for Extatosoma bufonium. The male of Extatosoma popa popa is described for the first time. Adults (including differently shaped female specimens) and eggs of the two Extatosoma species are figured for comparison. Variation within species is discussed, which includes size, color, degree of spination, shape of legs and expansions on abdominal segments. A literature review and summary of distribution records are provided.
10.2307/3503607|Owls are known to locate their prey acoustically. Therefore it could be expected that in the diet of Scops owls which feed intensively on bushcrickets, a higher portion of males, which signal acoustically, than females might be found. When the sex ratio of animals brought to the nest was examined, however, the frequency of males and females was the same for large bushcrickets (Tettigonia viridissima), whereas in the small species significantly more females than males were observed. The results are discussed in respect to the limited hearing sensitivity of owls in the ultrasonic range and the increased mobility of female bushcrickets because of phonotactic mate localization and oviposition when compared to males.
25473436|We analyzed geographical variation in body size in males and females of nine Greek populations of the bushcricket Poecilimon thessalicus Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1891. We found significant geographic variability in P. thessalicus, with all three morphometric body-size characters (hind femur, front tibia, and pronotum) highly correlated within populations. Populations differed in mean size between three mountain ranges, and were larger on moist eastern, than on dry western slopes. We suggest that the observed smaller size of the bushcrickets on western slopes is mainly the consequence of a shorter growing season due to summer drying on western slopes. Sex-specific growth rates might contribute to the observed smaller body size in males in all populations. Rensch's rule that sexual size dimorphism (SSD) decreases as body size increases is supported, with males growing relatively larger compared to females in populations with larger body sizes. This pattern might be sexually selected, as males that produce larger nuptial gifts are favored as mates in Poecilimon bushcrickets.
10.2307/3503430| Heavy outbreaks of migratory locusts were observed in southwestern Chad and northern Cameroon from September to November 1997. For many years, similar outbreaks were a recurrent phenomenon in this region, with the last one occurring in 1989. An analysis of rainfall distributions from 1986 to 1997, according to the ecological requirements of this locust, demonstrated that the observed outbreaks were strongly linked with the extent and distribution of rainfall during 1988, 1989, 1996, and early 1997. A simple index, calculated on the basis of rainfall data, was correlated with outbreak years /// Des pullulations importantes de Criquets migrateurs ont t observes dans le sud-ouest du Tchad et le nord du Cameroun de septembre  novembre 1997. Des pullulations analogues surviennent de manire rcurrente depuis de nombreuses annes; les prcdentes remontent  1989. L'analyse de la rpartition spatio-temporelle des pluies de 1986  1997, et la connaissance des conditions cologiques optimales pour cet acridien ont permis de montrer que l'intensit et la distribution spatiale des pluies de 1988, 1989, 1996 et 1997 taient trs vraisemblablement responsables des pullulations observes. Un indice simple, calcul  partir des donnes pluviomtriques, est corrl avec les annes de pullulation. 
10.2307/3503630|The phasmid Lamponius nebulosus is described and information is provided about host plants, defensive behavior, and distribution.
41759692|Newly discovered species of Central American bactrophorine grasshoppers in the genera Rhicnoderma Gerstaecker, Lempira Rehn (n. stat.) (from El Salvador) and Pararhicnoderma n. genus (from Costa Rica) reported and/or described. The genus Rhicnoderma is reviewed, and keys provided to the described species of all three genera.
10.2307/3503604|Two new genera of nemobiine crickets, Amanayara and Monopteropsis are, respectively, described from the forests of eastern Brazil and the mountains from Magdalena, Colombia. We also describe two new species belonging to each genus
3657126|Plague locusts are a major problem in many developing countries. For the desert locust, control by a preventive strategy proved effective, and led to a dramatic decrease in outbreak frequency and duration over the last 40 y. Principal problems are now of an organizational nature. Natural-risk management plans for locust outbreaks, associated with new financial mechanisms, must be implemented in order to ensure early reaction, efficiency of control and sustainability of the preventive approach. Studies of these outbreaks should be based on the ecological mechanisms considered to date, but also be broadened to include economic, social, organizational and cultural mechanisms that have been largely overlooked in the past. New concepts, such as risk-management systems, stakeholder strategies, and governance, should be given serious consideration. A new approach to locust issues is suggested, using techniques derived from sociological and anthropological sciences.
4122943|The gomphocerine grasshoppers, comprising over 1000 species, occur on all continents excepting Australia and Madagascar. This work provides an independent examination of previous accounts of their taxonomic relationships and intercontinental connections, focusing on selected North American and Eurasian taxa. Our study is based on portions of four mitochondrial genes (coding for cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit V) which were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed using weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods. Maximum resolution was achieved using weighted parsimony (counting transversions at third codon positions only) and Bayesian methods, and treating all four sequences, totalling 1892 bp, as a unit. The subfamily is provisionally accepted as monophyletic. The tribe Chrysochraontini is monophyletic, whereas the monophyletic status of Aulocarini and Dociostaurini is unclear. Tribes, Arcypterini, Chorthippini and Gomphocerini, are not monophyletic and require further scrutiny. Regarding biogeographic origins of the subfamily, our molecular data generally support Vickery's assertion that there were multiple periods of dispersal, most likely from Eurasia to North America. Assigning the range 50 to 70 Mya to the time of gomphocerine divergence, we provide estimates of the times of these biogeographic events.
10.2307/3503466|A study was conducted to examine the spatiotemporal characteristics of two regional outbreaks of rangeland grasshoppers in Montana during the periods 1959-1966 and 1984-1992, and to evaluate the temporal relationship of grasshopper abundance to both vegetation types and geomorphological regions. Results showed that grasshopper outbreaks, in Montana, can be characterized as follows: 1). Outbreaks are aperiodic and short-lived. 2). Over the long-term, the extent of the areas exhibiting high densities fluctuates to the extremes. 3). Areas of high densities are present every year, although they may be geographically restricted. 4). Areas of high densities can remain stable, decline, expand, or collapse from one generation to the next. 5). High densities can arise or fall simultaneously over wide areas. 6). Densities generally vary inversely with distance away from the edge of high density areas. 7). New regional outbreaks do not appear to be the result of grasshopper influx from active infestation areas, although migration may occur. 8). If areas exhibiting high densities expand, the extension of the boundaries or the appearance of separate new high density areas beyond those boundaries does not follow any specific pattern. 9). Although no chronically high density areas could be detected, some vegetation types appeared to be more inclined to high densities. 10). The Western Sedimentary Plains was identified as the most affected region during outbreak years (1965 and 1986-1987). 11). Outbreaks appeared not to be self-perpetuating. In terms of the prevailing hypotheses concerning insect outbreaks, the geographical behavior of high density areas prevented their being classified as either gradient or eruptive; they appeared to exhibit behaviors of both. Our results suggest that there is a need for an extension of the existing paradigm concerning insect outbreaks.
10.2307/3503431|Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall) is a multivoltine and widely distributed grasshopper species in India. Its breeding capability, growth rate and survivability is very high and it can be easily reared in small cages under normal laboratory conditions. Laboratory studies revealed that 84 females of Oxya fuscovittata are capable of producing an estimated gross biomass of 1 kg in 29-35 days
20789564|A new genus and species of cricket belonging to the Hapithinae: Neomorphini (Podoscirtidae) is described from the forests of the Iguau National Park, State of Parana, Brazil. The new genus is thoroughly compared with Neomorpha Desutter, 1987, the only other member of the Neomorphini described so far.
10.2307/3503459| For the past 10-15 years Brazil has undergone wide-ranging outbreaks of locusts and grasshoppers. Rhammatocerus schistocercoides (in the State of Mato Grosso/western central region, 1984-88/1991-92), Schistocerca pallens and Stiphra robusta (in Pernambuco, Paraba, Piau, and Rio Grande do Norte/northeastern region, 1984-86/1991-92); Rhammatocerus conspersus, R. pictus, and Staurorhectus longicornis (in Rio Grande do Sul/southern region, 1989-1992) are some of the species that have become major pests. At present there are locust/grasshopper outbreaks in at least five Brazilian States, including Mato Grosso, Paraba, Rio Grande do Norte, and Pernambuco. Although climatic conditions play an important role in locust outbreaks, the major factors that have originated this problem in Brazil are related to changes in land management, deforestation, introduction of new crops, and to some extent the lack of monitoring and vigilance once the outbreaks are suppressed. As a result of the implementation of locust/grasshopper control campaigns in Mato Grosso (1984-1988) and Rio Grande do Sul (1991-92), it has become evident that the locust/grasshopper problem in Brazil needs a different approach. To deal properly with the situation the Government needs to establish an integrated locust/grasshopper control program, but little is known about alternative control methods, and in some cases even the ecology of the species is poorly understood. Preliminary studies on biological control and ecology of several species involved are being carried out at present in Brazil in order to undertake a long term project to establish an integrated locust/grasshopper control program. This paper outlines the present situation of the locust and grasshopper problem in Brazil. It provides up-to-date information on the most recent outbreaks and analyses those factors that may have caused an increase in locust/grasshopper populations in several states. The limitations and implications of current control campaigns are discussed, and the need to establish an integrated control program is stressed 
25622289|A list of the Caelifera (Tetrigoidea, Eumastacoidea, and Acridoidea) of Mt Kilimanjaro is presented. A total number of 139 Caelifera was recorded for this mountain, of which 8 species belonged to Tetrigidae, 5 to Eumastacoidea and 126 to Acridoidea. Of the 126 Acridoidea, 2 species belonged to the family Pamphagidae, 14 to the family Pyrgomorphidae, and 3 to the family Lentulidae. The family Acrididae is comprised of 107 species; only one species was recorded for the subfamilies Spathosterninae, Oxyinae, and Euryphyminae, two species within Tropidopolinae, 4 species within Coptacridinae, 5 species each within Hemiacridinae and Calliptaminae, and 7 species each in Eyprepocnemidinae and Cyrtacanthacridinae. The majority of species were found within the four subfamilies Gomphocerinae and Catantopinae (each 14 species), Acridinae (21 species), and Oedipodinae (25 species). Mt Kilimanjaro harbors about 25% of the Acridomorpha species recorded for Tanzania. Together with Mt Meru, with which Kilimanjaro is connected by a ridge at submontane level, 9.4% of the Caelifera are endemics.
23034224|Female grasshoppers can affect the fitness of their offspring through their selection of oviposition sites. Successful embryological development depends on suitable temperature and moisture levels, factors which may vary greatly on a fine scale in natural environments where grasshoppers occur. Knowledge of parameters defining acceptable oviposition sites can provide guidelines for habitat manipulations that reduce the availability of such sites. This paper compares oviposition-site selection in two species of grasshopper from Alaska, Melanoplus borealis and M. sanguinipes, and a population of M. sanguinipes from Idaho. Laboratory experiments did not detect any differences in preferred substrate temperature among the groups of grasshoppers. In field cages containing a choice of different ground covers (bare ground, single clump of grass or turf), M. sanguinipes from Idaho were less selective in terms of the distribution of egg pods among the different cover types, whereas both M. borealis and M. sanguinipes from Alaska deposited the fewest egg pods under the turf. Results suggest that differences in oviposition behavior between the grasshoppers from Idaho and those from Alaska may stem more from differences in the above-ground physical structure of the vegetation, than from differences in responses to below-ground temperature.
10.2307/3503468|After the relative roles played by males and females in pair formation were determined in the field, the mating preferences of females were examined in more detail in the laboratory. Males of the oedipodine grasshopper, Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer), spent 48% of their time perched on vegetation that offered an unobstructed view of areas where social interactions took place, "patches" with less than 20% cover. Male-male interactions were of short duration. Both males silently raised and then lowered hindlegs, (femur tipped or flicked) before separating. The first male to enter a patch was usually the first male to leave, and males produced sound while flying (crepitation) to new patches. Thus, a male signaled his arrival in an area with crepitation. The frequency of crepitation flights was more influenced by social than climatic factors. Receptive females also crepitated while flying. Local clusters of crepitating males resulted when numbers of males followed moving females, as females crepitated, flew silently, or walked from patch to patch. Males were unresponsive to crepitation by other males in the absence of female activity and if the view of the flyer was unobstructed. Females played an active role in initiating, and the dominant role in maintaining, pair formation in interactions terminating in copulation. Females would femur tip or flick, sometimes "waving" or moving the legs so that the stripes on the inside of the femur opposite the male were most conspicuous. Males responded by attempting to mount. Young females in the laboratory mated, after interacting with two to five males sequentially, with the next male who was heavier than the first male allowed to mount. Mated males did not differ from unmated males in size (such as femur or body length) or behavior (such as activity level or the number of interactions initiated). Females believed to be carrying eggs were less choosy, and often mated with the first male encountered. Females struggled less if mounted by heavy males. Also more heavy males than light males transferred complete spermatophores. In the laboratory, but not in the field, males approached copulating pairs and tried to displace the mating male. Heavy males were more successful. Females may have incited some displacements and when females re-mated, they did so with heavy mates. Thus, females exhibited active mate choice before, during, and after mating. In nature, receptive females were uncommon, relative to the number of males searching for mates. Males in the field avoided interacting with other males, instead devoting most of their time and energy into maximizing the probability of contacting females.
20789568|Non-pollinating florivores (animals feeding on floral resources) represent severe antagonists that have negative impacts on the plants' reproduction. Plants would thus benefit by excluding them from their flowers. In this study, we tested whether floral scent compounds that are attractive to many pollinators, also have the potential to prevent facultatively flower-feeding herbivores from consuming flowers. For feeding trials, we chose the bush cricket Metrioptera bicolor, a species that mainly consumes grasses, but also feeds occasionally on flowers. Linalool and -caryophyllene (mono- and sesquiterpenoid, respectively) turned out to be effective antifeedants, while other floral scent compounds had no effect. Furthermore, bush crickets completely rejected flowers of Convolvulus arvensis (Convolvulaceae) and Melilotus alba (Fabaceae), while preferring flowers of Echium vulgare (Boraginaceae) over leaves. In addition to feeding experiments, excrement of bush crickets and other orthopterans were searched for pollen. Most individual bush crickets had pollen in their faeces, largely from Poaceae and Gymnosperms, suggesting accidental ingestion of wind-dispersed pollen, rather than targeted consumption of floral pollen. Our results support the hypothesis of a dual role of floral scents in attraction and defence.
10.2307/3503640|The correlation between grasshopper densities and environmental conditions has long been recognized. However, the relationship is not well understood and may involve very complex interactions. The objective of this study was to determine the environmental factors which are most closely linked with changes in grasshopper densities. Multiple regression and stepwise discriminant analysis (DA) were used to identify the soil and weather variables which best distinguished among changes in Colorado grasshopper densities from 1995 to 1996. Grasshopper density in 1995 was the most important variable in DA, followed by mean precipitation for April, 1993, and mean temperature in October, 1993. Our results indicate that soil characteristics are not as important to changes in density as are population level and stochastic weather events. In addition, our findings confirm the importance of time lags in the effects of weather conditions on population changes and highlight the need to incorporate weather events from previous seasons into predictive population models.
20066564|In order to test the hypothesis that parents influence offspring body size, crosses between male and female Schistocerca americana of various sizes were made in the laboratory. Measurements of the offsprings' body characteristics were made after every instar. No correlation was found between the mother's characteristics and that of her offspring; however, paternal size was positively correlated with adult offspring body size. Other studies have shown that variation in the size of both males and females significantly affects reproductive success. Thus, the current study is significant in that a father can influence his offsprings' adult size.
10.2307/3503527|The genus Nodutus Liana 1972 is redefined on the basis of Liana's original description and additional characters given by Jago (1989). The species Proscopia spinosa Klug 1820 (Corynorhynchus spinosus in Brunner von Wattenwyl 1890) is transfered to Nodutus. A new species, Nodutus rowelli, is described. The importance of the structure of the spermathecae for the diagnosis of genera and species in the Proscopiidae is emphasized.
10.2307/3503549|Eight species of Gryllus (Orthoptera: Grylloidea: Gryllidae) have been discovered on the Galapagos Islands. G. galapageius Scudder is known from two islands-Santa Cruz and Santa Fe. Seven species are new: G. abingdoni n. sp. and G. pinta n. sp. from Pinta, G. genovesa n. sp. from Genovesa, G. marchena n. sp. from Marchena, G. isabela n. sp. from Isabela and Fernandina, G. abditus n. sp. widespread in the islands, and G. darwini n. sp. from Darwin.
3503744| Since October 2000, the commercial product Green Guard, based on the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum produced by SGB Pty. Ltd. Wodonga, Victoria, has been used by the Australian Plague Locust Commission for operational control of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetes terminifera. The production, formulation, storage, efficacy and non-target effects are reviewed. Between October 2000 and January 2001 over 23,000 ha were treated at doses of 12-25 g/ha in 500 ml of oil. Under most temperate or hot conditions, control of over 90% of Australian plague locusts was obtained by day 14 post spraying, but under less favorable conditions control could take up to 21 d. The factors which make Green Guard attractive for locust control in Australia include low cost, the absence of environmental effects, especially on aquatic organisms, and its suitability for use in organic beef production areas and where the use of chemical pesticides is undesirable. Large-scale field trials against migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria, have shown that doses of 50-75 g/ha are effective. Spurthroated locusts, Austracris guttulosa, are very susceptible in the laboratory, but field trials have proved difficult to assess because of the high mobility of the adults and the absence of hopper bands at the nymphal stage. Results with the wingless grasshopper, Phaulacridium vittatum, have been variable, with the control being difficult to achieve during cool weather. Laboratory studies on Beauveria bassiana have shown that isolates of this fungus, derived from field-infected grasshoppers, are very virulent and will kill better under cool conditions. 
43738194|Phaneropterinae is the largest subfamily within the bush-crickets/katydids (Tettigonioidea), with about 2451 species, and with a world-wide distribution. Its acoustic communication differs from all other tettigonioid groups in that females primarily and typically respond to the male calling song with their own acoustic reply, a behaviour referred to as duetting. This type of response seems to have been lost only in a few species with wingless females. According to our literature review, information about the song patterns of about 330 species of Phaneropterinae have been published world-wide. Included in this number are ca 170 species of Barbitistini, a flightless West Palearctic tribe, which are treated separately. In the present study we summarize information from the above 330 species. We examine the morphology of stridulatory and hearing organs, and analyze the acoustic signals for frequency, number of syllables and number of interval types. We also have examined if and how responding by sound may have influenced other aspects of the acoustic communication system, especially the structure of the male calling song. Overall, the songs of male Phaneropterinae are similar to those of other tettigonioids. However, some Phaneropterinae species with very long and complex songs are found on all continents, exceeding in these characters nearly all other Ensifera species. These songs contain several different types of syllables and intervals of various duration. Because of this high interspecific variability (reaching from very simple to extremely complex), male phaneropterine songs are by far more variable than those of other tettigonioid families. However, since there are so few data on the behaviour of most Phaneropterinae species, and especially for females, we still are limited in our understanding of the reasons behind the song variability. Sexual selection by females choosing to respond preferentially to certain song types could be an important evolutionary force, but probably only in combination with some unknown ecological and behavioural factors.
23610406|One new species, Ocellarnaca conica sp. nov., one new combination, O. angulata (Gorochov, 2004) comb. nov., and one new recorded species, O. braueri (Griffini, 1911) of the genus Ocellarnaca from China are reported. Photographs of known species, a key to the species and a distribution map are provided. The material is deposited in the Museum of Heibei University.
25473443|Sinipta dalmani is an Argentine grasshopper whose chromosome polymorphisms have been widely studied through cytogenetic and fitness-component analyses. This paper reviews the available information on its body-size variations as they relate to differences between sexes, karyotype and mating success, and shows a preliminary analysis of a pattern of geographic variation. A significant body-size sexual dimorphism was evident, with females being significantly larger than males. Polymorphic populations for M pericentric inversion showed considerable variation in both adult male and adult female sizes, a variation in part related to this chromosomal rearrangement, which has a negative effect on body size. Simultaneous cytogenetic, morphometric and fitness analyses showed direct evidence of phenotypic directional selection within populations favoring larger males and smaller females. The patterns of body-size differentiation among populations in relation to geographic conditions suggest local adaptation. Our results in S. dalmani demonstrate significant variation in body size within polymorphic populations and among geographical populations, which may be expalined under a selective scenario.
23034225|The genus Poecilimon, with more than 150 species, is the largest genus of the family Phaneropteridae. According to DNA data (Ullrich et al. 2010) the most basal branch of the genus is formed by the P. hamatus group (Hamatopoecilimon n. subgen.). The coloration and a male calling song composed of series of short syllables, which follow each other at a relatively high frequency (9 - 26 Hz at 25C), are important characteristics of this group. For all species of the subgenus, male calling songs, stridulatory movements (except for one species), and diagnostic genital morphology are described and figured. The females respond acoustically to the male song with a delay of about 30 ms. In four of six species the males have been observed to use two types of calling song, obviously connected to the female response behavior. The reasons for this behavior are discussed, as well as the phylogeny of the group, considering also its biogeography.
10.2307/3503520|The ephippigerine bushcricket Steropleurus stali produces an extremely large spermatophore of up to 40% of the male pre-mating body weight. It has been hypothesised that the spermatophylax (the non sperm-containing edible 'nuptial gift') of tettigoniids functions primarily either as a paternal investment or to prevent the female from removing the sperm ampulla before the completion of sperm transfer. The influence of the large spermatophylax of S. stali on measures of female fitness (longevity) and egg fitness (size, mass, number produced per female) was examined. No influence was found, providing no support for the paternal investment hypothesis. The potential function of the large spermatophore in sperm protection/ competition is discussed.
10.2307/3503639|A list and notes on species and subspecies of Orthoptera collected in western Turkey are given. One new genus, Bolua gen.n. and four new species, Poecilimon ataturki sp. n., Poecilimon kocaki sp. n., Bolua turkiyae sp. n. and Stenobothrus (Crotalacris) selmae sp. n. are described.
10.2307/3503537| This study is based on a study of Mantodea in the collection of the Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen (ZMUC) containing 39 species. Tarachodes (Tarachodes) rhodesicus n. sp., Prohierodua enghoffii n. sp., and Tarachodes (Tarachodes) oxyonotus tenuis n. ssp. are new to science. Females of Sphodromantis lagrecai Lombardo and Sphodromantis citernii kenyana La Greca-Lombardo, and the male of Chlidonoptera werneri (Giglio-Tos) were found in the collection and described. Furthermore, other interesting species such as Antistia maculipennis Stl, were studied. This species is here from Eremiaphilinae to Amelinae. 
10.2307/3503625|Dajaca napolovi sp. nov. is described and illustrated. The species is based on two pairs collected from north Vietnam in 1998, which differ from existing taxa by distinctive coloration. A key is given to distinguish the Dajaca species.
3657102|Delimitation of species and identification of specimens to the species level continue to be difficult problems for practising entomologists, particularly those in tropical countries who often have no access to the holotype specimens or original literature of their local fauna. As a first step to the development of accurate Web-based species identification keys for Indian gryllids, we have examined the utility of morphological and song characters in correctly delineating species boundaries among 4 sympatric species of tree crickets of the Genus Oecanthus. Using a numerical taxonomic approach, phenetic clusters and ordinations were constructed on the basis of morphological and song characters. Quantitative and qualitative morphological characters were analysed independently and the results compared. The efficacy of the clustering and ordination techniques in species delimitation was examined by both internal and external allocation of individual specimens. Both the delimitation of species and the allocation of new specimens were 95 to 100% accurate using song or qualitative morphological characters. Quantitative morphological characters could also accurately delimit species, provided a large number of characters were used, irrespective of the specific characters chosen. For quantitative morphological characters, ordination was found to be more accurate than cluster analysis, both for delimiting species and in the allocation of new specimens.
24367401|This paper examines the relationships between male body size, spermatophore size, and number of sperm per spermatophore, in four cricket species: Teleogryllus commodus, Acheta domesticus, Gryllus bimaculatus, and Gryllus assimilis. Within each species, individuals varied considerably in all three characters measured, and generally, spermatophore size, number of sperm, and body size were all correlated: i.e., ampulla diameter and sperm number per spermatophore significantly increased with body mass (p < 0.001 ) according to a linear regression function. Interspecific investigations found considerable differences between species: G. assimilis had the largest mean male body mass and length, largest ampullas, and highest numbers of spermatozoa per spermatophore, whilst A. domesticus had a small body mass and length, the smallest ampullas, and lowest sperm numbers. Regression analyses of all four cricket species revealed similar results as intraspecific regression computations. Hence, both intra- and interspecifically, larger males produce larger spermatophores containing more sperm, than do smaller males. These results differ from bush crickets (Tettigoniidae), where larger male body size does not necessarily correlate with larger ampullas and more sperm. Possibly male bush crickets have evolved to invest a higher proportion of their resources in the size of the nuptial gift, as opposed to number of spermatozoa.
3503743|In most central European grasshopper populations, matings are very rarely observed. For five species we here quantify how frequently matings are observed. In total, only 78 matings were recorded over a period of 1100 observation hours in five acridid grasshopper species. We formally define the term mating activity (MA) as the proportion of individuals mating at a given time. MA in Oedipoda germanica, but not Euthystira brachyptera, took place preferentially around noon. In Stenobothrus lineatus, Gomphocerippus rufus and Chorthippus parallelus, matings possibly extended into the night. We also found evidence for a seasonal decrease in MA in S. lineatus and G. rufus but not in C. parallelus and O. germanica. Mating females were younger than the population average in S. lineatus, G. rufus and O. germanica. A review of the literature revealed a seasonal decline in MA in other species as well. Diel mating peaks are not very distinct, though some species seem to mate exclusively at night, some have peaks during the hottest parts of the day, and a third group seems to avoid the hot midday periods.
25822720|Melanoplus ingrami n. sp. is described from the cedar glades of central Tennessee.
4122934|Hybrid zones may serve as arenas for the evolution of barriers to gene exchange while still allowing the exchange of favorable alleles between species. Differential introgression of linkage groups indicate favored, neutral, and disfavored genomic regions with respect to intrinsic (epistatic interactions, linkage to specific genes) and extrinsic (environmental selection, behavior, ecological interactions) environments. Additionally, the ability of alleles to introgress will depend on hybrid zone structure (opportunity for individuals to interact) and maintenance (criteria for favorable traits). Thus, trait differences that influence local distribution within these hybrid zones contribute to species coexistence and persistence in the face of hybridization. The mosaic hybrid zone between two North American field crickets, Gryllus firmus and G. pennsylvanicus, is structured by underlying soil heterogeneity in Connecticut. Despite this, it is not clear what role soil type plays in maintaining this hybrid zone. A companion study demonstrated that abiotic characteristics of different soil types do not cause significant viability selection on diapausing cricket eggs that overwinter in the soil. Instead, other environmental factors, such as winter weather, play larger roles in egg survival. Here I investigated one biotic factor that potentially has a large effect on egg survival - predation by ants. These results show that when ants are present, egg mortality is dramatic, increasing 2.5 fold against areas without ant infestations. Although not significant, there is some indication that ant activity may vary among sites and soils. Hence, this biotic factor may influence the distribution of cricket species in this hybrid zone and consequently the dynamics of their interactions.
10.2307/3503595|A problem with previous studies of orthopteroid phylogeny is that the proposed evolutionary trees were not subjected to rigorous reliability tests. This paper uses current cladistic software packages to reanalyze earlier morphological data obtained by Blackith and Blackith and by Kamp and assigns levels of confidence to derived associations. Although our trees do not differ remarkably from the original ones, resolution in many cases is poor, as indicated by low bootstrap values and low decay indices. Monophyly of the Gryllopteran taxa, for example, is strongly indicated by the Blackiths and by Kamp, but our analyses lend little support to such an association. Assigning levels of confidence to branch points provides valuable information that was not available at the time of the original analyses of these data.
23071988|This paper summarizes eight years of field study on the Red Locust, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville) in southwestern Madagascar and presents management recommendations for its control. This crop pest exhibits a fairly uniform annual life-cycle phenology in southern Madagascar, which involves seasonal migration and adult reproductive diapause. There is one generation/y. Eggs are laid at the beginning of the rainy season in November and December. Eggs hatch in 24-36 d, and the hatchlings reach adulthood in 50-70 d. Fledgling adults enter a reproductive diapause in March and April, and then migrate north and northeast to higher elevations (refuge area where rainfall is > 80 cm/y) where they remain throughout the dry season (May-October). In November (the beginning of the rainy season), the adults migrate south and west to lower elevations (breeding area where rainfall averages 40-80 cm/y) where they mate and initiate oocyte development. Females possess ~ 162 ovarioles, and typically lay two or three egg pods, each containing ~ 100 eggs. The six-month adult reproductive diapause is controlled by photoperiod. Eggs and nymphs can experience high mortality, and hence, these stages are key to predicting population dynamics. Based on our findings, we recommend concentrating surveys in the main breeding areas (including one small southwestern fringe with the strongest probability of gregarisation and outbreak), better monitoring of local rainfall abundance and distribution, and better monitoring of deforestation, which increases locust habitat. Cet article est le rsultat de huit annes d'tudes de terrain sur le Criquet nomade, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville) dans le sud-ouest de Madagascar et propose des recommandations pour la gestion prventive de cette espce. Ce ravageur prsente un cycle biologique annuel relativement uniforme dans le sud de Madagascar. Il n'y a qu'une seule gnration par an, des migrations saisonnires et une diapause imaginale. Les oeufs sont dposs au dbut de la saison des pluies, en novembre et dcembre. Ils closent en 24-36 jours, et les jeunes larves atteignent le stade imaginal en 50-70 jours. Les jeunes imagos entrent en diapause reproductive en mars et avril, puis migrent vers le nord et le nord-est vers des zones d'altitude plus leve (zone refuge recevant plus de 800 mm de pluie par an) o ils demeurent pendant toute la saison sche (mai-octobre). En novembre (dbut de la saison des pluies), les imagos migrent vers le sud et 1'ouest vers les zones plus basses (zone de reproduction recevant entre 400 et 800 mm de pluie par an) o ils s'accouplent et commencent leur maturation sexuelle (dveloppement des ovocytes). Les femelles possdent en moyenne 162 ovarioles et dposent deux ou trois oothques, chacune contenant environ une centaine d'oeufs. Les six mois de diapause imaginale sont controls par la photopriode. Les oeufs et les larves peuvent subir une forte mortalit et, en consquence, ces tapes sont essentielles pour prvoir la dynamique des populations. Sur la base de nos travaux, nous recommandons de focaliser et de renforcer la surveillance dans la zone principale de reproduction (dont une petite frange sud-ouest prsente la plus forte probabilit de grgarisation et de pullulation), de mieux suivre l'abondance et la distribution des pluies, et de porter une grande attention au dboisement susceptible de crer de nouveaux habitats favorables.
10.2307/3503475|This paper provides information on the fauna of Mantodea in China. Based on literature records of Beier (1933) and Tinkham (1937) and material identified by the authors, 110 species and 2 subspecies of mantids - belonging to 8 families, 19 subfamilies and 48 genera - are reported from China. Nine genera and 7 species were recorded for the first time from China. About 88% of the Chinese mantid fauna is Oriental in origin, while 7% is Palaearctic and about 5% widespread. China is rich with endemic species, amounting to 65 species.
10.2307/3503436|The morphology of the internal male genitalia of selected genera of Melanoplinae (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was studied. A detailed comparison of these structures was carried out, in an attempt to identify new characters that may be useful in analyzing relationships between the members of the subfamily. Twenty two genera were examined, mostly of North American distribution, using one exemplar species for each of them. Standard dissection and drawing techniques were followed. The epiphallus and the apical parts of the aedeagus were found to be the most important taxonomic characters. The genera Aptenopedes and Buckellacris were highly divergent from the rest of the melanoplines, while the close relationship between Appalachia, Dendrotettix and Podisma was confirmed by genital characters. Internal male genitalic characters did not provide significant support for many currently recognized tribes and subtribes, suggesting that there is a great need for reclassification in the subfamily.
25473424|Chortophaga australior Rehn and Hebard (Orthoptera: Acrididae) is considered a species distinct from Chortophaga viridifasciata (DeGeer). Collections across Nebraska have shown that the characters used to separate these two species are inconsistent and that the average state of these characters appears to be related to the time of the season during which the adults are collected. Until further study clarifies the status of C. australior, we suggest that its specific status be considered questionable.
41759716|New species of the genera Mezentia Stl, Taeniophora Stl, Nautia Stl, Caenolampis Descamps and Inbiolampis n. gen. (all members of the Bactrophorinae Amedegnato 1974) are described from Costa Rica and Panama. The previously unknown male of Taeniophora rubrosignata Descamps & Rowell 1984 is described; its cereal structure links it to South American species of the genus, rather than to the other Central American species. A key to the Central American species of Mezentia is provided. New species: Mezentia prymnocerca, M. proracerca, Taeniophora pirrensis, T. santosi, Caenolampis copensis, Inbiolampis herediensis.
24367400|The genus Anaxipha has at least 13 North American species, eight of which are described here. Ten species fall into these three species groups: exigua group (exigua Say, scia Hebard and n. spp. thomasi, tinnulacita, tinnulenta, and tinnula); delicatula group [delicatula Scudder and vernalis n. sp.); litarena group (litarena Fulton and rosamacula n.sp.). The remaining three (imitator Saussure, fultoni n.sp., and calusa n.sp.) have no close relatives among the other species. Most new species were initially distinguished by their calling songs, and in most cases sympatric populations proved cleanly separable by features of male genitalia and tooth-counts of stridulatory files. Species groups were based mostly on comparisons of male genital structures and the results of DNA barcoding. Species are here characterized not only by their songs and morphology, but also by geographical, ecological, and seasonal distributions. At a given temperature the pulse rate (PR) of the male's calling song is a key aid to identification. PR at 25C has a narrow range of variation within a species and among the 13 species its mean value varies from 5 to 79 p/s. As in other crickets, pulse rates plotted as a function of temperature have a positive, linear trendline. When trendlines for 11 Anaxipha species are extrapolated downward, the temperature at =0 p/s is 2.72.2 (meanSD)  i.e., the lines tend to converge at about 3C. This makes possible a simple formula for estimating the PR at 25C from any Anaxipha calling song recorded at any temperature. Other aids to identifying species from their calling songs are the duration and regularity of breaks between pulse sequences and the relationship between PR and carrier frequency (CF). When CF is plotted as a function of PR, the relationship deviates noticeably from linear only in vernalis. We propose that in Anaxipha spp., as well as in six other genera in four gryllid subfamilies, the synchrony of tooth impacts and the fundamental vibrations of the CF is maintained by the scraper moving continuously over evenly spaced file teeth  rather than by the much-studied (and well-established) catch-and-release mechanism of Gryllus spp. Our proposal is based on the high rates of change in CF with temperature and on differences in the teeth of the stridulatory files. The PR at 25C of each of the 13 species is remarkable in the degree to which it predicts the mean values of these five characters: file tooth number, tooth density, file length, pulse duration, and pulse duty cycle (Fig. 17). A neotype is designated for Gryllus pulicaria Burmeister (1838), the type species of the genus Anaxipha. With the e-version of this paper, extensive Supplementary Materials provide permanent access to data sets that are basic to our conclusions. These materials include detailed records of the specimens examined and of the more than 1300 recorded songs that were analyzed. Digitized versions of more than 450 of the recordings are archived in Cornell's Macaulay Library of Natural Sounds.
10.2307/3503478|The orthopteran suborder Ensifera is a group of interest to many biologists because members of several families within this group communicate by sounds. The evolutionary history of singing and other social behaviors of crickets, katydids and weta (Gryllidae, Tettigoniidae and Stenopelmatidae, respectively) are unclear because of different published opinions on the relationships among ensiferan subgroups (Ander 1939, Zeuner 1939, Judd 1948, Ragge1955a, Sharov 1968). These opinions were not based on formal quantitative analyses. I undertook a cladistic analysis of ensiferan families using mainly anatomical characters. The single most parsimonious (shortest-length) tree divides the Ensifera into two clades: the 'tettigonioids' which comprise (((((Tettigoniidae & Haglidae) Stenopelmatidae) Cooloolidae) Gryllacrididae) Rhaphidophoridae), and the 'grylloids' ((Schizodactylidae) (Gryllotalpidae & Gryllidae)) (my parentheses enclose separate clades). I used this phylogeny to construct the most parsimonious hypotheses for the origins of certain social behaviours from those present in the ancestor of extant Ensifera (an insect that used a burrow as a retreat). There were two origins of sound communication using tegminal stridulation and foretibial ears, three to four origins of a complex spermatophore that is eaten by the female and about seven origins of maternal care of eggs and/or nymphs, a trait correlated with loss or reduction in the ovipositor. I review support for the hypothesis of dual origins of tegminal stridulation and tibial ears, complex structures that are usually regarded as homologous within the Ensifera.
3503764|Orthopteran species on the Lesser Antilles islands of St Eustatius and Saba are poorly known. Recent field surveys and examinations of museum collections revealed 24 species separated into the following families: Acrididae, 6; Tettigoniidae, 6; Gryllidae, 2; Mogoplistidae, 1; Oecanthidae, 1; Phalangopsidae, 2; Podoscirtidae, 5; Trigonidiidae, 1. Seven species are new, 2 of which are described herein (Mogoplistidae: Cycloptilum eustatiensis; Trigonidiidae: Cyrtoxipha orientalis). Crickets alone are represented by 12 species. Among all species, 1 is cosmopolitan, 2 are neotropical, 4 are distributed in most of the Caribbean region, 5 occur in one or several provinces located in the Greater Antilles, and 12 are distributed in the Lesser Antilles province only. Among these last species, 8 could be endemic to St Eustatius and/or Saba. Species diversity and distribution patterns are discussed in relation to island habitats and groupings.
41759696|A detailed redescription and review of the north Central American genus Paracalynda Zompro, 2001 is presented, which presently contains only two known species. A re-description is provided for the type-species P. picta (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907), which is only known from the unique male holotype. P. utilaensis (Zompro, 1998) was originally described as a subspecies of P. picta (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) but obviously represents a distinct species, hence it is here raised to species rank (n. stat). Both species are illustrated and detailed figures show the significant genital morphology of Paracalynda. A detailed study of genital features has proven Paracalynda was previously misplaced in the "Bactena group" (tribe Diapheromerini) and as a result the genus is transferred to Eusermyleformia Bradler, 2009. A discussion on Sermyleformia: Eusermyleformia is provided, which includes a list of the seven genera now contained in Eusermyleformia as well as an extended and more comprehensive diagnosis of this supposedly monophyletic rank-free taxon.
25822704|We review historical and pioneering work as well as recently published papers about orthopteran sex chromosomes and neo-sex mechanisms, highlighting Michael White's significant contributions. Meiotic research in Orthoptera in the early twentieth century was central to confirming that sex determination had a chromosomal basis: the study of sex chromosomes produced fundamental support to the chromosome theory of heredity. We also explore recent theoretical models of sex-chromosome evolution and consider the possible causes of crossing over restriction in proto-sex chromosomes, as well as the progressive differentiation (erosion and degeneration) of the Y chromosome in neo-chromosome systems in different taxa. We discuss neo-XY and neo-XXY chromosome systems of South American Melanoplinae (Acrididae) as potential experimental models to study steps in sex-chromosome evolution because these systems fall within a continuum of evolutionary stages, some of them recently established. We also provide an explanation for the disproportionate frequency of neo-sex systems and Robertsonian-derived karyotypes in Neotropical Melanoplinae, based on the centromeric drive theory, and propose that Neotropical melanoplines' high karyotypic diversity supports an ancient South American origin of the subfamily. We discuss the hypothesis that neo-sex chromosome systems produce favorable new linkage relationships between genes in the X and the involved autosome, some of which could be sex determination related, creating a new balance between sex chromosomes and autosomes. We also review Mesa's hypothesis that, based on the observed fact that no major taxon of orthopterans shows neo-sex chromosomal mechanisms in all their species, the acquisition of a neo-sex chromosome system could condemn species of grasshoppers to a short evolutionary career. Little is yet known about the role of neo-Y chromosomes in Orthoptera, thus mostly speculative explanations about neo-sex chromosome function can be made at present. New studies with modern molecular techniques are needed to understand chromosomal sex determination in Orthoptera, which could in turn help explain the role of new chromosomal sex systems in grasshopper species.
10.2307/3503627|This paper is a textual and illustrative description of two new species of bushcricket: Rossophyllum maculosum and Idiarthron cerosum, from the Osa Penninsular of Costa Rica, together with intra-generic comparisons.
25473433|The semi-aquatic grasshopper Cornops aquaticum is native to South America and inhabits lowlands from southern Mexico to Central Argentina and Uruguay. It is host-specific to aquatic plants in the genera Eichhornia and Pontederia. A quarantine population has existed in South Africa for 10 y, and it is planned to release it there as a biological control agent of water hyacinth, E. crassipes. Various studies of C. aquaticum are coordinated under HICWA (www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de). This paper compares the morphometry of the release population and 11 native populations in South America. We tested four hypotheses: 1) South African and South American populations of C. aquaticum differ in morphology; 2) the South African laboratory population is more similar to other isolated populations in South America than to nonisolated populations; 3) morphology differs across sites; 4) morphology differs with host plant. South African populations differed from continental nonisolated populations, but not from continental isolated ones. Isolated populations presented smaller individuals than nonisolated, but there was also a change in male morphology: while in nonisolated populations male wing length was similar to their body length, in isolated populations, male wings were smaller than body length. Females were larger when on Eicchornia azurea than on E. crassipes, while males presented larger wings than their body on E. azurea, and similar lengths on E. crassipes. These morphological changes may have resulted from phenotypic plasticity, selection for small size, or because of a loss of genetic diversity in quantitative traits.
20789577|A study at Khelcom, Central Senegal, from September 2008 till June 2009 tested two different dose rates (25 and 50 gconidia/ha) of the mycoinsecticide Green Muscle (Metarhizium acridum) and an untreated control, against grasshoppers in a field trial on nine 400-ha plots in three blocks. The study area was a deforested sylvo-pastoral reserve, 12.5% cultivated, whereas the remainder was fallow or grassland in succession. Grasshopper densities were calculated by executing transect and quadrat counts on plots. The grasshopper community structure was assessed by systematic sweep-net sampling on plots. From these data grasshopper biomass on plots was calculated for each sampling date. Bird numbers were counted on the same transects by the Distance Sampling technique and their densities calculated from Effective Strip Widths (ESW). Energetic requirements of individual bird species were calculated from digestibility-corrected Field Metabolic Rates (FMRs) and for acridivorous species their daily intake of grasshoppers was calculated. Grasshopper densities were very high, with up to 90 ind./m in September and 30-35 ind./m in October. Numbers and biomass decreased on treated plots as grasshoppers became infected, and remained significantly different from control plots for three months (until January). The relative importance of grasshopper consumption by birds increased between October (high grasshopper densities) and December (medium densities) from an initial 0.06 (0.03) %/day to a ceiling of 1.6 (0.9)% per day. Total grasshopper removal during the dry season was 70%, whereas during the rainy season this was < 1%. Birds specifically captured large and medium-bodied grasshoppers, but rarely small-bodied species, whose numbers initially increased. These findings were corroborated by field observations and by analysis of regurgitated pellet contents of Montagu's Harriers, i.e., small-bodied grasshoppers were only 1.4 - 2.6% of all grasshoppers taken, whereas they constituted 61 - 68% of random samples from the field. Densities of acridivorous Palaearctic migratory birds, in particular White Stork, Ciconia ciconia, Montagu's Harrier, Circus pygargus and Lesser Kestrel, Falco naumanni, were very high and unprecedented elsewhere. Their numbers largely exceeded the 1% criterion for international importance.
3503765| In Africa and Asia in recent years (1986 to 2002), repeated outbreaks and plagues of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria (Forskl), have prompted the international community, through early intervention, to focus on preventing plague status from being reached. The relative lack of applied research breakthroughs on desert locust monitoring and control, means that for preventive or proactive control, direct access to the breeding areas is essential for both operations so that conventional, short-residual pesticides can be applied to gregarizing or fully gregarious populations. There are a number of challenges to desert locust survey and control as it is currently practiced: these include lack of funding and training, weak regional organizations, and remote and rugged terrain in breeding areas. The most intractable challenge to overcome, and arguably the chief cause for desert locust outbreaks to develop without suppressive interventions to plague status, is armed conflict, especially in countries with key breeding areas. Salient areas of armed conflict in countries where key desert locust breeding areas exist, and the impacts of those conflicts on desert locust survey and control, are described. Possible solutions of the problems presented by armed conflict for desert locust operations are discussed. 
3503622|The entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum Metsch. Sor. (Deuteromycotina: Hyphomycetes), was tested under laboratory and field conditions against the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons Walker (Orthoptera: Acrididae). Adults of S. piceifrons treated under laboratory conditions with the isolate MaPL40, 1.5 10
10.2307/3503503|Timema coffmani sp. nov. is described from southwestern Arizona. It is a specialist feeder on juniper (Juniperus). Morphologically it is similar to T. ritensis Hebard from southeastern Arizona. The previously unknown female sex of T. ritensis also is described and both sexes are compared with T. coffmani. Measurements and distinguishing features are given for both species.
25473438|We studied 12 species of Acrididae (4 Oedipodinae and 8 Gomphocerinae) associated with three ecological stages of succession in herbaceous environments in mine tailings near Limoges, France. The pioneer, medium and late stages of succession each contained four different dominant grasshopper species. We measured morphometry variables possibly linked with displacement (locomotory) capacities, taking advantage of previous analyses on walking and jumping-flight performances on the same species. Early succession species were characterized by long hind and fore wings and a wider pronotum. Their wings also exhibited greater sexual dimorphism in length than grasshopper species from middle or late successional stages. These morphological characters are associated with jumping-flight performances and walking speed, because the best jumpers are the best walkers. Although the ratio of wing length to body length decreases with succession, the overall body size does not, and overall body size is not correlated with displacement performance. /// A l'intrieur d'une succession cologique primaire dans des milieux herbacs peuplant des striles miniers prs de Limoges (France), nous avons tudi 12 espces d'Acrididae (4 Oedipodinae et 8 Gomphocerinae). Les sres pionnire, moyenne et tardive comprennent chacune 4 espces. Des variables morphomtriques en relation possible avec les capacits de dplacement ont t mesures, bnficiant de travaux prcdents sur l'analyse de la marche et des sauts volants sur les mmes espces. Les espces pionnires sont caractrises par des ailes antrieures et postrieures longues, ainsi que par la grande largeur de la mtazone du pronotum. Leurs ailes prsentent galement un dimorphisme sexuel plus affirm que les espces des sres moyenne et tardive. Ces caractres sont associs aux performances de saut volant, mais de manire inattendue,  la vitesse de marche, sachant les espces qui volent le mieux sont aussi celles qui marchent le plus vite. La taille globale du corps ne varie pas significativement avec l'ordre de succession, ni avec les performances de dplacement.
10.2307/3503578| The genus Tithrone Stl is analyzed and two new species are described. T. viridipennis differs from T. roseipennis are compared. In addition a new genus Paratithrone (with one new species, P. royii) are described. Tithrone and Paratithrone form a phyletic clade within the tribe Acontiothespini. 
4122950|Proscopiini, new tribe (Proscopiidae, Proscopiinae) is here defined. As presently known, it includes six genera and a considerable number of species. A description of the tribe and keys for the recognition of its males and females to genera are given. As is the case with the tribe Tetanorhynchini (Bentos-Pereira 2003a), the species in this new tribe are very homogeneous in their external anatomy, which has been, in the past, the cause of a general confusion in its taxonomy and the making of many synonymies.
3503654|This research expands upon our previous molecular phylogenetic analysis of the genus Melanoplus by incorporating additional mitochondrial genes, taxa and specimens. Included are two monotypic genera suspected of close affiliation with Melanoplus: Phoetaliotes and Bohemanella. Portions of four mitochondrial genes, coding for cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit II, were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed using (weighted and unweighted) parsimony and neighbor-joining methods. Maximum resolution of relationships was achieved using weighted parsimony and by treating all sequences, totaling 1716 base pairs, as a unit. The following large clades emerged in parsimony analyses, supported by moderate to poor bootstrap values: A - sanguinipes, femurrubrum, devastator, gaspesiensis, fasciatus, borealis, madeleineae, dawsoni; B - packardii, foedus, angustipennis, gladstoni, aspasmus; C - bivittatus, franciscanus, keeleri, calidus, littoralis, differentialis; D - infantilis, alpinus, aridus, Phoetaliotes, scudderi; and E - confusus, Bohemanella, marginatus, microtatus. M. lakinus was basal to all species. Deviations from the conventional literature in which species are organized into species groups or series are discussed. It is concluded that many such groups are phylogenetically questionable; their validity warrants serious reconsideration. Two phenomena - a rapid burst (or bursts) of speciation occurring early in the genus' evolution and an absence of complete lineage sorting for certain closely related species - are nicely illustrated by Melanoplus. We provide evidence that the massive radiation that took place within the past 4 My, inferred previously by Knowles and Otte, extends to a wider base of taxa, beyond the particular species studied by these authors.
10.2307/3503637|Laboratory procedures previously used by other authors were employed to conduct experimental bioassays with Nosema locustae on cultured Schistocerca cancellata. Third-instar nymphs were individually, per os inoculated with 10
4122933| Two new species of Maculiparia Jago 1980 are described from Panama, one (M. coibensis n. sp) from the Island of Coiba, and another from Darin province (M. embera n. sp.). Both are brachypterous, unlike the previously described M. rotundata Stl, which is common only in the central part of the country. 
3657113|Behavioral thermoregulation, by basking in sunlight, is very common in acridids. The resulting increased body temperatures may be beneficial by accelerating feeding and developmental rates and by enhancing disease resistance. The absorption of solar energy is affected by the degree of cuticular melanization. In this paper, we quantify differences in color and thermoregulation between subarctic and temperate populations of Melanoplus sanguinipes. We also quantify effects of rearing temperatures and density on melanization of 5th instars. Alaskan grasshoppers tended to be darker than those from Idaho when reared under the same conditions and Alaskan grasshoppers also responded to cooler rearing temperatures by increased pigmentation. Density-dependent melanization was evident in both populations. Increased pigmentation enhanced the ability to thermoregulate. Absorption of wavelengths in the near infrared region was similar to that in the visible range, confirming that visible color is a reliable measure of relative absorption of total solar irradiance. Strong selection for efficient thermoregulation at high latitudes was suggested by the population differences in pigmentation.
10.2307/3503648|Five independent lines of research provide information that is a basis for a number of conclusions regarding the evolution of phallic structures of Acridomorpha, excluding Eumasticoidea. Skeletal portions of the phallus are discussed to clarify terminology and offer evolutionary hypotheses. The terms "pre-epiphallic diverticulum," "arch sclerite," and "antero-ventral flange of endophallic sclerite" are introduced. The phallic muscles of Romalea microptera are covered in detail and figured. Homologies with Atractomorpha sinensis, Ommexecha virens, Dissosteira carolina, Melanoplus differentialis, M. bivittatus, Paulinia acuminata, and Marellia remipes are discussed. Evolutionary hypotheses regarding the evolution of the endophallus are presented. Pyrgacridinae is removed from Pyrgomorphidae and given status as the family Pyrgacrididae within Acridoidea. Lithidiinae is raised to the level of family within Acridoidea. Dericorythinae, Conophyminae, and Iranellinae (new subfamily), all previously included within Acrididae, are placed in the new family Dericorythidae. The subfamily Illapeliinae is moved to Ommexechidae. Marelliinae is recognized as a new subfamily within Acrididae. Presence of a well-developed arch sclerite should be treated as a crucial character in defining the family Acrididae.
3657103|Studies on the rarely reported Australian genus Onchestus have revealed a confusing situation where only one of the 4 species currently included, belongs to the genus. A new species from north Queensland, Onchestus rentzi, is described and figured, including the egg. Keys are provided.
3503714| Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum Driver & Milner (=Metarhizium flavoviride Gams & Rozsypal), isolate CG423, is being developed as a mycoinsecticide against grasshoppers in Brazil. Conidia were harvested and stored in a drying chamber during a study period of 260 d, in a room at 25C. Water content (dry weight) of fresh and dried conidia was 70 and 4%, respectively. Conidia from fresh and dry preparations produced similar in vitro germination patterns and were both infective of the American grasshopper Schistocerca americana Drury. The drying process greatly enhanced the survival of CG423 conidia, as witnessed by nearly 100% germination rates after more than a 100-d desiccation period. Prolonged 135 and 176-d storage in the drying chamber at room temperature decreased viability to 72.5% and 28.5% respectively. In contrast, fresh conidia sealed in plastic bags and stored at ambient conditions for 52 d were inactive (<10% viable). The low germination rate (28.5%) of conidia exposed to 176 d in dry storage was altered by exposure of the dry conidia to high humidity (96% RH). Dry conidia exposed to a 4-h rehydration period had germination rates of 50%, whereas 24-h preincubation at high humidity resulted in 90% germination rates. However, the germination rates were reduced at 204 (81%), 323 (70%) and 260 (23%) days in storage. In addition, preincubation of the CG423 dry conidia in water produced similar positive effects on germination as compared to germination of fresh conidia. At 24h post-inoculation, dry conidia produced significantly lower germination rates (21%) than rehydrated conidia (germination rates > 91.7%, p < 0.05). However, after 48h on SDAY plates, the germination rate of dry conidia (88.3%) was comparable to the germination of conidia rehydrated in water, water + Tween-20, or in high humidity. 
4122941| The northern Great Plains of North America has experienced a number of severe grasshopper infestations over the last 100 y. Grasshopper densities have been observed to be in synchrony over vast geographical areas. Weather is probably the most significant factor that affects fluctuations in population abundance of Melanoplus sanguinipes, the migratory grasshopper. Inferential modeling was used to develop a bioclimatic model of M. sanguinipes that closely agreed with current distribution and abundance patterns of this species in North America over a 30-y period. Incremental climate change scenarios were then applied to the bioclimatic model to predict changes to potential distribution and relative abundance of M. sanguinipes, resulting from climate change. Compared to predicted range and distribution under current climate conditions, model results indicated that M. sanguinipes would have increased range and relative abundance for temperature increases between 1 and 7C. The model predicted that the range of this crop pest would be extended to regions that are not currently used for agricultural production in North America. 
10.2307/3503572|Isolates of the hyphomycetous fungus Metarhizium have recently been found which are highly pathogenic to acridoid grasshoppers. These isolates have been described as M. flavoviride group 3. This has led to a re-examination of the taxonomic characters used to distinguish between species within the genus. M. flavoviride has been described as having swollen, or flask-shaped phialides, while those of M.anisopliae have straight-sided, or cylindrical, phialides. To test the validity of this character, the phialide morphology of 11 isolates representing 3 species (M. anisopliae, M. flavoviride, and M. album) have been examined by scanning electron microscopy using frozen whole mounts. It was found that phialide morphology of a single isolate could vary within the same culture as well as between different substrates. No consistent differences between the species were found. It is concluded that phialide morphology is not a good taxonomic criterion.
3503699|The composition and members of the Tcholmanvissiinae (representatives of the 'oedischioids' stem-group) are revised. One of us (O.B.) examined all available specimens, allowing a better appreciation of intraspecific variability in the wing venation and a proposal of new diagnostic specific and generic characters. Several genera and species are synonymized. Finally, close relationships between Tcholmanvissiinae and Tettoedischiinae are supported by data on relief of veins and organization of the cubital area. Previous hypotheses of relationships between Tcholmanvissiinae and Titanoptera or Caelifera are dismissed.
10.2307/3503586|The subfamilies Truxalinae and Acridinae are discussed. Acrida maxima Karny 1907 restored to species status from synonymy under Acrida turrita (L. 1758). The subfamily Truxalinae cannot be sustained as a separate taxon and is synonymised under the subfamily Acridinae since on grounds of male epiphallic morphology, femoral stridulatory apparatus and wing venation there is no means of clearly differentiating it from the Acridinae. The decision is supported by examples of functional anatomy from Chromotruxalis Dirsh 1951, Acrida Linnaeus 1758, Truxalis Fabricius 1775, Truxaloides Dirsh 1951, Acridarachnea I. Bolivar 1908, and Chromacrida Dirsh 1952.
3503737|Three instances were observed in Costa Rica, of an adult cockroach feeding on or palpating the waxy material secreted on the tegmina of a fulgorid; in one instance, the cockroach was a female Macrophyllodromia sp. and the homopteran a fulgorid, Enchophora sanguinea. In another, the cockroach was Macrophyllodromia maximiliani and the fulgorid was Copidocephala guttata. These are the first observations of trophobiosis in a cockroach. Brief descriptions of known species of Macrophyllodromia, and the male genitalia of 2 species are given.
10.2307/3503521|The author describes a new species of Paraphotina Giglio-Tos 1915 P. occicentalis sp. n.) from Peru. Characterized by its large size, it appears related to P. reticulata (Saussure 1870), from which it differs in the shape of its male copulatory apparatus.
4122942|The genus Taxiarchus, reinstated by Jago (1989), is revised, incorporating characters derived from the female genitalia. The outcome is to synonomize the genus with Proscopia Klug 1820, as has previously been suggested on the basis of external morphology alone. However, these new characters and Jago's restrictive definitions of the proscopiid genera Taxiarchus have the effect of allowing this synonomy only for some species of Proscopia, leaving the other species originally described under that genus now belonging to other genera, which will be erected later in another paper. In this work the boundaries of the genus Proscopia are defined for both sexes, Taxiarchus is synonomized with Proscopia, and two new species are described.
10.2307/3503547| The new genus Tainacris is erected for three new species of Eumastacids from southwestern Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. They inhabit transitional dry to humid montane forests in low to medium elevations (200 - 700 m) of Sierra de Neiba and mountains of the Cordillera Central. Additionally, two new species are described in the genus Antillacris Rehn & Rehn 1939 from high humid elevations (over 1,200 m) of the same mountain systems. As revealed by its weakly sclerotized and disk shaped epiphallus, Tainacris belongs in the subfamily Episactinae, together with the two previously known Hispaniolan Eumastacids Antillacris and Espagnola Rehn & Rehn 1939. Also a new fossil genus and species of Eumastacidae (Paleomastacris ambarinus) is described from Miocene Dominican amber. Along with the new species of Tainacris and Antillacris, this fossil is compared to known extant Episactinae in Hispaniola and Central America. It represents the first fossil true grasshopper (Acridomorpha) described from amber. /// Se erige el nuevo gnero Tainacris para tres nuevas especies de Eumastcidos del suroeste de Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Estas habitan bosques transicionales con vegetacin seca a hmeda de montaa en elevaciones bajas a medianas (200 - 700 m) en montaas de la Sierra de Neiba y Cordillera Central. Adicionalmente, se describen dos nuevas especies en el gnero Antillacris Rehn & Rehn 1939, de altas elevaciones (sobre los 1,200 m) en los mismos sistemas montaosos. Como lo revela su dbilmente esclerotizado epifalo en forma de disco, Tainacris pertenece a la subfamilia Episactinae, al igual que los dos gneros de Eumastcidos previamente conocidos de la Hispaniola, Antillacris y Espagnola Rehn & Rehn 1939. Se describe tambin un nuevo gnero y especie de Eumastcido fsil (Paleomastacris ambarinus) del mbar Mioceno de la Repblica Dominicana. Junto a las especies de Tainacris y Antillacris, este se compara con los Episactinae actuales conocidos de la Hispaniola y Centroamrica. Este representa el primer saltamontes (Acridomorpha) fsil en mbar que se describe. 
3503658|It has been hypothesized that some herbivores may increase the cycling of nutrients in ecosystems, thereby increasing plant production even after herbivore consumption is considered. Such herbivory could maintain the productivity of ecosystems and should not be curtailed. This contrasts with the traditional view whereby herbivory always reduces plant production. Two grasshoppers (Melanoplus sanguinipes and Ageneotettix deorum), considered pest species in Western US rangelands, are experimentally shown to enhance plant production under certain conditions and to diminish it under others. Plant production increased when grasshoppers' consumption increased nitrogen cycling, nitrogen being the limiting resource for plants at the study sites. This happened when grasshoppers consumed plant species with slowly decomposing litter, favoring plants whose litter decomposed rapidly, such that their store of nitrogen was more rapidly released to the soil. However, feeding preferences change between sites and with grasshopper species, creating a spatial mosaic in which grasshoppers can increase and decrease plant production. Because changes in plant species composition are the major reason for changes in nutrient cycling rate, plant communities are created that will persistently exhibit enhanced or diminished production. Therefore, grasshoppers cannot be generally viewed as detrimental to rangeland productivity and grasshopper control may need to be more judiciously applied.
10.2307/3503523|The spermatophores of the majority of species of tettigoniid consist of two parts: an ampulla which contains the sperm and a spermatophylax which the female eats following the end of copulation. One hypothesis for the function of the spermatophylax is that it is maintained by selection for paternal investment. In order for this to be possible, the donating male must fertilize a significant proportion of the eggs which stand to benefit from his spermatophylax nutrients. In order to determine whether or not this was the case, the pattern of sperm precedence was examined in the tettigoniid Steropleurus stali, using the sterile-male technique. The duration of the female's refractory period, the number of eggs laid in this period and the number of mature eggs stored by females were also recorded. The results indicated pronounced last-male sperm precedence (median P
41759697|The two Central American genera Hypocyrtus Redtenbacher, 1908 and Rhynchacris Redtenbacher, 1908 (Xerosomatinae: Hesperophasmatini) are revised at the species level. Extended redescriptions of both genera are presented along with keys to the species contained. Detailed descriptions and illustrations of all seven known species are provided. Hypocyrtus Redtenbacher, 1908 is here confirmed as a valid genus and now contains three distinct species, all of which are restricted to southern Mexico, Guatemala and Belize. Ocnophila ornatissima Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907 is removed from Ocnophila Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907 and transferred to Hypocyrtus (n. comb.). H. postpositus Redtenbacher, 1908 is removed from Lamponius Stal, 1875 and returned to Hypocyrtus (rev. stat). Two new synonyms are established in Hypocyrtus: Anophelepis vittatus Westwood, 1859 = Anophelepis scythrus Westwood, 1859 (n. syn.) and Hypocyrtus substrumosus Redtenbacher, 1908 = Hypocyrtus postpositus Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The male and egg of H. ornatissimus (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) and the egg of H. scythrus (Westwood, 1859) are described and illustrated for the first time. Rhynchacris now contains four known species distributed throughout southern Central America (Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama) and northeast Colombia. The monotypic genus Pseudoceroys Hebard, 1923 was previously misplaced in Diapheromerinae: Diapheromerini: "Clonistria-group" and is here shown to be a synonym of Rhynchacris Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The type-species P. hanoweriHebard, 1923 automatically becomes a member of Rhynchacris (comb. n.). R. chocoense n. sp. from the Choc Province is described from the female and is the first record of the genus from Colombia; the holotype is preserved in the Natural History Museum, London (BMNH). Ceroys bigibbus Rehn, 1904 was previously misplaced and is here transferred to Rhynchacris (comb. n.). Hesperophasma lobata Redtenbacher, 1908 is a synonym of the type species Rhynchacris ornata Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The male of R. ornata Redtenbacher, 1908 is described and illustrated for the first time. Lectotypes are designated for Anophelepis scythrus Westwood, 1859 and Hypocyrtus substrumosus Redtenbacher, 1908.
3657119|Nymphal instars of Xyleus discoideus discoideus, a romaleid grasshopper, are described for the first time. The following characters are recorded for each stage: body length, head width, pronotal length, hind femoral length, number of antennomeres, number of longitudinal eye stripes and the morphology of wing pads and external genitalia. Criteria that can be used to distinguish the instars and sexes are identified. Males and females have a 5-instar cycle under laboratory conditions. Females are larger as adults than males and this is linked to a longer nymphal period in females.
3503680|A new subspecies of Pamphagidae (Purpuraria erna lanzarotensis) is provided, and additional distributions, and nomenclature changes of Orthoptera (sens. lat. to include Blattaria, Mantodea and Phasmida) of the Canary Islands. A significant inter-island difference in body size of the acridid Calliptamus plebeius is discussed.
10.2307/3503647|This paper provides an analysis of the taxonomy of the two taxa generally considered as forming the family Pauliniidae, and describes their phallic complexes, including their muscles. From the bibliography related to the group, and also from the present research, it is concluded that the family is an artificial one, and that external similarities of its species are due to parallel adaptations to the aquatic habitat and not to close phylogenetic relationship. Paulinia acuminata (De Geer 1773) would be the only species of the subfamily Pauliniinae of Acrididae (family rank seems unwarranted). Marellia remipes Uvarov 1929 has an uncertain position, probably also within Acrididae. For the latter species, new synonymies are indicated.
25473423|Surfaces of the eggs of acridids show chorionic sculpturing - distinct features that can be used to identify species. With a scanning electron microscope, we document dimensions and surface detail for eggs of two common Indian acridids: Hieroglyphus banian and Acrida exaltata. Their eggs are characterized by distinguishing features: A. exaltata by many small tubercles scattered almost uniformly, H. banian by thick-ridged hexagonal polygons. The similarities and dissimilarities of their egg-surfaces to those of other acridid species are not consistent with subfamilial classification.
20789562|A global imperative for the conservation of biodiversity brings into focus the need for taxonomic research. However, this biodiversity crisis is reflected in a parallel taxonomic crisis. Whereas molecular information is increasingly the evidential basis for delimiting species, revisionary taxonomy is frequently dismissed as merely 'descriptive' and lacking a hypothesis-driven nature. Phylogenetic classifications are optimal for storing and predicting information, but phylogeny divorced from taxonomy is unrealizable. Taxonomy, systematics, and phylogeny are interwoven, hypothesis-driven sciences with a shared theoretical base. Taxonomic knowledge remains essential to biological research and knowledge acquisition is made urgent by the biodiversity crisis. Taxonomy needs to prepare to take advantage of new information technology capabilities. Rapid advances in bioinformatics have provided unprecedented opportunities to conduct taxonomic research more efficiently; cybertaxonomy is emerging as an exciting new branch. Here we argue the great potential for using the orthoptera Species File online (http://orthoptera.speciesfile.org/) as a tool for monograph and revisionary studies of Orthoptera and we also draw attention to a method of integrating many cybertaxonomic tools with species descriptions: this to engage both the specialist taxonomic community and a wider public in the gathering and deepening understanding of taxonomic knowledge.
3657137|Results are presented of a study on the armature of the hind and fore tibiae in 39 species and 4 additional subspecies, out of 54 (formally recognised) species and 9 additional subspecies, belonging to Rhacocleis and Pterolepis. The armature of the hind tibia, traditionally used to separate Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, varies within taxa from very slight in most taxa to extensive in a few. The armature of the upper inner margin of the fore tibia proved a more reliable character than the traditional hind tibial armature to separate Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, indicating that the synonymy of Rhacocleis with Pterolepis proposed in Heller et al. (1998), should be re-evaluated. Observations suggest a possible re-arrangement of species described under Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, but no nomenclatural changes are proposed. It is argued that nomendatural changes, if any, should only be taken after a much needed review of the generic definitions in the Platycleidini (s.l.). An updated checklist of Pterolepis and Rhacocleis taxa is included. Pterolepis ramburi Serville 1838 is proposed as a species incertae sedis.
20066582|Caeliferan species belonging to the Ibero-Balear fauna are inventoried. Lists are drawn up on the basis of data available in the literature and from a study of specimens collected by the authors during the last 30 years. The last inventory of species and subspecies belonging to the fauna of the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic islands was in 1987. In five different lists we take into consideration contributions from various authors since 1987. Listings are: 1) species belonging to the Ibero-Balear fauna, which include 153 taxa belonging to three superfamilies, five families and eight subfamilies, 2) species from the Arn Valley not found in the Peninsula itself: two taxa, 3) alien species: five taxa, 4) species of doubtful presence in the Iberian Peninsula: six taxa and 5) nullified species for the Iberian Peninsula: 19 taxa.
10.2307/3503557|Patterns of orthopteran distributions are described for North and Central Asia. Distribution of higher taxa, genera, and species shows that the position of their range boundaries is chiefly determined by current conditions, mainly zonality and continentality. It reflects the southern thermophilic character of these insects and the association of most species with grassland ecosystems. Distribution of the centers of diversity and endemism corresponds in outline to the general distribution. Types of biogeographical boundaries and orthopteran ranges are also described. A scheme for the regionalization of North and Central Asia is proposed.
23610399|A new species of Phaneropterinae from northeastern Mexico, Pterodichopetala alfredoi n. sp., is described. P. alfredoi n. sp., may be easily separated from congeneric P. cieloi on morphological characters such as length of tegmen (shorter in P. alfredoi n. sp., leaving exposed the last abdominal tergites), male cerci composed of three processes vs two processes in P. cieloi, internal genitalia made up of two subtriangular processes, proximally and distally very produced (not so in P. cieloi), stridulatory file with ca 113 teeth (9-10 mm in length, 8-15 teeth/mm) vs P. cieloi stridulatory file ca 70 teeth (7-8 mm in length, 8-12 teeth/mm). Information on acoustic signals, ecology and distribution of P. alfredoi n. sp., is provided and discussed.
3503700|The effects of wildfires on the Orthoptera fauna of extensive dry grasslands were investigated at 25 random sites in a military training area in Eastern Austria. Using a space-for-time substitution, a time span of 1 to about 20 y after fire was considered. Fire-induced trajectories of habitat characteristics such as microclimate proved to have a determining effect on the occurrence of most acridids and some tettigoniids. Dispersal capacity and fire-shelter characteristics of egg deposition sites did not significantly influence postburn occurrence patterns of the investigated species. Of a total of 20 species, seven were favored by wildfires, two were adversely affected by fire and eleven did not show significant responses to postburn age. Four species, amongst them Celes variabilis, which is highly endangered in Central Europe, can be considered fire-dependent in the study area. Therefore, fire can have beneficial effects for the conservation of acridid grasshoppers in particular. A reconsideration of the present legal ban on the use of prescribed burning in Central Europe is recommended.
43738197|Top-down control by spider predators on grasshopper herbivores can produce trophic cascades, which may enhance plant biomass and alter plant community composition. These trophic level effects may be the result of either predator reduction in prey numbers (i.e., consumptive effects) or decreased prey foraging time in response to predator presence (i.e., nonconsumptive effects). However, predator-prey interactions can be context dependent and do not always affect the plant trophic level. We conducted a field and laboratory experiment in a Northern Wisconsin (USA) old field ecosystem to uncover whether consumptive or non-consumptive effects of spider predation on grasshopper herbivores result in a trophic cascade, and if so to determine the underlying mechanisms that drive these trophic cascades. In a field experiment, four treatments examined the effects of multiple trophic-level interactions on plant biomass: 1) control treatment of vegetation only, 2) a two trophic-level interaction (grasshoppers and vegetation), and two different three trophic-level interactions: 3) the presence of "predator spiders" to examine consumptive effects, and 4) "risk spiders" with their chelicerae disarmed with beeswax to examine non-consumptive effects. In addition, a lab experiment was conducted to examine behavioral responses by grasshoppers in the presence of both an armed-spider predator and a risk spider to assess whether food quality (high vs low C:N ratios) had an effect on this interaction. Both risk and predator spiders decreased the impact of grasshoppers on plant biomass in the field experiment, and equally reduced overall grasshopper survival, indicating a non-consumptive effect. At the behavioral level, grasshoppers exhibited anti-predator behavior at the expense of reduced food intake. Food quality had no effect on the survival of grasshoppers as foraging was sacrificed for predator avoidance. Taken together, our results indicate that the resulting trophic cascade was the result of non-consumptive effects and that spider presence alone may reduce grasshopper herbivory rates.
3503663|Two new species of Acrometopae and the female of Lamecosoma inermis Ragge are described from Tanzania, East Africa. Horatosphaga parensis n. sp. occurs in montane forest clearings of the South and North Pare Mountains. Peronura uguenoensis n. sp. inhabits herbaceous vegetation in the North Pare Mts. Notes on altitudinal distribution and habitat requirements are given for both species. L. inermis is an inhabitant of the savannah grasslands in the colline and submontane zone of southeast and eastern Kilimanjaro.
4122956|The phallic anatomy of all the modern Hispaniolan eumastacids and of representative species of all genera of the Central American Episactinae has been examined. Two new genera, Neibamastax from the Dominican Republic and Paralethus from El Salvador, are erected to accomodate species which were found to have very divergent phallic morphology. Additionally, we have examined isolated species of the Teicophryinae and Miraculinae. A cladistic analysis of the Central American and Hispaniolan genera was performed, which divides these into two well-supported monophyletic clades, corresponding to the two areas of distribution. These we equate with the Episactinae Burr 1903 and the Espagnolinae Rehn 1948, and offer diagnoses of these two subfamilies. We present new data from the Teicophryinae which supports their inclusion in the Episactidae as well.
10.2307/3503510|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPDs) was utilized in the following study to examine its potential in paternity assessment of two grasshopper species. Initially, primer screening was undertaken and a list of 42 primers generated that were found useful in differentiating among individuals. Next, the inheritance of markers in a Mendelian fashion was verified before testing for paternity. It was concluded that RAPDs is an efficient and useful technique in that paternity can be assigned to a particular male via inclusive data (the presence of a band in the offspring and with one parent over the others). Recommendations of methodology are included in the paper.
25473455|Metabolic rate determines an individual's rate of resource acquistion, assimilation, growth, survival and reproduction. Studies involving a broad range of taxa and body sizes typically result in whole-organism metabolic rate scaling to the  power of body mass. Competing models have been proposed to explain this allometric relationship. The nutrient supply network model of West et al. (1997) proposes that the  power relationship results from the fractal nature of space-filling nutrient supply networks. The model of Kozlowski et al. (2003) proposes that the scaling of metabolic rate with body mass will vary from 2/3 to 1 among different taxa, depending on the degree to which increasing body size depends on increasing cell size or number. The present study measured resting metabolic rates across a broad range of body sizes in nymphs of Melanoplus sanguinipes F. and also analyzed published reports of metabolic rates in adult Orthoptera. The two sets of data were in close agreement: the scaling exponent for the ontogenetic series of M. sanguinipes was 0.92, and for the interspecific, phylogenetically corrected regression with adult Orthoptera, was 1.06. Both scaling exponents were significantly greater than the 0.75 predicted by the nutrient supply network model.
25473422|The insecticide diflubenzuron (DFB), a benzoylphenyl urea, decreases fecundity in insects by a still unknown mechanism. The objective of this study was firstly to see the effects of DFB on female reproduction, after its ingestion by Schistocerca gregaria females five days following imaginal molt. DFB significantly delayed the timing of the first and of the second laying when compared to control females. DFB-treated females laid eggs only twice, while control females had, as typical, up to five ovipositions. DFB action on ovarian development and hemolymphatic ecdysteroid levels were also evaluated in females. Ecdysteroid titres in control females fluctuated according to the ovarian cycle, reaching a peak of around 170 pmol/mL hemolymph during the vitellogenic phase. In DFB-treated females, hemolymph ecdysteroid titres remained very low and oocyte growth was reduced. The treatment caused early oocyte resorption and any eggs deposited never hatched.
10.2307/3503504| In eastern Australia, parasitism of eggs of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetesterminifera (Walker) by the wasp Scelio fulgidus Crawford was surveyed between 1975 and 1994. In the arid interior, where most plagues of C. terminifera originate, parasitism was moderate to high (15-45% of eggpods), yet locusts increased to plague proportions in spite of parasitism. The consistently moderate parasitism of C. terminifera in the interior, in spite of its low rainfall, is a result of S. fulgidus development being well synchronized with that of its host. After several generations in the interior, C. terminifera typically migrated from the interior to sub-coastal agricultural areas. When locusts invaded agricultural areas during summer, parasitism was only slightly lower than that in the interior, though parasitism declined between summer and autumn. Often the locust population in agricultural areas collapsed before the next summer and parasitism was very high in the eggpods of remnant locusts. The high post-outbreak parasitism levels were not reached during 1990-94, when a preventative control program kept locust populations from reaching plague proportions: lower host numbers mean a lower absolute abundance of S. fulgidus, so that when host populations collapsed, the parasitism in residual locust populations increased less. 
23610400|Somewhat surprisingly, the rather speciose subfamily Catantopinae has largely evaded phylogenetic scrutiny. This note describes relationships among a small, but larger than that heretofore studied, subset of members based on an analysis of mitochondrial sequence characters. Analysis of portions of 4 mitochondrial genes, some sequenced in this laboratory and some obtained from GenBank, was applied to 12 specimens of Catantopinae. Also included were representatives of the subfamilies Calliptaminae, Cyrtacanthacridinae, Eyprepocnemidinae, Melanoplinae and Oxyinae. Pyrgomorpha conica served as the outgroup. Sequences were analyzed by weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods. Both weighted parsimony and Bayesian approaches, with some minor exceptions, yielded similar relationships. Although some clusters of catantopines do occur, molecular results appear to confirm earlier suspicions that the subfamily is not monophyletic and therefore should be subdivided. More work clearly needs to be devoted to the Catantopinae in order to determine the nature and extent of the subfamily's inevitable sundering.
20789565|Two new species of the flightless genus Parepistaurus, occurring on high mountains of northern Tanzania, are described in this paper. P. hanangensis n. sp. is an inhabitant of the montane zone of Mt Hanang, a solitary volcano of northwestern Tanzania. P. uguenoensis n. sp. occurs in the North Pare Mts, a mountain range of the northern branch of the Eastern Arc chain. Both species have their closest relatives in species of adjacent situated mountain areas, as seen in their morphology and molecular phylogeny. Phylogenetic reconstruction were performed for three genes [16S rRNA gene, cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) and the histone gene H3], using different assumptions on sequence evolution. The closest relative of P. uguenoensis is P. deses from Mt Kilimanjaro, a geologically young volcano. The closest morphological and molecular relative of P. hanangensis is P. manyara, distributed along mountainous ranges of the rift-valley escarpment. The molecular relationship of the investigated taxa suggests that the subspecies of P. deses should receive species status.
10.2307/3503571|Schistocerca americana males were found to crepitate during interactions with other males in the field. More research will need to be conducted to determine if such behavior is involved with male-male aggressive interactions or if it is involved with courtship signalling to females or both
25622283|The species niedermoschelensis sp. nov. (Nosipteron niedermoschelensis gen. and sp. nov. under Linnaean nomenclature) is described on the basis of a single fossil specimen from the the Permo-Carboniferous deposits of Niedermoschel, Saar-Nahe Basin, Germany. The species is assigned to the higher taxon Archaeorthoptera (including among others, orthopterans and some stem orthopterans). The forewing morphology of the species suggests close relationships with lobeattid insects, a group widely represented during the Late Carboniferous, and one for which the monophyly is uncertain. The occurrence of niedermoschelensis sp. nov. near the Gzhelian/Asselian boundary constitutes the latest record of this group (assuming that it is monophyletic). In addition the new species exhibits a new combination of character states, including a comparatively long free part of CuA.
25473417|A junior homonym was detected among phasmid genera and the following replacement name is proposed: Redtenbacherus nom. nov. for Ernodes Redtenbacher, 1908. New combinations are proposed for the species group names currently included in this genus. Redtenbacherus antennatus (Redtenbacher, 1908) comb. nov.; Redtenbacherus jacobsoni (Rehn, 1912) comb. nov. and Redtenbacherus sumatranus (Redtenbacher, 1908) comb. nov.
10.2307/3503511|The mechanism of sperm transfer and sperm organization inside the spermatheca was investigated in Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). Spermathecae from single- and multiple- mated females whose copulations were interrupted at various prescribed time intervals, were examined histologically. Sperm organization inside the spermatheca from 24 to 120 hours after copulation had terminated was also investigated. The first observation of sperm inside the spermatheca did not occur until 30 minutes had passed into copulation. The majority of sperm transferred into the spermatheca were in the form of sperm bundles, or spermatodesmes, and the rate at which sperm bundles were transferred appeared to decrease after 13 hours into copulation (average mating duration in the laboratory was 28 hours). The occurrence of abundant sperm with sperm bundles was observed only in females that had mated before and less than 9 hours into copulation, and so believed to be from previous matings. As mating continued, less and less individual sperm was observed, and by 15 hours into copulation only sperm bundles were observed inside the spermatheca. The interrupted multiple matings indicate that at least some sperm bundles remain inside the spermatheca while individual sperm were removed by some mechanism, possibly sperm flushing by an excess of seminal fluid provided by the mating male. Some sperm bundles were shown to keep their bundle integrity for at least 7 days after copulation had terminated. The sperm bundles must disassociate into individual sperm prior to fertilizing the female's eggs; therefore, it may be the female that provides the mechanism or chemical stimulus to initiate sperm bundle disassociation prior to oviposition and/or a multiple mating. The results of this investigation implicate sperm competition, perhaps mediated by female choice, as a primary reason for lengthy copulations in D. viridis. Males may also act as mechanical plugs by remaining in copula for an extended duration after a sufficient amount of sperm has been transferred, or males may be overcompensating the process of sperm removal by transferring an excess of seminal fluid to "flush-out" any sperm present from previous matings.
3657112|An analysis of the development of infestations of the Australian plague locust (Chortoicetes terminifera) (Walker) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) from 1977-1995 in eastern Australia is presented which traces the sequence of generations and redistribution of gregarious populations through migration. Migration in this species has previously been viewed as a one-way trip, locusts reaching southern regions of the species range were thought to have no reliable means of return to the areas of summer population increase in western Queensland. However, a study of outbreaks over recent years, using new technologies for simulating and observing migratory events, suggested a pattern of exchange migrations, with northward movements in November and December. In this paper we provide further evidence of migrations to western Queensland from populations in the southern or eastern parts of the species range. Several northward or westward migrations from New South Wales, South Australia or eastern Queensland are identified from historic distribution data and supported by meteorological records. These migrations were significant in that they allowed the rapid re-establishment of gregarious populations in arid western Queensland after summer rains. The frequency of late-spring northward migrations is comparable to that of the better-known southward migrations in autumn. The evidence for previous conclusions about the source of historical plagues and the importance of spring breeding in arid southwest Queensland are re-examined in the light of these findings.
10.2307/3503493| The genus Pterophylla Kirby is characterized by great morphometric and acoustic variation among allopatric populations of the different species (Alexander 1967, Shaw 1968, Barrientos 1988). The plasticity of the group and much intraspecific variation have caused a history of taxonomic confusion (Hebard 1941, Shaw and Carlson 1969, North and Shaw 1980, Barrientos and Den Hollander 1994, Den Hollander and Barrientos 1994). Acoustic and morphometric characters have been useful in demonstrating geographic variation and separating species of Pterophylla (Shaw and Carlson 1969; Barrientos 1988). The present work examines morphometric variation between allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. in northern Mexico. Males of seven allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. were considered, with a sample size of 20 males per population, measuring 18 characters per male. The analysis separated populations into two groups: group 1 consisting of populations 1, 2, and 3, which corresponded to P. beltrani; and group 2 consisting of populations 4, 5, 6, and 7 which corresponded to P. robertsi. Mate choice and hybridization experiments between the populations confirmed the above results. The geographic range of P. beltrani was determined to extend from Nuevo Len, at the base of the eastern Sierra Madre, to Cuidad Victoria and Jaumave, Tamaulipas; the geographic range of P. robertsi was determined to extend from Llera, Tamaulipas to San Luis Potos, including three additional populations of P. robertsi previously unknown in the State of Tamaulipas. Intermediate populations, i.e., populations 4, 5, and 6, were also intermediate in morphological characters with respect to the extreme populations of the geographic range of the species (north extreme population = population 1, P. beltrani; south extreme population = population 7, P. robertsi). The possible existence of a hybrid zone between the populations occurring where the geographic range of the species overlap is hypothesized. 
43738195|Members of the family Phaneropteridae are well known for their acoustical duetting behaviour, used for locating and meeting a mate. In Poecilimon affinis, typically the male approaches a responding female phonotactically. A set of behavioural experiments, bioacoustic and neurophysiological measurements (some with a relatively low sample size, but not repeatable under the same circumstances) indicates the following system: the male song (92 dB SPLpeak at a distance of 1 m) is about 10 dB louder than the female song. The females respond to male signals only if these are ~15-20 dB above their hearing threshold. The males start a phonotactic approach towards a stationary, responding female only if she is no more than ~12m away. Females, on the other hand, may respond to singing males up to a distance of 28m, and to more distant males with softer signals than to closer ones. A possible function of these weak signals, inaudible for the duetting male, may be to attract eavesdropping males. The communication system will work at densities as low as 0.003 females or 0.0005 males per m.
3503683|This paper adds to Naskrecki's (1998) revision of the neotropical katydid genus Acantheremus. The male of Acantheremus granulatus Karny is described for the first time. A newly discovered Peruvian species from the rainforest canopy-Acantheremus arboreus Nickle, new species-is also described.
3657132|A better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie phase transformation in a solitarious desert locust population is an important prerequisite for the development of a quantitative gregarization model and for predicting locust outbreaks. Two types of processes are involved: 1) clustering at diminishing spatial scales, which brings dispersed locusts together and which, in patchy micro-environments with a concentrated food resource, gives rise to nuclei of pheromone-emitting, gregarizing insects; and 2) recruitment processes which promote the horizontal spread of gregarious traits from such nuclei. Because of the heterogeneity of typical breeding habitats and divergent behavior of the 2 phases of the insect, there is a dynamic interplay between the forces of crowd formation and those of dispersal. All the key steps in the course of phase change are reversible and for successful development of a viable gregarious population, all must proceed at optimal pace toward the gregarious phase. The process resembles a chemical transformation that involves a series of reversible sequential steps and may, likewise, be treated as a series of equilibria. Such a conceptual model may constitute a useful framework for quantitative studies in desert locust primary breeding areas and in the development of a predictive gregarization model.
3503732|Based on analysis of more than fifty species of neotropical grasshoppers with a neo XY sex determining mechanism, the authors suggest that species acquiring such mechanisms are finally extinct at the end of a relatively short evolutionary process.
20066584|A junior homonym was detected recently among the katydid genera, and the following replacement name is proposed: Beierotettix nom. nov. for Colobotettix Beier, 1960. Accordingly, new combinations are herein proposed for the species currently included in this genus: Beierotettix marginatus (Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895) comb. nov. and Beierotettix viridis (Beier, 1960) comb. nov.
25473444|Conspicuous sex differences in size, shape, color and behavior are pervasive throughout both the animal and plant kingdoms. Although previous work has shown that sexual dimorphism can evolve purely as the result of either natural (intersexual resource competition) or sexual selection (fecundity selection, male-male combat), a handful of studies have also shown that these mechanisms need not be mutually exclusive and may even act synergistically to enhance dimorphisms. More recent studies have focused on the factors that act to constrain the evolution of sexual dimorphism. For example, a high genetic covariance among traits between the sexes is thought to retard adaptive sexual differentiation or place an upper limit on the degree of intersexual divergence. However, high genetic correlations themselves are often the result of selection for functional coherence amongst traits (integration), and thus divergent selection between the sexes could theoretically drive sexual dimorphism in the genetic variance-covariance matrix (G). To address this issue, we consider the phenotypic variance-covariance matrix (P), within the context of the evolution of sexual dimorphism in the eastern lubber grasshopper (Romalea microptera). We show that: 1) adult female lubbers have relatively wider heads than adult males; 2) most morphological traits show significant integration with one another, but males show a higher degree of integration than females; 3) P in lubbers is not strongly correlated across the sexes. These results suggest that phenotypic integration does not constrain the evolution of sexual dimorphism in R. microptera. Hence, sex-related traits can evolve separately from other traits.
10.2307/3503507|A quantitative assessment of pest status in Orthoptera s.str. is currently difficult. While estimates of crop-damage are sometimes available and relatively easy to obtain, this is rarely translated into crop-loss nor is reduction in productivity of domestic animals as a result of damage to rangelands. Crop damage rarely has a simple relationship to crop-loss. Obtaining a direct measure of harvest weight is complicated by harvest methods. Effect of prolonged attack over a number of years must be taken into account. The varying market value of the crop lost will alter the status of a pest locally. Most published annual data does not take these subtleties into account. Published government harvest loss data may be exaggerated either upwards (perhaps to get aerial spraying into an area to kill cattle ticks) or downwards (to achieve forecast government productivity targets). Most Orthopteran pests attack as associations of two or more species, each of which oscillates in numbers independently. Monitoring studies rarely continue for periods long enough to understand what drives these changes. Exceptions are to be found in the mid-west of the U.S.A. (Anderson 1970, Hewitt, and Onsager, 1982), central Asia, and eastern Australia. Long-term changes in farming practice, e.g. replacement of millet by sorghum in the Sahel, may be indirect clues that Orthoptera pest damage is having an effect. Intercrops and poor weeding may favor greater attack by acridids. Qualitatively centers of Orthopteran pest activity can be chosen. These include North America, Central America, the southern Caribbean, central and northeast South America, sahelian Africa, Ethiopian highlands, southwestern and southern Africa, eastern Europe, central Asia, northern Africa, India, East Pakistan and Afghanistan, parts of the Arabian peninsula, China, Philippines, and Australia. Severe damage is often evident where there has been displacement of farming communities during recent wars and agriculture has been abandoned. Ecological disequilibrium is more frequent where marginal lands have been occupied recently, e.g. Kenya, or arid lands irrigated (as in Libya) or overgrazing incurred (as in Central Asia) accompanied by drought. Some vegetational changes seem to be natural, e.g. reduction of wild sorghum on clay plains south of Lake Chad. The Orthoptera should never be monitored in isolation, because they are usually a component of an interacting insect pest complex including other insect orders. Crop phenology is also required, as we must build up more information on timing and degree of foliar damage and effect on yield.
10.2307/3503463|The behavior and biology of true leaf-mimicking katydids from lowland Amazonian rainforests in northeast Peru include several unusual features. A unique form of pair bonding or pair maintenance, called "riding", is reported for the first time; a male clings to the tegmen of the female for long periods of time between mating events. Species belonging to the genera Mimetica, Pterochroza, and Typophyllum display color polymorphism (with up to seven color variants in some species) and sexual dimorphism (males are significantly smaller and have different tegminal shapes than conspecific females). Some species of Pterochroza, Tanusia, Ommatoptera, Rhodopteryx, Porphyromma, and Typophyllum have secondary defense displays, wherein brightly colored hindwings and the undersides of tegmina with eyespots are displayed, when the katydid is disturbed by a potential predator. Parasitism by sarcophagid and ceratopogonid flies is also reviewed.
3503617| Seventeen new species of the predaceous katydid genus Phlugis Karny (Meconematinae) are described and figured. All of these species were collected from rainforests in northern Peru. Three of them - along with the already described species, P. teres (DeGeer) - regularly were captured along trails at ground level; the remaining 14 were collected from treetop canopies 10 to 30 m above ground level, using pesticide fogging methods. Based on the numbers of new forms collected from tree canopies, it is probable that many species of this already large genus are yet to be discovered as this niche is explored more thoroughly. /// Diecisiete nuevas especies de grillos depredadores del gnero Phlugis Karny (Meconematinae) se describen s ilustran. Todas estas especies fueron recolectadas de las selvas tropicales en la regin norte del Per. Tres de ellas - junto con la especie ya descrita, Phlugis teres (DeGeer) - fueron capturados regularmente a lo largo de los trillos a nivel del suelo; las catorce restantes fueron recogidos de los pabellones de las copas de rboles a 10-30 m sobre el nivel del suelo, usando el mtodo de pesticidas que empaaba. De acuerdo con los nmeros de las nuevas formas recogidas de las copas de los rboles, es probable que muchas especies de este gnero, ya numeroso, van a ser descubiertas conforme este nicho sea explorado ms a fondo. 
10.2307/3503525|We describe one new species of Hygronemobius, two new species of Pteronemobius from the highlands of Santa Cruz and San Cristobal and a new genus and species of Trigonidiinae. The new Hygronemobius daphne and the new Trigonidiine, Jarmilaxipha ecuadorica n. gen., n. sp. are believed to have been introduced into Galapagos (from an unknown source) within the last 20 years. We provide songs for all species discussed here.
3657105| In laboratory and field trials in China, the Australian isolate (FI-985) of the fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum caused high mortality of nymphs of the oriental migratory locust, Locusta migratoria manilensis. In the laboratory, various dilutions of Green Guard, the commercial M. anisopliae var. acridum product, caused 70 to 80% mortality of 4th instar nymphs. In field trials conducted at Tianjin and in Henan province, backpack sprayers were used to treat 40 ha (2002) and over 160 ha (2003) with an ULV formulation of Green Guard. The spray was applied at a rate of 50 to 125g spores in 1125 to 1500 mL of oil/ha and, 8 to 11 d later, field populations had declined by 65 to 97%. 
3657128| The search for alternatives to the widespread use of chemicals to control locusts and grasshoppers has led to the development of mycoinsecticides based on Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum. Two products are available commercially: Green Muscle in Africa and Green Guard in Australia. Only Green Guard has been used in large control operations, with nearly 80,000 ha treated since operational use began in 2000. Research, though important, was not sufficient to lead to operational use of Green Guard: the critical factor was the formation of the Locust and Grasshopper Biocontrol Committee that consisted of research providers, end-users and a commercial partner who together favored the rapid development of a commercial product. In Australia, M. a. var. acridum is used in environmentally sensitive areas such as near waterways, or where there are rare and endangered species, and on the many properties, in locust-source areas in the interior, that produce organic beef for export. However, an increasingly important use is by landholders, who are now required to list all the chemicals used for pest control when they sell their products. This, potentially very large, use is limited by the myopesticide's slower action and higher price. Slower action is not a major problem when Metarhizium is used in preventive control programs. The higher price is, in part, a consequence of its narrow host range. M. a. var. acridum is specific to locusts and grasshoppers, so research, development and registration costs must be divided amongst 1 or 2 users, not dozens, as is common with chemical pesticides. Yet one of the greatest problems is the sporadic nature of locust and grasshopper outbreaks, which results in an intermittent need for Metarhizium and a lack of ready availability when outbreaks do occur. Use of Metarhizium in a number of countries, including those that have more regular outbreaks, may be one way of ensuring high-volume production at a reasonable price. Only then will there be a regular operational use to prove that this mycoinsecticide works under a wide variety of environmental conditions, so that it can take its place as part of the integrated pest management of locusts and grasshoppers throughout the world. 
25473457|Autotomy, the 'voluntary' shedding of a limb or other body part, is a highly effective escape mechanism to avoid predation or other forms of entrapment. Autotomy, however, comes with costs to locomotion, reproductive behavior, regeneration etc. It has been suggested that increasing body size and 'robustness' may allow for less reliance on this extreme form of predator defense, but this theory has never been tested. Here we present behavioral observations ('willingness' or time taken to lose an entrapped limb) of Orthoptera of a range of body size and mass. These data strongly suggest that body size and mass may be an important determinant of the use of autotomy as an escape mechanism within the Order, possibly due to the effects of body size upon the efficacy of autotomy, as well as other defense mechanisms. An ontogenetic study for Gryllus bimaculatus, however, shows no clear trend in willingness to autotomize a limb with body mass, suggesting that this defense tactic may be less affected by body size per se, but rather by the tactics developed by each individual species.
3503740|A recently developed PCR-based assay, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), has been used for assessing phylogenetic relationships and the genetic structure of populations in many organisms including insects. Preliminary studies show that the procedure does not work well in acridid grasshoppers since it leads to very large numbers of indistinct bands, probably due to the large size of the genome. To overcome this drawback, we developed long primer sets with four selective nucleotides, and used these for the grasshoppers Chorthippus brunneus and C. jacobsi in northern Spain. This approach has allowed us to reduce the number of bands, so that we can compare homologous bands easily. Using the revised method, it appears that the degree of interspecific genetic differentiation of C. brunneus and C. jacobsi is relatively small.
25473421|Orthopteran community composition varies with habitat quality. The distribution of Orthoptera species depends primarily on which vegetation type provides food resources and habitat. For insight into this relation between distribution and habitat quality we studied the 21 most-abundant orthopteran species in El Cimatario National Park (State of Quertaro, Mxico) in four vegetation types. We found that nearly half of these species tended to inhabit a particular vegetation type. This study is a first contribution exploring the relation between vegetation and distribution of Mexican Orthoptera.
10.2307/3503644|A new species of cricket of the genus Petaloptila is described, Petaloptila pyrenaea is collected in limestone caves from the central Pyrenean mountains. It can be distinguished from the other Iberian species of the genus by its external morphology and the male genitalia.
20066583|Le Criquet nomade, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville, 1838) a t tudi depuis longtemps en Afrique australe o ses aires grgarignes sont connues et suivies rgulirement. Ce locuste est aussi prsent  Madagascar, mais c'est seulement rcemment que des individus grgaires ont t observs et dcrits: en 1997 dans le sud et en 2002 dans le nord de l'le. Ce criquet fait une reproduction par an et passe la saison sche en diapause imaginale. Le prsent travail vise  recenser les signalisations de Nomadacris septemfasciata collectes depuis 1907 et d'tablir une premire chorologie du taxon au niveau national. Pour complter ces archives, d'autres donnes ont t recueillies par des enqutes paysannes et des prospections de terrain. Ces donnes sur la distribution ont t compares  des variables physiques (altitude) et mtorologique (pluviomtrie et temprature). Au total 717 signalisations ont t recueillies. La confrontation avec les variables physiques du milieu ne permet pas de dterminer d'optimum thermique ou pluviomtrique pour ce locuste. Au contraire du criquet migrateur, un autre locuste menaant  Madagascar, le criquet nomade semble s'adapter  des conditions varies. Le criquet nomade se rpartit entre 0 et 2000 m d'altitude. Une zone de diapause peut tre dlimite sur le rebord des hautes terres et sur la cte-Est. La zone de reproduction est beaucoup plus tendue, elle concerne les zones de moyenne altitude et l'ensemble du versant occidental du sud au nord. Le climat est de type tropical chaud et contrast. La rgion de la Sofia (au nord-ouest) concentre l'essentiel des signalisations de populations groupes. C'est dans cette zone que des individus grgaires ont t dcrits dans des essaims et des bandes larvaires entre 1999 et 2003. /// The red locust Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville, 1838) has been studied for a long time in Southern Africa where its outbreak areas are known and regularly assessed. This locust is also observed in Madagascar, but only recently have gregarious individuals been observed and described: in 1997 in the south and in 2002 in the north part of the island. This locust has only one generation per year, with a long immature adult period throughout the dry season. In this work, by means of all data recorded since 1907, a first chorology study of Nomadacris septemfasciata is set up at the national level. Archival data were improved with data collected during rural investigations and field surveys. Chorology data were analyzed with physical and weather ecological parameters (altitude, rainfall and temperature). Altogether, 717 measures were collected. By contrast with the migratory locust, another pest in Madagascar, the distribution and ecological requirements of the red locust do not seem to correlate only with altitude, rainfall and temperature: its response to the micro-environment also plays a prominent role. The red locust ranges between 0 and 2000 m elevation. An area of diapause can be delimited on the edge of the highlands and the east coast. The breeding area is wider and more extensive, from middle areas to the whole of the western slope, from south to north. It is in the Sofia area (in the northwest of the island) that most of the populations (hopper bands and swarms) were observed between 1999 and 2003.
3503678|The authors studied a rich collection of mantids from Ecuador, belonging to the Pontificia Universidad of Quito. Forty species were identified, among them 18 are new for the Ecuadorian fauna and Chopardiella poulaini is new to science.
25473452|Life-history theory suggests that the existence and persistence of phenotypic variation within species must be maintained through some advantage accruing to an individual following one developmental pathway over another. Here, we consider the adult lifespan of two highly differentiated male morphs and the female in the bladder grasshopper species Bullacris membracioides (Orthoptera: Pneumoroidea). Our results show that the adult longevity of small, uninflated males is twice that of both the larger inflated male and mature females. Uninflated males have a type II survivorship curve, whereas inflated males and adult females both have type I survivorship curves. This difference indicates that the latter two morphs die due to senescence, while the uninflated male does not. The longevity difference between the male morphs shows that while the volant inflated males have the ability to locate many females, they can do so only over a short term, whereas the flightless uninflated male has comparatively limited mobility, but twice as much time to search for mates. This lifespan extension may impart some reproductive advantage for the uninflated male in the longer term, allowing for more female encounters, and increasing its chances for reproduction.
3503659|The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources has identified a new State Natural Area in the Lower Chippewa River region of western Wisconsin. This 100,000-ha+ area contains 800 ha of prairie remnants- 25% of Wisconsin's remaining remnant prairie. Diversity of grasshopper populations (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was assessed in these remnant prairies. Remnants ranged in size from <1 ha to > 60 ha, and contained from 6 to 15 species from four subfamilies. Half of the remnants contained 10 or more species. Data from this survey provides the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources with a tool to evaluate remnant prairies, and a snapshot of what grasshopper communities may have looked like in Wisconsin prior to settlement. This research also updates the Orthopteran literature database for acridid distribution records for this region of the USA.
10.2307/3503555|Field maps of calling males were obtained for two species of Hawaiian crickets. Males of Laupala tantalis tended to aggregate at the base of tree trunks, whereas L. pacifica males were usually evenly spaced. Possible explanations for this interspecific difference in spacing are considered.
40344841|Hemagglutinating activity (HA) of the serum of the 5th-instar desert locust Schistocerca gregaria was detected against a range of vertebrate blood cells (RBCs). Serum strongly agglutinates RBCs of rabbit. In contrast, no agglutination was observed for RBCs from guinea pig or horse and a very low level was observed for human, sheep, and rat RBCs. HA is Ca-dependent, heat-labile, and was strongly inhibited by -linked-D-galactosides and rhamnose. Developmentally, a relatively low level of HA (32) is present in the extracted fluids from centrifuged homogenate of 1 to 12 day-old eggs. Also, a limited level of HA was observed in the 2 nd and 3rd instars. However, prominent and cyclical patterns were observed in the 4th and 5th instars. In each of these cycles, HA starts low (64), maximizes (128, 512, in the two instars respectively) at about midstadium, then declines again prior to ecdysis to the next stage. On the other hand, adult stage HA starts at a low value (512), then maximizes and is sustained at a fairly constant value (1024), without any difference in the sexes throughout the period of measurements (up to day 73 of the life cycle). HA is independent of sex and season but conspicuously and reproducibly varies with stadium, stage and age.
10.2307/3503534|The natural history of the giant sand treader camel cricket, Daihinibaenetes giganteus Tinkham, was studied from 1992 to 1994 at the type locality, Great Sand Dunes National Monument, Alamosa County, Colorado. This insect undergoes six nymphal instars, overwintering usually as fourth instar nymphs. Individuals were found to have traveled as much as 200 m in a single night while foraging. These nocturnal insects apparently have a general omnivorous diet, consuming both living and dead plant and animal material. They have several natural enemies and potential natural enemies at the Monument. Communication was not observed for this species. Mating behavior was recorded in a few instances and was described. Males were rarely observed to be aggressive while foraging, but would aggressively defend their burrows, sometimes using their hind leg armature for this purpose. Three types of burrows-simple, branched and complex-were classified, and burrow contents were recorded. Some males were found to defend harems of one to four females, but these relationships were not long term. Daihinibaenetes giganteus displays an unusual mating system, which combines short-term female defense polygyny and resource defense polygyny in an attempt to maximize mating opportunity in an ephemeral, unstable environment.
10.2307/3503645|A visit to Kauai in 1997 revealed a catastrophic drop in Laupala cricket populations in the Keahua region of the island. Ants, previously unknown at collection sites, were now found in large numbers. This study investigates the possible effects of ants on Laupala. Localities from Hawaii, Kauai, Oahu, and Maui, previously known to possess large cricket populations were examined for the number of crickets heard singing and the presence of ants. Cricket songs provide a method by which cricket abundance can be assessed. No sites were found to have both an abundant Laupala population and a population of Pheidole megacephala. The data suggest that in eastern Kauai the decline in crickets, and the peculiar distribution patterns observed, can be attributed to predation by this ant.
25822708|In the past few years large-scale genome sequencing has demonstrated that inversion rearrangements are more frequent than initially hypothesized. Many examples suggest they may have played an important function in delineating the evolution of biodiversity. In particular, clinal patterns of variation for this type of rearrangement point out its significance in relation to the evolution and adaptation of organisms to changing environments. Within grasshoppers, Trimerotropis and Circotettix show high incidence of inversion rearrangements, either in fixed or polymorphic state, according to which several hypotheses about phylogenetic relationships have been proposed. Herewith we review the evolutionary significance of inversions in Trimerotropis pallidipennis, whose South American populations show clinal variation for pericentric inversions along environmental gradients. We report a new phylogeographic analysis that includes populations of this species from North and South America, and also other species of Trimerotropis and Circotettix. This study was performed in order to gain further insights into the phylogenetic relationships of this group of species, the dispersion routes followed by T. pallidipennis in South America and the evolutionary significance of inversion clines.
10.2307/3503541|Males of the bushcricket Steropleurus stali produce very large spermatophores. The relative lengths of the male and female refractory periods were investigated and shown to influence the operational sex ratio (OSR), such that the females show a high degree of intrasexual competition. It was also found that females do not show a preference for larger males who produce larger spermatophores. Altering the sex ratio, however, so that the OSR becomes male-skewed, influences the mate-choice behaviour of the females, such that they do show this preference.
20066563|Several species of mantids perform defensive displays during close-range encounters with predators. In adult Mantis religiosa, this display entails both visual and acoustic components, the latter being abdomino-alary stridulation. Stridulatory modifications of the abdomen and hindwings and acoustic properties of the defensive sounds of M. religiosa are characterized here for the first time. Defensive sounds are generated via an abdomino-alary mechanism involving contact between teeth found on the longitudinal veins of the metathoracic wings and pegs located on the abdominal pleura. Defensive stridulation in M. religiosa is highly variable in both spectral and time domains. Inter-individual variability may be stochastically greater than intra-individual variability for at least one acoustic parameter (peak frequency). The loudest portion of a sound emission (syllable), or down-pulse, has an average duration of 195 ms and features an abrupt rise to maximum amplitude. Inter-syllabic intervals are irregular and rate of syllable production depends on a mantid's sex. The acoustic output of M. religiosa is nonresonant, broadband, and of relatively low intensity. A minor ultrasonic component may be present in the spectra of these mantids (particularly in males). The modal peak frequency range (4 kHz interval) is 8-12 kHz (mean range 7.4-9.4 kHz). Acoustic parameters which appear to vary between the sexes and/or among females at different reproductive stages, may be related to the sexual size dimorphism of this species and morphological constraints associated with egg-bearing. The acoustic output of M. religiosa is considered with reference to its intended receivers and plausible mechanisms of predator deterrence.
10.2307/3503418|A wide range of grasshopper studies utilize caged populations for complete life cycle in an environment-controlled cabinet. The scope of these studies is often constrained by space limitations and high operating costs. These costs must be rationalized within the context of research budgets. New grasshopper cages were designed, constructed and implemented to optimize use of cabinet floor or shelf area. In our research, biotic potential studies are used to determine the effect of cereal cultivars on grasshopper growth, development and reproduction. A two-year trial period has shown that the new design resulted in major improvements in terms of: cost efficiency and research productivity. The advantages are: (i) A 60% decrease in the cost of evaluating a crop cultivar for resistance to grasshoppers; and (ii) Efficient space utilization permits the use of a standard cultivar as a check in each cycle of experiments, hence, a better statistical design of the trial. In addition, a compact cage with a hand hold is much easier to maneuver within the confines of an environment-controlled cabinet.
25473435|We examined size clines for various external body structures in two grasshopper species (Chorthippus vagans and Oedipoda miniata) and one katydid species (Poecilimon birandi), along an altitudinal gradient ranging from sea level to 1,980 m in southwest Anatolia (Turkey). In O. miniata and P. birandi all measured structures (body, tegmina, pronotum, and hind femur) were smallest at the highest altitude for both sexes. Hence, in these species, different structures covaried in the same direction, with increasing altitude. In contrast, there was no clear relationship between altitude and size in C. vagans, and different structures covaried in different directions in males and females (i.e., some structures became larger at higher elevations, whereas others became smaller, and this differed with sex). For some other C. vagans traits, there was no significant intraspecies variation. Hence, O. miniata and P. birandi followed the converse Bergmann's Rule, whereas there was no consistent pattern for C. vagans. For C. vagans, small body size was not associated with either local population density (measured as relative abundance) or local species richness, suggesting that neither intranor interspecific competition determined body size for this species. For O. miniata, the smallest individuals were found at the site with the highest grasshopper diversity, suggesting that interspecific competition could have influenced O. miniata body sizes at this altitude. However, the largest O. miniata individuals generally occurred at the sites with the highest relative abundance of O miniata. Hence, in this species, body sizes were generally larger at sites with high population densities - consistent with sites that were most favorable and so able to support high densities of O miniata also producing the largest individuals of this species. Observational data on P. birandi similarly suggested that, for this katydid, there is little relationship between local diversity/abundance and altitudinal size-clines.
10.2307/3503512|We used phylogenetic analysis of three different genomic regions (parts of the 18S nRNA gene and of the 12S and 16S mtRNA genes), singly and in combination, to position the Orthoptera within the Polyneoptera and to examine the higher systematics of the Caelifera. Analysis of the Ensifera was hindered by the fact that all the grylloid sequences are highly divergent and do not align readily with those of other orthopterans. Within the Polyneoptera the Orthoptera form a clade together with the Phasmida and Embiidina, which are their closest relatives. Both the Ensifera and the Caelifera are monophyletic groups. We propose the following division of the Caelifera into superfamilies, corresponding to the major branches of their phylogenetic tree: Tridactyloidea, Tetrigoidea, Eumastacoidea, Trigonopterygoidea s. nov. (including the Xyronotidae), Tanaoceroidea, Pyrgomorphoidea, Pneumoroidea, and Acridoidea s. nov. (including the Pamphagidae). The question as to whether the Proscopiidae are a component of the Eumastacoidea or a separate superfamily is not resolved. The classical families within the Tridactyloidea, Tetrigoidea, and Eumastacoidea are supported as unitary clades, as are some but not all of the traditional subfamilies of the Acrididae and Romaleidae. The oldest clades within the Acridoidea appear to be some lentulids, the Oedipodinae, and the Abracrini of the Ommatolampinae. Most of the acridoid clades, however, appear to have arisen more or less simultaneously at a slightly later date, and their branching order is not resolved in our analysis. We find little phylogenetic support for dividing the Acridoidea into more than one family.
23034218|This paper treats the genus Phaulotettix Scudder, 1897, which previously included only three species. In this work we describe 12 new species: P. adibilis n. sp., P. optimus n. sp., P. altissimus n. sp., P. ablusus n. sp., P. adiaphoros n. sp., P. ambrosius n. sp., P. arcadius n. sp., P. flaccidus n. sp., P. affinis n. sp., P. adynatos n. sp., P. nimius n. sp. and P. jocundus n. sp. Species separation is based on male cerci and internal genitalia. The members of this group are distributed mostly in northeastern Mexico: Cohauila, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, San Luis Potos, Hidalgo and north Veracruz. Two species, P. compressus Scudder, 1897 and P. eurycercus Hebard, 1918, extend their distribution into Texas, USA. Many of the species treated here overlap geographically, and many occur sympatrically. We also provide a brief discussion of the geography of northeastern Mexico.
10.2307/3503526|A new species of the southern African genus Damaracheta is described. It is one six species in a genus which ranges from Lake Malawi to the Cape.
41759698|The tribe Bactrophorini of the Bactrophorinae is briefly reviewed. Two new genera are erected; Mayalina, and Hylaezentia. Three new species (M. cohni, M. teapensis and M. chajulensis) of Mayalina are described. A key to the genera of the tribe is included. A cladistic analysis of morphological characters indicates that the Bactrophorini genera fall into two well-supported clades. The first, ("Hyleacrae", after its most basal member) has as its basal branches, the exclusively Amazonian Hyleacris and the Amazonian and Central American Bactrophora; as its crown group it contains all the remaining Central American genera except Mezentia. The Central American genera of the Hyleacrae fall into two lineages: first, the sister genera Cristobalina and Mayalina (the "Cristobalina genus group") of Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras, and secondly the "Rhicnoderma genus group", composed of four genera (Rhicnoderma Gerstaecker, 1889, Lempira (Rehn, 1938) and Pararhicnoderma Rowell, 2012, which occur from Southern Mexico south to Panama, plus the Panamanian endemic Panamacris Rehn, 1938, which is apparently the sister genus of Rhicnoderma). The second clade of the tribe ("Borae", after its most basal member, Bora) contains four exclusively Amazonian genera, plus the fifth and most derived genus, Mezentia, which has both Central American and Colombian species. In the Borae there is a second basal genus, Silacris, and then a crown group consisting of three very closely related genera, Mezentia, Andeomezentia and Hylaezentia, here referred to as the "Mezentia genus group".
3503679|Grasshopper populations (Orthoptera: Acrididae) were surveyed on reconstructed and remnant prairies in Wisconsin. Twenty-seven species were observed on 17 different sites. Most sites ranged from dry to mesic habitats. Two species were very common, Melanoplus femurrubrum and Chorthippus curtipennis, being found at 15 and 14 sites respectively; 12 species were collected only at one site. Reconstructed prairies generally lacked the overall grasshopper species diversity observed on remnant prairies, with one exception, Lake Wissota - a 48 ha reconstructed dry site that contained 10 species of grasshoppers. Important factors for grasshopper conservation and prairie restoration may not be dependent on the age of the restoration, but the size and type of prairie being reconstructed as well as proximity to remnant sites. Management plans that include fire should also consider those species that overwinter as nymphs.
10.2307/3503532|The new genus Ronderosia is proposed for the South American melanoplinae Dichroplus bergi species group. Ronderosia presently includes nine species distributed in Southern Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and north-central Argentina. Dichroplus distinguendus Giglio-Tos, Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner, and Dichroplus bicolor Giglio-Tos are synonymized under Ronderosia bergi (Stal). The cladistic analysis performed to analyze the relationships of Ronderosia with its closest genera, yielded one most parsimonious tree that showed Ronderosia related to Atrachelacris, Scotussa, and Leiotettix.
3503733|Melanopline grasshoppers are known to transfer both sperm and nutritive secretions, from the accessory reproductive glands in the form of internal spermatophores, to females during mating. It remains difficult in most species, without extensive destructive sampling, to determine numbers transferred. This study documents that for Melanoplus differentialis, remnants of spermatophores, which have already discharged their contents into the spermatheca, can be found associated with the external genitalia after mating. For males mating for the first time and with virgin females, the numbers of spermatophore casings found were significantly positively correlated with copulation duration. Casings were not found on the external genitalia after most matings in M. femurrubrum. This study also examined mating behavior in M. differentialis and M. femurrubrum. In both species, mounting followed relatively simple behavior by the male, such as antenna pointing, indicating that the male was aware of a conspecific's presence. No obvious attempts at courtship were observed beyond preparations to mount.
10.2307/3503550|A wide range of injuries was recorded over two years in a field population of Decticus verrucivorus (L.). Injuries to the antennae and legs were most frequent. In the year of the most detailed investigation, 13.3% of immatures and 30.8% of adults were injured. The frequency of injured individuals in the population increased during nymphal development and adult life, but did not differ between sexes or years. Causes of injuries to adults included avian predation and moulting failures, but 100% of injuries to immatures and over 90% of injuries to adults were unexplained. We believe the causes and consequences of sublethal injuries warrant further study.
4122949| Proceeding from the revision of the genus Proscopia Klug 1820, two groups of species are separated which do not have the characters of that genus. These species are grouped forming two new genera: Paraproscopia n. gen. and Pseudoproscopia n. gen. Both are described here, together with Carbonellis n. gen., a genus that contains two new species and one junior synonym. The type species are defined, tables of dimensions and keys for the identification of species provided, and new species described, principally from the collections of the National Museum of Natural History of Pars, France, the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Museu de Zoologia of Universidade de Sao Paulo and the Museu de Ro de Janeiro, Brasil. 
10.2307/3503479|Leichhardt's grasshopper Petasida ephippigera White is found only in the wet-dry tropics of northern Australia. Small populations are known from Kakadu National Park (KNP) and Keep River National Park (KRNP), Northern Territory. Kakadu National Park is a major tourist destination for national and international visitors, and the attractive adult coloration of P. ephippigera has resulted in its wide use in advertising literature by park and safari operators. However, despite its high profile, the ecology of P. ephippigera is poorly understood. A pilot study of P. ephippigera was conducted over two successive wet seasons at three sites in KNP. Juveniles are well camouflaged, in size and color, and adult coloration is aposematic. The occurrence of P. ephippigera is linked to the distribution of the strongly aromatic shrubs Pityrodia jamesii Specht in KNP and Pityrodia ternifolia (F. Muell.) Munir (Family Verbenaceae) in KRNP; these are primary food sources for both juvenile and adult P. ephippigera. Further research is needed on the impact to populations of P. ephippigera by tourism and current burning practices, in order to formulate management strategies to prevent localised extinctions of this grasshopper.
10.2307/3503501|The effect of parasitic worms (mermithid nematodes and nematomorphs) on the behavior of their cricket host (Orthoptera: Rhaphidophoridae) was examined. Adult stages of both these worms live in freshwater while the juvenile stages infect terrestrial hosts. Behaviors of adult crickets related to nocturnal activity were measured in the laboratory by time-lapse video. No significant differences were found in four behavioral measures between infected and uninfected hosts. The results are discussed in relation to the life histories and transmission strategies of the parasites.
3503722|The aim of this study was to establish whether feeding preferences exist in Chorthippus parallelus among 4 grass species: Cynosurus cristatus, Dactylis glomerata, Festuca rubra and Lolium perenne. Ten grass microswards, each composed of equal areas of the 4 grass species, were established in early 2003. These were placed in insect cages in early June and the number of feeding signs monitored over a 2-week period, for early instar nymphs (1-2), late instar nymphs (3-4), early adults and late adults. Dactylis glomerata and Lolium perenne were the preferred food choices of late instar nymphs, early adults and late adults, perhaps because of these foods' superior nutritive value and palatability. Festuca rubra was less favored by C. parallelus at all stages of insect maturity, perhaps due to leaf hardness making it difficult for the mandibles to penetrate. An aphid infestation of C. cristatus during early July caused the leaves to senesce and resulted in reduced feeding on this species by early and late adults.
23610401|There are nine Necroscia species recognized in China, among which N. inflata (Redtenbacher) and N. marginata (Gray) are reported for the first time from China. One new synonym is discovered: N. maculata (Chen & He) is regarded as a junior synonym of N. multicolor (Redtenbacher) n. syn. First description is given for the female and egg of N. hainanensis (Chen & He) n. comb., which is transferred from Sosibia Stl. A list and key to all Chinese species are given.
25822703|Chorthippus parallelus parallelus (Cpp) and Chorthippus parallelus erythropus (Cpe) are two grasshopper subspecies whose distributions overlap in the Pyrenees, where they form a hybrid zone at those points where the topography and their ecological requirements allow. This hybrid zone is a consequence of secondary contact between endemic Iberian (Cpe) and continental European populations (Cpp) that expanded after the most recent glaciations from the refugia in which they had diverged genetically in allopatry. The morphological, physiological, genetic and behavioral differences between these subspecies (and their natural and laboratory-reared hybrids) have been intensively studied in recent years, for which reason this hybrid zone is considered a singular model in evolutionary biology. These studies reveal a complex pattern of factors involved in the origin, structure and maintenance of the hybrid zone. They offer an excellent panorama of evolution "in action". Wolbachia is a genus of obligate endosymbiont bacteria that induce changes in the reproduction of arthropods and nematodes. In previous studies we have reported the existence of these bacteria in individuals and populations of Chorthippus parallelus. Now we show that they produce a significant reproductive barrier in this hybrid zone, implying, as proposed elsewhere, that Wolbachia may be involved in speciation phenomena.
3503738|The revision of several taxa previously attributed to the plesion 'Protorthoptera' yielded information about the venation pattern of Orthoptera and the sister-group relationships of Orthoptera. A new wing venation pattern is proposed, i.e., (1) a basal composite stem M + CuA, distally separated into M and CuA; (2) distal free CuA fused with the anterior branch of CuPa (CuPa 'alpha'). We consider the clade Orthoptera as an apomorphy-based group (sensu Brochu & Sumrall), on the basis of this complex structure and, also by the presence of two branches of MA, MA1 and MA2 (but reversed in some recent taxa, having a MA simple). In the stem group of Orthoptera, the free part of CuA is fused with CuPa, i.e., CuPa is not ramified into CuPa 'alpha' and CuPa 'beta'. Also, MA is simple.
10.2307/3503472|The Phalangopsidae are one of the most important cricket families of the world, both in terms of taxa number and ecological diversity. Although they can be directly observed in the field and easily raised in laboratories, few data are yet available on their biology. In this paper, the present state of the systematics of Phalangopsidae is briefly indicated, and available data are given on their habitats and acoustic and mating behavior (mainly on the basis of my observations in the field). The methodological framework recently developed in comparative biology is used to analyze the evolution of phalangopsid biological characteristics in reference to phylogeny (ancestral state and evolutionary changes). Evolutionary scenarios based on my phylogenetic studies are proposed. In particular, the evolution of the habitats and mating behavior of Central American Amphiacustae is analyzed. Evolutionary changes of habitat could be the consequence of the exploitation of a new resource, or of geographical expansion. Moreover, the evolutionary potentialities of members of a clade appear constrained by the characteristics of its ancestral habitat (exaptations). Our data finally support the conservatism hypothesis of ecological evolutionary change (Funk and Brooks 1990). The scenarios constructed for morphological structures involved in acoustic and mating behavior show that their evolution is complex and probably the result of several factors. Data at hand do not allow to test the role of predation, and suggest that the habitat could influence the acoustic and mating behavior by modifying the structure of interindividual interactions. It is hypothesized that the physical structure and spatial distribution of habitat could be most important.
10.2307/3503543| First data on the communicative behaviour and sound production in captivity of Sphingonotus arenarius (Lucas, 1849), Sph. coerulans corsicus Chopard, 1923 and Truxalis nasuta (Linneo, 1758) are offered, as well as oscillograms and physical characteristics of the sounds. /// Se presentan los primeros datos conocidos sobre el comportamiento comunicativo y la produccin de sonido en cautividad de Sphingonotus arenarius (Lucas, 1849), Sph. coerulans corsicus Chopard, 1923 y Truxalis nasuta (Linneo, 1758). Se aportan las representaciones grficas de los sonidos y ciertas caractersticas fsicas de los mismos. 
10.2307/3503635| Two native parasites of eugregarines viz. Leidyana subramanii and Retractocephalus dhawanii sp. n. from grasshoppers were evaluated for their pathogenicity on Atractomorpha crenulata (Fab.) in the laboratory. Third instars of A. crenulata were reared on castor leaves treated with different concentrations (0, 2 10
10.2307/3503546|The ensiferan family Anostostomatidae, formerly included in the Stenopelmatidae, or called the Henicidae or Mimnermidae is diagnosed and a world checklist of species is presented. Some longstanding nomenclatural problems are resolved through examination of most of the types and many new synonyms at the generic and species levels are presented. Two new monospecific genera are eastablished for species in Australia and New Zealand: Transaevum laudatum and Motuweta isolata
25473462|Although large size is considered an evolved antipredator defense for some vertebrates and shellfish, large size is generally not considered an adaptive defensive trait in insects. Here we propose that large size in chemically defended grasshoppers has evolved as a beneficial antipredator trait. The lubber grasshoppers Romalea microptera and Taeniopoda eques are the largest grasshoppers in North America north of Mexico. These closely related species escape most vertebrate predation by possessing powerful predator-deterrent toxins and by nocturnal roosting. We hypothesize that escape from vertebrate predation allowed lubbers to evolve a larger body size, increased fecundity and provided many other benefits, including defense against invertebrate predators. To test the hypotheses that large lubber size reduces predation, we conducted feeding trials with wolf spiders (Honga carolinensis), assassin bugs (Arilus cristatus), preying mantids (Tenodera aridifolia), fire ants (Solenopsis invicta), frogs (Rana pipiens), and birds (Sturnus vulgaris and Passer domesticus). Our results show that larger lubber instars enjoyed a highly significant advantage vis--vis predators, demonstrating the adaptive value of large size against both vertebrate and invertebrate predators. Adult lubbers were generally immune from predation. It appears that lubbers have evolved to occupy a relatively predator-free ecological space: they are too large to be attacked by most invertebrate predators and too toxic for most vertebrate predators. We propose an evolutionary scenario whereby a change in feeding behavior toward vertebrate-toxic plants served as an evolutionary breakthrough, setting in motion the subsequent evolution of increased chemical defense and large body size in lubbers. To determine if large size is associated with chemical defense in grasshoppers in general, we compared body sizes of  40 toxic vs  3,000 nontoxic grasshopper species. Our results show that chemically defended species tend to be larger than nondefended grasshoppers, supporting an association between chemical defense and large size in insects. Large size may be favored in insects when vertebrate predation is removed as a strong selective factor.
10.2307/3503454|To evaluate the effects of natural and formulated neem seed extracts (Azadirachta indica A. Juss), pure and Azadirachtin-enriched neem oil were tested on first and second instar nymphs of the variegated grasshopper, Zonocerus variegatus (L.), in laboratory, field cage, and field trials in the Republic of Benin (West Africa). All investigated neem products demonstrated a strong antifeedant effect. Feeding activity was also reduced when neem oil was topically applied to nymphs. Eight days after application mortality rates reached between 40 and 50%. These results are of practical relevance, since pronounced morphogenetic defects to antennae, wings, and legs occurred within the surviving population. The effects of neem oil on aggregation behavior of nymphs under field conditions proved to be very effective in reducing grasshopper populations to acceptable levels.
10.2307/3503580|A new grasshopper species, Physocrobylus tessa, collected from the East Usambara Mountains (NE Tanzania) is described and the genus Physocrobylus Dirsh, 1951 is assigned to the subfamily Coptacridinae on the basis of external and internal characters. Some notes on the ecology of the species are made. Modified keys to the African genera of the subfamily Coptacridinae and to the two species of the genus are given
3657124|We describe 2 new and closely allied tettigoniid species, recently discovered on mountain slopes in southwestern continental Greece. Though they differ in habitus, coloration, morphology (modified paraprocts) and habitat from most members of Rhacocleis, the new species have been arranged tentatively in this genus. Unknown morphological characters and faunistic data for some other poorly known Greek Rhacocleis species (R. ferdinandi Willemse & Tilmans 1987 and edentata Willemse 1982) are included.
23610412|Multiple paternity within clutches has been recorded among a variety of organisms. The degree of genetic similarity between parents may influence the number and viability of offspring. Females may therefore mate with several males as an insurance against sterile, low quality or genetically incompatible mates, but also to obtain half sibling offspring that are genetically and phenotypically more diverse. We examine the links between polyandry, multiple paternity and offspring phenotypic diversity in the color polymorphic pygmy grasshopper Tetrix subulata. By experimentally mating virgin females and genotyping the resulting offspring using microsatellite markers, we demonstrate that polyandrous females can produce offspring sired by different males. Analyses of microsatellite data and color patterns of captive reared families produced by wild caught females that were not mated in the laboratory, confirmed that multiple paternity occurs in the wild, and that it may increase color morph diversity among half-siblings. Polyandrous mating behavior may thus influence the evolutionary dynamics and maintenance of color polymorphism in this species.
23610403|The orchid mantis, Hymenopus coronatus (Insecta: Mantodea), is renown for its visual resemblance to a flower blossom. It has been hypothesised that the 'flowerlike' orchid mantis is an aggressive mimic that attracts pollinators as prey items. This is the first study into the morphology of the orchid mantis that explores this widely discussed hypothesis. We quantified color and shape patterns of orchid mantises that are likely to present visual cues to pollinators. We used spectrometry to measure their overall coloration and geometric morphometric techniques to quantify the shape of their 'petal-like' mid- and hind-legs. This was done for both juvenile and adult female orchid mantises. To investigate how this stimulus may be perceived by a pollinating insect we investigated within-individual color variation using physiological models of hymenopteran vision. Mantises were found to reflect primarily UV- absorbing white. Visual models indicated that within individuals, different body parts did not contrast highly in color. Femoral lobes showed patterns of bilateral symmetry with juveniles expressing similar patterns of shape variation to adults. The results are used to provide specific and testable hypotheses as to how the morphology of the orchid mantis may constitute a signal directed towards pollinating insects.
10.2307/3503513|Trimerotropine grasshoppers are characterized by high levels of chromosome variation - both within and between species - that has prompted a subdivision of the genus into 4 cytologically distinct groups. It has been suggested that some of the chromosomal variants may have played a direct role during species formation because of their negative impact upon meiosis, fertility, and viability. Consequently, such rearrangements have the potential to act as efficient isolating mechanisms that can initiate divergent evolution and species formation by severely reducing the fitness of any hybrids. We have analyzed an area of overlap between Trimerotropis cyaneipennis Bruner and T. fratercula McNeill in New Mexico. Here, the blue/yellow wing and hind femora color differences used to separate the species in other areas are no longer diagnostic. However, the two species do differ in chromosome number due to a chromosome fusion difference involving autosomes 4 and 5. We identified 7 individuals from 3 localities that are heterozygous for the fusion and analyzed both the behavior of their chromosomes during meiosis and the production of aneuploid gametes after spermatogenesis. A comparison of these data, obtained from hybrids between two closely related species with previous analyses involving more distantly related hybrids but involving the same fusion, has allowed us to make an assessment of the role of this chromosomal rearrangement in inhibiting gene flow between taxa that still hybridize in nature. The analysis clearly indicates that, like the other chromosomes within the hybrid genome, the behavior of the chromosome rearrangement depends to a large extent upon the relatedness of the two parents. Consequently, we conclude that the chromosome fusion that distinguishes these two species has played no direct role as an isolating mechanism during the speciation process.
43738201|Early stages of narrow-winged saltbush grasshopper, Aeoloplides tenuipennis, have not been figured in the literature, hindering their separation from economically harmful or benign species of grasshoppers and hampering ecological or taxonomic investigations. During June and July 2015, five instars of A. tenuipennis were collected or photographed at two sites in Cochise County, Arizona, U.S.A. These are illustrated alongside a brief morphometric table. Notes on habitat, identification and polychromatism, and a comparison with 4th and 5th instars of the widespread snakeweed grasshopper, Hesperotettix viridis viridis, are included.
3503664| A project to develop a biological control strategy for locusts and grasshoppers is being conducted in Mexico. Major activities include: surveys of entomopathogenic fungi, laboratory screening of isolates, testing of methods for mass production, and formulation and field evaluation of virulent strains. The Centro Nacional de Referencia de Control Biolgico (CNRCB) has, in its entomopathogen collection, 40 isolates of Metarhizium spp. obtained from the Central American locust (Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons). The isolates MaaPL16, MaaPL25 and MaPL40 are among the most virulent. A comparative analysis on Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA patterns between two Mexican isolates of Metarhizium, MaPL40 and MaPL32, and an Australian isolate of Metarhizum anisopliae var. acridum (FI-985), showed that the Mexican isolates and the Australian isolate have similar DNA fingerprints, suggesting they may belong to the same variety. Field trials using oil formulations of the MaPL40 and MaPL32 isolates against hopper bands of S. piceifrons piceifrons, applied at a rate of 50g of conidia in oil, 1 l ha
25822719|We reared Baeacris punctulatus (Orthoptera: Acrididae) in cages under seminatural conditions in Cuiab, Mato Grosso, Brazil. Five nymphal instars were recorded. One generation required  82 d (24 d egg stage + 43 d nymphal development + 15 d preoviposition period). Colony females laid  4.4 egg pods during their 30-d adult life. Pods contained  13 eggs, and most eggs hatched, giving  56 offspring per female. Survival during the nymphal stage was 38.9%, with highest mortality in 4th-5th instars. Average and maximum lifespans from hatch to adult death were 73 and 80 d, respectively. Field sampling in Campo Novo do Parecis and Parecis Plateau regions of Brazil showed that adults and older nymphs were present in all months of the year, but that oviposition and young nymphs were scarce during the dry-cool months of May to mid-August. Overall, our study suggests that in the State of Mato Grosso, there are 3.9 to 5.1 generations per year. The various instars could be differentiated by the number of antennal segments, body size, and shape and size of wing pads. Annual and regional variation in temperature and moisture may influence the life history and population dynamics of B. punctulatus.
10.2307/3503441|A list and notes on species and subspecies of Orthoptera collected in western Turkey are given. One new genus, Bolua gen. n. and four new species, Poecilimon ataturki sp. n., Poecilimon kocaki sp. n., Bolua turkiyae sp. n. and Stenobothrus (Crotalacris) selmae sp. n. are described.
40344837|Microsatellite markers are preferred for fine-scale population genetic studies requiring high resolution. The grasshopper Hesperotettix viridis (Thomas) is an oligophagous species that feeds on composites and often exhibits locally restricted diets. Divergence in host plant use in some localities is seen where co-occurring subpopulations select alternate plant species, as expected with the evolution of host shifts and associated lineage divergence. To characterize the host-associated divergence patterns among populations of H. viridis, we developed markers from two microsatellite-enriched genomic libraries. Here we report the characterization and optimization of seven polymorphic di-and tri-nucleotide microsatellite loci for this species. One hundred and six individuals from 5 populations were tested for polymorphism. The number of aleles varied from 4 to 38 in all the populations. Ho ranged from 0.339 to 0.790. Homozygote excess was observed across loci, perhaps due to inbreeding. This is the first report of microsatellite markers for the subfamily Melanoplinae.
40344838|The species kiarae sp. nov. is described on the basis of an incomplete fossil specimen yielded by the Pennsylvanian deposit of Piesberg near Osnabrck (Germany). A second incomplete specimen is tentatively assigned to the species. The species is erected under the new cladotypic nomendatural procedure, but a proper Linnaean name is also provided (Vorjexala kiarae gen. and sp. nov.). The holotype (and most complete specimen) is interpreted as a hind wing, and the species assigned to the taxon Archaeorthoptera. The combination of a simple CuPa, a common stem MP + CuA (diverging from M + CuA) separating into MP and CuA at the point of fusion of CuA with CuPa, a brief connection of the anterior branch of MA with RP, and a branched CuPb, indicate that the new species does not belong to any of the Archaeorthoptera groups previously reported in the Pennsylvanian. According to the estimated hind-wing length of the species (ranging from 85 to 100 mm), kiarae sp. nov. is the largest Archaeorthoptera of the period, and one the largest ever. The new species shares the habitus of phasmatodeans, but definitive assignment to this group would require new investigations of the wing venation of its representatives.
40344835|The genus Lithodusa Bey-Bienko, 1951 is revised, including the description of a new species. Its two species differ in many aspects of morphology, mainly in genitalia, and can most easily be separated by length of tegmina. The calling songs of both species are quite similar in amplitude pattern, as well as in spectral properties. The genus is distributed from the Caucasus to northeast Turkey. The relationships of Lithodusa to other genera of the Tettigoniidae/-inae are discussed and a list of genera belonging to Drymadusini presented.
40344839|Vegetated inland sand dunes occupy thousands of square kilometers on the Coastal Plain of the southeastern United States. Many of these dunes are found along rivers where during glacial times, west winds deposited sand from dry river bottoms onto eastern banks. One such dune system, known as the Ohoopee Dunes, is found along the Ohoopee and Little Ohoopee Rivers in eastern Georgia. Because the grasshopper fauna of these dunes had not been well documented, a faunal survey was initiated. Collections focused on sand dunes along the Little Ohoopee River. Twenty-two species of grasshoppers were collected in the scrub-like habitat of the dunes. Comparison of the fauna of this scrub habitat to scrub habitat in Florida revealed two different faunas. Eight species found in the dunes are typically restricted to sandy soils in the southeastern United States. Of these, several rare species including Melanoplus bispinosus, M. quercicola, (both new records for Georgia), M. carnegiei, and M. stegocercus, were found to inhabit the Ohoopee Dunes. Diagnostic characters of the genitalia of M. carnegiei and M. quercicola are provided for the first time.
10.2307/3503519|The singing rate of the bushcricket Steropleurus stali was examined, and it was found that males sang at different rates when they had a 'full-sized' spermatophore than when they had a smaller spermatophore (i.e. shortly after mating). Males are presumably redirecting energy into recouping losses after spermatophore transfer. The reduced song, however, can attract females, and males increase their chances of mating multiply by maintaining a low level advertisment, as the operational sex ratio is female-biased.
3503735| Bryophyma debilis, a poorly known grasshopper from the wooded savanna of West Africa, was reared for the first time under laboratory conditions. Morphological descriptions of adults and nymphs were made previously. We describe some behavioral traits (aggressiveness, stridulation, egg-laying), and record data on nymphal development and reproductive biology. /// Bryophyma debilis, un criquet peu connu des savannes arbustives d'Afrique de l'Ouest, a t lev pour la premire fois en laboratoire. Des descriptions morphologiques et anatomiques ont t faites sur les larves et les imagos. Nous dcrivons dans cet article quelques aspects de son comportement (aggressivit, stridulation, ponte) ainsi que le dveloppement larvaire et l'activit gnsique des reproductrices. 
10.2307/3503424|Extensive searching by Sandoval has discovered two more previously unknown species of the genus Timema, in southern California, one parthenogenetic, the other having both sexes.
4122953|The effects of four extracts of Solanum sodomaeum fruit peel (Solanaceae) were observed in the laboratory on Schistocera gregaria fifth instar larvae. Larvae fed with lettuce soaked in various extracts showed a decrease in their food consumption, due probably to a repulsive and antifeedant effect of this plant. Both survival and development were affected: prolongation of the fifth instar and the appearance of malformations at the imaginal molt.
10.2307/3503633| A lectotype has been designated for Carausius australicus Brunner 1907, which is listed as a new synonym of Carausius mercurius Stl 1877. This species and Lonchodes nigropunctatus Kirby 1896 (so far only reported from Queensland) have been transferred to a new genus, Austrocarausius, with L. nigropunctatus designated type species. Adults are redescribed. Eggs of both species are described for the first time. Figures of adults and eggs are given. 
10.2307/3503498| During the 1996/7 season, three field trials were undertaken to assess the effect of different formulations on field efficacy of Metarhizium flavoviride (isolate FI-985) for control of Australia's most serious grasshopper pest, Phaulacridium vittatum (Sjostedt), known as the wingless grasshopper. In the first trial, a mineral oil (Propar 12), a vegetable oil (canola), and a water-based spray were compared with a rice/conidia bait. All were applied at 4 10
41759704|The genus Necaxacris Roberts, 1939 (Acrididae: Melanoplinae) is endemic to Mexico. Two species were previously known for this genus: N. micans (Hebard, 1932) and a species collected by Roberts in 1936, mentioned in litteris by Descamps (1975) as N. moctezumae Roberts, 1975, but never formally described. We here describe and assign the name of N. tamazunchale n. sp. for this taxon and describe three additional new species: N. azura n. sp., N. afurculae n. sp. and N. davidi n. sp. A revision, description and illustration of diagnostic characters to identify the species that make up the genus are provided for the first time. Information on distribution and habitat of the species treated is also provided herein.
25622286|Grasshoppers are ecologically significant because many animals consume them as a major protein source and thus any change in their population dynamics may have detrimental effects on an ecosystem. This study evaluates effects of mercury (Hg) on the developmental periods of different instars of a common short-horned grasshopper, Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall). Newly hatched nymphs were fed foods treated with three sublethal concentrations of HgCl i.e., dose 1 (d1): 20 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, dose 2 (d2): 40 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, and dose 3 (d3): 80 mg HgCl/ kg dry weight in oats, until they reached the adult stage. The experiment was conducted for two consecutive generations (F1 and F2), tested in the same way for the same variables, in order to observe if there is any additional adversity in the latter generation. As HgCl concentrations in food increased, the Total Rearing Time (TRT) for each instar significantly increased, whereas survival, adult body weight and adult life span significantly decreased. The results for the F2 generation almost always showed more severe effects than those of the F1 generation.
20066577|Extensive areas of prairie were once found in the southeastern United States; however, in the last 200 y much of this habitat type has been destroyed. The largest of these prairie regions, the Black Belt Prairie, extended through portions of Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. Because the grasshopper fauna of these endangered grasslands has not been well documented, a survey of grasshoppers was initiated, and collections made at 23 Black Belt Prairie remnants in Alabama and Mississippi over a seven-year period. A total of 33 grasshopper species, and the Melanoplus femurrubrum  propinquus intermediate, from two families and six subfamilies were found from the 23 sites. Several notable species, including one with a disjunct or discontinuous distribution, Pseudopomala brachyptera, were collected. An annotated list is provided.
3503701|Shistocerca gregaria, Dociostaurus maroccanus and Locusta migratoria remain the most fearsome orthopteran pests in Algeria. While multiple efforts are engaged in the forecasting and control of S. gregaria, Moroccan and migratory locusts draw less attention. Survey and antilocust control teams have indicated infestations of D. maroccanus in the western and eastern highlands and of L. migratoria in the Central Sahara. Field investigations reported here show that the initial swarming of both locusts may occur as a consequence of human agricultural practices that make them more successful in their new habitats: increasing locust densities are correlated with human-induced changes in vegetation structure. In this paper anthropogenic impact on locust population density is analyzed using various data methods.
25822718|Azadirachtin prolonged the incubation period and reduced hatchability of desert locust eggs. Many embryos suffered morphological deformation of the compound eyes and legs and incomplete development of abdominal segments. Histologically, the brain was poorly developed, this being reflected in the compound eyes, neurosecretory cells and entire ventral nerve cord. The embryonic cuticle was insufficiently deposited. The electrophoretic mobilities of the egg proteins after the addition of 200 ppm of azadirachtin were characterized by SDS-PAGE analysis and revealed the appearance of new protein bands and the disappearance of others. We conclude that after suitable field trials, the use of azadirachtin may be a viable alternative to chemical insecticides for control of grasshoppers in Egypt.
3503736|In contrast to pests developing in close association with a particular host crop, locusts and grasshoppers are often controlled in natural or semi-natural landscapes, exposing structurally and functionally diverse communities to agrochemicals, chemicals to which they are not adapted. This suggests that insecticide-induced perturbations may be severe. On the other hand, with acridids being highly mobile, exposure of non-target biota at any one location tends to be rare, and insecticides might be seen as yet another component in a canon of stochastic and deterministic, natural or human-induced environmental catastrophes and selective forces, shaping communities and ecosystems. Moreover, habitat loss is by far the most important single threat to biodiversity, so why should doubt be cast on the potential and resilience of populations to recover from occasional insecticide stress? This paper reviews the environmental impact, as well as ecological and conceptual characteristics of acridid pest control. It concludes that ecologically significant risks may arise, in particular in ecosystems exposed to multiple stressors. Four priorities in ecological risk assessment and acridid pest management are proposed: 1) delimitation and characterization of sensitive areas within locust and grasshopper habitats, 2) ecosystem-specific, long-term field studies and operational monitoring, 3) real-time stewardship of control campaigns, with adequate participation of stakeholders, and 4) incorporation of the precautionary principle into decision-making and risk management.
3657129|At the time of the major outbreak of desert locust in the late 1980s, FAO convened a meeting to discuss control operations in view of the worldwide ban on the use of dieldrin, hitherto regarded as the most important insecticide to control locusts. An outcome of the meeting was to set up an independent advisory body, the Pesticide Referee Group (PRG), to examine the scientific data obtained from laboratory and field trials submitted to FAO. The PRG was expected to make recommendations on which insecticides were effective and the dosage that should be used, either as a barrier treatment or for full-cover applications. The remit of the PRG was subsequently extended to consider environmental data and indicate the possible risk that the effective insecticides pose to various categories of nontarget fauna. The aim of the recommendations has been to give locust-affected countries a choice of suitable insecticides, to avoid the previous problems of maintaining stocks of only one insecticide, and to allow flexibility in relation to possible environmental impact. The need for ULV formulations, with specifications that include appropriate volatility and viscosity requirements, is stressed for operational reasons. Stocks of these formulations can be reformulated for use against other pests to avoid long-term storage or obsolesence. Attention has been given to new alternatives, including insect growth regulators and the biopesticide Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum. The PRG has requested feedback on operational use of insecticides, including these new products, so that the list can be refined and extended.
10.2307/3503593|Three Australian genera of apterous crickets of the Nemobiinae (Gryllidae) are described as new. Both Territirritia and Calperum, gen. nov., are described from a mallee habitat in South Australia where they occur in litter in sparsely vegetated areas. Both are monotypic. The other, Ngamarlanguia, gen. nov., similarily monotypic, is a troglobitic species from caves in the Cape Range region of Western Australia. This cricket is remarkably cave-adapted in lacking eyes, tegmina, wings and auditory tympana. It is pale brown in color and has extraordinarily long antennae. A discussion of the significant features of the cave fauna of the Cape Range peninsula, W. A. is presented. A table listing important diagnostic characters used in separating the genera of nemobiine crickets is provided.
10.2307/3503456|A long-term investigation of rangeland grasshopper assemblages in southeastern Wyoming has been undertaken to determine if: 1) population dynamics are eruptive or gradient, and 2) suppression of localized hot-spots (i.e., an infestion of economically damaging rangeland species at a density of  9.6 grasshoppers/ m
10.2307/3503603|Vanzoliniella sambophila a new genus and species of phalangopsid cricket is described from southeastern Brazil, and its acoustical emissions during courtship are described and figured. Courting males perform an amazing combination of forewing stridulation and foreleg drumming on the substrate
41759708|Grasshopper communities were sampled in three associated habitats of the Central Basin of Tennesee: cedar glades, xeric limestone prairies, and cedar hardwood forest. Twenty-five grasshopper species were collected across all three habitats. Eleven species were found in the cedar glades, 12 species were collected in the xeric limestone prairies, and six species were collected from the cedar-hardwood forests. A Principal Component Analysis of the resulting species lists indicated that grasshopper community composition differed significantly between each habitat. Four new state records for Tennessee were documented during this survey. An annotated species list is presented.
20066581|Reed (Phragmites australis) stands of the Amudarya River delta south of the Aral Sea in Uzbekistan serve as permanent breeding areas of the Asian migratory locust (Locusta migratoria migratoria). Locust swarms threaten agricultural fields adjacent to the delta. Every year, specialists from the Uzbekistan Plant Protection Service attempt to survey this vast delta to assess growth of reed which provides a habitat for locust nymphal infestations. Inferences regarding locust distribution are drawn and recommendations for chemical treatments made, based on very limited samples. This often results in blanketing wetland areas with broad-spectrum insecticides, thus harming nontarget fauna. In this study, early season Landsat data, coinciding with the locust survey planning stage, were used to generate a map of potential locust habitat. Using iterative image classification and reference data, a reed distribution map was generated with an overall accuracy of 74% (kappa agreement = 0.686). Landsat data were able to correctly identify 87% of the reed beds, but had some difficulty separating other vegetation when it was mixed with reeds. Minimizing these errors would improve the overall accuracy; however, this does not diminish the utility of this tool for locust habitat monitoring. Incorporation of remotely sensed data into current survey practices could provide precise information about the spatial distribution of reeds. Plant protection specialists could then use this to optimize planning and execution of antilocust treatments, reducing the negative environmental impact of these.
10.2307/3503608|In previous two-choice discrimination studies involving two males and one female of Amblycorypha parvipennis, we showed that heavier and louder males achieve greater mating success (Galliart and Shaw 1991) and that louder males attract more females (Galliart and Shaw 1992, Galliart 1993). In this study, we asked if heavier and/or louder males sing more continuously during their diel period of singing. We recorded four different singing males on 12 different nights and achieved records of 29 males for 7 h and eight males for 2.5-6.6 h. Mean percent time singing was 80% and 16 males sang for 100% of their recorded time. Male weight was positively correlated with percent time singing. Males lost an average of 7.8% of their initial body weight. Larger males lost more weight than smaller males but the percentage of weight loss did not differ. The ability of heavier males to sing longer than lighter males, while losing the same percentage of weight, suggests that heavier males have more energy to allocate to singing.
10.2307/3503589|The distributions of 117 Canary Island orthopteroid species belonging to Orders Blattaria, Mantodea, Orthoptera, and Phasmida are presented based on the authors' collections, museum specimens, and literature since the last list in 1954. The number of species in each order and the percentage endemic to the archipelago are: Blattaria 24 (50%); Mantodea 9 (67%); Orthoptera 83 (37%), and Phasmida 1 (0%). The same for families of Orthoptera follows: Arcididae 41 (41%); Gryllidae 18 (17%); Gryllotalpidae 2 (0%); Pamphagidae 4 (100%); Pyrgomorphidae 1 (0%); Tetrigidae 1 (0%); and Tettigoniidae 16 (44%). Orthopteroid species diversity and the number of endemics were greatest on Tenerife (82 species, 24 endemics), followed by Gran Canaria (64 species, 17 endemics), and La Gomera (49 species, 14 endemics); Fuerteventura had the fewest number of species (28) and the lowest number of endemics (5). Tenerife supported the highest number of single-island endemics (8) and La Palma had the lowest (1). The highest percentages of endemics, 27% to 29%, occurred on Tenerife, La Gomera, La Palma, Lanzarote, and Gran Canaria; Fuerteventura had 18% and El Hierro 17%. New species, changes in nomenclature, and unconfirmed records are discussed, as are taxonomic problems ecountered in taxa of the acridid genera Sphingonotus and Acrotylus.
3657135|The formation of new species involves the evolution of barriers to gene exchange. One such barrier is sexual isolation, where divergent mate preferences prevent copulation between taxa. Sexual isolation can evolve via a number of processes, including natural selection, sexual selection, genetic drift, and reinforcing selection to avoid maladaptive hybridization. Conversely, gene flow between populations generally erodes the evolution of sexual isolation. In Timema cristinae walking stick insects, some sexual isolation between populations evolved through ecological divergence in hostplant use, implicating a role for natural selection. However, reinforcement and gene flow also contribute, such that sexual isolation is strongest when migration between hosts is high enough to result in selection to avoid hybridization, but low enough to prevent gene flow from eroding adaptive divergence in mate choice. Both parallel and contrasting patterns can be seen in other Orthopteroids. This variation among groups might reflect 1) the degree to which different groups are intimately associated with their food resources, 2) the types of traits used in mate choice, and 3) how the geographic arrangement of populations affects the opportunity for reinforcement.
24367402|Development affects many components of life history and fitness, including body size. The present study examined the influence of developmental pattern, specifically the number of nymphal instars, on body size (pronotum length) in the praying mantid Stagmomantis limbata Hahn. Mantids were reared in the laboratory from hatching, on standardized diet, to examine variation in instar number. These lab data were then used to assess developmental patterns for field-collected female nymphs. Laboratory-reared males and females varied in number of instars. Most females required 6 nymphal instars to reach adulthood (64%), whereas 36% underwent 7 instars. Seven-instar females reached the 4th, 5th, and 6th instars faster than six-instar females, but had shorter pronota than the six-instar females at each of these stages. Seven-instar females were longer than six-instar females at adulthood. Interestingly, the total developmental period from hatching to adulthood was similar for lab-reared seven-instar and six-instar females. In the lab, most males (91%) underwent 6 instars, with the remaining 9% following a five-instar pattern. By the 4th instar, differences between the sexes began to appear. From the 4th instar onwards, females typically took less time than males to reach each instar. From the 5th instar onwards, females were longer than the males, and were longer as adults. Variation in developmental pattern (number of instars) was evident among siblings from the same ootheca; such intra-clutch variability in number of instars may be a bet-hedging strategy by ovipositing females in a variable environment. The laboratory data allowed for the detection of six-instar and seven-instar patterns among the field-collected females. The field-collected data suggest that females undergoing 6 nymphal instars reach adulthood later in the season, and at smaller body size, than seven-instar females.
25473416|Some observations on the mating behavior of the Mediterranean ground mantis Ameles decolor are reported. Sexual cannibalism occurred between female and male; cannibalism occurred between adult males and between adult females. A courtship behavior of the male before mating is described for the first time. Comparisons with other taxa and explanations of courtship occurrence are given.
10.2307/3503414|A population of Praephippigera pachygaster (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) was studied in a traditional agrosystem in Northeast Algeria for two consecutive years. A list of forty five plant species of fallows is given. Sampling and marking methods showed a directional movement related to the drying out of vegetation. Some fallow plants were used as perches by adults. Crop/fallow rotation increases the edge effects and therefore could maintain P. pachygaster populations in fallows
25622288|The elaborate courtship behavior of the gomphocerine grasshopper Stenobothrus clavatus, endemic to a few mountains in Greece, incorporates acoustic signalling and visual display elements to prime the conspecific female. The courtship song, produced by rubbing hind legs against an elytral vein, can be divided into four consecutive phases. The basic movements of phases I, II and IV consist of simple up and interrupted downstrokes, with sound produced during the downstroke only. In contrast, phase III is characterized by a fast sound-producing elevation of the femora, a kick of the tibiae and other visual display elements, such as a fast raising of the antennae with their dark spatulate tips during each movement cycle. The latter is strongly pronounced and therefore a characteristic feature of this species. The stridulatory file of each hind leg consists of two parts. The proximal part bears a double row of little pegs, whereas the pegs in the distal part are regularly aligned in a single row. The proximal part of the stridulatory file is incorporated in sound production only during phase III. However, frequency spectra from different sound elements produced during phase III were similar. Nevertheless, differences are found between phase I/II and phase III/IV, which are ascribed to variations in contact pressure of the stridulatory file against the forewing, rather than to different portions of the stridulatory file being involved.
4122935|Male prairie mole crickets, Gryllotalpa major Saussure, studied in Oklahoma, sing sexual advertisement songs from constructed burrows in the soil. Here we report on variation in shape of the acoustic burrow mouth not previously described for this or other mole cricket species. We have identified six distinct shapes, of which only the 'slit' form has been previously described. Since the surface opening acts as the system 'radiator', we hypothesized that variation in the shape would account for at least some of the measured variation documented since 1993 in the songs produced by the population studied. We looked for patterns in the variation of dominant frequency of advertisement calls and maximum amplitude of calls that were linked to shape of burrow openings, but found none. Future work will focus on the role of previously documented weak higher harmonics in the G. major calling song, which might vary with differences in burrow mouth shape.
3503766|We tested the response of individual adult lubber grasshoppers in a wind tunnel to the odors of 3 plant species and to water vapor. Grasshoppers moved upwind to the odors of fresh-mashed narcissus and mashed Romaine lettuce, but not to water vapor, or in the absence of food odor. Males and females showed similar responses. Upwind movement tended to increase with the length of starvation (24, 48, or 72 h). The lack of upwind movement to water vapor implies that orientation toward the mashed plants was not simply an orientation to water vapor. These results support a growing data base that suggests that grasshoppers can use olfaction when foraging in the wild.
10.2307/3503584|A new cricket from Venezuela, Adenophallusia naiguatana gen. et sp. n., is described. Its most distinctive feature is the presence of a pair of sac-shaped epiphallic glands. This type of gland is not uncommon in certain members of South American phalangopsid crickets, but the present case seems to be the first reported from the Eneopteridae.
3503689|The grasshopper genus Sinaloa Scudder is composed of 8 species, 5 of which are new: S. behrens, S. nitida, S. pulchella, S. sipuri n. sp., S. uri n. sp., S. garabe n. sp., S. jubaami n. sp., and S. isena n. sp. Barytettix peninsulae from the southern tip of Baja California was incorrectly placed under Sinaloa by Bruner (1908) and Hebard (1925). The genus is known only from western Mexico (Sonora, Sinaloa, Nayarit, and Jalisco) where it occurs mostly in the lowlands. The species are differentiated mainly by the configuration of the male genitalia.
3503739|The control of grasshoppers in Brazil has been based exclusively on chemical insecticides (fenitrothion and malathion). However, as these products are known to be harmful to the environment, their massive use has caused concerns. In the face of pressure against their use, the development of alternative methods became imperative. Some species of entomopathogenic fungi can supplement or even replace chemical insecticides in the control of grasshoppers. An integrated research project began in Brazil in 1993 with the specific objective of developing bioinsecticides based on entomopathogenic microorganisms, especially fungi, to control grasshoppers. Activities centered in surveys, characterization, production, formulation, and field evaluation. Emphasis was given to developing the fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum as the most promising biocontrol candidate. It is now known that this pathogen can be used efficiently in the control of Rhammatocerus schistocercoides in Brazil and we are verifying its effects on non-target organisms, including other Orthoptera, Diptera and Hymenoptera.
41759695|A new species of Oecanthus Serville, 1831 is described from Texas. Oecanthus walkeri n. sp. Collins & Symes occurs in southern Texas on Seep Willow (Baccharis salicipholia), Tepejuage (Leucaena iveruienta) and Sugar Hackberry (Celtis laevigata) trees. O. walkeri is currently known only the Rio Grande Valley. Song analysis revealed a pulse pattern of constant trilling, similar to other constant toilers of the O. nigricornis species group, although the early evening calling pattern shows characteristics of the O. niveus group. This species was only found in trees, which is uncommon for the O. nigricornis group. The antennal markings are consistent with the O. nigricornis group; however, this is the first species of that group to have pale abdomen, pedicel and scape, while also having black flagellae. Notes are provided on physical morphology, phenology, habitat and song pulse rates at given temperatures.
10.2307/3503650| In 1993, the National Center for Biological Control in Mexico started a research project testing native isolates of Metarhizium spp. against the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons. The M. anisopliae var. acridum isolate MaPL40 was formulated in various vegetable and mineral oils and at both 7 and 27C; a formulation in citroline oil remained viable the longest. When applied to nymphs of S. p. piceifrons, the Median Lethal Time (MLT) was less for citroline oil formulations of M. anisopliae than aqueous suspension formulations, providing 100% mortality within 7 days. /// El Centro Nacional de Referencia de Control Biolgico en Mxico, inici en 1993 un proyecto cuyo objetivo principal es lograr la utilizacin de cepas nativas de Metarhizium spp. para el control biolgico de la langosta centroamericana Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons. En este artculo se presentan resultados sobre la viabilidad de M. anisopliae var. acridum, aislamiento MaPL40, formulado en aceites vegetales y minerales, bajo dos condiciones diferentes de temperatura; as como sobre la virulencia de la formulacin mas adecuada sobre ninfas de S.p.piceifrons. La formulacin de M.anisopliae en citrolina proporcion a ambas temperaturas, 7 y 27 C, la viabilidad mas alta de las conidias. El Tiempo Letal Medio (TLM) fu menor para la formulacin del hongo en citrolina que el de la formulacin en suspensin acuosa, obtenindose el 100% de mortalidad a los 7 das de iniciado el experimento. 
10.2307/3503405|The known species of Chinese Tettigoniodea include all the long-horned grasshoppers, katydids, camel crickets, cave crickets and leaf-rolling crickets, but do not include true crickets and mole crickets of the suborder Gryllodea, in the Grylloptera. All known species are listed along with original references, synonyms, types, type depositories and known distributions in China. The geographical territory covered by this catalogue includes both mainland China and Taiwan, some parts of (outer) Mongolia, Ussurian region (border of Russia), Changbai Mt. (N. Korea), Ryukyu Is. of Japan, Himalaya (border of India and Nepal) and Tonkin (border of Vietnam).
20789569|Rangeland grasshoppers have long been considered pests of serious economic importance and are key components of grassland food webs. Sampling protocols inform decisions to control grasshoppers. Preliminary observations while sampling rangeland grasshoppers indicated differences in species diversity and numbers captured, depending upon time of day. To test these differences, we used USDA-APHIS sweep-net sampling protocols at various times at four rangeland sites during 2006-2007 and compared mean numbers collected. Sweep sampling every hour from 06:00 to 12:00 revealed that adult and nymphal grasshopper numbers were significantly higher at 06:00 than either 07:00 or 08:00. Captures were similar throughout the afternoon. These patterns were also observed for adults of the most common species, Melanoplus femurrubrum (DeGeer). The results of this study have important implications for rangeland pest management decisions and ecological studies that estimate insect biomass as an indicator of food availability. Our results indicate that standardized sampling of grasshoppers in mixed-grass prairie rangeland should be conducted between 10:00 and 16:00.
10.2307/3503476|The long spines on the fore- and midlegs to katydids are usually believed to assist in catching and holding prey. Recent observations indicate that this is not always the case. The meso- and metasternal processes, however, seem to be used to stabilize larger prey during feeding.
25473447|In many insect species, males with larger body sizes are more successful at securing mates. Previous studies on the brachypterous grasshopper Podisma sapporensis have shown that male mating frequency varies greatly among populations. Here we test the hypothesis that differences in male mating success among populations are linked to differences in body size and shape. To do so, we collected males and females from three localities and conducted cross-breeding experiments. Overall, we found no link between mean male body size and mean number of matings across populations. However, stepwise regression indicates that within the populations, males with longer thoraxes and shorter hind femurs, mated more frequently, whereas females with longer thoraxes mated more frequently. These results suggest that in males, having short hind femurs, relative to body size, rather than body size itself, contributes positively to mating success - perhaps because of an advantage in holding onto females while avoiding females' resistance.
25473419|We used mitochondrial (12s, 16s) and nuclear (18s, 28s) ribosomal gene sequences to derive a phylogeny of the Eumastacoidea, with the aims of a) clarifying the position of the Proscopiidae with respect to the Eumastacoidea b) testing the phylogenetic hypothesis and classification advanced by Descamps 1973b for the Eumastacoidea, and c) deriving a time scale for the phylogeny based on molecular clock calculations. Four different analysis methods were employed: maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining assuming minimum evolution, maximum likelihood and Bayesian analysis. The genes were analysed separately and after concatenation. The sample included 6 of the 7 families and 12 of the 31 subfamilies of the Eumastacoidea, and three proscopiids. We included tetrigoids (as outgroup) and tanaoceroids and trigonopterygoids to provide polarity. No analysis supported placing the Proscopiidae within any of the existing branches of the Eumastacoidea. Some placed the two taxa as sistergroups within a Eumastacoidea s. lat., and some indicated that they are separate superfamilies. We cannot distinguish between these two possibilities with the present data. Within the Eumastacoidea s.str. all of the groupings of subfamilies (i.e., families) proposed by Descamps were well-supported. Higher nodes of the phylogeny were in general only weakly supported. Descamps' suprafamilial groupings appeared in some but not all analyses. Of these groupings, the Cryptophalli (=Chorotypidae plus Episactidae) were not well supported, the Stenophalli (Eumastacidae plus Morabidae) were reasonably well supported, while the Disclerophalli (=Thericleidae plus Euschmidtiidae) were strongly supported, and additionally the Gomphomastacinae were associated with it. (The Euphalli, containing only the Indian family Mastacideidae, were not included in the analysis.) The sequence data did not allow the assumption of a molecular clock, and for this reason the nodes of the phylogeny could not be dated.
3503616|Six specimens collected in the Admiralty Islands have been examined and are described as 2 new species. Four of these are named Megacrania vickeri. The other 2 specimens are described as M. Artus. They are compared with the most closely related species of Megacrania.
25822725|Oecanthus alexanderi n. sp. Walker occurs in the lower Rio Grande valley of Texas and in Mexico as far south and west as Michoacan. Its song and morphology establish it as a member of the Oecanthus rileyi species group. Other members of this group of New World species include O. rileyi Baker, O. allardi Walker & Gurney, and O. fultoni Walker. Calling songs of the rileyi group consist of chirps or brief trills in which trios of pulses are produced in such rapid succession as to be indistinguishable to the human ear. The chirps/trills are easily countable and have a highly regular rate that varies linearly with temperature. Extrapolated regression lines tend to converge at 4C and an expected chirp rate of 0. Because of these relations, simple formulas can convert counts of chirps vs time into surprisingly close approximations of ambient temperaturejustifying the group's designation as "thermometer crickets".
10.2307/3503548| The new genera Espagnolopsis and Espagnolina are erected for 3 new species of Eumastacid grasshoppers from south and central Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. These grasshoppers inhabit three different high mountain areas (near and over 1,000 m) of the Cordillera Central. Espagnolina is brachypterous, while Espagnolopsis is macropterous. Most distinctive of both genera are the sexual ornamentations in the form of elevated and inwardly curving spines (1 pair in Espagnolina, 2 pairs in Espagnolopsis) projecting on the dorsal surface of the last one or two abdominal tergites of the males. These structures are homologous to those seen in Espagnola Rehn & Rehn (1939), horizontally attached on the last tergite of the abdominal dorsum. As evidenced by their internal genitalia, as well as their external morphology, both genera appear to be closely related to Espagnola. /// Se erigen los nuevos gneros Espagnolina y Espagnolopsis, para 3 nuevas especies de saltamontes Eumastcidos del sur y el centro de la Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Estos saltamontes habitan tres diferentes reas de alta montaa (cerca y sobre los 1,000 m) en la Cordillera Central. Espagnolina es braquptero, mientras que Espagnolopsis es macrptero. Lo ms distintivo de ambos gneros son las ornamentaciones sexuales en forma de espinas curvadas hacia adentro (1 par en Espagnolina, dos pares en Espagnolopsis) y que se levantan sobre la superficie dorsal del ltimo (o los ltimos dos) tergitos abdominales en los machos. Estas estructuras son homlogas a las encontradas en Espagnola Rehn & Rehn (1939), horizontalmente unidas al dorso del ltimo tergito abdominal. Como lo evidencian sus genitalias internas, as como su morfologa externa, ambos gneros parecen cercanamente relacionados con Espagnola. 
25473451|Life-history models predict populations under shorter growing seasons will invest earlier and more heavily in reproduction than populations under longer growing seasons. Populations of Romalea microptera inhabit distinctly different climates and differ in mtDNA cytochrome-b gene sequences. Previous work suggested a latitudinal trend in the trade-off among body-mass gain, age at first oviposition, and clutch mass, in populations from Miami FL, Lydia LA, and Athens GA: but this study was confounded by longitudinal variation. Hence, we compared the Miami and Athens populations to a population from Jacksonville, FL, which is equidistant from both, yet under a distinct climate. The Athens population had less body-mass gain and an earlier age at oviposition than the other two populations. When corrected for initial body mass or age at oviposition, the Athens population produced larger clutches. Developmental profiles of juvenile hormone and hemolymph lipids did not differ across populations. In comparison to the Miami population, the Jacksonville population showed a nonsignificantly greater body-mass gain and age at oviposition, in contrast to the latitudinal trend observed previously. These data suggest that reproduction in R. microptera involves a trade-off between body-mass gain and age at oviposition, which is consistent with a current vs future reproduction trade-off.
25622290|Discrepancies in scale dynamics often make cohesive structural conclusions difficult, especially when dealing with ecological variance. We studied presence and abundance of grasshopper species in similar, yet distinct, montane habitat of southeast Wyoming and northern Colorado, USA. By limiting ecological variance, grasshopper species structure at two behavioral scales (grouped species dynamics and individual species interactions) was maximized with regard to soil texture and vegetative canopy coverage. Combining univariate and multivariate statistical methods, we note montane grasshopper species interactions to be scale dependent.
43738205|The effect of diflubenzuron (DFB), a benzoylphenyl urea insecticide, on the cuticle in newly molted fifth-instar nymphs of Schistocerca gregaria was examined. While there was an increase in dry weight of the cuticle in untreated nymphs, DFB treated nymphs had a reduced cuticle dry weight, with significant reductions in chitin levels. In a second series of experiments, DFB significantly reduced (p < 0.05) ecdysteroid titers in the hemolymph during nymphal development, leading to disruption of molting.
3503709|A new genus and species of ovoviviparous blaberid cockroach, Simandoa conserfariam is described that lives in bat guano in a cave in Guinea, West Africa. The male's subgenital plate, styles, and genitalia clearly place it in the Blaberidae: Oxyhaloinae: Nauphoetini. It is close to Henschoutedenia and Nauphoeta, but lacks stridulating structures on the pronotum and tegmina which are present in some species of the other 2 genera. The taxon belongs in the "Guanobies" group of cockroaches and lives in bat guano that accumulates not far from the entrance of the cave where light is present: Simandoa shows none of the characteristics of a troglobite (obligate cave-dweller) which, compared to surface dwellers, has reduced eyes and wings.
25473420|Nicarchus enyalius Rehn (Ommatolampini: Vilernae) is synonomized with N. erinaceus Stl, leaving the genus monospecific. A redescription is given. The previously unknown male of Cryptacris costaricensis Descamps & Rowell is described, and the genus redescribed; its probable position within the Vilernae is reaffirmed, and it is newly recorded from Panama as well as from Costa Rica. A new species of Pauracris Descamps & Amedegnato, a genus previously known only from Colombia, is described from Caribbean Costa Rica (P. brachyptera). Christenacris Descamps and Rowell is provisionally transferred from the Ommatolampini to the Pauracrini. A new subspecies of Ateliacris annulicornis (Bruner) (A. a. pulchra) (Syntomacrini: Caloscirtae) is described from Western Costa Rica. It differs from the nominate form principally in the coloration of the male. The systematic position of Leptalacris Descamps & Rowell is reconsidered, and it is transferred from the Ommatolampinae: Clematodinini to the Eucopiocerae group. One new species (jagoi) and one new subspecies (chrysonota salazari) of Rhachicreagra are described from Costa Rica (Abracrini). Additional notes on Rh. gracilis Bruner, drymocnemensis Jago & Rowell and dierythra Rowell are given.
25473448|We used linear regression, nonlinear regression and principal component analysis to examine the relationships among morphology, fecundity, and mating variables for lab-reared adult female Romalea microptera (Beauvois) (fam. Romaleidae) grasshoppers. Morphological variables included head width, pronotum length, femur length, adult eclosion mass, maximum mass reached before the 1st oviposition, and maximum mass reached before the 2nd oviposition. Fecundity (= reproductive) variables included clutch size Pod 1, clutch size Pod 2, total eggs Pods 1 + 2, mass Pod 1, mass Pod 2, time between adult eclosion and Pod 1, time between Pod 1 and Pod 2, and time between eclosion and Pod 2. Mating variables included number of matings and age of 1st mating. Most morphological variables were strongly positively correlated, and morphological variables (especially femur length, eclosion mass, and maximum body mass reached prior to oviposition) predicted many fecundity variables. Maximum body mass reached prior to laying Pod 1 was highly correlated with maximum body mass reached prior to laying Pod 2 (r =0 .93), and clutch size Pod 1 predicted clutch size Pod 2 (r = 0.72). However, time to oviposit (= interval between adult eclosion and oviposition) was generally unrelated to body size, body mass, or clutch size or mass. Hence, clutch size and pod mass are strongly determined by body size and mass at adult eclosion, but timing of oviposition is independent of body size and mass at eclosion. The results also suggest that early mating speeds oviposition, but that excessive mating reduces female fecundity, as measured by clutch size.
25822709|Dichroplus elongatus is a South American grasshopper that shows simultaneous polymorphisms for B chromosomes and several supernumerary segments located in chromosome pairs S10, S9, and M6 (SS10, SS9 and SS6 respectively), in natural populations from Argentina. Heterochromatin characterization with DAPI-CMA banding reveals that B chromosomes show an interstitial GC-rich band. The distal SS10 segment seems to also be GC-rich, whereas the proximal supernumerary segments (SS6 and SS9) show two different heterochromatin regions: one GC-rich region (CMA+/DAPI-) and the other that has no specificity to AT or CG base pairs (CMA/DAPI dull). The results obtained permit us to distinguish two types of constitutive heterochromatin in the supernumerary segments of D. elongatus. The variation in the frequency of these chromosome polymorphisms was analysed with respect to some climatic and geographic variables. There is considerable B chromosome variation between populations, and this variation correlates negatively with latitude and positively with altitude and mean annual temperature. The incidence of the proximal SS9 segment is positively correlated with altitude. The pattern of chromosome variation is discussed in relation to the population's ability to maintain supernumerary DNA in more climatically favorable geographic regions.
3503620| L'effet des l'extrait des graines de Peganum harmala a t tudi sur des larves du cinquime stade et sur le dveloppement ovarien du criquet plerin dans des conditions de laboratoire. Les rsultats obtenus rvlent, chez les larves du cinquime stade, un retard de la mue imaginale de huit jours et un taux de mortalit de 100% atteint le 16ime jour du dbut du traitement. Chez les femelles traites  l'tat imaginal, 62.5% d'entre elles prsentent un blocage du dveloppement ovarien. Les survivantes montrent un retard de la ponte de huit jours et une rduction du taux d'closion. Par ailleurs, nous avons constat chez les insectes traits, une rduction de l'activit physique (immobilit, tremblement des appendices,...), une diminution du poids et une perte en eau sous forme de fces humides. Paralllement, une tude phytochimique mene sur le mme extrait ethanolique, a rvl la prsence de la majorit des alcalodes indoliques responsables de la toxicit de la plante. /// The effect of an extract of Peganum harmala seeds was studied on the 5th larval instar and on the ovarian growth of desert locusts under laboratory conditions. The results obtained show, in the 5th larval instar, an 8-d delay of imaginal moulting, and a mortality rate of 100%, reached on the 16th day after the beginning of the treatment. In females treated at the adult instar, 62.5% among them had their ovarian development blocked. Those surviving showed an 8-d delay of egg-laying and a decrease in hatching rate. We have noted, in the treated insects, a decrease in physical activity (immobility, trembling of appendages), a decrease in weight, and a loss of water in the form of wet faeces. Concurrently, a phytochemical study conducted on the same ethanolic extract has shown the presence of a majority of the indolic alkaloids responsible for the toxicity of the plant. 
25473425|Nutritional ecology of the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons was studied using specimens from Socorro Island, Mexico. They were fed in the laboratory with common plants obtained from the island: Ficus cotinifolia (Moraceae), Cordia curassavica (Boraginaceae), Nicotiana stocktonii (Solanaceae), and Psidium sartorianum (Myrtaceae). We measured nutritional and growth rates in dry weights: intake, gain in weight, as well as some Waldbauer indices equivalents: efficiency of conversion of ingested food (ECI), efficiency of conversion of digested (absorbed) food (ECD), and approximate digestibility (AD). We compared nutritional indices equivalents between female and male, between gregarious and solitary phases and between diets, employing ANCOVAs. We found no differences in metabolic efficiencies between female and male locusts, no differences between gregarious and solitary locusts. We found that F. cotinifolia is a food plant that favors the intake, nutritional efficiencies and steady growth of the Central American locust, in comparison to other food plants.
25473454|Morphometric condition (i.e., condition estimated from some aspect of body size) is frequently calculated from mass-size residuals, and is often used to infer something about an animal's energetic state. However, controversy exists about the validity of using mass-size residuals for this purpose. Recent work suggests the approach is appropriate in mammals, but it is unclear if morphometric condition is useful in the context of understanding the energetic state of grasshoppers and whether differences in morphometric condition are associated with variation in fecundity-related characteristics in females. To address this question, I examined male and female Dactylotum variegatum, sampled from a mosaic of grazed and ungrazed grasslands in southeastern Arizona, to determine whether morphometric condition corresponded with lipid and glycogen levels in males and a variety of reproductive characteristics in females. D. variegatum was found to be strongly sexually dimorphic relative to mass and femur length. The relationship between mass and femur length was linear for both males and females, an important assumption underlying the use of mass-size residuals as a measure of condition. Structurally larger males had more lipid and glycogen content. After controlling for the effect of size on lipid and glycogen content, a positive relationship was found between morphometric condition and lipid and glycogen levels, although the relationship was relatively weak for glycogen. In females, femur length, mass, and morphometric condition were not significantly associated with the number of ovarioles or the mean number of eggs or corpora lutea per ovariole. Only the mean number of resorption bodies per ovariole was significantly related to mass and morphometric condition, with larger and better conditioned females having fewer resorption bodies. The results of this study suggest that mass-size residuals in this species of grasshopper are related to energetic condition, but that other factors, such as variation in water and protein content, may weaken the relationship. Morphometric condition probably has limited value in estimating fitness of wild-caught D. variegatum females.
10.2307/3503425|Timema coffmani sp. nov. is described from southwestern Arizona. It is a specialist feeder on juniper (Juniperus). Morphologically it is similar to T. ritensis Hebard from southeastern Arizona. The previously unknown female sex of T. ritensis also is described and both sexes are compared with T. coffmani. Measurements and distinguishing features are given for both species.
20066580|Two new species, K. dicronophallus and K. licrophallus, are described from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica, and new localities are given for K. arboricola, the type of the genus. The genus is redefined and a key provided. The three species differ principally in their phallic structures, external differences are minimal and confined to small differences in coloration and the female subgenital plate.
10.2307/3503491| The genus Pterophylla occurs from northern United States to Mexico central-west region. Five species are known, three of them [Pterophylla beltrani, P. baezi and P. robertsi] occur in Mexico, while the other two (P. camellifolia and P. furcata) occur in United States (Bolvar and Bolvar 1942, Shaw and Carlson 1969, Barrientos 1988). These insects are unable to fly; their displacement is very slow and is often aided by air drafts that allow them to glide. The group has a history of taxonomic confusion due to its plasticity, intraspecific variation, and great acoustic and morphometric variation between allopatric populations of the different species (Bolvar and Bolvar 1942, Hebard 1941, Barrientos 1988, 1997, Shaw et al.., 1969, 1979). Mate choice and hybridization experiments were carried out among seven allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. occurring in the States of Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, and San Luis Potos. During mate choice experiments males had the opportunity to choose between a homogametic or a heterogametic female. Remarkably, males preferred courting and mating with females within their own population. Isolation indices were not significantly different from 1 using the X2 test. It was confirmed that populations 1, 2, and 3 belonged to P. beltrani; while populations 4, 5, 6, and 7 belonged to P. robertsi. Three of these populations (4, 5, 6) are new reports for P. robertsi in south Tamaulipas. Nevertheless, mate choice and hybridization experiments showed genetic incompatibilities among populations and the existence of postzygotic isolating mechanisms. Morphometric studies confirmed these results by separating the populations into two groups, group one is made up of populations 1 to 3 (P.beltrani), group 2 for populations 4 to 7 (P. robertsi) (Barrientos 1997). Mating time(minutes=min) between homogametic individuals from the different populations showed an ascending clinal variation from north to south; the minimum average mating time was 37.19 min for population 1 of P.beltrani, the maximum 42.00 min for populations 6, 7 of P. robertsi. The nature of variation among allopatric populations of the species, their taxonomic relationship, origin and evolution are discussed. /// El gnero Pterophylla extiende su rea de distribucin desde el noreste de Estados Unidos hasta la regin centro-oeste de Mxico. Tres de las cinco especies conocidas [Pterohylla beltrani, P. (Balsasia) baezi and P. robertsi] se presentan en Mxico; mientras que las otras dos (P. camellifolia y P. furcata) se localizan en Estados Unidos (Bolvar y Bolvar 1942, Shaw y Carlson 1969, Barrientos 1988). Los miembros del grupo carecen de capacidad de volar, por lo que se desplazan planeando impulsados por las corrientes de aire. El gnero se caracteriza por una taxonoma compleja debido a la plasticidad y a la gran variacin intra e interespecfica en caracteres acsticos y morfomtricos entre poblaciones aloptricas de las diferentes especies (Bolvar y Bolvar 1942, Hebard 1941, Barrientos 1988, 1997, Shaw et al., 1969, 979). En el presente trabajo se realizaron experimentos de apareo e hibridacin entre siete poblaciones aloptricas de Pterophylla spp. presentes en los Estados de Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas y San Luis Potos. Durante los experimentos de apareo el macho tuvo la oportunidad de escoger entre una hembra homogamtica y una heterogamtica, observndose una marcada preferencia de los machos para cortejar y aparearse con las hembras de su misma poblacin. Los ndices de aislamiento obtenidos no fueron significativamente diferentes de 1 usando la prueba de X2. Sin embargo, se confirm que las poblaciones 1, 2, y 3 pertenecen a P.beltrani; mientras que las poblaciones 4, 5, 6, 7 pertenecen a P. robertsi. Para sta ltima especie se reportan tres poblaciones aloptricas previamente desconocidas (4, 5, y 6) en el sur del Estado de Tamaulipas. Tanto los experimentos de apareo como las cruzas (hibridaciones) mostraron, no obstante, incompatibilidad gentica entre las poblaciones y la existencia de mecanismos de aislamiento postzigticos. Los resultados anteriores fueron confirmados con los obtenidos en estudios de morfometra, cuyo anlisis discriminante separ las siete poblaciones en dos grandes grupos. El grupo uno est formado por las poblaciones 1 a 3 (P.beltrani), el dos por las poblaciones 4 a 7 (P. robertsi) (Barrientos 1997). El tiempo que dura el apareamiento entre individuos homogamticos de las diferentes poblaciones, mostr una variacin clinal ascendente norte-sur, siendo el tiempo promedio menor de apareamiento de 37.19 minutos (poblacin 1) y el mayor de 42.00 minutos (poblaciones 6 y 7). Se discute la naturaleza de la variacin entre poblaciones aloptricas de las especies en estudio, su relacin taxonmica, as como su origen y evolucin. 
23034220|Ottotettix smaragdopoda gen. et sp. nov., a brachypterous katydid from the eastern Andean foothills of southern Ecuador, is described. It is moderately common in rainforest understory along creeks and in vales between 850 and 1300 m. The male's ultrasonic calling song, which is also described, is apparently performed only sporadically, and males seem also to use substrate-borne signals. Se describe Ottotettix smaragdopoda gen. et sp. nov. El Grillo de Patas Esmeraldas es un insecto delgado de 24-27 milmetros con alas muy reducidas. Como en las mucho ms grandes especies de Panoploscelis, el nico otro gnero braquptero de Eucocconotini, las tegminas tienen aproximadamente la misma longitud que el pronoto. El color general es rojizo claro, con las rodillas negras, y en individuos vivos las tibias de verde luciente. Las tegminitas son oscuras con venas amarillentas. La distribucin conocida incluye tres lugares entre la Cordillera Oriental y la Cordillera del Cndor entre 850 y 1300 msnm en el sureste del Ecuador. Ac los insectos nocturnos se encuentran frecuentemente en la vegetacin del sotobosque de la selva, a menudo cerca de quebradas o en cuencas. El canto del macho se encuentra completamente en el ultrasonido, entre 26 y 38 kHz. Al parecer los versos de 500-600 ms son emitidos muy escasamente, y aparentemente compensados a corta distancia por seales de vibracin del sustrato.
3503753|During the concluding 20 y of the 20th century, numerous interesting finds of Polyneoptera have been made. These include the discoveries of a new higher taxon of recent Ensifera, new genera of relict recent Ensiferan groups, and new genera and species of recent Orthoptera and Dictyoptera with remarkable morphological characteristics. There have been a series of paleontological finds, including new higher taxa, oldest representatives of some other higher taxa, and several interesting problematic and enigmatic fossils. Some of these finds clarify difficult problems of classification and evolution of Polyneoptera. A new genus and species, Aboiloilomimus sichuanensis, is described.
10.2307/3503634| The systematics and life history of two new species of cephaline gregarines parasitizing grasshoppers from agro-ecosystems (Saccharum officinarum, Oryza sativa, Zea mays) of Tamil Nadu (India), are described. Retractocephalus dhawanii sp. n., infecting midgut and gastric caeca of Atractomorpha crenulata (Fabricius) (Orthoptera: Pyrgomorphidae), is characterized by an intracellular trophozoite, retractile epimerite, solitary gamont, spherical gametocyst, anisogamous gametes and barrel-shaped ocysts (spores). Hentschelia gillii sp. n. parasitizes the midgut and gastric caeca of Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall) (Orthoptera: Acrididae). It has intracellular trophozoites, an elaborate epimerite with a tube-like connection to the host cell, solitary gamonts, spherical gametocyst, isogamous gametes and barrel-shaped ocysts. 
10.2307/3503496| Following a survey of the area, five species of stick-insects are reported from Kakadu National Park, Northern Territory, Australia: Sipyloidea filiformis Redtenbacher 1908, Hyrtacus carinatvs (Sjstedt 1918), Anchiale spinicollis (Gray 1833), Arphax dolomedes (Westwood 1859) and Eurycnema osiris (Gray 1834). A table showing the key features of adults and eggs is included, along with brief notes on habitat and drawings of adults and eggs. 
3503698| To evaluate temporal changes in grasshopper communities over a 5-y period (1997-2001), density and species relative abundance were estimated at 27 sites in Benito Jurez county, Southern Pampas, Argentina, established across vegetation associations with different disturbance histories. A total of 22 grasshopper species were collected, Melanoplinae being the most abundant and diverse subfamily, followed by Gomphocerinae, Acridinae, Copiocerinae and Leptysminae. Results allowed us to categorize years into nonoutbreak (1997, 1998, 1999), transitional (2000) and outbreak (2001) based on the spatiotemporal characteristics of grasshopper density trends. On average, grasshopper density was over 7 times greater in 2001 than in nonoutbreakyears. During nonoutbreakyears, grasshopper densities showed no significant variation across disturbance categories. During the outbreak year, densities were significantly higher in pastures and halophilous steppes, with highly disturbed pastures being the most affected sites of all. Species richness changed significantly in outbreak versus nonoutbreak years: nearly twice as many species were collected during the outbreak year. Although 22 species were collected, results showed that a small number influence overall abundance from nonoutbreak to outbreak conditions. Although Dichroplus elongatus, Covasacris albitarsis, and Scotussa lemniscata were the three topranked species throughout the studied period, D. elongatus contributed most to overall shifts in grasshopper density. 
41759709|Based upon a week's field work in northwestern El Salvador, we add 14 species to the list of grasshoppers known from the country, increasing the count to 24 species. Habitat notes and photos are presented for some.
23610411|An important but under studied component of grasshopper ecology is how pathogens affect grasshopper population dynamics. However, insect population responses to disease may depend upon age demographics which vary temporally. In a field experiment, we varied grasshopper [Camnula pellucida (Scudder)] developmental stage (3rd instar, 4th instar, 5th instar, and adults) and fungal pathogen exposure (lab and field) and measured grasshopper mortality and survival. Lab exposed grasshoppers were directly inoculated with the pathogen, while field exposed grasshoppers were passively exposed to naturally occurring spores. Disease increased grasshopper mortality rates and decreased overall survival. However, this effect varied with grasshopper developmental stage and mode of pathogen exposure. Adults were far less susceptible to fungal infection than nymphs. Disease mortality was 52% higher in lab exposed grasshoppers compared to individuals exposed to a natural fungal epizootic in the field. Lab exposure decreased 3rd instar survival rates more than exposure to the pathogen in the field. In contrast, grasshopper survival was invariant with disease exposure for 4th and 5th instars due to peak levels of naturally occurring fungal spores. By August 2010, the field epizootic was declining and food availability became the most important determinant of adult grasshopper survival. Therefore, age demographics may need to be considered when predicting how grasshopper populations will respond to disease.
3503712|New records of hairworms (Gordioidea: Nematomorpha) and mermithid nematodes (Mermithidae: Nematoda) are reported from North American Orthoptera collected over the past 25 y. Several thousand Jerusalem crickets (Stenopelmatidae: Stenopelmatus spp.), field crickets (Gryllidae: Gryllus sp), and several hundred decticine katydids (Tettigoniidae: Tettigoniinae) were captured in the field and maintained alive, serving as potential hosts. A total of 36 specimens were found infected (most multiple), which resulted in the recovery of 19 hairworm lots associated with some 11 species of Stenopelmatus; 6 hairworm lots from 4 species of Gryllus and 2 decticine katydid genera, and 11 mermithid nematode lots associated with 5 species of Stenopelmatus, Capnobotes fuliginosus and a Gryllus sp. The present study identifies hosts of hairworms and mermithids collected from sites throughout central and western United States and much of Mexico.
20789570|The hearing system of the katydid genus Neoconocephalus functions in two contexts: intraspecific communication and predator (bat) avoidance. Male calls and bat echolocation signals differ spectrally and temporally. In order to respond appropriately, katydids must recognize and discriminate between signal types. We categorized bat avoidance behaviors and examined temporal recognition of bat cries behaviorally during tethered flight in Neoconocephalus retusus and Neoconocephalus ensiger. We used simulated bat approaches to categorize bat avoidance behaviors in Neoconocephalus. Four distinct behaviors were observed: steering, wingbeat interruption, dives and leg kicks. The first three behaviors were amplitude dependent and could be elicited by a single pulse of ultrasound. The final behavior only occurred during the terminal phase and was found to be pulse-rate dependent. Response probabilities of specific behaviors varied between species. A comparison of the two Neoconocephalus species showed that steering and leg kicks were performed consistently in both species. However, wingbeat interruptions and dives occurred more often in N. retusus than in N. ensiger. We also tested how temporal properties of model bat cries are used to recognize a signal as aversive. Single-pulse experiments showed that katydids respond best to pulses with relatively short rise times and a minimum duration. Very long pulse durations did not negatively affect responsiveness if rise times were short enough. No differences were found in temporal recognition between the two species.
25822716|The Mormon cricket (Anabrus simplex Haldeman) (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae) is a historic pest on millions of acres in the western US. During outbreak years, annual losses attributed to it have amounted to millions of dollars. Nonchemical controls are needed for environmentally sensitive areas  an increasing concern. Myco-insecticides are available but show an unpredictable and unexplainable lack of effect on Mormon crickets. This research sought to understand performance of Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium brunneum under field conditions, compared to studies showing excellent performance under laboratory conditions. Our objectives were: (1) to evaluate B. bassiana GHA and M. brunneum F52 for potential use against Mormon crickets; (2) to compare spray and bait formulations of each fungus against immature and adult Mormon crickets; and (3) to understand the effect of Mormon-cricket body temperatures on the speed of efficacy by the two fungi. No mortality of 3rd-instar Mormon crickets was detected in the field 14 d after treatment with fungal baits or sprays of either B. bassiana Strain GHA or M. brunneum Strain F52. Unexpected bait aversion may have adversely affected the success of the bait treatments. Lack of spray efficacy was also unexpected, given the laboratory infectivity of both fungi for the Mormon cricket. Possible body temperatures were estimated by thermal surrogates located on the ground and in the plant canopy within field cages. Surrogate temperatures below 18C, as well as above 30C, were common during the study. When cumulative amount of time at temperatures optimal for fungal growth (18 to 30C) was calculated for the duration of the post-treatment observation period, there was an insufficient number of fungal growth hours to produce mortality within the 14-d post-treatment period. Our data suggest that at least 32 to 43 d (M. brunneum) or 58 to 75 d (B. bassiana) should have been required for insect mortality to occur under the conditions of the test. In a second test, targeting seventh-instar nymphs and adults, the in-field mortality was not followed, but treated individuals were incubated both indoors and in outdoor cages. Infections by B. bassiana and M. brunneum in the indoor-incubated insects caused 69 and 100% mortality (corrected for untreated controls) respectively, with 71 and 80% mycosis in cadavers. Mormon crickets in outdoor cages succumbed to unexpected high temperatures. Our data illustrate the importance of Mormon cricket body temperatures and their effects on fungal infection. Because physical location and thermoregulation may alter the environ inside the insect, at least a month may be required after treatment for infections by B. bassiana GHA and M. brunneum F52 to cause mortality. Future studies should take this longer observational time into account. There is some potential for faster fungal growth in Mormon crickets under natural conditions, as opposed to our experimental cages, particularly in the immature stages. Mormon crickets aggregate in sheltered locations under inclement weather and at night. This behavior may conserve and actually promote body temperatures more favorable to fungal development. The potential value of this aspect of Mormon cricket behavior will require additional study.
10.2307/3503488|Atractomorpha crenulata was reared in the laboratory on Ricinus communis, and the haemocyte profile (total and differential counts) were studied with reference to different instars and various stages of adult life in both males and females. Instars do not show any significant variation in total haemocyte count within the same sex or between males and females. While there was no change in total haemocyte count in adult males as age progresses, there was fluctuation in haemocyte population amongst adult females. Early female instars had a higher percentage of prohaemocytes, while in adults, the percentage of prohaemocytes decreased with a corresponding increase in plasmatocytes. Senescence was accompanied with reduction in plasmatocyte percentage.
20066579|Poecilocloeus septentrionalis is described from the Caribbean slope of Costa Rica. This is the first record of the genus from outside the Amazon basin, where it is highly speciose, with some 50 described species. The new species is morphologically a typical member of its genus.
3503742|Helicomastax n. gen. is externally almost identical with Homeomastax Descamps 1979, but has radically different genital structures. In the male the ectophallic sclerites give rise on their anterior medial surface to a pair of chitinous filaments. These enter the spermatophore sac dorsally, run in a circular course within the sac and emerge from its opening ventrally and posteriorly as two fine whip-like projections, which extend dorsally above the ectophallic sclerites. The complex of spermatophore sac, endophallic plate and ectophallic sclerites, forms a sclerotized capsule; the posterior extremities of the ectophallic plate are not inserted into the ectophallic membrane, as in other eumastacine genera, but are free and project to the exterior. The spermathecal duct of the female is longer and more convoluted than in other eumastacine genera, presumably in association with the filaments of the male, which are hypothesized to be inserted into the duct during copulation. The genus is represented by two new species (H. mnioides and H. copensis) from the mountains of Central and Western Panama. Both are sympatric with local species of Homeomastax.
3503720| The uhleri group of the genus Amblycorypha consists of A. uhleri Stl and 4 new species: arenicola, cajuni, longinicta, and rivograndis. The species are easily distinguished in the field by features of their songs, and most specimens can be identified by size and features of the ovipositor and male stridulatory apparatus. Males of the uhleri group produce the most complex calls known for ensiferan Orthoptera and thus earn the common name of "virtuoso katydids". Each species uses 4 types of wing-movement cycles to produce 4 types of syllable sequences. During these sequences there are gradual and sudden changes in intensity. The 4 types of sequences are produced in more or less predictable order, with a complete song requiring 4 to > 60 s depending on the species, the population, and the temperature. In response to these songs, sexually responsive females make nondescript answering "ticks" immediately before and during the place in the songs where the males produce "type IV" syllables. Available evidence suggests that sequences of type I and II syllables are of special significance in eliciting ticks from females, that type III sequences may function in causing females to approach the male from afar, and that type IV sequences may lessen the chances of cuckoldry by eavesdropping males. 
23610416|Forty-four species of Phaneropterinae are recorded from Dzanga-Ndoki National Park in the Central African Republic. Eight species collected within the park are described as new to science: Phlaurocentrum morettoi n. sp., P. paratuberosum n. sp., P. elegans n. sp., Myllocentrum raggei n. sp., Poreuomena sanghensis n. sp., Cestromoecha longicerca n. sp., C. magnicerca n. sp., and Goetia purpurea n. sp. An additional new species from Guinea is described from specimens preserved in the Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales of Madrid, Poreuomena huxleyi n. sp. Eurycorphya stylata Stl, 1873 is recorded for the first time from Burkina Faso and Brycoptera lobata Ragge, 1981 from Ivory Coast. The following synonyms are established: Enochletica affinis Bolvar, 1906 is synonymized with Enochletica ostentatrix Karsch, 1896, Poreuomena gladiator Bolvar, 1906 is synonymized with Poreuomena forcipata Sjstedt, 1902, and Azamia doriae (Griffini, 1906) is synonymized with Azamia biplagiata Bolvar, 1906. In addition, morphological characters of previously unknown females of Phaneroptera maculosa Ragge, 1956 and Eurycorypha canaliculata Karsch, 1890, and males of Myllocentrum stigmosum (Karsch, 1896) and Cestromoecha crassipes (Karsch, 1890) are described. The presence of titillators in four African genera (Gelotopoia, Brycoptera, Phlaurocentrum and Azamia) is recorded for the first time. In the genus Zeuneria, a sub-equally bilobed, dorsally curved, dorso-lateral abdominal appendage is described for the first time. This new structure apparently delimits an abdominal gland of unknown function on the second tergite.
10.2307/3503556|Sexual selection acting on male body size was investigated over a single episode of selection, the mate attraction phase, within a natural aggregation of the European field cricket, Gryllus campestris L. Males successful in attracting a female were significantly larger than those that failed to do so. The cross-sectional method of Wade and Arnold (1984a, b) was adopted to assess the intensity of sexual selection acting on male size during this study. The results are compared with those of similar studies made on North American field crickets.
41759711|After being unrecorded for approximately 70 years, Aztecacris gloriosus (Hebard, 1935) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) is documented from several sites in the Pajarito Mountains, Santa Cruz County, Arizona, USA. An association with Broom Snakeweed (Gutierrezia sarothrae) (Asteraceae) is suggested. The known range of the species is small and limited to Santa Cruz County. Habitat and associated orthopterans are discussed, as is an attempted mating by a male Melanoplus on a female A. gloriosus. Photos of A. gloriosus and its habitat are presented.
3503672|Twenty species of Tettigoniidae are recorded from Jordan, 13 of them for the first time. Two new species are described, Uvarovistia rammei and Parapholidoptera willemsei. New status is proposed for Paradrymadusa philbyi Uvarov (= Scotodrymadusa philbyi) and for Platycleis (Incertana) erecta Uvarov (= Platycleis (Decorana) erecta).
10.2307/3503642|The problem of maintenance of the frequency component of bush cricket calls is considered. Evidence is given that in Tettigoniidae a call constructed from a series of brief transients, producing a wide spectrum of sound, can be filtered to produce a call with a dominant frequency (the carrier frequency). This filtered amplification is brought about by the subalar air pocket. Inducing the insect to sing in heliox ( He O
10.2307/3503514| Chromosomal variation in the Moreton subspecies of the Australian grasshopper, Caledia captiva (F.), involves the transposition of the centromere from terminal to medial locations on all chromosomes within the genome (2n = 23  / 24 ). At each end of its distributional range - covering 1500 km along the east coast of Australia - populations show fixed differences in chromosome structure. Between these two extremes, populations are characterized by complex chromosomal polymorphisms that take the form of latitudinal clines along which the entire genome changes gradually and systemically from metacentric in northern populations to acro/telocentric in the south. To date over 600 different chromosomal rearrangements have been identified. Using a series of DNA and protein markers, we have shown that gene flow along the chromosomal clines is continuous, suggesting that the establishment and maintenance of the clines has involved selective rather than stochastic events. Moreover, we have also revealed that the concerted patterns of chromosome change are correlated with changes in development time. Development time is negatively correlated with changes in the number of degree days available for successful completion of the life cycle with increasing latitude and probably represents an adaptation to the gradual reduction in season length. Increased body weight is also correlated with acro/telocentric chromosomes and with a rapid development time. An explanation of this unusual relationship is presented, whereby it is proposed that the changes in the location of the centromeres on every chromosome lead to changes in nuclear volume by modifying the centromere-telomere disposition at telophase when the nuclear envelope is reassembled. This proposal is analogous to the known consequences of increasing nuclear DNA content which leads to larger nuclear volume, larger cell and body size, and reduced generation time. 
20789572|A taxonomic survey of the anareolate neotropical tribe Cladomorphini Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893 (subfamily Cladomorphinae) is provided, along with a redescription and keys to the seven genera now contained. Two genera previously only known from the females, are redescribed and revised at the species level. The monotypical Aplopocranidium Zompro, 2004 (Type-species: Bacteria waehneri Gnther, 1940) was misplaced in Cranidiini Gnther, 1953 and is here transferred to the tribe Cladomorphini Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893. It is closely related to Jeremia Redtenbacher, 1908 and Jeremiodes Hennemann & Conle, 2007, but differs from both by the prominent spines of the thorax. The previously unknown male is described and illustrated for the first time and a new extended generic description provided. The genus Jeremia Redtenbacher, 1908 (Type-species: Jeremia grossedentata Redtenbacher, 1908) is redescribed and a key provided to distinguish the two species contained (J. grossedentata Redtenbacher, 1908 and J. gymnota Gnther, 1930). The previously unknown male and eggs are described and illustrated for the first time. Jeremia is closely related to Jeremiodes and Aplopocranidium, but differs by the distinct ventral teeth of the middle and hind legs.
3657109|Alulatettix angustivertex n. sp. is described with illustrations of external morphology and female genitalia in detail. Comparison between the species A. angustivertex n. sp. and the other species of the genus Alulatettix is compiled into a table for identification. The distribution map of this species in Taiwan and its offshore islands is also provided.
20789561|Le Criquet plerin Schistocerca gregaria (Forsk., 1775) en phase grgaire est connu depuis longtemps pour sa grande polyphagie et la large varit de cultures attaques. Cette polyphagie semble plus limite en phase solitaire. Ne faisant pas de dgts en phase solitaire, son rgime alimentaire est peu connu. Le prsent travail traite de l'valuation qualitative et quantitative des prfrences alimentaires de S. gregaria  l'tat solitaire dans divers biotopes du Sahara algrien. L'valuation qualitative s'est faite en comparant la gamme des espces vgtales dans les biotopes acridiens avec la gamme des espces vgtales identifies dans les fces d'individus capturs sur le terrain. L'valuation quantitative s'est faite en comparant les frquences des espces vgtales observes dans les fces avec leurs abondances dans le biotope correspondant. La frquence d'une espce vgtale consomme a pu alors tre estime par le rapport du nombre d'imagos ayant consomm l'espce vgtale au nombre d'imagos prsents dans le biotope. La disparit observe entre la frquence des espces vgtales consommes et leurs abondances dans les biotopes atteste d'une nette prfrence alimentaire exprime par S. gregaria solitaire. La composition floristique des biotopes influence le rgime alimentaire en limitant les possibilits de choix pour l'acridien. Lergime alimentaire diffre peu en fonction du sexe des individus dans un mme biotope. Il apparat que le rgime alimentaire du Criquet plerin dpend  la fois de la composition du tapis vgtal et des choix qu'il opre dans sa qute de nourriture. Les plantes apprcies par le Criquet sont gnralement celles qui lui permettent le meilleur dveloppement et la meilleure reproduction. The Desert Locust, Schistocerca gregaria (Forsk., 1775), in gregarious phase has long been known for its great polyphagia and broad variety of attacked crops. This polyphagia seems more limited in the solitary phase. Not doing damage in this phase, its feeding regimen is poorly known. The present work treats qualitative and quantitative evaluation of food preferences of S. gregaria in the solitary state in various biotopes of the Algerian Sahara. The qualitative evaluation was done by comparing the diversity of plant species in the acridid's biotopes with the diversity of the plant species identified in feces of individuals captured on the ground. The quantitative evaluation was done by comparing the frequencies of the plant species observed in feces, with their abundances in the corresponding biotope. The frequency of a consumed plant species then could be estimated by the ratio of the number of imagos having consumed the plant species to the number of imagos present in the biotope. The disparity observed between the frequency of the consumed plant species and their abundances in the biotopes attests to a clear food preference expressed by solitary S. gregaria. The floristic composition of the biotopes influences the food mode by limiting possibilities of choice for the acridid. The feeding regimen differs little according to the sex of the individuals in the same biotope. It appears that the feeding regimen of the Desert Locust depends simultaneously on the composition of the flora and the choices by which it operates in the search for food. The plants appreciated by the Desert Locust are generally those which allow it the best development and the best reproduction.
25622285|Praying mantids determine prey-capture distances with the aid of binocular mechanisms and estimate distances to stationary objects such as jump targets with the aid of retinal image velocity. The latter mechanism makes use of the fact that the retinal image velocity resulting from translational self-motion (peering movements) is inversely proportional to the distance of the target object. The present study shows that for South African mantids Polyspilota sp., the interocular distance, an aspect of binocular vision, and the amplitude and velocity of peering movements, increase over the course of postembryonic development from 2nd instar to adult. In both cases there is a close positive correlation with body size. Calculated convergence angles and retinal image velocities indicate an improvement in absolute depth perception with increased body size. This is adaptive, because it allows the range of visual depth perception to increase with body size, strike distance and jumping capability, throughout the growth of the insect, from 2nd instar to adult.
40344844|The Central American locust, Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons Walker, economically important agricultural pest in Mexico and Central America. This species is characterized by its ability to gregarize and migrate long distances. High infestations of S. p. piceifrons have occurred in northeastern Mexico since 1998, particularly in the Huasteca region (South Tamaulipas, East San Luis Potos, North Veracruz and the State of Hidalgo). The aim of this study was to develop a model that relates the life cycle of the Central American locust with the climatic conditions of northeastern Mexico. The model is expressed in terms of a Thermal Time Clock calculated from mean monthly temperatures and photoperiod. Historic temperature data of 20 y, from 20 meteorological stations, were used to calculate average monthly $(\Psi _{month} )$ and yearly $(\Psi _{year} )$ values for thermal time (units are  C-days). these calculations we used the Allen sine method, a lower temperature threshold (k = 15.3 C) and an upper thermal threshold (k = 38.5 C). An average Thermal Time Locust Development Clock (TTLDC) was calculated using the relationship $(\Psi _{month} /\Psi _{year} ) * 360,$ which quantifies the monthly angular contribution on the clock ( = 10.6 ). Essentially, the clock is a translator between thermal time and calendar time (or vice versa) and may be used to forecast locust-stage development dates, starting from a given "Bio-fix" point. This clock can be used to program management activities of this pest. Field observations from 2001 to 2008, on population density and development stages of the Central American locust, were consistent with the development times recorded in the TTLDC. /// La langosta centroamericana, Schistocerca piceifrons piceifrons Walker, es una plaga agrcola de importancia econmica en Mxico y Centro Amrica; esta especie se caracteriza por su capacidad de gregarizacin y migracin. A partir de 1998 se presentaron severas infestaciones de esta plaga en la regin noreste de Mxico, particularmente en la regin Huasteca (Sur de Tamaulipas, Oriente de San Luis Potos, Norte de Veracruz y Estado de Hidalgo). El objetivo del presente trabajo fue desarrollar un modelo que relacione el ciclo de vida de la langosta centroamericana con las condiciones climticas del noreste de Mxico. El modelo se expresa por medio de un Reloj en Tiempo Trmico Promedio para el Desarrollo de la Langosta (RTTDL), calculado a partir de temperatura media mensual y fotoperodo. Se calcul el tiempo trmico promedio mensual y anual, a partir de datos histricos de temperatura de 20 aos, provenientes de 20 estaciones meteorolgicas ubicadas dentro del rea de influencia de la plaga. Para estos clculos se utiliz el mtodo de la curva sinusoidal de Alien, una temperatura umbral mnima (k=15.3 C) y mxima (k=38.5 C). Los datos permitieron calcular un Reloj en Tiempo Trmico Promedio (RTTDL) promedio, mediante la relacin $(\Psi _{mes} /\Psi _{a\~n o} )* 360,$ que cuantifica la contribucin angular de cada mes en el reloj $(\Psi = 10.6\alpha ).$ Bsicamente este reloj es un traductor del tiempo trmico y el tiempo calendario (o viceversa) y puede usarse para pronosticar las fechas en que se presentarn los distintos estados del ciclo de vida de la langosta, a partir de una determinada fecha "punto Bio-fix"; lo cual permite programar actividades de manejo de esta plaga. Las observaciones de campo de 2001 a 2008 sobre densidad de poblacin y estados de desarrollo de la langosta centroamericana fueron congruentes con los tiempos de desarrollo consignados en el RTTDL.
10.2307/3503585|Eighteen gomphocerine genera are redefined or described and Leva I. Bolivar 1909 gen. res. and Stenohippus Uvarov 1926 given full revisionary treatment. Luenia Uvarov 1953 and Aulacobothrus I. Bolivar 1902 are restored from synonymy under Dnopherula. Three genera are newly synonymised-Milleriola Uvarov 1953. Syn. n. and Afrohippus Uvarov 1941. Syn. n. under Rhaphotittha Karsch 1896, Bodenheimerella Uvarov 1933. Syn. n. under Leva Bolivar 1909. Three genera are restored from synonymy and reviewed-Berengueria I. Bolivar 1909, Leva Bolivar 1909 and Pseudoarcyptera Bolivar 1909. Seven genera are described as new-Crucinotacris, Pseudoberengeuria, Melinohippus, Leionotacris, Megafrohippus, Minihippus, and Neoleva. The important genera Eleutherotheca, Faureia, Luenia, Pseudogmothela, Ramburiella and Kraussella are not given full redefinition or review because no taxonomic changes are intended at present. They have, however, been included in the key to genera.
3503711|A small-scale study investigating the directional dispersal patterns of Chorthippus parallelus in a grazed pasture was undertaken in 2002 and 2003. The study site was divided into 4 quadrants with a central release circle. Nymphs and adults were marked, released and resighted at varying intervals throughout the day, when the distance and direction moved (taken from the center) were recorded for each individual. Significant directional movements to the north of the release circle were evident for both nymphs and adults. These movements were probably in response to habitat factors and topography outside of the release area. Both nymphs and adults moved uphill from the heavily grazed 'spatially hostile' release circle, to patches of tall ungrazed grass beyond the release area. These patches of ungrazed grass could have afforded shelter, from predation and inclement weather, not provided by the short vegetation inside the release area.
25822726|Grasshoppers are thought to be herbivores that primarily feed on plant leaves. But, many grasshopper species actually are omnivorous and will consume a wide range of living and dead organic matter. We documented the feeding behavior of the Western Lubber grasshopper, Taeniopoda eques, on a coyote, Canis latrans, carcass in Arizona, USA. The number of adult T. eques on the carcass ranged from 1 to 8 during each of six visits to the site and were predominantly female. Nymphs were not observed on or immediately adjacent to the carcass, although they were present in low numbers in the surrounding population. We observed females attempt to consume hair, dried hide, and especially dried tissue adhering to the bones. Our observation that most of the individuals feeding on the carcass were female, suggests that egg production requires nutrients that may make vertebrate carrion a complement to a herbivorous diet. T. eques lives in a desert habitat with a short and highly variable growing season, so carnivory/necrophagy may be adaptive by providing essential nutrients, thereby speeding oocyte maturation and increasing the likelihood that females will be able to develop and lay eggs before the onset of winter.
10.2307/3503574|The genus Orthoscapheus is compared with its nearest relative Abracris, and redefined in order to include a new species, Orthoscapheus noronhensis n. sp., from the main island of the Fernando de Noronha Archipelago. This new species clearly differs in its external characters from any of the species found in the mainland, though its genitalia reveals a very close affinity with O. rufipes (Thunberg 1824). All species in the genus are compared in tabulated form.
3503686|The genus Melanoplus is currently subdivided into numerous species groups, mostly informally by arrangement in collections. Most of the groups need further study. This paper treats the Viridipes Group which previously included 11 species. In this paper we have described two new species: M. lilianae n. sp. and M. benni n. sp. One species, M. gracilis, probably does not belong to this group. I have included it here because its affinities with other Melanoplus species remain unknown. Like the Viridipes Group it is characterized by its green legs. The members of this group are distributed mostly east of the Mississippi River. Two species, M. sylvatica and M. beameri, are known from west of the river. Most of the species emerge as adults in the spring or early summer and some are believed to overwinter in later nymphal stages. These species also prefer woodland habitats, especially along woods margins and small openings in woods. But sometimes they may be found some distance from the woodland edge, especially on larger balds in the southern Appalachian mountains.
3503769|Within the family Proscopiidae Serville 1839 (Orthoptera, Caelifera) the majority of the described general belong to the subfamily Proscopiinae Liana 1980. They show sufficient differentiation to justify being divided into tribes. The present work deals with the first of these, Tetanorhynchini tr. nov. This tribe consists of a homogenous assemblage of genera, viz. Cephalocoema Serville 1839, Tetanorhynchus Brunner von Wattenwyl 1898, Orienscopia Bentos-Pereira 2000, Scleratoscopia Jago 1989, Pseudoastroma Jago 1989, and Mariascopia Bentos-Pereira (in this issue) comprising at least 53 certain species and 31 doubtful ones, the types of the latter having been lost. All of these doubtful species belong to the genera Tetanorhynchus and Cephalocoema and the majority of them were described by Toledo Piza. Here I present characters of the tribe. They are based on the external morphology and the male and female genitalia. A key to identify each genus is given. I further discuss the origins and relations of the family Proscopiidae, based on the distribution and characteristics of all the genera of the family, and postulate a center of origin in the Pre-Andean-Chaco shield.
25473439|Complex interactions between an individual's genotype and its environment determine characteristics such as body size. However, gene-environment interactions should not be seen as being restricted to individual ontogeny: the diversity of the local gene pool can be greatly influenced by habitat variables and population history (e.g., landscape connectivity and propagule size). In this paper I use a model species, the bushcricket Metrioptera roeseli, and data from long-term experimental population introductions to examine individual body size as an indicator of the constraints placed on the gene pool by ecological variables following colonization of new environments. These broad-scale population-environment interactions are useful in understanding species ecology, species invasions and in managing successful reintroductions in conservation biology.
3657106|In female Romalea microptera grasshoppers, the interval between ovulation and oviposition is flexible. Females kept without sand laid their 1st egg clutch an average of 7 d later (Day 36) than females maintained on moist sand (Day 29). When we examined the ovaries of females who had recently laid, females denied sand had longer primary oocytes (5.7 vs 3.3 mm) and smaller follicle resorption bodies (0.61 vs 0.83 mm diameter) than females kept on sand, confirming that mature oocytes had been retained in the lateral oviducts of females denied sand. Some females kept without sand retained their 1st clutch until the 2nd clutch was ready to be ovulated. This suggests that grasshoppers exhibit adaptive flexibility in their ability to retain ovulated oocytes in the calyses of their lateral oviducts until a suitable oviposition substrate is found. The results also imply that using oviposition as a marker for underlying physiological/hormonal events or treatment/environment effects is problematic, because oviposition may not reliably indicate time of oocyte maturation or ovulation.
3503661| Population dynamics of an acridid grasshopper, Diabolocatantops pinguis, were monitored for 3 y, from October 1990 to September 1993, at two sites in Tamil Nadu, a southern state of India. The fluctuations in the population at the two sites were related to abiotic factors, such as maximum and minimum temperatures, rainfall and relative humidity, using Kendall's correlation coefficient test. We tested a hypothesis that the effects of each abiotic factor may be varying, i.e., from immediate to delayed. These analyses involved several correlation coefficient tests. Hence we also performed a sequential Bonferroni test to eliminate levels of significance that emerged due to sheer chance. Maximum temperature imposed a significant delayed negative effect on the population of this species that was prolonged 2-3 mo. Minimum temperature had a significant negative lag effect of about 2 mo. at Tambaram. Rainfall had a significant positive effect on the population immediately at Tambaram or with a lag ( 1 mo.) at Chinglepet. Relative humidity had a significant positive lag effect of about a month at Chinglepet only. The trends in the immediate effects of abiotic factors on the population of D. pinguis in both the study sites were comparable. 
3657108|We surveyed the lakeshore dunes on Lakes Michigan, Huron, and Superior in the state of Michigan to determine the extent of the range and number of populations of the threatened Lake Huron locust (Trimerotropis huroniana Wlk.) (Orthoptera: Acrididae). The locust's distribution is determined by a combination of historical and recent influences. Historical factors include the glacial history of the state and probable competition from other banded-wing locusts. Recent factors are primarily anthropogenic, including major habitat disturbances in the form of development, recreational use, and revegetation efforts; but lake level changes may also influence small local populations. Our surveys indicate that the species is fairly tolerant of disturbance and currently secure in Michigan. The status of the species in adjoining Wisconsin and Ontario is not well known.
20789573|Penetration of the cuticle of Locusta migratoria by the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae was investigated using scanning and transmission electron microscopy. Scanning electron microscopy revealed that conidia of M. anisopliae attached mostly to the sockets of the setae and to the intersegmental membranes. Fourth instar nymphs of locusts treated with the fungus were maintained at 28C. At this temperature, the fungal conidia germinated and produced appressoria on the cuticle of the locust within 1 day postinoculation. The penetrant structure entered directly through the epicuticle and exocuticle, with no lateral development. A fusiform penetrant structure then extended laterally between the layers of the endocuticle, with the spaces between the layers being enlarged due to lysis of the layers close to the penetrant. The penetrant structures exhibited various forms; most were fusiform, with many lysosomes and mitochondria, but no vacuoles. The penetrant hyphae ultimately invaded and colonized the haemocoele.
25822712|Huastecacris alexandri n. sp., is described from the El Cielo Biosphere Reserve in southern Tamaulipas, northeastern Mxico. Geographic distribution is limited to the highlands of the reserve where it occurs from 1300 to 1700 m in open areas on natural, low vegetation. This species is most related to Huastecacris zenoni Fontana & Buzzetti 2007, which is found in the lowlands of the reserve, extending the distribution of the genus along the Eastern Sierra Madre up to Cd. Victoria's mountain range. The species are distinguished by details of the male cerci, supra-anal plate, genitalia and color pattern.
25622284|Oreophoetes topoense n. sp. from Ecuador, Tungurahua Province, Rio Topo is described and illustrated for both sexes; eggs are described. It differs from all other species in the genus Oreophoetes Rehn, 1904, by a striking coloration and by morphological features of the insects' genitalia and eggs. Keys are provided to distinguish the four known species of Oreophoetes Rehn, 1904. The holotype of Oreophoetes topoense n. sp. is deposited in the State Zoological Collections Munich, Germany (ZSMC), paratypes in ZSMC and the private collections of the two first authors (coll. OC and coll. FH).
10.2307/3503413|Seventy two traps each composed of modified soft-drink bottle and peanut butter as bait were laid out from July to September, 1990 in a nursery of Paulownia fortunei and a 40-year plantation of Taiwan incense ceder (Calocedrus formosana) at Nantou, Taiwan. A total of 210 crickets, representing at least 6 genera and 9 species were collected with 1620 traps. Among the collected crickets, nymphs, female and male adut instars were 23%(49/210), 57%(119/210) and 20%(42/210), respectively. Crickets were not necessarily more diverse in either of the two habitats. Advantages, disadvantages and applications of this effective and convenient peanut butter bait trap are discussed.
10.2307/3503606|The three species of Mexican katydids Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar and Bolivar 1942), Pterophylla robertsi (Hebard 1941) and Pterophylla baezi (Bolivar and Bolivar 1942) are morphologically very similar. P. beltrani and P. baezi exhibit "green" and "pink" morphs while P. robertsi was only recorded in the green form. The shared colour forms plus the morphological similarity has caused taxonomic problems, particularly between P. beltrani and P. robertsi. Here we describe the acoustic signals of P. beltrani and P. robertsi and use these signals to clarify their taxonomy. Calling and courtship signals of both species consist of phrases made up of pulses. The highest degree of separation between the species (98%) was obtained in a discriminant analysis of the courtship signals. Phrase rate per minute, duration of pulse no. 1 and duration of pulse intervals were the most important discriminating variables. Factors causing variation in P. beltrani and P. robertsi acoustic signals are discussed and the role of acoustic signals as a Specific Mate Recognition System is stressed. Acoustic results are supported by morphometric studies which enabled a 100% separation between the species and provided diagnostic characters. Hybridization tests failed to produce any offspring.
3503726|Crickets are known to be inefficient sound producers. When calling, typically less than 1% of their metabolic energy is converted into sound. This low efficiency has been attributed to losses within the insect and to poor acoustic coupling with the environment. A previously uninvestigated factor that might contribute to low efficiency is ultrasonic radiation. If the impacts of the plectrum and file teeth excite vibration in the ultrasonic range, then the sound pressure level meters typically used to measure acoustic power would not accurately detect it. We made audible and ultrasound recordings of the calling songs of a phylogenetically diverse group of 6 cricket species, and, for comparison, 2 katydid species. In most of the cricket species, energy was present well into the ultrasonic region as a series of harmonics of the carrier frequency. However, the energy in these peaks was very small in comparison to the audible-range harmonics. There was no evidence of significant oscillations that were not harmonics of the carrier frequency. In all but one cricket species, over 97% of the total audible and ultrasonic energy was contained in the carrier frequency band.
3503724|Acoustic signals used during the pair-forming behavior of Isophya modesta modesta are described for the first time. Specimens from Hungary, Rumania and the Ukraine have been studied. The male calling song of I. m. modesta is composed of single syllables. Each syllable consists of a shorter main impulse-series (120 to 240 ms) and a longer terminal impulse-series (200 to 2500 ms), separated from each other by a silent interval of 4 to 9 s. Uniquely in I. m. modesta, females can produce 2 response songs during 1 syllable of the male: after the male's main impulse-series, and most frequently, after the terminal impulse-series. Playback experiments revealed that the second female response song is related to the end of the male's terminal impulse-series. I. m. modesta and I. m. rossica were formerly regarded as two different species only subtle morphological differences being known between the 2 taxa. But as the male calling songs are apparently identical, and with the present state of our knowledge, it is reasonable to treat "I. rossica" as a subspecies of I. modesta. The only remarkable difference in the pair-forming acoustic communication of the 2 subspecies is the different timing of female response song, indicating that the 2 taxa have diverged from each other to a certain degree.
25473456|Grasshoppers, like all other organisms, are composed of a combination of elements, but little is known about the extent to which the elemental composition in grasshoppers changes over the course of nymphal development. In this study the grasshopper Schistocerca americana was reared on a diet of seedling wheat and wheat germ; nymphs of various mass were collected and analyzed for elemental composition. In total, 12 different elements, including the macroelements carbon, nitrogen, and phosphorus, were quantified. Results show that the amount of a given element increased linearly with increasing body mass, but that the rate of increase differed depending on the element. Results also show that the concentration of some elements dropped dramatically over the course of development. We discuss our results in the context of limiting nutrients and ecological stoichiometry.
3503676| The acridid grasshopper genus Dellia Stl is redescribed and compared to other genera of Copiocerinae. Two new species of Dellia (Dellia karstica spec. nov. and Dellia maroona spec. nov.) from the Cockpit Country, Jamaica, are described and illustrated. General morphology and coloration indicate that D. karstica is closely related to the previously described D. gemmicula Rehn & Hebard from the Jamaican Blue Mountains. 
20066569|Two new species of a new genus of katydids collected in the understory of rainforests of northern Peru are described and figured. Observations on one species suggests that both may be predaceous or, at least, opportunistic predators. Placement of this genus into either Copiphorinae or Agraeciinae has not been resolved and demonstrates the need for studies to refine subfamilial and tribal relationships among the tettigoniids. /// Dos nuevas especies de un nuevo genero de tettignidos (Tettigoniidae) recolectadas en el substrato y areas adyacentes del bosque tropical en el norte del Peru son dibujadas y descritas. Observationes en una de las especies sugiere la posibilidad de que ambas son depredadoras o tal vez depredadores oportunisticos. La pertenencia de este genero a los Copiphorinae o Agraeciinae no ha sido resuclta, esto demuestra la necesidad de ms estudios que identifiquen las relaciones de tribu y sufamilia entre los tettignidos.
20789560|Necroscia ovata Chen & He, 2008 is synonymised with Necroscia shukayi (Bi, Zhang & Lau, 2001) comb. nov. and here transferred from the genus Sipyloidea Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1893. The egg is illustrated for the first time.
25473441|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) in animal species can result from the interplay between natural and sexual selection. In this paper we review the impact of sexual and natural selection on grasshopper body size and the evolution of SSD. Mate choice by females, and natural selection on female fecundity could explain an evolutionary trend to increase SSD in species in which females receive nutritional benefits during mating. In general, sexual selection is stronger in males than females. However, when females receive nutritional resources from males during mating, selection could be stronger in females than males. These resources constitute high energetic costs to males and it is expected that this promotes an increment in male mate selectivity. Higher female-biased SSD might evolve as a result of polyandry in species where males transfer nutritional benefits in the ejaculate. This hypothesis is testable at both macro- and micro-evolutionary levels. Finally, we discuss the relationship between body size and mate-guarding duration and its evolutionary implications and propose future studies to analyze the evolution of SSD and mate-guarding duration in grasshoppers.
10.2307/3503469|Based on written sources, locust outbreaks are traceable in the history of the Carpathian Basin to about a thousand years ago. Supposedly, these outbreaks attributed mainly to the Asiatic Wandering Locust (Locusta migratoria migratoria L.), which almost totally disappeared following the desiccation of the Pannonian Plain around the 18 or 19th century. Regulating river flows and desiccation of the Pannonian Plain brought about vast areas suitable as habitats for the Moroccan Locust (Dociostaurus maroccanus Thunberg), which occurred in the Carpathian Basin as the northernmost zone of its distribution area. A somewhat similar history in this region is known for populations of the Italian Locust (Calliptamus italicus L.). In a short report in 1993, I predicted the increasing possibility of locust outbreaks in Hungary. Three months later, after an interval of several decades, an outbreak began in June, caused mainly by the Moroccan Locust. Our prediction concerning possible causes of the outbreaks was based on the following: (a) decreasing pesticide pressure caused by both environmental (IPM approach) and economical concerns; (b) increased area of fallow land, mainly as a result of the uncertain situation of the present agrarian reform; and (c) the increasing number of drought years since the 1980s. In mid-June, 1993, mosaic-like outbreaks began across several hundred hectares in central Hungary. Partially separated by small groves and plantations, the diverse local populations consisted mainly of Dociostaurus maroccanus, D. brevicollis, and Calliptamus italicus. However, only D. maroccanus formed a restricted, but relatively dense, population (up to 150-300 specimens/ m
10.2307/3503542|This study, includes species of the order Mantodea (Insecta) living in the Malatya vicinity (Turkey) and some remarks on the mantises of Anatolia. Two species of Empusidae and five species of Mantidae were identified in the research area and a key to species was prepared. Figures of the genitalia of Rivetina fasciata, Bolivaria brachyptera and Bolivaria kurda are given. In a zoogeographical evaluation, data showed that Mediterranean elements are dominant in the research area
10.2307/3503480|The Orthopteroid fauna of the Maldive Islands in the Indian Ocean is poor. Species known to occur in the archipelago comprise eight species of cockroaches, most, if not all, of which have been introduced by human agency; a termite; four species of bush-crickets, all widely distributed elsewhere; a mole cricket, also widely distributed; eight species of true crickets (with a possible ninth), at least two of them introduced by human agency; four widely dispersed species of grasshoppers; a groundhopper; and five species of earwigs, at least four introduced. If the list is extended to include the southernmost island of the Laccadive (Lakshadweep) Islands, Minikoi, another cockroach, a mantid, another cricket, the Bombay locust, and possibly another groundhopper may be added to the recorded species. The Chagos Archipelago to the south has one more species of cockroach, a termite and another cricket which could occur in the Maldives. Most of the non-cosmopolitan fauna seems to be of southern Indian or Sri Lankan origin, but some has African affinities by way of the Seychelles. No species endemic omly to the islands is known. Note.-Because the manuscript of this paper was mislaid after submission, only a brief abstract (Kevan, 1990b), not the entire paper, was published at the time intended.
3503675| This work summarizes the preliminary taxonomic information available on the Orthoptera fauna of Hispaniola. Valid names, synonyms used in pertinent references, data on type specimens and species distributions are included. One hundred and three extant plus eight fossil species in Dominican amber are treated: Tridactylidae (1), Tetrigidae (12), Eumastacidae (10 + 1 fossil), Acrididae (20), Pyrgomorphidae (2), Tettigoniidae (22), Gryllidae (30 + 7 fossils), Anostostomatidae (3), Gryllacrididae (1), and Gryllotalpidae (2). Two genera of Tettigoniidae are recorded for the first time from the island. /// Este trabajo resume la informacin taxonmica preliminar disponible sobre la fauna de Ortpteros de la Hispaniola. Se incluyen nombres vlidos, sinnimos usados en referencias pertinentes, datos sobre especmenes tipo, y distribucin de las especies. Se tratan 103 especies vivientes ms ocho especies fsiles en mbar Dominicano: Tridactylidae (1), Tetrigidae (12), Eumastacidae (10 + 1 fsil), Acrididae (20), Pyrgomorphidae (2), Tettigoniidae (22), Gryllidae (30 + 7 fsiles), Anostostomatidae (3), Gryllacrididae (1) y Gryllotalpidae (2). Dos gneros de Tettigoniidae son citados por primera vez para la isla. 
25473459|Among crickets and katydids calling carrier frequency is often inversely related to body size. Within species, this relationship is so far found consistently for species employing nonresonant stridulation, but not always among those using resonant stridulation. Metrioptera sphagnorum, is an unusual acoustic species in making two different spectra, one by nonresonant, one by resonant, stridulation. The nonresonant carrier of this insect correlates inversely with body size; the carrier of the elastic-resonant song part does not. Complex-wave pulses made over the distal half of the stridulatory file, give a nonresonant spectrum with a broad audio band, peaked near 19 kHz; sinusoidal pulses, made over the proximal half of the file, give an ultrasonic peak near 35 kHz. The sometime absence of a body-size effect in resonant stridulation may arise from the importance in this mechanism of tooth-contact rates: these provide a way of affecting carrier independent of isometry. Another possible factor in expressing body size acoustically is that nonresonant radiators may show less departure from natural vibration modes. Sound intensity in M. sphagnorum, though affected by temperature, could not be correlated with size.
3503749| Ce travail a port sur l'utilisation de deux entomopathognes, Beauveria bassiana et Metarhizium flavoviride sur le 5me stade larvaire et les adultes de Locusta migratoria. Les individus du criquet migrateur proviennent de la rgion d'Adrar, oasis situe  1600 km au sud d'Alger. Les champignons entomopathognes sont de provenances diffrentes: B. bassiana a t isole  partir de cadavre d'adulte de Schistocerca gregaria chantillonn  Adrar en dcembre 1996. M. flavoviride est une souche isole  partir de Locusta migratoria originaire de Madagascar. L'inoculation s'est ralise par injection de 25 ml de l'entomopathogne dont les doses sont de 6.60 10
3503671|New data on the distribution and systematics of Turkish species of Poecilimon Fischer, 1853, are presented. A new species (Poecilimon demirsoyi sp. n.) and the insufficiently known females of Poecilimon birandi Karabag and Poecilimon haydari Ramme are described, and some new distributional records given.
20789567|For the past 250 y, tremendous advances have been made in the field of grasshopper systematics. There have been several breakthroughs that have pushed the field forward, and behind these breakthroughs were numerous visionary taxonomists. This article is a celebration of those taxonomists and their achievements. In this review, I provide a general overview of the field and describe major advances that have shaped our understanding of grasshopper systematics. Specifically, I review the pattern of species description in Acridomorpha (Orthoptera: Caelifera) since Linnaeus, and highlight the achievements of important taxonomists. Finally, I end with some of the problems that we grasshopper taxonomists are facing today and challenge the field as a whole to move forward.
4122939|The prairie mole cricket (Gryllotalpa major Saussure) is a native of the tallgrass prairie ecosystem of the south central United States. The largest of North American crickets, its populations have declined with the reduced availability of suitable grassland habitat. Prairie mole cricket populations were surveyed at The Nature Conservancy's Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Oklahoma in the spring of 2005. We located 95 acoustic burrows occupied by calling males and recorded the calling songs of 55. We measured 3 morphological characters for 8 of these field-recorded males and characterized each male's calling song for 7 key acoustic variables. Statistically significant relationships were discovered between male body length and 2 song parameters: syllables
3503615|Rehn's (1955) two subgenera Microtylopteryx (Microtylopteryx) and Microtylopteryx (Tristanacris), each comprising several species and subspecies, are here each considered to represent a single species, M. hebardi Rehn 1905 and M. fusiformis Rehn 1905 respectively. I arrive at this conclusion on the basis of a) the genital anatomy, and b) morphometric analysis of all the previously named taxa and several previously unsampled populations. There are no differences within each of these taxa in internal or external genital structure. In the morphometric analysis, measures specifically designed to correspond to Rehn's diagnoses were used, and new material was collected from the various type localities to supplement the original material. The results show that the original diagnoses, which were based on small samples, do not adequately represent the populations from which the type series were drawn. Virtually every geographically circumscribed population which has been investigated differs from the rest, often significantly, in the average of one or more quantitative characters. However, the degree of overlap between the different populations in the range of these characters is typically very large, and often complete, and individual specimens therefore cannot be allocated reliably to particular populations on the basis of their morphology. All such overlapping populations are here considered to belong to a single taxon. Where, exceptionally, there is no overlap between populations in some character, and individuals can be reliably allocated to a specific population on its basis, subspecific ranks have been allocated. Within Microtylopteryx (Microtylopteryx), M. hebardi caligo Rehn is synonymized with M. hebardi Rehn, and M. nigrigena Hebard is relegated to subspecific rank as M. hebardi nigrigena. Within M. (Tristanacris) two species (talamancae Rehn, tristani Rehn) and one subspecies (fusiformis lamprus Rehn) are synonomized with M. fusiformis Rehn. M. worthi Rehn and M. chiapensis Rehn are relegated to subspecific rank within M. fusiformis, and one further new subspecies (M. f. fastigiata n. ssp) from Western Panama is erected. Each of Rehn's subgenera thus becomes monospecific, and it is suggested that the division into two subgenera is now redundant. A key to species and subspecies is given, and distribution maps.
23071990|Many of the most primitive neotropical bush katydids (Phaneropterinae)  including species of Cosmophyllum Blanchard, Stenophylla Brunner von Wattenwyl, Marenestha Brunner von Wattenwyl, Anisophya Karabag, Coryphoda Brunner von Wattenwyl and Burgilis Stl  are endemic to Chile. The Chilean species, Isophya schoenemanni Karsch, is herein re-affirmed to belong to the genus Anisophya. Two new species of Anisophya from Chile are also described. One is dimorphic in wing length. In 1986 APHIS/PPQ intercepted this species in a shipment of apples from Chile, but it is not likely to be a pest of apples or other pome fruits.
3503752| In Australia, where approximately 80% of the land area is arid or semiarid, rainfall is the major factor limiting acridid populations. Rainfall is not only limiting in terms of quantity but also in being highly variable, both temporally and spatially. In this paper, the main adaptations seen in Australian Acrididae to overcome limiting rainfall are discussed with special reference to economically important species. In the arid to semiarid subtropics (lat 23-33S) rainfall is slightly summer-dominant but extended dry periods can occur in any season. Chortoicetes terminifera, the main pest species, avoids dry periods through embryonic diapause or survives dry periods as quiescent eggs or adults. Migration is critical for survival as it allows locusts to locate areas of localized rainfall. Outbreaks are frequent and develop when enough rain falls to allow continuous breeding over three to four generations. In temperate areas of subcoastal southern Australia, summers are dry and most rain falls in winter or early spring. Austroicetes cruciata, a univoltine pest species, avoids the dry summers by having an embryonic diapause between summer and early winter. In the tropical north (lat 13-23S), rainfall is strongly summer-dominant and Austracris guttulosa, another univoltine species, survives the dry winter as immature adults in reproductive diapause. Adults mature after feeding on the green vegetation present following early rains of the wet season. But the early rains are often localized and adults migrate until they encounter these localized areas of rain. Adults then mature and lay, but the survival of their offspring eggs and very young nymphs is assured only if there is further rain within 6 weeks. Outbreaks develop only when there are several years of regular rains both in outbreak areas and adjacent areas of the arid zone. Locusta migratoria does not have a stage that can survive extended dry periods. Consequently, it is mainly restricted to subcoastal areas of moderate rainfall. In the main outbreak areas of subtropical Queensland, populations often decline during the commonly dry winters but outbreaks develop when good rain falls in all seasons. 
20789576|In Australia, locusts are controlled using an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) system that aims to find and rapidly treat most gregarious locust populations. Many outbreaks have significant breeding in the arid interior of Australia during summer and treatments begin in the interior, to keep locust invasions of the agricultural zone to manageable levels. This preventive control program relies on IPM: moderately accurate forecasting and rapid response survey, followed by treatments of bands and swarms with a range of proven readily available products. IPM begins with a Decision Support System that uses data on weather and previous locust distributions to model locust development and possible migrations, so as to provide moderately accurate forecasts as to when and where locusts are likely to be present. When locusts are reported or forecast as likely to be in a region, surveys are conducted to locate any infestations and if bands or swarms are found, they are rapidly treated using a variety of techniques. Bands are commonly visible from an aircraft flying overhead and when bands are seen, the areas containing bands are normally treated using "barrier" treatments of fipronil, where synthetic insecticide is applied every few hundred meters. Swarms are located by helicopter and sprayed, using fast-acting organophosphorous compounds like fenitrothion. But an increasingly important part of IPM in Australia is having an environmentally friendly option. Locusts can then be treated even if they are found where synthetic insecticides cannot be used such as near waterways, where there are rare and endangered species, or on organically managed properties. It was the switch to produce organic beef for Japan by a number of properties in locust breeding areas in the interior that was an initial driver for the development of an alternative to synthetic pesticides for locust control in Australia. The result of an intensive research and development program was the mycopesticide Green Guard, which has as its active ingredient the FI-985 isolate of the fungus Metarhizium anisoplae var. acridum. Green Guard has played an important part in the IPM of locusts and grasshoppers in Australia, including large-scale control operations, with more than 100,000 ha treated since operational use began in 2000. However, while Green Guard plays an important part in the IPM of locusts and grasshoppers, it still accounts for only about 10% of the area treated. Green Guard costs more than synthetic insecticides and locust and grasshopper mortality is delayed when temperatures are mild. An additional factor limiting its use is a lack of biological control products for most other pests, so that synthetic insecticides are still used in most cropping systems, resulting in residues being present in most products and in most environments. As restrictions on synthetic pesticides generally increase and biological alternatives become more available, it is expected that Green Guard use should expand to become an increasingly important component of locust and grasshopper IPM.
10.2307/3503438|Serious outbreaks of oriental migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria manilensis (Meyen 1835), were reported on different islands of the Indonesian archipelago during the rainy season of 1997-98, especially in southern Sumatra. In the long term, the intensive deforestation that has been under way over the last 20 years is certainly partially responsible for these outbreaks. The drought that prevailed in the region in 1997 also seems to be a major recent factor that prompted these outbreaks.
3503695| This catalogue lists all genera and species of stick insects recorded or described from New Zealand. Genera are listed in alphabetical order within established subfamilies and tribes. Some taxonomic changes are made, with major changes as follows: 2 new genera in the subfamily Pachymorphinae are erected - Niveaphasma (type species - Pachymorpha annulata Hutton 1898) and Asteliaphasma (type species - Spinotectarchus jucundus Salmon 1991). Mimarchus tarsatus Carl 1913 is reduced to synonymy under Argosarchus horridus (White 1846), resulting in Mimarchus Carl 1913 becoming a synonym of Argosarchus Hutton 1898. Lectotypes are designated for Argosarchus schauinslandi Brunner 1907, Clitarchus interruptelineatus Brunner 1907, Clitarchus laeviusculus Stl 1875, Micrarchus parvulus Carl 1913, Micrarchus tarsatus Carl 1913 and Pachymorpha bouvieri Brunner 1907. Keys to adults and eggs of genera are given. The bibliography includes all references containing descriptions of species recorded or described from New Zealand. 
3503691|Members of 3 families of Orthoptera (Acrididae, Gryllacrididae, Tettigoniidae) were sampled in clearcuts, burned forest, and undisturbed forest in a coniferous forest ecosystem in northern Utah, USA. Sampling was conducted during July and August, 1995 to 1997, by use of pitfall traps. The camel cricket Ceuthophilus fusiformis (Gryllacrididae: Rhaphidophorinae) was the most commonly trapped species in forested plots, where otherwise very few orthopterans were collected. Many more orthopterans were taken in clearcuts and burns and these had equal species richness and total orthopteran abundance. However, the orthopteran assemblages differed between these two treatments. Band-winged grasshoppers (Acrididae: Oedopodinae) tended to be trapped more frequently in clearcuts, especially Camnula pellucida. Burned plots provided greater numbers of Ceuthophilus fusiformis and Steiroxys pallidipalpus (Tettigoniidae: Decticinae).
10.2307/3503508|The black field cricket, Teleogryllus commodus (Walker), is a serious pest of pastures in the winter rainfall zone of western Victoria. The most damaging stages in its life cycle are late instar nymphs and young adults, which occur in March and April. Current control is with a malathion/cereal bait applied each season from the air over large areas. In response to farmer demands for a biological alternative, the use of a mycoinsecticide with conidia of Metarhizium anisopliae as the active ingredient was investigated. Natural infections of M. anisopliae are widespread but rarely kill more than 5% of the population. A number of isolates are available and all are genetically very similar. In 1995, a small field trial was established with FI-1099 applied at the rate of 2 or 4 10
10.2307/3503462|The leaf-mimicking katydid Pterochroza ocellata resembles a dead or diseased leaf when at rest. When disturbed, this katydid elicits a threatening eyespot display, presenting visual elements similar to those found on an avian face. Behavioral components of this display are described and quantified. The threatening display was found to vary in duration, and in several cases was followed by escape behavior and the resumption of a cryptic attitude differing from the initial resting posture. Both male and female P. ocellata have the same primary defenses (camouflage/leaf resemblance) and secondary defenses (eyespots/threatening display)
10.2307/3503592|An individual's risk to predation is influenced by the foraging strategies of its predators, its own anti-predator mechanisms, and the physical characteristics of its habitat. In this study, three grasshopper species (Amphitornus coloradus, Ageneotettix deorum, and Melanopus sanguinipes) were tethered and placed in single grasshopper species patches of 10, 20, and 30 individuals in two different habitats to examine factors that affect grasshopper susceptibility to predation. Species tended to be less susceptible to vertebrate predation in areas most similar to their naturally chosen microhabitats. M. sanguinipes was less susceptible to vertebrate predation than either A. deorum or A. coloradus.
3657111| We report the occurrence in Western Panama of several previously unsuspected species of the genus Hylopedetes, including H. fuliginosus n. sp. and H. nigrithorax panamensis n. ssp. H. gemmeus Rehn 1929, previously known only from Costa Rica, is also recorded. A further spp. of Hylopedetes, H. punctatus n. sp. is described from W. Central Costa Rica. We also describe Chiriquacris quadrimaculata, n. gen, n. sp., from W. Panama, and Oedalacris cambrai n. sp. and O. lesbiae n. sp. from Eastern Panama. Oedalacris was previously known only from Colombia. We describe the previously unknown female of Piezops ensicornis (Stl 1878) and provide information on the distribution and biology of that species in Panama. 
40344849|A new species of Odonturoides Ragge, 1980 is described from the east African highlands. O. hanangensis Hemp, n. sp., occurs on the lower border of the montane forest of Mt Hanang, the third highest mountain ofTanzania. Morphological and ecological data are presented for all known species of this genus.
25473418|A new species of Usambilla Sjstedt, 1909, is described from the highlands of northwestern Tanzania. U. hanangensis Hemp n. sp. occurs in the montane zone on Mt. Hanang and on montane grasslands of the Mbulu District. Notes on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given. The known species of Usambilla are compiled with information on their ecology and biogeography.
10.2307/3503587| The Afro-Oriental hemiacridine grasshopper genus Leptacris Walker (1870), together with three related African genera, Acanthoxia I. Bolivar (1906), Sudanacris Uvarov (1944) and Meruana Sjstedt (1909), gen. rev., are revised. Keys are provided to the males and females of all genera and their included species and subspecies. The genus Meruana is restored from synonymy under Leptacris (Walker) as a valid genus, while a second genus Metapa Stl (1878) (synonymised under Leptacris Walker) is recombined under the Acanthoxia genus group. Three new species Acanthoxia aculeus sp.n., A. brevipenne sp.n. and Sudanacris cholawo sp.n. are described. Leptacris greeni and Ischnacrida fusca are newly synonymised under Leptacris filiformis, Leptacris violacea under Leptacris monteiroi monteiroi, Ischnacrida gracilis under Leptacris monteiroi vittata, Ischnacrida pretoriae under Acanthoxia natalensis and Meruana nyuki under Meruana usambarica. Three species are unplaced because material is unobtainable. Suggested determinations for the three species are given. 
25622287|A new species of the genus Acinipe (Rambur, 1838) is described from Catalonia (in the northeast of the Iberian Peninsula). Acinipe eulaliae n. sp. was collected in an intact calcicolous rosemary scrub dominated by rosemary (Rosamarinus officinalis). A. eulaliae n. sp. is characterized by the rounded shape of its fastigium, concave in contact with the vertex, and by a penis that is slender and directed upwards. This new species is compared to the similar species A. deceptoria (Bolvar, 1878) and A. segurensis (Bolvar, 1908).
25473432|We compared adult body size among six populations of the flightless lubber grasshopper Romalea microptera from south Florida, USA. The most distant populations were 113 km apart. We tested whether size differences among populations are correlated with local mean precipitation or temperature, and specifically investigated whether smaller average size is correlated with climate-related short-growth season, as has been shown for other grasshoppers. We found significant size differences among the populations for both males and females. Mean body size of R. microptera was greatest for a central population at Shark Valley South, declined toward the northwest, and less strikingly, toward the south. R. microptera females had a greater mean size at sites with high precipitation in May and low precipitation in November, suggesting that earlier onset of the wet season is positively associated with mean size. Further, mean size increased with increasing mean minimum temperature in January. These differences in adult size of R. microptera suggest that differences in local environments lead either to evolution of local differentiation in adult size or local differences in growth and development that result in differential expression of phenotypic plasticity in adult size.
3503618|In the perspective of the general review of the 'archaeorthopterid' insects (including Orthoptera and the extinct orders Caloneurodea and Titanoptera), a redescription of Protophasma dumasii Brongniart 1879, type species of the Protophasmatidae Brongniart 1885, is provided. The forewing morphology allows the assignment of this taxon to the Archaeorthoptera, but the hindwing morphology is very similar to that of Blattodea, with some particular features. Protophasma dumasii shares several symplesiomorphies with the Blattodea and Neoptera. Thus, this species is a good candidate to be the absolute out-group for the future phylogenetic analysis of the Archaeorthoptera.
25473434|We studied geographic body-size variation in males and females of 25 populations of the South American melanopline grasshopper Dichroplus pratensis Bruner, 1900, along more than 22 degrees of latitude (S) and between 0 and almost 2500 m of altitude. Using mean body length of each sex and factors obtained from PCA analyses of six morphometric linear characters, it was shown that D. pratensis follows the converse to Bergmann's rule, becoming smaller at higher latitudes and altitudes. Variability of body size increased with latitude and altitude in males and females. Body-size trends were statistically significantly correlated with ambient temperature (annual mean, minimum and maximum), precipitation (annual mean, minimum and maximum), and two estimators of seasonality, the difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures, and the difference between maximum and minimum precipitation for each locality; both nonparametric correlations were positive. Body size was also positively and significantly correlated with Actual Evapotranspiration (AET), a measure of primary productivity, and with Potential Evapotranspiration (PET), a measure of ambient energy, but not with water balance (WB). Some allometric relationships also showed geographic variation. We suggest that the observed decrease in size with latitude and the increase in morphological variability, are joint consequences of the shortening of the growing season towards the south, the increasing seasonality and climatic unpredictability, lower primary productivity (as represented by AET); and that the species exhibits protandry, which contributes in the south, to smaller and more variably sized males, and smaller but more constant body size in females.
3657104|The male of Pylaemenes guangxiensis (Bi & Li 1994) is described and its distribution range extended to Japan and Taiwan. Recent confusion regarding Pylaemenes species is discussed and a corrected list of species included.
41759702|We reared Oriental Migratory Locusts, Locusta migratoria manilensis (Meyen) in the laboratory from 3rd instar until adult death, at five constant temperatures (18, 21, 24, 27 and 30C), and recorded life history variables. Temperature strongly influenced growth, development and behaviors. Growth and development rates were both positive linear functions of temperature, with low thermal thresholds for nymphal growth (15C) and development (13C). There was no mating at 18C and no oviposition at 21C and below. Rearing temperature did not significantly influence mass at adult molt, except for the 18C-nymphs who molted to adults with significantly smaller mass. Females laid their first egg pod significantly later at 24C than at 30C. Hiere were strong but nonsignificant trends for low-temperature females to die earlier and lay fewer and lighter egg pods; 24C-females averaged less than half the dry lifetime egg mass as 30C-females. Our results show that L. m. manilensis is a warm-climate species, and explain its current range and phenology in China. Knowledge of the thermal physiology and thermal ecology of L. m. manilensis will aid in its control and in predicting future outbreaks.
3657120|Host and geographical ranges are updated for the microsporidium Paranosema locustae; this pathogen was developed in the USA as a long-term microbial control agent of grasshoppers. Currently known to be susceptible to P. locustae, either naturally or experimentally, are 121 species of Orthoptera from North and South America, Africa, Australia, China, and India. Most belong to the Acrididae (112), and within this family, to the Melanoplinae (36), Oedipodinae (35), and Gomphocerinae (35). The host range of P. locustae, as presently understood, is based largely on morphology and could change if molecular techniques revealed cryptic species. The North American isolate is not only the best studied, but the one established after its introduction into Argentina, and produced and used in China: it can be considered a generalist pathogen. As such, P. locustae may have the ability to alter, through differences in host susceptibilities, the structure of grasshopper assemblages in areas where it was not present before. Long-term careful monitoring of key grasshopper species in areas of pathogen introduction/establishment may reveal such effects.
40344840|On the basis of material collected over several years, 13 genera and 33 species of Melanoplinae of northeastern Mxico are treated. Four species are considered as new records: Melanoplus arizonae Scudder, 1878, M. bivittatus (Say, 1825), M. regalis (Dodge, 1876) and M. sanguinipes sanguinipes (Fabricius, 1798). A new species is described: Huastecacris fariensis n. sp. Twenty species are endemic to Mxico: new information on geographic distribution and relative abundance is provided for all species treated. Melanoplus Stl, 1873 and Phaedrotettix Scudder, 1897 were the most diverse genera, with 13 and five species, respectively. The most common species, in order of abundance, were Phaulotettix compressus Scudder, 1897 (231 specimens), Phaedrotettix violai Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (229), Huastecacris zenoni Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (188), Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas, 1872) (161), Melanoplus flavidus Scudder, 1878 (110) and Huastecacris truncatipennis Fontana & Buzzetti, 2007 (109). Simpson's index (D) was estimated at 0.07 and Simpson's biodiversity index (1-D) at 0.93. AFLP molecular analysis supported morphological separation for some of the taxa studied and confirmed the presence of a new species of Huastecacris: H. fariensis n. sp.
23034227|The world is facing severe biodiversity loss and agencies worldwide are attempting to stem this threat. However problems arise when a rare or threatened species is also an agricultural or medical pest. In this paper we discuss the case of Aularches miliaris, the spotted coffee grasshopper. This species exists as several subspecies across south Asia, perhaps representing local genetic adaptation. It is polyphagous and a minor agricultural pest, and is usually managed via insecticides and egg-bed destruction. For much of its range, populations appear healthy and are not threatened. In contrast, within the Western Ghats Biodiversity Hotspot in south India, A. miliaris is sparse and listed as Near-Threatened. In this area the insect is an occasional minor agricultural pest. Considering its local rarity, versus its abundance in other geographic areas, we recommend that in south India A. miliaris needs to be conserved at the present time. During localized outbreaks, we recommend that A. miliaris be managed via mechanical collection of nymphs and adults, and destruction of egg pods, rather than intervention using insecticides.
3503697| This paper investigates the habitat preferences of Chorthippus albomarginatus, Chorthippus brunneus and Chorthippus parallelus in relation to sward height and vegetation composition. Using 2  2-m quadrats, the grasshopper fauna of 15 sites was surveyed in July and August of 2000 and 2001. The results obtained highlight the importance of sward height and vegetation composition in determining grasshopper abundance. The three Chorthippus species were found to favor sward heights between 100 to 200 mm. C. brunneus and C. parallelus in particular, were positively associated with fine-leaved grass species such as Agrostis spp. or Festuca spp. (p < 0.05) and negatively associated with Lolium perenne L. and Poa trivialis L. (p < 0.01). Both C. parallelus and C. brunneus were found to be in significantly higher abundance at heathland sites than in agricultural habitats. This may have been because the farmland sites were dominated by L. perenne, which may not be a suitable food resource for grasshoppers, whereas heathland swards tended to be composed of fine-leaved grass species such as Agrostis capillaris, which might be more favorable for adult feeding. The lack of suitable swards on agricultural land may severely restrict the occurrence of these grasshopper species. This could have important conservation implications for rare farmland bird species, such as Emberiza cirlus which utilise grasshoppers as a food source. 
3503708|We present a phylogeny of the Proctolabinae derived from their 12S and 16S mitochondrial ribosomal gene sequences, using 15 genera and 24 species. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using 4 different methods embodying different assumptions (maximum parsimony, neighbor-joining, maximum likelihood and Bayesian probability methods), all of which result in closely similar trees. The results largely corroborate the relationships and classification previously suggested by morphology. A phylogenetic tree including members of the Oedipodinae, Proctolabinae and Melanoplinae, fulfills the criteria of a molecular clock, which we calibrate using the divergence of the Oedipodinae from the other acridid subfamilies (Gaunt & Miles 2002). The major "star-burst" radiation of acridid subfamilies, previously documented by the present authors on the basis of a different analysis, and here represented by the divergence of the Proctolabinae and Melanoplinae, is estimated to have occurred 60 Mya, at the K/T boundary. The modern tribes and subtribes of the Proctolabinae were established in the subsequent 10 My, and most of the current genera were established between 25 and 35 Mya. We examine the phylogenetic distribution of food-plant specialisation, and of the correlated traits of flightlessness and of endo- and epiphytic oviposition, primarily within the subtribe Lithoscirtae. The original specialisation of this group was apparently on the Solanaceae, soon after the origin of that family around 38 Mya, with later radiation onto the Asteraceae and other unrelated families. The spectrum of food plants used is not based on relationship but rather on ecological proximity. Oviposition in or on the food-plant is primitive for this subtribe, and has been developed in different ways in the various clades. The power of flight has been lost and/or regained and wing form modified independently in several different lineages throughout the subfamily. The modern and historical biogeography of the subfamily is discussed in the light of its apparent antiquity and of the current understanding of Central American plate tectonics.
25822714|Pterodichopetala cieloi n. gen. n. sp. from Mexico is here described. The song of the male is outlined and affinities with the genera Dichopetala Brunner v. W., 1878 and Marenestha Brunner v. W., 1878 discussed.
3503660| The insect growth regulator diflubenzuron (Dimilin) is used to control locusts and grasshoppers on rangeland and croplands worldwide. Ingestion of diflubenzuron by immature insects results in disruption of chitin formation and deposition that affects the cuticle and the molting process. Symptoms of diflubenzuron intoxication include: death, physical abnormalities (such as loss of limbs), lethargy and cessation of feeding. Field trials with diflubenzuron on grasslands are reported in this paper and support previously published work showing it to be effective in broadcast treatments or alternating swaths and barriers. Affected insects were observed 3 d after application but maximum control of populations occurred by 14 d. Low grasshopper population counts the year after application suggested fewer eggs hatched from adults exposed to diflubenzuron. This bears out results of earlier laboratory and small-scale experiments. Diflubenzuron applications to rangeland did not seriously affect the populations of nontarget arthropods. 
3503706|A new phaneropterine species of Stylomolpa Karny 1926 is described, Stylomolpa montana. This species was found in the submontane zone (1000-1500m) of Sabah, Borneo.
23034219|Based upon 18 specimens collected at two sites in southeastern Arizona during 2009 and 2010, Dichroplus notatus is added to the orthopteran fauna of the United States. Habitat descriptions, lists of sympatric orthopterans and comments on its taxonomic position are presented. Basado en 18 especmenes recogidos en dos lugares durante 2009 y 2010 en el sudeste de Arizona, se presenta un registro nuevo de Dichroplus notatus que no estaba reportado previamente por los estados unidos. Las descripcines del hbitat, listas de orthopteros simpatricos, y commentarios sobre su posicin taxonmica son incluidos.
3503745|Locust control in Africa has been the focus of considerable controversy over the last 15 y. Many control aspects were called into question following the last large plagues of 1987-88 (Desert Locust) and 1996-2000 (Malagasy Migratory Locust): recommended preventative strategy, environmental impact of insecticides used, socioeconomic importance of the locusts. Many projects were launched to improve survey and control methods and find alternative solutions to chemical pesticide treatments. Recent progress is reviewed. Survey and application techniques showed dramatic improvements with GIS, GPS technology and precision spraying. Barrier applications are again available, thanks to new persistent pesticides. Biological control with mycopesticides now appears very promising and undoubtedly the technique will gradually be adopted. The environmental aspects are taken into better account and an IPM approach is now possible. The EMPRES program of FAO is committed to reinforcing national early warning and early reaction capacities for preventative control of the Desert Locust. In Madagascar, a new National Locust Center has recently been set up. In many places local research capabilities are improving. However, certain very fundamental aspects remain unsolved. Among others, the sustainability of preventative control systems is an important concern. Many affected countries are amongst the poorest in the world. They currently do not have sufficient financial resources to fund intensive control campaigns, nor even the basic minimum to ensure prevention. A realistic solution to prevent locust plagues requires stronger commitment of governments and donors, sustainable small but flexible national locust control units for prevention, and especially the creation of emergency action plans, ready to quickly mobilize and organize complementary resources in the event of an upsurge. Emergency funds are thus essential and should be created. Locust control seems now to depend more on political and institutional choices than on scientific and technological innovations.
10.2307/3503485|We carried out feeding studies on fourteen species/subspecies of grasshoppers belonging to six subfamilies on rugged, well-vegetated La Palma and on relatively flat, semidesertic Fuerteventura and Lanzarote. Together, these three islands of the Canarian Archipelago provide a diversified, biologically interesting orthopteran fauna on which there is a paucity of feeding information. Our investigation involved a habitat analysis of selected stations and the following characterization of the grasshoppers living there: mouthpart adaptation to provide insight into feeding preferences; differential feeding tests to disclose feeding preferences under conditions of essentially uniform plant availability; and feculae composition to ascertain food selection in nature. Seven of the grasshopper species were phytophilous or thamnophilous, five were geophilous, and two were intermediate in their choice of perch; eight were essentially dicot feeders and six were grass feeders. The geophiles were noted to become scavengers on dried plant debris and sometimes arthropod remains in response to summer drought. Dericorys sspp. proved to be specialized feeders, largely on Chenopodiaceae. Our study of this limited assemblage of grasshoppers demonstrated a relationship between their food availability and food selection and suggested that food availability may be as important a factor as preferences in determining their host plant selection.
4122952| Les auteurs dressent un bilan bio-cologique et bio-gographique comparatif des deux principaux locustes ravageurs du Prou. Schistocerca cf. interrita Scudder 1899, qui de 1997  2003 a grgaris et envahi les dpartements de Lambayeque et Cajamarca et Schistocerca piceifrons peruviana Lynch Arribalzaga 1903 dont les pullulations chroniques perdurent dans le centre-sud du pays. Les donnes analyses ont t collectes, entre 2000 et 2003, au cours du "Programme d'assistance  la lutte anti-acridienne au Prou" (FAO-SENASA, Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria). Une meilleure connaissance de la bio-cologie permet d'affiner les stratgie de surveillance et de lutte prventive contre ces deux ravageurs. /// The authors set up a bio-ecological and biogeographical assessment between the two main locust species in Peru: Schistocerca cf. interrita Scudder 1899, which from 1997 to 2003 has gregarized and invaded Lambayeque and Cajamarca regions and Schistocerca piceifrons peruviana Lynch Arribalzaga, 1903, whose outbreaks last for long time in the central south part of the country. Analysed data were collected between 2000 and 2003 during the "Assistance programme on locust control in Peru" ((FAO-SENASA, Servicio Nacional de Sanidad Agraria). A better understanding of the bio-ecology of these two pests will permit a refinement of the strategies of survey and preventive control. 
10.2307/3503477|Sakai (1970-1993, Dermapterorum Catalogus: Vols. I-XXV, 9,247 pp.) compiled much of the relevant taxonomic information and references on worldwide valid and invalid dermapteran taxa since Linnaeus (1758). The global biodiversity of Dermaptera is recognized in 4 suborders, 6 superfamilies, 11 families, 55 subfamilies, 208 genera, 1,930 species, 34 subspecies, 37 varieties and 9 forms. It is interesting to consider the way in which the diversity of features in the Dermaptera seems to be concentrated in the male forceps, pygidium, manubrium, and genitalia-including shapes of the virga and paramere. The citations in Steinmann's Catalogue (1989) and Das Tierreich (1986, 1989) on Dermaptera have sometimes overlooked important taxonomic references. The suprageneric names at subfamily level in Steinmann (1989) are incorrect; for example, "Carcinophoridae" for "Anisolabididae" and "Labiidae" for "Spongiphoridae". Sakai (1990) indicates that many incorrect synonyms were cited in Steinmann's World Catalogue and Das Tierreich. These references are useful, but take several different approaches from Sakai's Catalogus and other references. A new genus, Paralabella, erected by Steinmann (1989) on the basis of paramere shape of the male genitalia, is an example of the excellent treatment of Dermapteran classification by Steinmann (1989).
41759699|Aegimia Stl, 1874, a Neotropical katydid genus of the Phaneropterinae (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae), is revised based on the examination of 106 specimens from Mexico, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia and Brazil. The genus is recognized by a long sword-shaped fastigium, mid- and hindtibiae strongly flattened, and leaf-shaped tegmina. The following species are redescribed: A. catharinensis Piza, 1950, A. cultrifera Stl, 1874 and A. elongate Rehn, 1903. Two new species are described: Aegimia maculifolia sp. nov. (from Costa Rica, Panama and Colombia) and Aegimia venarecta sp. nov. (from Costa Rica). Geographic distribution of A. cultrifera is expanded to Costa Rica. The female of A. catharinensis remains unknown. A pictorial key to all species is presented and details of the male genitalic characters described and illustrated.
10.2307/3503455| The zone of natural Yacutia grasslands is situated between 60-64N and 130-135E. Vegetation of the meadow-steppe occupies vast glades dispersed in woodlands. These glades are inhabited by a dozen grasshopper species, three of which (Chorthippus albomarginatus, Aeropus sibiricus, and Omocestus haemorrhoidalis) are of economic importance. Most (up to 98%) of the grasshopper population consists of C. albomarginatus, which can produce mass outbreaks in years with deficient rainfall. Overgrazed pasture grasslands are particularly subject to grasshopper depredation. A recent outbreak took place in 1986-87, and an upsurge was observed in 1992. Prospective control strategies are under discussion-including rotational grazing, grassland management, and effective utilization of appropriate chemical measures on limited areas based on phenology forecasts. Special consideration is given to the search for and possible utilization of alternative control agents. 
25473449|Body size affects many aspects of an organism's performance, including reproduction. Ecologists have shown an increased interest in linkages between body size variation and population dynamics. Fecundity in a number of insect orders is often positively correlated with body weight or structural size, but reproductive characteristics and body size are not always positively correlated, particularly in field studies. Numerous biotic and environmental factors can influence individual body size and reproduction in grasshoppers under field conditions. Intraspecific relationships between reproductive traits and individual body size in melanopline grasshoppers were examined using data from four field experiments. Significant positive correlations between body size and reproductive traits occurred in three of four field experiments involving Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius) and Phoetaliotes nebrascensis (Thomas) where per capita resource availability was manipulated, with a highly significant relationship between femur length and functional ovarian follicles when statistical results were combined from all correlations. In addition, individual femur length was a significant covariate for at least one reproductive trait in three experiments. Biotic factors such as food availability and predation could be more important than body size in determining reproductive output under field conditions, but further work is required to examine under what conditions individual body size affects reproduction in grasshoppers.
10.2307/3503426|Rehn (1942) described the genus Elysiacris and designated Tropinotus angusticollis Blanchard 1851 as its type species. But this species had been misidentified; it was in fact an undescribed species which has here been named Elysiacris ensicornis n. sp. The genus Tropidostethus was described by Philippi (1963) with Batrachopus? bicarinatus as its type species. But this species was a junior synonym of Tropinotus angusticollis Blanchard (1851). Here this latter species is treated as the type species of Tropidostethus.
40344843|The morphology of the proventriculus may supply useful taxonomic characters for some species of crickets. This study evaluated if the proventriculus can be used to distinguish three species of Nemobiinae crickets: Phoremia sp. n., Zucchiella sp. n., and Amanayara sp n. In crickets the proventriculus presents six lobes, each one bearing eight appendices along its longitudinal axis. In Phoremia sp. n., the central portion of the first appendix has a tooth like a spear, with two denticles; the central portion of the second appendix presents one plate formed by five denticles, whereas in Zucchiella sp. n., the apex of the first appendix is U-shaped with denticles absent, and the second appendices differ from those of Phoremia sp. n. by the number of denticles. In Amanayara sp. n. the central portion of the first and second appendices form a long and sharpened tooth, the denticles are lacking. In the other proventricular appendices there was variation in the number of denticles and in their shape. These results indicate that the morphology of the proventriculus can provide auxiliary characters for taxonomy of Nemobiinae, especially useful for this subfamily, since for many species the external morphology is insufficient for characterization of genera and species.
10.2307/3503535| Populations of Pterophylla beltrani and P. robertsi were studied along the Eastern Sierra Madre, in the States of Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas and San Luis Potos. Thirty colonies of Pterophylla spp. were located between the Cinega, State of Nuevo Len and the city of El Maz, San Luis Potos. Geographic distribution limits for both species are established for the first time. P. beltrani occurs from the State of Nuevo Len to the surroundings of Cd. Victoria and Jaumave, Tam., while P. robertsi occurs from Llera, Tam. to the city of El Maz, San Luis Potos. Three allopatric populations of P. robertsi previously unknown are reported in South Tamaulipas. Acoustic activity of both species is associated with factors, such as temperature, relative humidity, solar radiation, rain, wind, presence of sexually mature females or conspecific individuals, whether or not the male carries a spermatophore, predators, etc. P. beltrani suspends singing activity from 3:00 to 7:00 hours (temperature 19-21C and 70-75% relative humidity) and from 12:00 to 17:00 (temperature 33C: 40% relative humidity - at this time heat and solar radiation are most intense). P. robertsi's singing activity period is from 19:00 to 4:00, being shorter compared to P. beltrani. Factors associated with singing activity, geographic distribution, intra and interspecific variation are discussed 
25822710|The present study is a sincere tribute from some of the cytogenetic laboratories of Madrid involved in the study of grasshopper meiosis, for the inestimable contribution of Professor Michael J.D. White to orthopteran cytogenetics, on the 100th anniversary of his birth. Here we review the knowledge accumulated over almost 90 y on the meiosis of the grasshopper Stethophyma grossum, especially on the male side, because of the very unusual meiotic characteristics shown by the spermatocytes, namely: whereas the three shortest bivalents achieve full synapsis and do not show chiasma localization and the single X chromosome remains asynapsed, the remaining eight bivalents show restricted synapsis and proximal chiasmal localization. In addition, supernumerary segments and accessory chromosomes are present in some natural populations. Special attention is paid to the relationships among cohesin axis morphogenesis, initiation of recombination events and synapsis achievement.
3503621|A new katydid from the tropical rainforests of northern Australia, Leucopodoptera eumundii gen. et sp. nov., is described. Morphological examination, scanning electron microscopy imaging and cytological preparations were used to establish defining characteristics. Principal taxonomic characters include the stridulatory file of the male and the ovipositor of the female. Laboratory and field-based observations give insight into the distribution, ecology and life-history of the species.
3503762|A new species of Pseudosaga (Tettigoniidae: Mecopodinae: Aprosphylini), P. maraisi sp. n. is described from Brandberg Massif in western Namibia. It differs from other members of the genus in the development of the male stridulatory structures and the female subgenital plate. A key for identification of all known species of Pseudosaga is provided.
25822699|The history of the study of orthopteran chromosomes is coincident with the formulation of the chromosome theory of heredity and the rediscovery of Mendel's laws, thus with the birth of cytogenetics. We review the early contributions of grasshopper chromosomes to the chromosome theory, the understanding of sex chromosomes, the phenomena of mitosis, meiosis, linkage, crossing over and recombination, the problems of chiasma localization and terminalization, reproduction and parthenogenesis, the nature and behavior of B chromosomes and supernumerary segments, and the role of chromosomal rearrangements in microevolution and speciation. We also discuss the influence of early works on later research, and emphasize the fundamental contributions of Michael J. D.White to modern cytogenetics and evolutionary biology in general.
43738202|In the woods around the famous Iguaz Waterfalls were discovered numerous individuals of a little walking leaf identified as Typophyllum inflatum, a species long ago described from Bolivia, and apparently never reported again. So far this population represents the southernmost known record of katydids comprising the leaf-mimicking family group Pterochrozinae or Pterochrozini. Males of T. inflatum produce a continuous low-ultrasound pure-tone song, which could reveal the presence of this species in other areas with suitable habitat. This song is astonishingly similar to that of T. erosifolium, an allopatric species distributed in northwestern South America. Typophyllum inflatum shares with other Typophyllum species the pre-copulatory riding of the tiny male on the much bigger female, but this occupies only a few hours compared to up to several days in a species from Ecuador. This could be related to a possibly lower prdation pressure in the subtropical region. The same may be true of the lower variability of body color, unless this only reflects adaptation to a drier environment. In contrast to tropical species, T. inflatum in northeastern Argentina most likely is seasonal, with adults probably appearing during the south-hemispherical summer.
23034228|To understand the driving forces of speciation in grasshoppers of the subfamily Gomphocerinae, we compared a molecular phylogenetic tree with the distribution of the song pattern complexity and courtship behavior. In 50 grasshopper species of Gomphocerinae, a barcoding region of mitochondrial gene COI was sequenced and analyzed. A plesiomorphic pattern of calling song was shown to be predominant in the species of the most basal clusters, including the tribes Chrysochraontini, Dociostaurini and Arcypterini. In the tribes Stenobothrini and Gomphocerini, plesiomorphic pattern of the calling song was found in less than half of the species studied; others demonstrated increasing song complexity. The species of the basal cluster of the phylogenetic tree did not show complex courtship songs. Courtship songs that are different and more complex than the calling songs were only found in about half of species belonging to the tribes Stenobothrini and Gomphocerini. Most species with complex courtship (species of Stenobothrus genus, of Chorthippus albomarginatus group) were shown to be recently diverged species. Comparison of visual displays accompanying complex courtship song, revealed similarities between the species from different groups. According to the molecular phylogeny, complex courtship behavior in Gomphocerinae evolved independently and convergently. Since the courtship song can be used by a female to judge mate quality, sexual selection is suggested to be the main driving force of rapid speciation in these young species.
3657130|Sustainable development was defined in 1987 by the World Commission on Environment and Development as a development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. Sustainability has since become a guiding principle and basis for action in all fields of agriculture, including pest management. The principle is stipulated in the Declaration on Environment and Development of 1992 which calls for "research and development into pesticides that are target-specific and readily degrade into harmless constituent parts after use", as well as in the 'Plan of Implementation of the World Summit on Sustainable Development' of 2002 which calls for "promoting programs for the environmentally sound, effective and efficient use of ... pest control". How do these obligations translate into the reality of locust control? The present paper addresses this question from different perspectives, representing the 3 pillars of decision-making for sustainable development: capacity, understanding and willingness. It concludes that substantial progress has been made over the last decade in improving the technological capacity for more target-specific control (application technology, biological control, barrier treatment). However, despite all evidence, these innovations are often perceived with suspicion by locust control practitioners and the public. The paper identifies a lack of confidence in the efficacy of some of the new technologies as a major constraint to their adoption. Improving the understanding of these technologies is key to overcoming this constraint. This may require believing what one does not see immediately. Only then may decision makers be willing to include new and more environmentally sound technologies into their control portfolios-and so progress towards sustainable locust control.
23610402|A new species, Entoria hei sp. nov., is described and illustrated. Notes on the status of the genus from Hong Kong are given. A key and important figures of the Entoria species of Hong Kong are provided.
20066585|Turkish taxa of Asiotmethis were studied. Asiotmethis limbatus limbatus (Charpentier, 1842), described from Turkey, is compared with Asiotmethis turritus armeniacus Ramme, 1951, known only in Armenia. The species described as Glyphotmethis arasi Salman, 1978 is proposed as junior synonym of Asiotmethis turritus armeniacus, the latter recorded for the first time from Turkey. A neotype is designated for A. limbatus limbatus from the European part of Turkey known as this taxon's type locality. Diagnosis, distribution, references to Turkey and doubtful records are given for both taxa, with a key, distributional map, illustrations and measurements. The need for a revision of the complicated genus Asiotmethis is explained, with some notes on problems of specific taxa. A checklist of all known species of the genus, their type localities and distributions is tabulated.
20066566|Until now, of the total 53 or so species of cave crickets in the genera Troglophilus Krauss 1879 and Dolichopoda Bolivar 1899, seven are known from Turkey. Collecting journeys in 2000 and 2001 allowed us to obtain samples from the Pontic Mountains (northeastern Turkey). Based on this material, we now describe two new species, one for each of the above genera. Dolichopoda noctivaga sp. n. is very closely related to the transCaucasian species D. euxina and D. hyrcana, but can be distinguished from them by the shape of the epiphallus, rounded not truncate apically, by the occurrence of styli on the male subgenital plate, and by the unemarginate apex of the female subgenital plate. The second newly discovered species, Troglophilus tatyanae sp. n., differs from all other Turkish species in the uniformly brown coloration of its body, and by its small size -- the smallest species known for the genus Troglophilus. Both T. tatyanae and D. noctivaga are apparently limited to the Black Sea region of northeast Turkey. D. noctivaga has been found in four localities scattered across the Pontic Mountains. By contrast, T. tatyanae occurs only in one locality, that in the Artvin district where it is syntopic with D. noctivaga. Both species have only a slight degree of adaptation to cave habitats, which seem to be used only as seasonal shelter.
10.2307/3503533|Reduced area and agent treatments (RAATs) for management of rangeland grasshopper infestations were compared with blanket applications of 2 standard compounds at traditional rates (100% of infestations treated with carbaryl applied at 16 oz/ac or malathion applied at 8 oz/ac) in southeastern Wyoming during 1995-96. Two RAATs applications of carbaryl (12 oz/ac applied in alternating swaths to 66% of infestations [12-66] and 8 oz/ac applied in alternating swaths to 50% of infestations [8-50]) were essentially indistinguishable from the standard treatment, with 80 to 90% grasshopper mortality. A carbaryl 8-33 treatment resulted in only 40 to 60% control. Mortality following application of 4 oz/ac of malathion in alternating swaths to 80% of an infestation (4-80) was indistinguishable from the standard application, with 75 to 90% control. However, a malathion 4-50 treatment resulted in only 55 to 65% control. Fipronil (14 oz/ac) applied to 25% of an infestation resulted in 80 to 90% control, comparable to the highest rates of mortality with the other RAATs. The greatest benefit: cost ratios (>2.8: 1) were seen with the carbaryl 8-50, malathion 4-80, and fipronil 14-25 treatments. The RAATs strategy appears to depend on movement of grasshoppers from untreated to treated swaths and on the conservation of natural biological control agents. Had RAATs methods been used during the 1986-88 outbreak in the western US, pest managers would have saved $38 million and used 34 million metric tons less insecticide
41759714|Shorthorn grasshoppers (Orthoptera:Acrididae) are the most economically important pests of rangeland throughout much of North America. Their densities are estimated using a number of methods, including sweep sampling. Economic thresholds are usually set at 8 adult grasshoppers per square yard, despite differences in range conditions associated with geography and weather patterns. Several authors have concluded that grasshopper numbers are higher in ditch areas and the economic threshold in these habitats is often set substantially higher. This study compared grasshopper numbers and species composition at 120 rangeland sites across ~ 400 km of northern Nebraska in 2007 and 2010. By taking sweep net samples in the ditch, parallel with the fence inside the pasture, and approximately 30 meters into the pasture, we found the numbers and composition of grasshoppers differed significantly across this area. Mean adult grasshopper capture was highest in the ditch samples (22.4  1.9 grasshoppers captured per 20 net sweeps) compared to fence (10.3  1.0) and field samples (15.9  1.6). Mean adult capture increased from east (4.8  0.4) to west (25.5  2.1). The same trends were observed when nymphal numbers were included in analysis. Based on these results, rangeland grasshopper sampling should be conducted more than 30 meters from the fenceline, and thresholds in roadside ditches should be higher than for rangeland pastures.
4122944|Aerotegmina shengenae is described from the montane forests of the South Pare Mts of Tanzania. A habitat description is given and co-occurring Saltatoria registered. By the morphology of the acoustical chamber, A. shengenae is more primitive than A. kilimandjarica. Speciation processes are discussed for Aerotegmina species.
10.2307/3503517| Endecous betariensis, a new species of cricket collected in a limestone cave from the Ribeira Valley Speleological Province, state of So Paulo, Brazil, is described and its calling song characterized. Male and female genitalia as well as the calling song of Endecous itatibensis Rehn, 1918 are also represented for comparative purposes. 
10.2307/3503632|The distribution and mobility of singing male Steropleurus stali were examined in the field. At two sites with relatively low densities of singing males, the males were highly mobile and sang at comparable rates. At a third site, with higher densities, the males sang at a lower rate and were much less mobile. Plasticity of mate attraction and searching behavior in different habitats are discussed in the light of these results.
20789563|A new genus and species of cricket, Anomaloterga mantiqueirae, here described, is the first representative of Strogulomorphini to be reported from Brazil. The specimens were collected at night from the lower portions of live tree trunks in a summit forest located on the Mantiqueira Fault Escarpment, State of So Paulo.
10.2307/3503601|The life history, community ecology, population ecology, and pest management of grasshoppers on the typical steppe of Inner Mongolia were compared with those of the Great Plains of North America. Although the life histories of grasshoppers are similar, the Inner Mongolian grasslands have two distinct developmental cohorts, and all species are believed to have four or five nymphal instars. Grasshopper species are not known to overwinter as nymphs on the Asian steppe. A relatively high proportion of Chinese species show sexual dimorphism and brachyptery, although no Asian steppe species have aposematic coloration. The community structure of grasshoppers is similar in both regions, with the flora apparently playing an essential role. However, the Asian fauna is dominated by Gomphocerinae (particularly Chorthippus) while the North American fauna is dominated by both the Gomphocerinae and Melanoplinae (primarily Melanoplus). Thus, Chinese grasshopper communities are principally graminivorous (with no known cannibalism) and no species is perceived to be economically beneficial, while the North American fauna is characterized by both grass- and mixed-feeders, some of which consume weeds. Population dynamics in both ecosystems are linked to weather, but North American grasslands appear to support four times more grasshopper biomass per unit of forage than the Asian steppe. Predators and parasites are potentially important regulators of low population densities in both ecosystems, but pathogens appear to play a more significant role in North America. An average of 0.5% of the land is treated (primarily with malathion) each year in both regions. Although the cost of treatment is similar, the economic threshold is perceived to be higher in Inner Mongolia.
3503746|Two new species of Megacrania Kaup in Indonesia are described and compared with other related species. There are now three confirmed species in Indonesia.
43738204|Dichroplus maculipennis is one of the most damaging grasshopper species of Argentina. Individuals of this species at high density are historically known to show aggregation behavior and dispersal flights, attributes that might suggest that it does exhibit to some extent phase polyphenism in relation to population density. Phase polyphenism is a complex phenomenon and the amplitude of phase change is usually species-dependent. Morphological differences between gregarious and solitarious locusts can be measured and analyzed in order to characterize the phase status. The objective of this study was to evaluate morphometric differences between individuals of a D. maculipennis field population in the southern Pampas region of Argentina during non-outbreak and outbreak conditions including the magnitude of sexual size dimorphism related to variation in density. Collected individuals in the outbreak condition totaled 804 (422 females, 382 males) and those in non-outbreak condition were 325 (141 females, 184 males). Six morphometric characters were measured and two ratios (F/C and E/F) usually used to discriminate between solitarious and gregarious individuals in true locust species were calculated. Results show that size traits of D. maculipennis change over time at the population level, and that these changes correlate with outbreak vs non-outbreak populations. Females and males of D. maculipennis in outbreak conditions are significantly larger than in non-outbreak conditions. Furthermore, significant change over time was recorded in values of the two ratios calculated. D. maculipennis showed female biased sexual size dimorphism in both outbreak and non-outbreak conditions. There is a smaller difference in body size among females and males in outbreak conditions than in females and males in non-outbreak conditions. These results may be an indication of the presence of densitydependent phenotypic plasticity in this species, but additional experiments are required in order to establish a causal relationship between population density and changes in size traits.
3503767|Ottedana cercalis, a new genus and species of luzarine phalangopsid cricket, is described from the Araucaria forest on the Serra da Mantiqueira range of southeastern Brazil.
20066568|New species of Rhainopomma and of Altiusambilla from the northern part of the Eastern Arc mountains of Tanzania are described, based on morphological, molecular and geographical data. Ancestors of the genera Usambilla, Rhainopomma and Altiusambilla probably spread when a different climatic regime favored forest cover connecting presently isolated high mountains of East Africa. After forests retreated, allopatric speciation was the driving force resulting in the biographical pattern of closely related lentulid species we see today in the Eastern Arc mountains and inland volcanoes of Tanzania and Kenya.
41759707|Topographic homology conjectures (= THCs) in fore-and hind wing venation of extant king crickets, raspy crickets and weta are re-evaluated. Based on the premises that topological homology is established so that the amount of transformation that has to be assumed to explain differences between patterns is minimized, a new set of THCs (= STHC), based on morphological data on the species cf. mexicanus de Saussure, 1859: 209, laudatum Johns, 1997, ornata Willemse, 1963, cf. bicornis Karny, 1929a, pinguipes 7. Rentz in Morton & Rentz, 1983, pinguipes Rentz in Morton & 1983, an undetermined species, punctipennis Walker, 1869, and ruf ovara Kirby, 1888, is elaborated. Among other transformations, the occurrence of a re-routing of MP along CuA (i.e., the basal M + CuA stem splits into MA and MP + CuA, instead of into MA + MP and CuA) is demonstrated for pinguipes, punctipennis, and ruf ovara. Concurrently, intra-specific variability in forewing venation is appreciated for laudatum, ornata, cf. bicornis, pinguipes, punctipennis, and rufovaria. A dadotypic-compliant nomenclatural scheme is elaborated based on the proposed THCs. The taxon Agryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, CuA + CuPaa with two distal branches only'; the taxon Tagryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. defined based on the character state 'in forewing, M + CuA splits into MA and MP + CuA'; the taxon Etagryllacris nom.-dis.-typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, CuA + CuPaa keep fused'; the taxon Metagryllacns nom. nov., dis. Zeuner, 1939, typ. nov. is defined based on the character state 'in forewing, MA fused with R at wing base'. Based on new data, the species perfecta Sharov, 1968 is identified as a member of the taxon Agryllacris, and the fossil species tmegaptera Gorochov, 1987a, simplicis Gorochov, 1987a, elongata Gorochov, 1987a, madygenioides Gorochov, 1987a, perlonga Gorochov, 1987a, and idevexa Gorochov, 1987a are considered as junior synonyms of perfecta. The nomenclatural treatment is extended to the unrelated taxon Bintoniellidae nom. Handlirsch, 1938, dis. Sharov, 1968, typ. nov., defined based on the character state 'in forewing, no distinct base of CuPaa diverging from CuPa (and fusing with CuA or M + CuA)'. Belonging to this taxon, the species primaria Sharov, 1968 is considered as a junior synonym of triassica Sharov, 1968: 168. A consequence of the assignment of perfecta to Agryllacris is that this group stems in Triassic, at least, i.e., ca 170 million years earlier than previously assumed. As a result, the loss of the complex 'tettigonid-gryllid-like' (i.e., Grylloptera) stridulatory apparatus is no longer needed to account for the morphology of king crickets, raspy crickets and weta forewing. Finally, a refinement of the concept of parallelism is proposed based on transformations observed in the taxa Agryllacris and Bintoniellidae, and on their polarity and frequency occurrence. The concept of parallelism is narrowed down, those of atavism and reversal discussed, and the concepts of iteronatism, cryptoparallelism, and pronatism proposed.
20789575|Wide use of chemical pesticides to control locust invasions is a central concern and alternatives a growing necessity. But it is not so easy to find alternatives to these chemicals and to integrate them into operational campaigns. The following paper introduced a symposium on 'Integrated pest management for locusts and grasshoppers' held at the 10th Orthopterists' Society meeting in Antalya, Turkey in 2009.
3503690|Description of a new species of the genus Eupholidoptera Maran. This new species, E. jacquelinae, was found on the Greek island of Gavdos, south of Crete. Its relation with other members of the genus is discussed on the basis of morphological traits.
3657107|Pterotiltus hollisi n. sp. is described from the forests of Southern and Western Uganda, and compared with the type of the genus, P. impennis. The new species is the most easterly known representative of the genus. It feeds on broad-leaved monocotyledonous plants, especially of the families Marantaceae and Commelinaceae. The eggs are laid in groups of 4 to 6 in packets of foam, sandwiched between leaf surfaces of these foodplants. The female ovipositor valves have a form extremely like those found in unrelated epiphyllous egg-layers in the Neotropics, such as Tela (Acrididae, Proctolabinae) and the details of oviposition are similar to those of Euprepacris (Romaleidae, Bactrophorinae). On the basis of the ovipositor, it is postulated that the related genera Badistica and Digentia probably also have epiphyllic oviposition habits.
3503770|Females of Panoploscelis specularis present a dramatic modification of their forewings for stridulation. The female generator is illustrated and its distinct from contrasted with that of males. The physical form of the signals that females might produce is inferred; male calling and protest signals are characterized. The male of P. specularis is described for the first time.
3503763| A new genus and species of tetrigid, Antillotettix nanus, is described from several mountain localities (1000 to 1500 m) in the Bahoruco and Central mountains of the Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. Antillotettix is characterized by a very small and rounded body, a frontal costa opened some 30 and a slightly tectate and roundly truncate pronotum that covers just over half the abdomen. It is the smallest of known Hispaniolan tetrigids. /// Se describe el nuevo gnero y especie de tetrgido Antillotettix nanus a partir de varias localidades de montaa (1,000-1,500 m) en la Sierra de Bahoruco y Cordillera Central de Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Antillotettix se caracteriza por ser muy pequeo y redondeado, tener una costa frontal abierta unos 30 grados y un pronoto algo tectiforme y truncado en forma redondeada, que cubre algo ms de la mitad del abdomen. Este es el tetrgido ms pequeo conocido de la Hispaniola. 
10.2307/3503610| Although recognized since 1918 as the principal Acridid pest of Trinidad, Coscineuta virens (Thunberg, 1815) commonly known as the Moruga grasshopper or Courtac, has been studied relatively little. Living in harmony with its dense forest environment, the species is difficult to observe and control, and most of the information about it refers to campaign reports and sporadic records of crop damage. This paper reviews the available information on C. virens including its taxonomic position, the diagnostic characteristics of the developmental stages from the egg to the adult, the annual life cycle, its natural environment in Trinidad and its behavioural and ecological peculiarities, its choice of food plants and economic importance. Its phase status is however ambiguous, for while in some respects, C. virens resembles classical locusts, notably in its highly gregarious behaviour in all its active stages, no phase transformation has ever been recorded. Monitoring and control of the populations is made difficult by their dense forest environment, their arboreal existence, their patchy distribution and the contagious nature of outbreaks. A diversified integrated pest management approach applying tested control methodology is advocated so as to ensure cost effectiveness of control operations coupled with due measures for safeguarding a highly sensitive and fragile island environment of great scientific value. /// Bien que dclar depuis 1918 comme principal acridien ravageur de l'le de Trinidad, Coscineuta virens (Thunberg 1815), encore appel Moruga grasshopper ou Courtac, est relativement peu tudi. Vivant en harmonie dans un milieu forestier dense, cet acridien est trs difficile  observer et  combattre aussi dispose-t-on surtout de documents relatifs  des oprations de lutte, aux constatations de dgts aux cultures et aux plantations. Ce document fait le point sur les connaissances relatives  Coscineuta virens concernant sa position taxonomique, les caractristiques morphologiques de l'oeuf  l'imago, son milieu naturel dans l'lle de Trinidad, son temprament cologique, son cycle biologique annuel ainsi que ses prfrences alimentaires et son importance conomique. Le statut phasaire de l'espce est ambigu, car si certains aspects le rapproche des Locustes, en particulier un comportement grgaire trs prononc, par contre aucune transformation phasaire n'a jamais t observe. La surveillance et la lutte sont rendues difficiles par l'importance du couvert forestier o vit l'insecte, son comportement arboricole et le caractre contagieux des pullulations. Une stratgie diversifie de lutte combinant diffrentes mthodes d'intervention devrait amliorer la rentabilit des interventions antiacridiennes tout en mnageant un co-systme insulaire fragile et d'un grand intrt cologique et scientifique qu'il est impratif de protger. 
23610413|This article describes and names a new species of Oecanthus Serville, 1831 from the western United States. Oecanthus texensis n. sp. Symes & Collins is currently known from southern Oklahoma, Texas, southern Arizona, and southwestern Idaho. Habitats include desert, prairie, weedy fields, and woody secondary growth. O. texensis has been collected in oak, walnut, pinyon pine, and mesquite, as well as a variety of landscaping hedges and shrubs. The Oecanthus genus contains four clusters of species. The tegmina shape, song structure, and antennal markings suggest that O. texensis falls within the varicornis group. The structure of the call is similar to the other members of the varicornis species group, but the pulse rate is unique. Song analysis shows that at 25 C, O. texensis produces a continuous trill with approximately 41 pulses per second and a dominant frequency of 3.8 kHz, making it the slowest pulsing member of the varicornis group.
3503715|The preoccupied genus name of Eurasian grasshopper Primnoa Fischer-Waldheim 1846 (Arthropoda: Orthoptera) (nec Lamouroux 1812 [Cnidaria: Alcyonacea]) was replaced by its oldest synonym, Prumna Motschulsky 1859. The current work reviews the authorship and availability of Primnoa and its type species. Additionally, it generally resolves the nomenclatural issues associated with these names, one of which includes providing Prumnini nom. nov. as a replacement name for the tribe Primnoini syn. nov. Subtribe Primnoae becomes a new synonym of Prumnini. Sharovia Otte 1997 is synonymized with Sharovella Gorochov 1985 and Archibrunnea Otte 1997 syn. nov. with Brunneus Hong 1983. Linhagla nom. nov. is provided as a replacement name for Parahagla Lin 1982 and Phyllophora pizaerosifolia nom. nov. replaces Ph. erosifolia Piza 1981, primary homonym.
10.2307/3503421|The family Cooloolidae is represented by a single genus, Cooloola Rentz from Queensland, Australia. Three species have been described to date, all from the south-central portion of the state. This paper presents an additional species from South Percy Island, some 85 km SE of Mackay in the Coral Sea. The new species is described, its relationships considered and a key to the four species presented.
25822715|The relationship between species-richness of Orthoptera and remotely sensed land cover was investigated at a grain size of 100 km within an area of 9,900 km in central southern England, using species data extracted from county and national atlases. Gradients in landscape composition, identified using multivariate ordination, reflected agricultural intensification (associated with increasing acreage of arable crops) and urbanisation. The number of species declined as the area under arable crops increased, yet even in the most agriculturally intensive grid-squares there appeared to be sufficient nonarable land to support all species. A range of factors such as fragmentation and degradation of nonarable habitats may become more important as the area of cropped land increases. Investigation at greater spatial resolution is needed to confirm this hypothesis. No relationship was found between species richness and urbanisation, but it was concluded that the extent of urban development was too limited to enable detailed investigation of this phenomena. The study demonstrates that coarse-grained species data within county and national atlases, combined with remotely-sensed land cover data, can be useful in detecting and interpreting spatial variation in orthopteran species diversity at the regional scale. The relationship between species richness and land cover quantifies past human impacts and suggests the approach may be useful for monitoring and interpreting future changes.
25822724|L'effet du DIMILIN (25 WP), une formulation commerciale du diflubenzuron, a t d'abord examin sur le poids des ovaires et le poids des oeufs pondus par les femelles du criquet plerin Schistocerca gregaria. L'insecticide est administr par ingestion pendant 24h  une dose de 30 mg/ml d'eau  des femelles ds l'exuviation adulte. Le DFB rduit le poids des ovaires  8, 12 et 16 jours comparativement aux sries tmoins de mme ge. De plus, le traitement insecticide provoque galement une rduction significative du poids des oeufs pondus. Dans une seconde srie d'expriences, l'action du DFB a t value sur l'volution des titres des ecdystrodes dans les ovaires et dans les oeufs de S. gregaria. Le traitement rduit la production des ecdystrodes par les ovaires des femelles traites pendant le premier cycle gonadotropique. Le DFB rduit galement la teneur des ecdystrodes libres et conjugus dans les oeufs pondus par les femelles exprimentes comparativement aux tmoins. The effect of DIMILIN 25 WP, the common name of diflubenzuron, was first examined on the weight of ovaries and on the weight of eggs laid by females of Schistocerca gregaria. Treatment was made 24h earlier by ingestion at 30 mg/ml. DFB reduces the weight of ovaries at 8, 12 and 16 days, compared to control series of the same age. Moreover, the insecticidal treatment causes a significant reduction in the weight of eggs laid. DFB action on ecdysteroid levels in ovaries and in eggs in females was also evaluated. The compound reduced ovarian ecdysteroid titres of the first ovarian cycle. In laid eggs of S. gregaria females, we measured ecdysteroid content before and after enzymatic hydrolysis, to compare free and conjugated ecdysteroids in both control eggs and after DFB treatment during embryonic development. DFB significantly reduced the levels of both free and conjugated ecdysteroids compared to the control.
3503619| Au cours de la campagne de lutte antiacridienne effectue dans le sud marocain durant l'anne 1995, une tude quantitative a t entreprise concernant des mesures morphomtriques de 586 adultes des deux sexes ou Schistocerca gregaria. Les rsultats obtenus rvlent que ces populations prsentent une structure en mosaque avec prdominance de la phase grgaire dans les localits de Foum-Bousseroual et M'Rikha situes au Sud -Est d'Errachidia ( Z
20789571|Ten species of the genus Anterastes Brunner von Wattenwyl (Orthoptera, Tettigoniidae) show insular distribution in mountain meadows of Anatolia and the Balkans. Current understanding of the taxonomy and species relationships within the genus is based on morphological characters. However, the extent to which morphological characters are phylogenetically informative, when used to define taxonomic groups or to elucidate detailed evolutionary relationships within Anterastes, is in need of further examination. Moreover, because little is known about the historical biogeography and diversification factors in members of this genus, additional datasets are necessary to test the robustness of species, relationship hypotheses and associated biogeographic patterns. Here we specifically examined, using 16S rDNA sequences, the evolutionary relationships and species boundaries of three closely related species of Anterastes (i.e., the A. serbicus group, comprising A. serbicus, A. burri and A. antitauricus). Additionally A. tolunayi, a species not in the A. serbicus group, but morphologically very similar to members of the group, was included in the molecular analysis to locate the species of the A. serbicus complex within a phylogenetic frame. Hence, the phylogenetic relationships and taxonomic interpretation of the species complex appear more intricate than previously hypothesized. The current molecular data do not allow us to identify A. serbicus, A. burri and A. antitauricus as distinct phylogenetic species, but rather suggest that these morphospecies are themselves a complex of cryptic taxa. Despite the incongruencies among the phylogenetic trees and nonmonophyly of each the three morphospecies, the median joining network resulted in haplotype grouping consisting of four clusters that are definable by geography. Thus, based on the congruency between geography and gene clusters, and the molecular clock estimate, it can be interpreted that 1) a strong correlation between the radiation of the group and the topography of their ranges may exist, 2) the radiation of the group dates back to Late Pliocene or Early Pleistocene and 3) there is a break between the Anatolian and the European lineages, in respect to range change of cold-preferring forms, dating back prior to the last four glacial periods.
25473458|Scientific literature often touts the many advantages of large body size, but seldom addresses the value of small body size. Yet selection for large size must be counterbalanced by selection for small size, otherwise, all animals would be large. In this paper, we demonstrate female-biased size dimorphism and a strong copulatory advantage for small males in a Jerusalem cricket (JC) (Stenopelmatus) from central California. We selectively paired male and female JCs of diverse body sizes and recorded their ability to copulate. All copulations were successful for males smaller or equal in size to females. In contrast, when the male was 6.1 mm longer than the female, copulation had only a 50% chance of occurring successfully. In general, as the difference between male and female body length increased (i.e., as males became longer than their mates), the probability of successful copulation decreased. These patterns of mating resulted in net selection for small male size and large female size. We also detected positive linear direct selection on male hind leg length, which may explain why male JCs have longer legs than females. The copulatory disadvantage of large males derives from the odd mating behavior of this group, in which males must contort and precisely align their bodies to couple. We believe that this is the first example of small-male advantage based solely on the physical aspects of copulation. In this species, small, not large, males have a copulatory advantage.
10.2307/3503460|The tettigoniid Requena verticalis Walker controls the apportioning of energy between calling and spermatophylax production during courtship and copulation. Males delay the onset of calling following mating and during this period nutrients are mobilized to the production of a large nutrient-rich spermatophylax as well as to the production of sound. Experiments, using males reared on high and low quality diets (Simmons et al. 1993) examined the distribution of metabolic resources during this post-copula refractory period. An experimental set of males was allowed to call in a period immediately following copulation, while a control group of animals was prevented from calling by waxing the wings together. Males maintain spermatophylax size, regardless of the quality of the diet, but delayed the onset of calling; those on a high quality diet were able to invest energy into further reproduction. Contrary to prediction, males prevented from calling did not produce a larger spermatophylax, which suggests that males control the apportioning of energy reserves during this critical period. It is argued that where energy reserves are required for the production of a spermatophylax, less energy may be available for calling and so calling strategies should evolve that allow for the more efficient use of metabolic energy for sound production. Calling efficiency is a measure of how males convert metabolic energy to sound power. Efficiency was estimated by measuring the metabolic costs of calling and the power of sound radiation from the calling insect. Metabolic costs of calling in R. verticalis are compared with those of conehead tettigoniids such as Neoconocephalus robustus where calling appears to require more energy per unit of sound. The efficiency of conversion of metabolic energy to sound in R. verticalis is 6.4% while that for N. robustus is 2% (Bailey et al. 1993). Another cost of calling is exposure by the male to acoustically orienting predators. Such predators may include tachinid flies, insectivorous bats and predaceous females. I discuss experiments where a species of vespertilionid bat is shown to orient to the call of R. verticalis (Hosken et al. in press). Males may also be subject to cannibalism by orienting females. I describe experiments where females are released within 2m of calling males and where males show a high degree of female rejection. In the confines of a small container, where each sex cannot retreat from the other, a male smaller than the female is far more likely to be eaten by the female than males paired with females of comparable size. In this context, I discuss how male coyness (a reluctance to mate) may be due, in part, to sexual role reversal and thereby under sexual selection, or due to female cannibalism, and thus selected through survival.
10.2307/3503417|The feeding behaviour of herbivorous insects has become the focus of renewed interest in recognition of its critical importance in screening cultivated plants for resistant germplasm. Determination of biotic potential was viewed as the ultimate test for resistance to grasshoppers in agro-ecosystems dominated by cereal monoculture, because of the direct relationship between it and population dynamics. Such studies, however, are labour-intensive and may extend over several months. As an alternative to more time-consuming assay procedures, in this study we examined a behavioural assay and some of the factors that influence the results. In the majority of assays in the present study, the total number of grasshoppers visiting the plants were lower on the second day than the first day using second instar grasshoppers. In contrast, the total numbers of grasshoppers recorded on the plants was higher on the second day than the first day for the majority of assays using neonates. The extent of defoliation also was noticeably greater on the second day, except when both plants available to the grasshoppers were non-preferred. This difference which was reflected in greater sensitivity of the assays using neonates serves to highlight one of the problems when grasshoppers at later stages of development are used in binary preference assays. The observations of feeding patterns are discussed in terms of some recent concepts and discoveries in insect feeding behaviour.
10.2307/3503495|Two species of Eurycnema occurring in Australia are described and figured. Previously, various species were linked together in the literature and Australian specimens invariably listed as Eurycnema goliath (Gray 1834). Brief notes on distribution, biology, and habitat are presented, in addition to keys to adults and eggs and the first descriptions of the males of Eurycnema osiris (Gray, 1834) (Australia) and Eurycnema nigrospinosa Redtenbacher 1908 (Papua New Guinea). Eggs of all four Eurycnema species are figured for comparison and published synonyms are corrected. Lectotypes have been designated for E. goliath, E. viridissima Kirby 1904 (a synonym of E. goliath) and E. cercata Redtenbacher 1902. E. stenocerca Redtenbacher 1908 and E. cercata are listed as new synonyms of E. osiris, and E. magnifica Kirby 1904 is a new synonym of E. goliath.
10.2307/3503518| Nine new genera and 12 new species of Cladonotinae tetrigids are here described from the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Cuba, this being the first report of the subfamily for Hispaniola. Eleven of the 14 known Neotropical genera of Cladonotinae are exclusive to the Greater Antilles. /// Se describen aqu 9 nuevos gneros y 12 nuevas especies de tetrgidos Cladonotinae de la Repblica Dominicana, Hait y Cuba, siendo este el primer reporte de la subfamilia para la isla Hispaniola. Once de los 14 gneros de Cladonotinae Neotropicales conocidos son exclusivos de las Antillas Mayores. 
4122937|Three new species from the Western Cape of South Africa are described and figured: Clonaria cederbergensis, Clonaria montana (Diapheromeridae: Pachymorphinae: Gratidiini) and Macynia mcgregororum (Bacillidae: Macyniinae: Macyniini). The first two species have close associations with the Cederberg Wilderness Area and Table Mountain, respectively. M. mcgregororum has been found near Citrusdal. Keys are provided.
3503707|The species of the genus Raptrix Terra are revised. Of the 3 known species, only R. perspicua (F.) is recognized as valid. A. westwoodi Saussure & Zehntner, previously treated as synonym of R. perspicua, is returned to species status. R. occidentalis and R. intermedia are new species. As regards their specific differentiation, a parapatric speciation mechanism is supposed.
3503750|Control of grasshoppers and locusts has traditionally relied on synthetic insecticides, and for emergency situations, this is unlikely to change. Most locust control operations in Africa are conducted in 'crisis mode', and are affected by military situations which leave little room for flexibility. Nevertheless, there is a growing awareness of the environmental impact of acridid control options and the demand for a biological product is strong. A decade of research on the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum has led to some very positive field results. Trials in Niger and Australia have shown that the fungus can be formulated and applied under standard operating conditions, and that control is effective and long-lasting. Most importantly, the products are highly selective, safe to use and we have not been able to detect any side-effects. This means that the natural enemy fauna is preserved and may contribute to control. Metarhizium is nonetheless slow-acting compared with chemical pesticides, and its place in an Integrated Pest Management framework needs to be considered with this property in mind. We can see an emerging IPM framework, based on good detection and prediction, chemical pesticides for swarm control and real emergencies, and Metarhizium for outbreaks with no immediate risk of crop damage. With Metarhizium established as part of the IPM portfolio, there will be scope to explore further biocontrol options, such as the microsporidian Nosema locustae and the hymenopteran egg parasitoids Scelio spp.
3503761|Nine Isophya species were studied from the Bati Karadeniz Region of Turkey and one new species, Isophya yaraligozi, described. Distributions, previous records, type material and type depositories are given. A key to the species of the region is provided.
10.2307/3503544|The species Dyscophogryllus onthophagus is transfered to genus Endecous. The male genitalia of this species and that of the syntype of Endecous arachnopsis are illustrated and described. Male meiosis of E. onthophagus from two localities was studied
3503693|A new genus, Novadrymadusa, and a new species, N. karabagi, are described. A new combination, N. kurda (Uvarov), is established. Together with a key to species in the new genus there is a short account of its geographical distribution and that of related genera.
10.2307/3503432|The dynamics of leaf feeding by the small rice grasshopper Oxya nitidula (Walker) was studied under laboratory conditions on eighteen commonly grown rice cultivars from the state of Tamil Nadu (India). The plants were categorized into five growth stages, based on fifteen days interval, namely 31-45 days after sowing (DAS) (Stage I), 46-60 DAS (Stage II), 61-75 DAS (Stage III), 76-90 DAS (Stage IV), and 91-105 DAS (Stage V). Feeding tests involved the caging of ten adult females for 24 hours on each of the five growth stages of all eighteen cultivars and assessing the quantity of leaf consumed. Oxya nitidula showed preference to growth stages II and III in all cultivars.
10.2307/3503474|Cuticular structures of the stomodeum in insects, such as ridges, teeth and spines, have been found to have value as systematic characters in some insect groups. This study evaluates the usefulness of these characters for the identification of species belonging to the orthopteran families Acrididae, Eumastacidae, Proscopiidae, Ommexechidae, Pauliniidae, Romaleidae and Tristiridae. Characters examined were the pattern of stomodeal spines in crop and proventriculus in zones I to IV, the arrangement of the ridges of the intima, and the shape and size of the spines. These cuticular structures were found to have considerable value as taxonomic characters.
3503677| A new species of the genus Neometrypus collected in Cardoso Island in the Atlantic littoral of So Paulo State is described. The species is 2n=14 (male) - 14 (female) with a neoXY-XX sex determining mechanism originated in an X-autosome tandem fusion. Illustrations of the male and female specimens, male meiosis and drawings of the male genitalia sclerites are added. 
10.2307/3503422|The seasonal breeding cycle and host plant associations of Oedaleus nigeriensis Uvarov were studied along a transect throughout different vegetation zones of Nigeria. Data from the field showed O. nigeriensis to be associated with 12 species of grasses distributed within 9 genera and 4 tribes. At Ogbomoso, Ilorin, Toro, Bauchi and Potiskum, two generations were found and they generally overlap. The exact time each generation commenced in the different areas varied with the advance of the rains. At Ile-Ife, the population is sparse and probably represents the southern limits of its distribution.
25473461|Body size is a crucial element of an organism's ecology and evolution, and is known to be influenced by natural selection. Here, we estimated the strength of temperature-mediated selection on body size in a wild population of the striped ground cricket, Allonemobius socius. We found that extremely high, but naturally occurring temperatures, selected for larger body sizes, as expected. The strength of this selection pressure was strong, with the univariate selection gradients being  = 0.591  0.237;
10.2307/3503628|Male crickets sing to attract females. This exposes them to potential predators. A field study of singing male Scapsipedus meridianus showed that in this species, which uses burrows constructed by other animals or natural fissures, males that sing from burrows sing for longer and succeed in attracting females. Males who sing from exposed leaf litter are more mobile, sing less and were not found accompanied by females. Burrow males were larger than leaf litter males and were able to defend their burrows against small leaf litter males.
3503656|We measured hemolymph Na
4122955|In the laboratory, we measured the nonfeeding periods that precede and follow molting and hatching in the lubber grasshopper, Romalea microptera. New hatchlings first fed ~ 16h after egg eclosion. A similar ~ 12-h nonfeeding period was observed after each molt. In contrast, the premolt nonfeeding period increased from 25 h for the 1st molt, to 64 h for the adult molt. In total, hatch- and molt-related nonfeeding periods comprised ~ 272 h, or 21% of the total 54-d nymphal development period. Scientists need to be aware of molt-related nonfeeding periods in arthropods, because they could influence nutrition, growth, physiology, feeding ecology, predator exposure, and life history. They may also hamper pest control, because short-lived poison baits or ingestion-dependent insecticides will not harm individuals that are not feeding. In this study, grasshoppers tended to molt near the beginning of the photophase. Early morning molting might have nutritional, thermal, humidity or antipredator benefits for grasshoppers in the field.
3503768|Mariascopia is a new genus with 3 species. It belongs to Proscopiinae, Proscopiidae. The structure of the spermathecae suggests it is closely related to Orienscopia; both genera have 3 different spermathecae. The genus is erected on the basis of the phallic complex. External features are similar to those of species of Tetanorhynchus, Cephalocoema, Orienscopia, Scleratoscopia and Pseudastroma. Mariascopia shows preferences for grasslands in the Chaco biogeographical region.
10.2307/3503646|The new genus Orienscopia is described on the basis of some of the species previously placed in the genus Astromascopia Jago 1989. Astromascopia itself is synonymized with Cephalocoema Serville 1839. The species of Orienscopia are redescribed, and various synonyms established. The genus and its species are defined by means of tables of measurements, male and female genitalia and external morphological characters.
10.2307/3503579|In the dry tropics, the main nutrient influx into caves, which occurs during monsoonal flooding, is closely simulated by the deliberate introduction of wet leaf litter into the cave environment. We describe the construction and use of a wet leaf litter trap which exploits the attractiveness of wet leaf litter to orthopteroid insects inhabiting such caves. The traps collect a greater diversity of species per unit time and a greater total number of individuals per unit time than other techniques. Apart from the efficiency of the traps they can be used to allow sampling with replacement. This technique has a minimal impact on populations of cave invertebrates, and we therefore recommend its use where sampling is likely to pose a conservation threat to the fragile cave ecosystem.
10.2307/3503489| Pterophylla robertsi Hebard is an endemic, forestal species occuring in South Tamaulipas and northeastern San Luis Potos in Mxico. Until 1988 the only information known on P. robertsi was its original description (Hebard 1941). It was reported for many years that the distribution of P. robertsi' was limited to the State of San Luis Potos (northern Mxico), in oak forests near El Naranjo and Cd. del Maz. Presently, this species is distributed south to Tamaulipas, with some populations located between Llera and Cd. Mante, Cd. Mante-Ocampo and Ocampo-Tula, Tam. Apart from oak (Quercus spp.), P. robertsi feeds on a great variety of host plants, such as Manguifera indica, Psidium sp., Acacia farnesiana, Juniperus sp., Cnidosculus texanus, Acacia coulteri, Guazuma ulmifolia and Mirandeceltis monoica (Barrientos y Montes 1996). P. robertsi males-like those of P. beltrani, a species occurring in the State of Nuevo Len and West Tamaulipas-are characterized by the loud calling sounds produced when they are sexually mature. These acoustic signals are useful not only for recognizing conspecific individuals, but also for locating colonies or populations of the species, whose singing activity may be heard in the field from mid-July to October-November. Eggs pass through the winter, and hatching begins by mid-March, depending on temperature and relative humidity, as well as elevation of the area where the population is found. Under laboratory conditions nymphs of P. robertsi passed through 6-7 instars. From a total of 15 adults, 7 passed through six instars (5 males:2 females), while 8 developed seven instars (5 males:3 females). The average duration from instars one to seven is as follows: 13.5, 0.6, 12.6, 12.5, 12.7, 12.8, and 13.5 days, respectively. The nymphal stage had a minimum duration of 62 days, maximum of 126, with an average of 80.5 days, under 26.5C of temperature and 43.5% of relative humidity. Durations of nymphal stages were not significantly different from those of P. beltrani [with nymphal stage averaging 81 days, minimum 57 and maximum 137 days, under 30C of temerature and 60% relative humidity, Barrientos et al., 1984)]. However, adults of P. robertsi do not form large aggregations, like P. beltrani, and males sing mainly at night between 19:00 to 04:00 hours. /// Pterophylla robertsi Hebard es una especie forestal de carcter endmico en el sur de Tamaulipas y noreste de San Luis Potos, hasta 1988 el nico antecedente conocido era su descripcin original (Morgan Hebard 1941). Durante mucho tiempo, se consider que el rea de distribucin geogrfica de P. robertsi se limitaba al Estado de San Luis Potos, reportndose en los alrededores de El Naranjo y Cd. del Maz, sobre el bosque de encino. Actualmente, sabemos que esta especie extiende su rea de distribucin al Sur de Tamaulipas, localizndose poblaciones entre Llera y Cd. Mante, Cd. Mante-Ocampo y entre Ocampo-Tula, Tam. Adems del encino, P. robertsi se alimenta de una gran cantidad de plantas hospederas, ej., Manguifera indica (mango), Psidium sp., (guayabo), Acacia farnesiana (huizache), juniperus, sp., (cedro), Cnidosculus texanus (mala mujer), Acacia coulteri (guajillo), Guazuma ulmifolia y Mirandeceltis monoica (Barrientos y Montes 1996). Los machos de esta especie, al igual que los de P. beltrani (especie presente en los Estados de Nuevo Len y Tamaulipas), se caracterizan por el fuerte canto de llamado que producen cuando estn sexualmente maduros. Estas seales acsticas son importantes para localizar las poblaciones que empiezan a observarse/escucharse en el campo desde mediados de julio, prolongndose hasta octubre-noviembre. Pterophylla robertsi inverna en estado de huevo cuya eclosin se inicia a mediados del mes de marzo, dependiendo de las condiciones de temperatura, humedad relativa y altitud a la que se localice la poblacin. Bajo condiciones de laboratorio las ninfas pasan por 6-7 estadios, de un total de 15 adultos, 7 (5 machos:2 hembras) pasaron por seis estadios y 8 (5 machos:3 hembras) por siete; la duracin media de los estadios primero a sptimo es de 13.5, 10.6, 12.6, 12.5, 12.7, 12.8 y 13.5 das respectivamente. El estado ninfal tuvo una duracin mnima de 62 das, mxima de 126 y media de 80.5 das, bajo una temperatura y humedad relativa promedio de 26.5C y 43.5%, respectivamente. La duracin del estado ninfal y estadios de P. robertsi, no mostr diferencia significativa respecto a los de P. beltrani, cuya duracin mnima es de 57 das, mxima 137, promedio 81 das (Barrientos et al. 1984). Sin embago, P. robertsi no se ha encontrado formando agregaciones y los machos cantan principalmente durante la noche, 19:00 a 04:00 horas. 
23071989|The eggs of several Phasmatodea (stick insects) species bear strong resemblances to plant seeds. Such mimicry could increase predation on the eggs by vertebrate granivores, especially on eggs that are not buried by ants. In contrast, predation could be beneficial to the insects if the eggs can survive the digestive tract and hatch afterwards. This experiment tests the hypothesis that granivorous birds can act as dispersal agents for phasmid eggs. The eggs of three walking stick speciesExtatosoma tiaratum, Ramulus nematodes, and R. artemiswere offered to two species of terrestrial, granivorous bird: quail (Coturnix japonica) and chickens (Gallus gallus domestica). The birds consumed the eggs eagerly. Examination of the resulting manure showed that most eggs were completely digested. Only one unbroken egg was recovered out of nearly one thousand eggs fed, suggesting that these bird species could not disperse phasmid eggs. Seed-mimicry's fitness costs must be mitigated in nature to explain its prevalence in the Phasmatodea.
25622291|Four katydid species are treated taxonomically and/or acoustically. Two new species of Ecuaneduba are described from Colombia: E. gambitaensis sp. nov. and E. inzaensis sp. nov. A closely related new species from Ecuador is placed in a new cognate genus: Acanthoraculus milagro gen. et sp. nov.; its call is analysed and also the calls of Ecuaneduba aequatorialis. Since these genera, Ecuaneduba and Acanthoraculus, comprise at present the only New World representatives of the subfamily Hexacentrinae, we include them in their own tribe Ecuanedubini. A similar situation exists for a small group of Mecopodiane, for which the tribe Tabariini is proposed. Pronotal shapes, subnotal and subtegminal spaces  adapted for sound generation  are diverse in these four taxa; costal fields may function as acoustic baffles that reduce short-circuiting.
4122958|New species of Horatosphaga Schaum 1853 are described from the East African highlands. Horatosphaga sabuk n. sp. occurs in montane forest clearings of the Kenyan highlands, while Horatosphaga nou n. sp. is found in montane forest clearings of the Manyara District of Tanzania. Notes on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given.
10.2307/3503597| The Peruvian Crayola katydid, Vestria undescribed species, responds to disturbance by everting a small odoriferous gland from near the tip of its abdomen. Three pyrazines have been characterized from the secretion of this gland, which is present in both sexes of this insect. It is argued that the gland serves for dissemination of a warning odor. A second undescribed species of Vestria, sympatric with the Crayola katydid, also produces pyrazines. 
3503713|Correlation between morphological and karyological characters in the different genera of Landrevinae is discussed. Difficulties distinguishing the genera Duolandrevus and Repapa are considered. Two new species, male genitalia of 1 species and karyotypes of 6 species are described for the first time. A new synonymy for one species is established
25822702|We analyse here three components of reproductive success (egg fertility, egg clutch size and embryo clutch size) in several temporal samples from different Spanish and Moroccan populations of the grasshopper Eyprepocnemis plorans. The analysis of spatial and temporal variation suggests that egg clutch size, but neither embryo clutch size nor egg fertility, depends significantly on both year of sampling and population of origin. While the former effect could mainly be due to year-to-year variation in food availability (essential to egg production but not to hatching success), the spatial variation may also include population-dependent genetic factors. We also tested the effect of the presence of supernumerary (B) chromosomes carried by many individuals in most natural populations of this species. We found a slight but significant decrease in egg fertility associated with the presence of B chromosomes. We discuss possible causes of the observed variation for these three reproductive traits at both spatial and temporal levels, as well as the effect of B-chromosome presence as a parasitic element disturbing reproduction of carrier females.
10.2307/3503458|A laboratory study of food preferences of a common Indian grasshopper, Acrida exaltata (Walker), of the laterite zone of West Bengal, India, involved offering as food a total of 51 plant species belonging to 23 families. Of the 51 species, 31 were always rejected, with the remaining 46 either sampled briefly or eaten as food. Only 15 were regularly accepted as food. Plants of the family Poaceae were most preferred by A. exaltata.
10.2307/3503594|In the majority of bushcrickets, copulation terminates with the transfer of a spermatophore which consists of two parts: an ampulla which contains the sperm and a spermatophylax which the female eats during sperm transfer. Recently, the function of the spermatophylax in bushcrickets has heen the subject of considerable debate. Here, I describe prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer which appears to replace the spermatophylax in function in Meconema meridionle and M. thalassinum. I contrast this with the more usual copulatory behavior and spermatophores of the related Cyrtaspis scutata. In M. meridionale and M. thalassinum, copulation following spermatophore transfer continues for an average of 81 and 17 min. respectively, and there is no spermatophylax. In Cyrtaspis scutata, on the other hand, copulation following spermatophore transfer lasts for only one minute, thirty seconds and males produce a spermatophylax. As predicted by the hypothesis that prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer functions to ensure complete ejaculate transfer, the longer duration of copulation in M. meridionale, compared with M. thalassinum, was found to be associated with the production of significantly heavier spermatophores which contained more sperm. The presence of the spermatophylax in the Meconematinae and virtually all other bushcricket subfamilies suggests that prolonged copulation has replaced this structure in the genus Meconema. The occurrence of prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer in other members of the sub-order Ensifera is reviewed.
43738203|We present a list of grasshoppers from the Reserva Florestal Adolpho Ducke, a preservation area in the outskirts of Manaus, State of Amazonas, Brazil. The Ducke Reserve has been an indispensable tool for scientific development due to its considerable floristic richness. It has provided ample material for studies and research, promoting the conservation of Amazonian rainforest flora and fauna and the protection of endangered species. This checklist is intended to provide basic information on the regional grasshopper fauna, expand the current knowledge of species occurrences, and serve as a basis for systematists interested in revisionary and biogeographic work with a focus on Amazonian endemic areas. We sampled the Ducke Reserve for fifteen days using active and visual searching methods. We collected 38 species of terrestrial and semi-aquatic grasshoppers, 23 which belonged to the Acrididae and 15 to Romaleidae. Twenty four species and subspecies of grasshopper were registered for the first time for the locality and three new species and one new subspecies were recorded for Brazil.
10.2307/3503420|The species composition and community structure of the acridoid fauna in selected habitats of a moist deciduous forest in India were studied over the course of a year. The habitats represented a range of anthropogenic disturbances, including an undisturbed site, a naturally recovering site (deforested and replanted 20 yr earlier), a moderately disturbed site (lightly grazed by cattle), and a severely disturbed site (artificially reforested and heavily grazed by livestock). The former three study sites were mixed forests, dominated by Shorea robusta Gaertn.f. and Mallotus philippinensis Muell- Arg., and the latter site was a plantation of Tectona grandis Linn. F. The sites supported a total of nine species of Acrididae and Pyrgomorphidae. Oxya velox Fabr. Cantantops humilis humilis Serv., and Atractomorpha crenulata Fabr. were the most abundant species, representing 17 to 27% of the total number of individuals collected. With respect to potential indicator species, 93 to 100% of Tylotropidius varicornis Walk., Eupropocnemis alacris S., and Chrotogonous trychypterus Bl. were found only in the sites that were not currently disturbed. Conversely, in the disturbed habitats, O. velox and A. crenulata were ca. 1.7 times more abundant than in the other sites. The diversity, evenness and richness of the sites tracked the intensity of disturbance, the greatest values being associated with the undisturbed site, followed by the naturally recovering site, the moderately disturbed site, and the severely disturbed site. The undisturbed site had the greatest acridoid abundance, while the other sites supported less than one-third as many grasshoppers. In all ecological measures, the effects of disturbance were much greater than the changes associated with seasonality. Thus, it appears that grasshopper communities are sensitive to anthropogenic disturbance, and the community structure of acridoids may be a viable diagnostic tool in assessing environmental conditions.
23610407|The identity of Japanese Megacrania Kaup is clarified. Yamasaki"s Megacrnia alpheus adan is a synonym of Megacrania tsudai Shiraki.
10.2307/3503497|The quantitative response of parasitism by mermithid nematodes to rainfall was found to be complex. It was influenced by physical site characteristics, the phenology of the mermithid nematodes especially in relation to the sequencing of rainy periods, and the stage of the host outbreak cycle. Geophysical factors, such as soil permeability and terrain, determined the "effective rainfall", and biological factors, such as relative size of the reserve of mature eggs accumulated in the soil by the mermithid nematode population and whether the population is declining as during the recessionary phase of a host outbreak or increasing as during the period of peak host abundance, determined the response to effective rainfall. Parasitism occurred more frequently and was generally higher in valleys than on ridges, but the infrequent response on ridges was often attenuated due to the presumed accumulation of mature eggs during the prolonged interval between responses. Parasitism was highest in response to the first rainy period following prolonged dry or drought conditions in the previous season, again due to the build up in mature eggs under dry conditions. Parasitism following high seasonal rainfall often declined as the reserve of fully developed eggs was depleted due to hatching. Wet conditions in mid-spring resulted in nematode egg hatching prior to the hatching of summer grasshopper species and depressed the subsequent response in parasitism to rainfall, especially during the early phase of host outbreak development when mermithid nematode populations were low and relatively synchronized.
20066576|Population fluctuations of short-horned grasshoppers have been linked to the interactions of numerous factors including precipitation, temperature, vegetative growth, latitude, and timing of rainfall events. In some areas, grasshopper populations decline with increased moisture, potentially as a result of direct mortality from raindrops, or from indirect factors including the increase of fungal pathogens. Grasshoppers may also become submerged by flooding events and suffer mortality from drowning. However grasshopper survival of immersion has not been quantified in controlled experiments. We tested nymph and adult survival of immersion of seven species of rangeland grasshoppers. Under laboratory conditions, the
10.2307/3503564|Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar and Bolivar) is probably unique among Pseudophyllinae; populations may reach very high densities and males may sing during the day as well as at night. This study analyzed singing activity in the laboratory under a 12L:12D cycle (lights on at 0600; off at 1800 hr) and cage conditions simulating high population density. Mean singing time was maximum (77-84%) during the day from 0700 to 1700 hr. It decreased to 34% from 1800-1900 and then increased to a nighttime maximum (44-58%) which was maintained until 0200 hr. After 0200 singing decreased markedly with few or no males singing from 0400-0600 hr. With the onset of light at 0600, singing time increased dramatically to the 0700-1700 hr peak. Time of singing varied among days. The highest percentage of variability occurred during the periods of reduced singing (0200-0600; 1700-1900 hr). The periods of reduced time of singing were also characterized by one or a few katydids singing sporadically. Although the lab L:D cycle was slightly shorter and did not simulate all daily changes in light intensity and other environmental factors in the field, the overall pattern of singing was remarkably similar to that of a colony observed near Cd. Victoria, Mexico by Barrientos.
10.2307/3503427|Two new species of crickets of the genus Phoremia are described. Information on phallic sclerites and karyology of both species is provided. Some novel interpretations of the phallic sclerites are added.
3503665|With the trend towards crop diversification, there has been a gradual increase in production of crucifer oilseed crops (canola and mustard) in the Prairie Ecozone of western Canada. Developments in germplasm of Brassica spp. and Sinapis alba L. have resulted in cultivars with improved drought resistance, making them more acceptable for production in arid regions of the prairies. This, in turn, has resulted in increased overlap in areas of grasshopper infestation and oilseed production. Grasshoppers are the most chronic insect pests of annual crops in the Prairie Ecozone. The primary threat to production of annual crops arises from migration of the hatchling populations into cropland from roadsides, headlands and field margins at the beginning of the growing season. As a result, grasshopper damage is most acute at the early stages of crop growth. In this study, the impact of early season grasshopper feeding on canola and mustard crops was quantified in field studies, 1996 to 1998. Immatures of Melanoplus sanguinipes (the lesser migratory grasshopper) were allowed to damage eight Brassicaceae cultivars and breeding lines of four species: Brassica juncea Czern ('AC Vulcan' and 'J92-223'), B. napus ('AC Excel' and 'Midas'), B. rapa ('AC Parkland' and 'Echo') and S. alba ('AC Pennant' and 'Ochre'). The overall yields of defoliated plants were 27.8% less than those of control plants (p = 0.0001). Yield reductions were greatest for AC Excel (47%) and least for AC Vulcan (19.6%). The results are discussed in the context of grasshopper management strategies.
10.2307/3503626| A detailed comparative study is presented utilising morphology and bioacoustics of four nemobiine cricket species: Bobilla neobivittata Otte & Alexander, Bobilla plurampe Otte & Alexander, B. gullanae sp. nov. and B. illawarra sp. nov. The former two species are redescribed. In addition, the male genitalia of seven other Australian Bobilla species have been re-examined and are illustrated. The four species of Bobilla have distinct calling and courtship songs. The calling songs differ among species in (1) the pulse rate, (2) chirp rate and (3) carrier frequency. Other than B. plurampe which has a trill calling song, the chirp of B. neobivitatta consists of 11-12 pulses, that of B. gullanae sp. nov. consists of 9-19 pulses, and that of B. illawarra sp. nov. of 2-3 pulses. The courtship song is a long trill with a different pulse rate in each of the three species. B. gullanae sp. nov. and B. illawarra sp. nov. lay white or yellow eggs which hatch in the laboratory after two weeks at 27C. The first-instar nymphs of these two species appear similar except that those of B. illawarra sp. nov. have distinct white maxillary palpi. The developmental stages of B. neobivittata and B. plurampe are unknown. The number of moults in known Bobilla species ranges from seven to eight. 
10.2307/3503443|The present paper is a taxonomic study of the subfamily Oedipodinae which resulted in the identification of 11 species under 10 genera including the description of a new species, Oedipoda neelumensis. A key for the local genera is also provided.
4122945|Orthoptera songs are widely used for the description and diagnosis of new species. Most of the corresponding sound recordings are in analogue format (tapes), widely scattered among institutions, and only a small fraction is accessible as an organized collection ('phonothek'). Approximately 12,000 Orthoptera sound recordings, representing about 4,000 species from all biogeographic regions, have been digitized and stored in a database during the DORSA project (Digital Orthoptera Specimen Access - www.dorsa.de). Together with images and collection data of voucher specimens, the DORSA serves as a 'Virtual Museum', summarizing distributed collections and phonotheks from several German researchers and institutions. A subset of recordings was used to develop automatic sound recognition tools, by using neural networks fed by acoustic parameters. Relevant parameters, such as carrier frequency and pulse repetition rate, were determined by a special software module, which could then be used to extract those features from all cricket songs hitherto available in the DORSA database. These parameters were then added as annotations to the individual song recordings within the database. The enriched database tables were analysed, revealing outliers due to low-quality recordings or misidentification, permitting a cleaning of the data. For recordings from a limited geographic range, pulse intervals and carrier frequency are sufficient to identify plausible matchings between archived songs and new sound recordings.
23071991|We propose that subfamilies Acridinae (including Truxalinae), Gomphocerinae and Oedipodinae are not monophyletic, and that, as a collective, originated in Africa some time before 100 mya. Our conclusions are based on a phylogenetic analysis of portions of 5 mitochondrial genes, totalling up to about 2.7 kilobase pairs, in 117 species collected in the Americas, Eurasia, Africa and Australia. Sequences were analyzed by weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods. Pyrgomorpha conica served as the outgroup. Biogeographic origins and patterns were inferred by applying the programs "DIVA" and "r8s", for spatial and temporal analyses, respectively. Maximum sorting of taxa using parsimony was achieved by assigning differential weights to the three codon positions. Resolution was, however, generally poor. Bayesian methods, by contrast, yielded a topology which was virtually identical to the maximum likelihood tree and, for the most part, fully resolved and interpretable. We provide arguments in support of favoring the use of the Bayesian tree to infer relationships and biogeographic origins. Neither subfamily, as defined in the current on-line Orthoptera Species File 2, proved to be monophyletic. Instead, taxa assorted themselves into 3 broad categories: 1) Gomphocerinae, plus a small subset of acridines; 2) a sister group consisting of Oedipodinae, plus another small subset of acridines; and basal and paraphyletic to this pair, 3) the remaining taxa, all African and primarily members of the Acridinae. Very few tribes within these subfamilies proved to be monophyletic. This phylogenetic pattern is reflected biogeographically and points to a common African origin for the subfamilies. The following migrations, initially those of (most likely) proto-acridines, are further suggested by the data: 1) movement from Africa to South America establishing genera of that continent's Gomphocerinae (e.g., Jagomphocerus) and Acridinae (e.g., Metaleptea), followed by incursions into North America, leading to species such as Amblytropidia mysteca; 2) a somewhat circuitous sequence of events involving a reverse migration from South America to Africa (establishing genera such as Thyridota) with ensuing dispersals to Eurasia (forming genera such as Myrmeleotettix) and to North America (leading to, for example, Brunneria and the bulk of that continent's Gomphocerinae); 3) almost simultaneous with the first event, migration of other early acridines from Africa to Eurasia, establishing the latter continent's Oedipodinae (e.g., Angaracris). Subsequent dispersals to North America and the South Pacific led to genera such as Camnula and Austroicetes, respectively.
25822727|The identity of the subspecies Megacrania batesi speiseri Carl, 1915 (Carl spelled batesii as batesi in error) from Malo, New Hebrides is clarified. Carl's subspecies is elevated to the species Megacrania speiseri Carl, 1915 and morphological characters are redescribed with measurements. A key of the genus Megacrania is provided.
24367396|A new species of grasshopper (Orthoptera: Pamphagidae, subfamily Thrinchinae) from the western edge of the Alashan plateau semi-desert in Southern Mongolia is described. The morphological characters of Mongolotmethis michidi new species and some characters of Mongolotmethis gobiensis, the most closely related species, are described.
25622292|Swimming behavior of the meadow grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was observed in an acid pool on Sunshine Plain in Epping Forest, UK. To quantify the success or otherwise of attempts at swimming by grasshoppers, 1 spent 2 h watching C. parallelus nymphs on 7 June 2009. Early-instar nymphs of C. parallelus were observed to commonly use their hind legs in a kicking motion to swim in the surface film of the pool. These nymphs managed to reach the edge of the pool, whereas two late-instar nymphs (probably 3-4) after becoming submerged for more than 3 min, did not manage to exit the pool. Various escape strategies were used by late-instar nymphs that became submerged, including an underwater 'hop' and climbing up rush (Juncus) stems.
4122954|Species of the tettigoniid genus Isophya are indicators of biogeographical history and also measures of the state of nature conservation in the Carpathian Basin and in Europe. We surveyed the occurrence and habitat preference of five species (I. camptoxypha, I. costata, I. kraussii, I. modesta, I. modestior) living in the Transdanubian region (the western part of the Pannonian biogeographical region) to determine the potential for the preservation of the insects and their habitats. Statistical analysis shows the optimal habitats of I. camptoxypha are patches of herbaceous plants and lower shrub layers within natural forests dominated by tall or medium-height broad-leafed (mainly dicotyledonous) mesophytic forest species. For I. camptoxypha smaller clearings, and the forest ecotones containing the aforementioned plant species are suboptimal, and populations of the insect species occur there at a significantly lower density. Present-day I. costata find optimal conditions in highly natural, loess grasslands or mesophytic hayfields and steppe grassland-hayfield transitions rich in plant species. This same Isophya species at a lower density can be found in grasslands having suboptimal conditions, but with a similar habitat physiognomy, adjoining the above-mentioned grasslands or developing through their slight degradation. Based on a critical literature review and our own sampling, we also comment on the habitat choice of a further three species (I. kraussii, I. modesta, I. modestior).
24367404|Bucrates weissmani n.sp. is known from four localities in southern Arizona. It is smaller and more slender than the other four species of Bucrates, making it superficially similar to the Central American copiphorine Caulopsis cuspidata, but more fundamental features refute the notion that it belongs in Caulopsis rather than Bucrates. Four other species of Bucrates are known. Two of these, capitatus (De Geer) and clausus (Scudder), occur in sympatry in Central America and tropical South America; lanista Rehn is known only from southern Brazil; and malivolans (Scudder) is restricted to the southeastern United States. All are easily distinguished morphologically and, for the three for which the songs are known, by their songs. Unlike the two other species of Bucrates for which the habitat is known, B. weissmani occurs on altitudinal islands at the edge of a desert. The calling song of B. weissmani resembles that of numerous species of Neoconocephalus, whereas the songs of B. malivolans and B. capitatus, resemble each other more than either song resembles that of B. weissmani.
23034226|A new species of Plagiotriptus is described from the Taita Hills of Kenya, East Africa. Data on habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given and an updated key provided to the species of Plagiotriptus.
10.2307/3503577|The genus Galeicles was described by Descamps (1977). He included in the genus two species. G. teocchii Descamps (as type species) and G. parvulus Descamps, both from the Central African Republic. In the present paper a new species G. kooumani is described from Chad.
23610414|There are few suitable monitoring tools for assessing the effectiveness of management for threatened insect taxa. This is especially true for cryptic arboreal species of nocturnal flightless orthopterans in the genus Deinacrida from New Zealand. Systematic searching of habitat during the day was compared with footprint tracking tunnels baited with peanut butter as methods for monitoring the arboreal giant weta Deinacrida heteracantha and Deinacrida mahoenui (Orthoptera: Anostostomatidae). Searching by day required more time (3h per transect) than operating tracking tunnels (1.4h). Lines of 30-35 tracking tunnels spaced 30 m apart could be quickly set to sample large areas. Searching may provide additional information including the species, age class, and sex, whereas tracking tunnels yield presence/absence data for giant weta that were larger than other anostostomatid present. Both methods provide indices of relative abundance: it is impractical in tall forest to accurately estimate absolute density whereas tracking tunnel results are related to the activity of weta. Weta activity may depend on vapour pressure deficit modulated by the temperature. For conservation and monitoring purposes, we recommend that tracking tunnels be used first to detect giant weta and only then search for them if further data is required.
41759710|Five neotropical wasp-mimicking species of the genus Aganacristwo known only from females and three from malesare reviewed. Based on observation of interspecific interactions and morphological comparison, it is shown that sexual dimorphism occurs within species, and that female species are conspecific with sympatric male species. This is reinforced by field observations in northern Peru of a pairing between A. pseudosphex and A. nitida, wherein the male was in the process of secreting a spermatophore. Aganacris sphex and A. pseudosphex are morphologically nearly identical and probably represent variants of a single species. Since those species known from females only are both senior to sympatric male species, the number of species is reduced from five to two - A. nitida (A. pseudosphex and A. sphex designated herein as junior synonyms) and A. velutina (A. insectivora designated herein as a junior synonym).
23034229|Wetapunga (Deinacrida heteracantha), New Zealand's largest insect, were formerly abundant in forests of northern New Zealand. However, they are now restricted to one population on mammal-free Little Barrier Island (3083 ha). This study investigated the movements, habitat use and behavior of 22 adult wetapunga fitted with miniature radiotransmitters for up to 18 nights. Adult wetapunga appeared to be quite mobile, with males (16 m per night) moving further than females (8 m per night). Differences in the distances travelled by adult male and female wetapunga between daytime refuges appear due to differences in reproductive behavior. Wetapunga were associated with silverfern, nikau palm, kanuka, and kohekohe within second-growth coastal forest on Little Barrier Island. The majority of wetapunga were found above ground level, but were also occasionally found moving on the ground. In addition, adult wetapunga were found in relatively open sites with little or no cover and were clearly visible by day. Wetapunga were generally solitary and the majority of their activities, such as feeding, movements and oviposition, occurred at night. The one exception is mating (actual copulation and pre-, post-copulatory behavior), which usually occurred during daylight after weta had paired during the previous night. During the study, one male wetapunga was eaten by an unknown avian predator. Radiotelemetry has extended our knowledge of adult wetapunga behavior and this monitoring technique could be readily applied to other large invertebrates.
41759694|The meadow katydid Orchelimum superbum was previously known from scattered localities along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of North America. We found this species to be widespread and locally common on the Great Plains in a variety of habitats, including tallgrass prairie, wetlands, and roadsides. We found no evidence for cryptic species after studying the morphology of the male terminalia, comparing body size, and analyzing 14 calling song characters. Individuals from the Great Plains are consistently larger in body size than individuals from the historical range. From patterns of body size variation and abundance, we hypothesize that the eastern Great Plains is the center of distribution for O. superbum and that the coastal localities, including the type locality, are peripheral populations. We compare the songs of O. superbum and O. vulgre, showing that these two sympatric allochronically separated species share most buzz-mode characters including statistically indistinguishable syllable repetition rates of 60 s at 25C.
10.2307/3503649|Grasshopper species composition, diversity and abundance on five grasslands and shrublands in northern La Pampa province were determined. Plant species composition, richness and a diversity index are reported for the different sites. A total of 24 grasshopper species were collected. The subfamily Melanoplinae was dominant, followed by Gomphocerinae and Acridinae. The highest abundance of grasshoppers was registered in shrubland communities in 1992. Dichroplus pratensis and Neopedies brunneri were the most abundant species in grasslands, while D. vittatus and D. pratensis were in shrublands. D. pratensis and Euplectrotettix ferrugineus were broadly distributed in both community types. N. brunneri was broadly distributed in grasslands and Scyllina signatipennis in shrublands. A total of 16 species were uncommon or rare, being collected only in certain years, in low numbers, and only in some locations. Species richness and diversity indices ranged from 11-4, and from 1.68-0.42, respectively. Although species richness in grasslands and shrublands was similar, diversity was, in general, lower in the latter.
3657131|The present paper arose from a symposium at the 9th International Conference of the Orthopterists' Society held in Canmore, Canada, from 14-19th August 2005. Most of the major groups working on locust phase polyphenism were inattendance (Table 1), offering the opportunity to review the rapid progress that has occurred in this field over recent years. To maintain momentum in this research, areas where results from different groups are at odds were debated, and ways to reconcile such discrepancies proposed. The symposium also provided researchers with a forum to consider how to coordinate core facilities and resources across laboratories, to make best use of national and international funding opportunities. Participants presented their results spanning a range of aspects of phase polyphenism research: molecular analyses, physiology, ecology and phylogenetic reconstruction of the evolutionary history of phase change. The symposium was followed by a detailed discussion session, attended by members of the audience as well as the symposium speakers. The present paper provides a synopsis of that discussion and is structured according to the major issues considered. Unless otherwise stated, the paper concerns the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, which has been the subject of most of the recent research.
25473453|Variation in body size exists within any natural population. Moreover, variation in this fundamental physiologically based trait often translates into variation in demographic rates. Here we explore the effects of variation in the initial body size of individuals on the mean survival trajectory of a generalist herbivore living in a seasonal environment. We first present the results from an individual-based model, which provided expectations for the form of the relationship between mean survival and standard deviation in initial size. We then develop a heuristic analytical model that captures the essentials of the influence of initial-size variation on mean survival to end of season. Both theoretical formulations demonstrate that as initial body size variation increases, mean survival might initially increase; however, this initial positive effect is eventually reversed, causing mean survival to fall steeply as size variation becomes high. We then test these qualitative predictions in the field by manipulating the magnitude of initial size variation in experimental populations of the generalist grasshopper, Melanoplus femurrubrum. We show good qualitative congruence between model predictions and experimental results. Because herbivore survival is strongly linked to the strength of food-web interactions, we suggest that adopting such a combined theoretical and empirical approach can provide a profitable avenue toward a full understanding of the interplay between individual trait variation and higher-level dynamics.
40344847|Three lectins, designated as Sg , Sg and Sg, were identified in the serum of the desert locust Schistocerca gregaria. With the use of (NH)SO fractionation, ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose and affinity chromatography on CNBr-activated Sepharose 4B, three pools, each containing one of the putative lectins, were obtained. IEF, native PAGE and SDS/PAGE revealed that the three pools contained Sg, Sg and Sg, respectively, with pI = 6.39, 8.11 and 6.8; native PAGE Rm = 0.44, 0.32 and 0.32; SDS/PAGE subunits approximate molecular weights = 21.5, 44.5, and 43.9 kDa, respectively. Under reducing conditions, SDS/PAGE has separated each of Sg and Sg into two bands that indicate the presence of covalent interactions between their subunits, which are not present in Sg. The three lectins are more highly specific for rabbit RBCs than for those of other vertebrates. The HA of lectins are Cadependent, heat-labile, and are inhibited strongly by -linked-D-galactosides, followed by L-(+)-rhamnose.
20066587|The genus Megacrania Kaup is revised. Types or paratypes of all species were examined. Two new species, Megacrania obscurus and Megacrania spina, are described and illustrated. A key is given to the species.
10.2307/3503435|Oxya nitidula was reared on four monocotyledonous host plants, viz. Oryza sativa, Panicum maximum, Pennisetum glaucum and Zea mays. The duration of post embryonic development and food utilisation indices such as consumption, growth rate, approximate digestibility, efficiency of conversion of ingested and digested food, were evaluated to assess adaptability by O. nitidula to these monocot hosts. The duration of post-embryonic development of both sexes of O. nitidula were least on P. maximum while the consumntion index and growth rate were the highest, when fed on P. maximum in comparison to the other three host plants. The consumption index and growth rates of nymphs varied on the different hosts. The approximate digestibility ranged between 72% - 91% in nymphs and adults on the various host plants with the mean value being maximal when fed on P. maximum. The efficiency of conversion of digested and ingested food into the body tissues varied, viz., ECD ranged between 3% to 9% among the different host plants with the highest mean of 8% on P. maximum. ECI ranged between 2% to 8% with the highest mean of 6.8% on P. maximum. The data suggests that O. nitidula is more adapted to P. maximum followed by O. sativa, P. glaucum and Z. mays.
25822722|We present a first preliminary molecular analysis of relationships among a sample of living members of the Gryllotalpidae, based on partial nucleotide sequence data of the 16S mitochondrial gene. Our analysis defines five groups that diverged from each other approximately 196 to 284 Mya in the Mesozoic era. This study supports the monophyly of the genus Scapteriscus and its placement in the subfamily Scapteriscinae, as well as the inclusion of the genus Triamescaptor in the subfamily Gryllotalpinae. The monophyly of the large genus Gryllotalpa is not supported, suggesting a revision of the genus is needed.
3503748|Scale is the fundamental conceptual problem in assessing the sustainability or value of controlling grasshoppers or locusts. Using case studies from North America (United States: Wyoming), Africa (Eritrea), and Asia (Russia: Irkutsk), we analyzed the viability of control programs. There are at least four dimensions to acridid pest management. At the geopolitical scale, all three cases reveal that although the greatest cost/risk of acridid outbreaks accrues locally, distant governments play a primary role despite recent, undirected trends toward decentralization. Examination of the social scale reveals that in all three cases, the individual farm/ranch is the fundamental unit of concern, but these units place high value on preventing acridid infestations from spreading to neighboring lands. None of the systems appear to be driven by the agrochemical industry; rather, the motive force is food security (Eritrea), food quality (Wyoming), or both (Irkutsk). With respect to the interest scale, in all three systems agriculturalists have nothing to gain and much to lose from acridid outbreaks, as compared to the general public (no gains, modest losses), agrochemical industries (low gains, no losses), and governments (low gains, modest losses). In terms of the temporal scale, extremely rapid (and localized) losses and short-term (annual) productivity define the situation for farmers/ranchers, while governments exhibit far slower and longer-term responses and perspectives. From these findings, the keys and obstacles to sustainable acridid pest management are discussed.
40344845|A list of Libyan Orthoptera is presented based on specimens preserved in Museums, incorporating all (previously published or unpublished) label information. Overall, 141 species are included, of which four are new records for the country. Given within "species incjuirendae" are another six species, with the reasons for confirming their presence. Libya's orthopteran fauna is probably not rich, but our knowledge of it is far from exhaustive.
3503725|Description of a new subspecies of Poecilimon mytilenensis Werner 1932. Both the new and the nominate subspecies occur on the island of Lesbos, Greece. Both subspecies differ mainly in the length of the tip of male subgenital plate. In addition to morphological data and a detailed distribution map, descriptions and oscillograms of male song of both subspecies, female song of the nominate subspecies and some data on the unusual mating behavior (ampulla mass 15% of male body mass) are provided.
10.2307/3503641|Monitoring rangeland grasshopper movements with a mark-release/resight technique demonstrated that these insects have a tendency to move upwind in a native rangeland habitat with flat topography. This directional dispersal was observed with both late instar nymphs (4th and 5th instar) and adult grasshoppers, 60 h after release of marked individuals. Significantly more of the marked grasshoppers (34%) were in the northwest quadrant of the plots than in any other quadrant, and the wind was primarily from the northwest. At a native rangeland site with varied topography, where winds were also from the northwest, significantly more grasshoppers moved into the northwest quadrant than the southeast quadrant, 36 and 60 h after release; 35 and 32% of resighted grasshoppers were present in upwind quadrants, respectively. Grasshoppers showed no detectable tendency for movement with respect to topographic aspect in this habitat. An understanding of rangeland grasshopper movement in the context of abiotic factors (wind and topography) is relevant to refining grasshopper control programs that employ Reduced Agent-Area Treatments (RAATs).
3657133| A density-dependent change from a cryptic to an aposematic antipredator strategy has recently been suggested as a possible functional explanation for phase change in the desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria Forskl). Predators learn to avoid locusts that have fed on toxic plants faster when they are in the brightly colored gregarious phase than when they are green and solitarious. We review recent work comparing acquisition of a defensive compound via food selection between solitarious, transiens (solitarious locusts in transition to the gregarious phase) and gregarious locusts. Lab experiments showed that solitarious locusts were deterred at first contact with hyoscyamine, a plant compound that protects against predators, but later habituated to the compound and incorporated it into the diet (albeit at a low rate). By contrast, gregarious and transiens locusts fed readily on the compound. A computer simulation showed how low-density, solitarious locusts would not benefit much from consuming the compound, because they escape predation by avoiding detection. However, for high-density transiens and gregarious locusts, for whom crypsis is no longer an option, acquiring toxicity dramatically decreases predation risk. A survey of the literature showed that solitarious locusts exhibit a narrower diet breadth than gregarious locusts, suggesting that solitarious locusts avoid defensive plant compounds, whereas gregarious locusts use a mix of compounds in the gut as a defence against predators. Gut-mediated antipredator defences might be more widespread among Orthopterans, especially brightly colored species, than has previously been realized. In particular, it remains to be investigated whether density-dependent aposematism and changes in food selection toward chemical defense, play a role in phase change in other locust species. 
41759693|The tribe Viadaniini n. trib. (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) is characterized in this paper. It includes twelve genera (two are new): Anaulacomera, Grammadera, Tomeophera, Viadana, Abrodiaeta, Proviadana, Bolivariola, Agennis, Parapynhicia, Pleothrix, Montealegrezia n. gen., and Tenellulus n. gen. A diagnosis of the tribe is provided and a key to its genera. Special consideration is given to the genus Anaulacomera Stl, 1873; its problematic history is outlined, and organization into species groups based on males' characters provided, as well as a key to these new groups. The genera Pararota Piza, 1973 n. syn. and Paracora Piza, 1977 n. are synonymized under Anaulacomera. A. darienica Griffini, 1896 n. is synonymized with A. furcata Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1878. A. pizai n. nom. & n. comb, is the new name for Pararota gracilis Piza, 1973 n. The new species described are as follows: A. alexanderi n. sp., A. ferchoi sp., A. hernandezi n. sp., A. sarmientoi n. sp., A. ludivinae n. sp., A. parisae n. sp., A. juanchoi n. sp., A. davidi n. sp., A. chirivii n. sp., A. didieri n. sp., A. richteri n. sp., A. valentinae n. sp., A. franciscoi n. sp., M. amacayacu n. sp., T. ariasi n. sp., all from Colombia. The male of V. difformis is here reported and described. With this re-organization the tribe Viadaniini is made up of 153 valid species. La tribu Viadaniini n. trib., (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) es caracterizada en el presente artculo. Tal como se presenta, est conformada por doce gneros, dos de ellos nuevos: Anaulacomera, Grammadera, Tomeophera, Viadana, Abrodiaeta, Proviadana, Bolivariola, Agennis, Parapyrrhicia, Pleothrix, Montealegrezia n. gen., and Tenellulus n. gen. Se proporciona una diagnosis de la tribu y una clave para los gneros que la conforman. El gnero Anaulacomera Stl 1873, es tratado especialmente, abordando la problemtica histrica del gnero. La nueva organizacin se bas en caracteres morfolgicos de los machos y se construy una clave para el reconocimiento de los nuevos grupos aqu creados. Los gneros Pararota Piza 1973 n. syn., y Paracora Piza 1977 n. syn., son sinonimizados con Anaulacomera; al igual que la especie A. darienica Griffini, 1896 n. syn., es sinonimizada con A. furcata Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1878. A. pizai n. nom. & n. comb., es el nuevo nombre para Pararota gracilis Piza, 1973 n. syn. Los nuevos taxones aqu descritos son: A. alexanderi n. sp., A. ferchoi n. sp., A. hernandezi n. sp., A. sarmientoi n. sp., A. ludivinae n. sp., A. parisae n. sp., A. juanchoi n. sp., A. davidi n. sp., A. chirivii n. sp., A. didieri n. sp., A. richteri n. sp., A. valentinae n. sp., A. franciscoi n. sp., M. amacayacu n. sp., T. ariasi n. sp., el macho de V. difformis es reportado y descrito. De acuerdo con esta nueva organizacin la tribu Viadaniini est compuesta por 153 especies vlidas.
10.2307/3503643| A new genus and species of acridid grasshopper Duartettix montanus Perez and Otte is described from high mountain valleys of the Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. D. montanus is very small, brachypterous and apparently the highest altitude inhabiting acridoid grasshopper in the West Indies. The genus is placed in the subfamily Melanoplinae. This is the first record of the subfamily Melanoplinae for the Greater Antilles. /// Se describe un nuevo gnero y especie de saltamontes acrdido Duartettix montanus Perez y Otte de valles de alta montaa en la Cordillera Central, Repblica Dominicana. D. montanus es muy pequeo, braquptero y aparentemente el saltamontes acridoideo que habita a mayores alturas en las Indias Occidentales. Este es el primer registro de la subfamilia Melanoplinae para las Antillas Mayores. 
10.2307/3503600|Growth, development and mortality of nymphs of Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabr.) fed diets of one of 12 species or cultivars of perennial grasses were monitored over a 3-week period in early summer, 1991 and 1992. Mean dry weight of grasshoppers was significantly higher (P < 0.05) on Western wheat grass (cv. S-8580) than any other grass, and lowest on smooth brome grass (cv. Carlton and Signal). Development of grasshoppers was significantly more rapid (P < 0.05) when feeding on Western wheat grass (cv. S-8580) and Intermediate wheat grass (cv. S-9051) than any other grass. Smooth brome grass had the greatest negative impact on grasshopper development. Mortality among grasshoppers fed these grasses was not significantly different over the 21 days. Analysis of historical grasshopper abundance survey data showed that mean grasshopper densities in 15 of 18 years (1975-1992) were significantly lower (P <0.05) in roadsides containing brome grass and alfalfa than in roadsides containing a high proportion of weeds. This relationship also held true for cropland that was adjacent to these respective roadsides. In 11 of 18 years of the adult grasshopper survey, mean grasshopper density was significantly higher (P <0.05) in crops that were next to weedy roadsides compared to those next to brome grass/alfalfa. In no year was the inverse true, that is, grasshopper density in brome grass/alfalfa was never significantly higher than in weedy roadsides. Records from the annual grasshopper abundance survey (1975-1992) indicate that about 30% of roadsides in Saskatchewan are weedy. Grain producers may be able to reduce grasshopper damage if these roadsides were seeded to brome grass or brome grass/alfalfa mixture
40344846|There has been a considerable range expansion for Roesel's bushcricket Metnoptera roeselii in Essex since 1980, and it is often assumed that the macropterous (long-winged) form (f. diluta) has played an important role. A systematic study of the occurrence and distribution of this bushcricket in the county shows that this range expansion has corresponded with a significant increase in air temperature and the availability oftall grassland on farmland, due to the introduction of set-aside and agri-environment schemes such as Countryside Stewardship. These tall grasslands are particularly important for M. roeselii in areas of the county (e.g., the northwest) where hedgerow removal has been severe since the 1940s. This study indicates that the previous year's air temperature may be the most crucial climatic determinant of macroptery, hot weather leading to successful breeding and high population densities in the following year. These populations may then produce macropterous individuals in response to overcrowding; this may explain the occurrence of long-winged M. roeselii in years with cool and damp weather. However, this study fails to provide conclusive evidence of this due to a lack of quantitative macropter data. Nevertheless, a clear link is established between high temperatures and the early appearance of macropters, hot weather from April to July leading to accelerated nymphal development and earlier sightings of macropterous bushcrickets.
3503694|O. nigeriensis Uvarov is widely distributed in the moist grassland habitats of Nigeria. Although this area is used for intensive agricultural activities, providing more than 90% of the grains needed in the country, the insect has been reported to cause only minor damage to agricultural crops while the closely related O. senegalensis is a serious pest of crops. The reason for the minor pest status of O. nigeriensis is unknown and only adequate study of the insect/host-plant relationship will provide some clues. Nymphs and adults of O. nigeriensis were reared on selected food plants (grasses) in the laboratory; this included Axonopus compressus, Cynodon dactylon, Eleusine indica, Seteria gracilipes, used singly and as a mixture of all four. Development of the nymphs was shortest when rearing was on a mixed diet: 60 d compared to 105 to 127 d for single host plants. Rearing the adults on S. gracilipes promoted faster oocyte development than the other treatments. The present pest status of the insect is discussed based on the data obtained.
10.2307/3503596|A cockroach, Periplaneta japonica, is known to have a semivoltine life cycle in northern snowy areas. In the present study, nymphal development, nymphal diapause, and reproduction of a southern population were studied under laboratory and outdoor conditions to understand the life cycle strategy of this species. Nymphal development proceeded faster at a longer photoperiod, but diapause was induced at any photoperiod. The longer the photoperiod the later the nymphal instar at which diapause occurred. A sample collected early in the spring suggested that the overwintering population comprised two distinct size groups, corresponding to early and late nymphal instars. This favored the conclusion that this species requires two years to complete the life cycle, as reported for northern populations. However, by rearing cockroaches under outdoor conditions, it was found that some of the nymphs hatching early in the summer overwintered as late nymphal instars and emerged as adults in the following year. This pattern of development was observed not only in a year with an unusually hot summer but also in a year with an unusually cool summer. This species has a mixture of univoltine and semivoltine life cycles, and such a mixed voltinism appears to be adaptive for insects with a long reproductive period. The time of first oviposition was earlier at a higher temperature, but mean ovipositing interval was the shortest at around 25C and tended to be prolonged at a higher temperature. These results indicate that P. japonica is adapted to northern climates and has a highly flexible life cycle.
10.2307/3503473|Xylophagy in cockroaches has been considered a rare attribute, inherited from a common ancestor with termites. This point of view is discussed in a phylogenetic perspective for two independent tropical cockroach lineages: the subfamily Polyphaginae and the group (Zetoborinae + Blaberinae + Gyninae + Diplopterinae). A phylogeny was constructed for each of these two lineages. Xylophagy occurs in Cryptocercus in the subfamily Polyphaginae and has recently been discovered in Parasphaeria (subfamily Zetoborinae). This allows one to propose, in reference to phylogenies, that xylophagy is recently derived, that slow development is a correlate of xylophagy rather than a prerequisite, and that xylophagy appearance preceded the conquest of temperate areas at least once.
25822721|This article describes the acoustic characters of Copiphora gorgonensis, a new species endemic to Gorgona Island National Park, Colombia. It is closely related to C. brevicauda, a congener distributed in the Pacific rainforest of Ecuador and Colombia, and also reported in Central America and other countries of northern South America. Here we provide diagnostic characters for identification; we study the mechanics of stridulation using laser vibrometry and optical motion detectors. Distinguishing features include: the highly tonal song of males with a carrier frequency peaking at 23 kHz; pulses repeated with a high rate of nearly 50/s and wing motion exhibiting a typical subsinusoidal pattern, as has been described for other Copiphorini. The natural frequency of the right forewing is close to that of the calling song and the wing-motion patterns indicate that sound vibrations are the result of sustained tooth impacts, corresponding to the natural frequency of wing vibration, i.e., the tonal characteristic of the calling song in this species is the result of resonant stridulation. This resonance, and the amplitude component of the song, are attributed to the mirror frame and its surrounding cells and veins. These results are contrasted and discussed in regard to published literature on tettigoniid stridulation.
10.2307/3503651|The bioacoustics and ecology of twelve species of Phalangopsinae from Ecuadorian rainforests are described. All of the species are new to science. They belong to eight genera, five of which are new. One species, currently under study by Desutter-Grandcolas (Species PhalOtLP2), remains unnamed. The genera and species included are as follows: Hattersleya clandestina new genus and species, Aclodes chamocoru new species, Aclodes mococharu new species, Aclodes hypoxyros new species, Paraclodes cryptos new species, Escondacla thymodes new genus and species, Paragryllus crybelos new species, Desutteria epiplatys new genus and species, Ecuazarida recondita new genus and species, Dambachia eritheles new genus and species.
3657134|Locust phase polyphenism is a spectacular example of density-dependent phenotypic plasticity. It is generally interpreted as an adaptation to heterogeneous environmental conditions brought on by high population density. However, several nonlocust species are known to express phase-like traits, which is difficult to explain from an adaptive perspective alone. Here I attempt to explain this phenomenon by 1) taking a reaction norm perspective in understanding the mechanisms underlying locust phase and 2) taking a phylogenetic perspective to study how individual reaction norms of locust phase might have evolved. I argue that locust phase polyphenism is a complex syndrome resulting from interactions among different density-dependent plastic reaction norms, each of which can follow a separate evolutionary trajectory, which in turn can be reflected in a phylogeny. Using a phylogeny of Cyrtacanthacridinae (Orthoptera: Acrididae), I explore the evolution of plasticity in density-dependent color change. I demonstrate that locusts and closely related nonlocusts, express similar phenotypic plasticity due to phylogenetic conservatism. Finally, I argue that it is crucial to study the evolution of locust phase polyphenism from both adaptive and phylogenetic perspectives.
3657121|A comparison of hybrid zones between chromosome races of the tree weta Hemideina thoracica (White) found that the chromosomal rearrangements that involved the greatest proportion of the genome apparently had the least effect on fitness of hybrids. In order to further explore the nature of chromosomal rearrangements that differentiate weta races, relative DNA content was compared between 2 races of H. crassidens (Blanchard) (known to differ by 2 Robertsonian (Rb) translocations) and 4 races of H. thoracica, using flow cytometry. Where Rb translocation was the inferred process (H. crassidens 15 vs 19; H. thoracica 17 vs 15') no change in relative DNA content was detected, as expected. The 19-karyotype of H. thoracica was predicted to have more DNA due to a duplication/loss compared to the 17-karyotype of H. thoracica, but here too, no change in relative DNA content was detected. In contrast, significantly more DNA was found where less was predicted; the 13-karyotype of H. thoracica was thought to have less DNA than the 15'-karyotype, due to a duplication/loss, but in fact this race has significantly more DNA than any of the 3 other races of H. thoracica examined. Due to the differential staining of A-T bases by the stain used in flow cytometry, 4'-6'-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI), it is possible the increased DNA estimate for the 13-karyotye is due to a significant shift in A-T base bias throughout its genome. However, it is more likely that the absence of the very small acrocentric autosomes that characterize many of the karyotypes of H. thoracica, result from translocations to larger autosomes than from a change in total DNA content and a simultaneous change in base ratio.
25473431|This review discusses body size and mass as they relate to the Orthoptera (crickets, katydids, grasshoppers) and the Phasmatodea (walkingsticks). It addresses the expression, causes and consequences of size in these insects. Topics include: methodological problems in body-size research, gravity vs surface forces, allometry and scaling. Dyar's law, ontogenetic scaling, size-invariant traits and nonallometric scaling, the influence of size on physiology, function, behavior, life history, mating, fecundity, population dynamics, ecology, and community, size-clines, Bergmann's rule, sexual size dimorphism, Rensch's rule, protandry, the environmental, genetic, and physiological control of size, the evolution of size and the influence of size on evolution. Hypotheses are presented to explain why insects remain small in comparison to other taxa.
4122957|The new species Espagnolopsis exaltata Perez-Gelabert & Rowell is described from the mountains north of Ocoa, Cordillera Central, Dominican Republic. Also described is the hitherto unknown adult male of Antillacris explicatrix Rehn & Rehn 1939, a relatively rare high mountain species. The variation exhibited by the most widely distributed episactid species in the island, Espagnola darlingtoni, is investigated through a comparative analysis of male and female genital features in several populations. Usually the female subgenital plate of eumastacoids shows a species-specific morphology. We find that most of the apparent variation between populations is confined to the female subgenital plate, while the males are much more homogeneous. We conclude that our sample represents a single, somewhat variable species. Additionally, the transfer of Tainacris divergentis Perez et al. 1997 to the new genus Neibamastax Rowell & Perez-Gelabert (see paper this issue) prompted the need to review the evidence for the distinctiveness of the two other species included in Tainacris. Differences are found in both the female subgenital plate and the male internal genitalia. The earlier conclusion that these populations represent different species is supported.
20789574|In this study we reconstructed the molecular phylogeny and attempted to infer historical biogeography of a sample of cricket species, most of them cave-dwelling, belonging to the subfamily Macropathinae (Orthoptera, Rhaphidophoridae) which shows a clear Gondwanan distribution. We sequenced fragments of 4 genes (12S rRNA, 16S rRNA, 18S rRNA and 28S rRNA), for a total of 1993 bp. We present here preliminary data based on a total of 17 species, 11 belonging to Macropathinae and representative of the main regions of Gondawanaland, 7 to Aemodogryllinae and Rhaphidophorinae from India, Bhutan, China, Philippines and the Sulawesi Islands. The use of relaxed molecular clocks by means of Bayesian analysis allowed us to estimate the timing of the main cladogenetic events, using calibration of a molecular clock; the clock is based on the plate disjunction of Africa from South America, Australia from Zealandia (New Zealand), or Australia from Antarctica. The latter was considered at two different datings on the basis of two alternative palaeogeographic hypotheses. Node dating using separation of Africa or a model of earlier separation of Australia from Antarctica, suggests that the main cladogenetic events in the Macropathinae phylogeny could be explained by vicariance hypotheses, related to the Gondwana fragmentation. However, two other equally valid calibrations suggest that lineage formation is not consistent with vicariant processes and requires either some long-distance dispersal, or an inconceivable age of origin of this family of insects, enabling the prior existence of all lineages in Gondwanaland with subsequent regional extinction.
3503705|An up-dated list of species of the genera Agriacris and Staleochlora, whose karyotypes were previously published, is accompanied by fresh information on the chromosomes of A. jucunda and S. fruhstorferi. The connection between cingulum and dorsal valves in the phallic structure of both species is discussed.
43738193|Melanoplus punctulatus (Uhler) occurs only in the USA and Canada, where its current known distribution extends west only to the eastern quarter of the Great Plains States. In 2014, we discovered two new populations of M. punctulatus in the Pine Ridge area of western Nebraska. This discovery extends the known range of this species westward by over 600 km. The species appears to be strongly associated with green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica) in the western part of its range. Our results suggest that M. punctulatus may have been previously overlooked, due to its behavior and crypsis, and may actually occur across much of the Great Plains in woodland areas.
3503655|The Moroccan Locust Dociostaurus maroccanus is a pest species, regularly harmful to pastures and agricultural output in numerous circum-Mediterranean regions and particularly in Morocco. Species belonging to the same subfamily (Gomphocerinae) are mostly grass-feeding and oligophagous; very few are monophagous or polyphagous. Instars and adults of D. maroccanus are characterized by a high degree of polyphagy. Linked to this diet is mandible type; chemoreceptor organs (antenna and palp sensilla) are related to odor or taste (e.g., labrum sensilla). As labrum sensilla plates are correlated with labrum width, we eliminated this source of bias with linear regression statistics. We first studied the genesis of type A sensilla through the different stages of D. maroccanus. The relative numbers of A 10 increase in adults. Then we tested if the variation of sensilla number relates to the systematic position of the genus or to diet. Comparisons concerned the relative numbers of different sensilla categories in 10 species of acridians. In all its sensilla types, the genus Dociostaurus is closer to the mostly polyphagous Oedipodinae than the mostly oligophagous Gomphocerinae. Thus diversification of diet in the genus Dociostaurus is linked to an increase in the number of labrum sensilla.
20066586|A new species of Horatosphaga Schaum, 1853 is described from east African highlands. Horatosphage tenera Hemp, new species, occurs on savanna plains of south-central Kenya. Notes on the phenology, habitat and co-occurring Saltatoria species are given.
10.2307/3503470|This study of food selection and feeding behavior in the Orthoptera sens. lat. of the Balearic Islands, Spain, took place near Santo Tomas, representative of Menorcan sublittoral grassland and scrub, and Na Xamena, representative of Ibizan coastal mountains and foothills. It involved habitat analysis, investigation of 15 species of Orthoptera by differential feeding tests, field observation of behavior, light microscopy, and, for the first time in Orthoptera, scanning electron microscopy of mandibular adaptation and fecal structure. It also involved less detailed study of six additional species by analysis of mandibular adaptation and crop content. The investigation disclosed: 1) the late-season mandibular wear characteristic of many Orthoptera; (2) the similarity of food habit in the species of the two major stations notwithstanding the insular separation and disparities in local host plant availability; and (3) a food selection that is generally consistent with that of the insects' taxonomic group elsewhere in the Mediterranean region and in the adjacent Atlantic islands.
10.2307/3503457| Abiotic factors, principally rainfall, drive the population dynamics of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetes terminifera (Walker), in semi-arid source areas. However, with the possible exception of the low summer rainfall southern invasion areas, biotic factors-especially scelionid, sarcophagid and nemestrinid insect parasitoids and mermithid nematode parasitoids-become increasingly important in reducing survival in successive generations following outbreaks, while the abiotic factors assume a more indirect role through their influence on biotic factors. Parasitoids of acridids have a relatively stable population of acridid hosts, principally eastern plague grasshopper, Oedaleus australis Saussure, on the western plains and wingless grasshopper, Phaulacridium vittatum (Sjstedt), on the western slopes and tablelands, because of the high summer rainfall in these invasion areas. The host-parasitoid relationship of each parasitoid is distinctive and exhibits temporal variation in relation to the outbreak phase of C. terminifera and alternative host abundance. Typically the unlimited availability of hosts during outbreaks allows full realization of the reproductive capacity of the parasitoids. In the future parasitoid induced recessions may be initiated at an earlier stage in the outbreak cycle because of the increasingly efficient control of C. terminifera in semi-arid source areas and consequent reduction in the density of populations invading the Southeast. However, parasitoid-accommodating control strategies, including the demarcation of districts in which a "do nothing" strategy would be appropriate in some seasons, need to be adopted so that the supplementary control of C. terminifera afforded by parasitoids can be maximized. 
20066578|Mating and laying sites of Uromenus brevicollis insularis, a Cyrno-Sardininian micro-endemic species, are described from observations conducted at night in several Corsican localities. Asphodelus ramosus was found to be a key host species as both mating and oviposition of this insect take place mainly on the erect dry stems of the plant. Some aspects of the meeting of the sexes are assessed: male stridulation does not appear to play an important role. The females lay their eggs, creating vertical lines in the stem by chewing regularly spaced holes containing nearly 3 eggs per hole. One to three laying lines can be observed on a single stem. Ferula communis is frequently used as an alternative laying site when A. ramosus is absent or rare, but in this case, the eggs can be attacked by woodpeckers (Dendrocopos sp.) or parasitized by Hymenoptera. /// Les sites d'accouplement et de ponte d'Uromenus brevicollis insularis, micro-endmique cyrno-sarde, sont dcrits  partir d'observations nocturnes de terrain dans plusieurs localits corses. Asphodelus ramosus est une espce cl dans la mesure o ses tiges sches dresses sont le lieu principal de ces deux activits de reproduction. Les modalits de la rencontre des sexes sont dcrites et il ne semble pas que la stridulation des mles joue un rle prpondrant. Les femelles pondent selon des lignes verticales sur la plante en creusant des trous rgulirement espacs, contenant en moyenne prs de trois ufs chacun. On peut rencontrer de une  trois ranges de ponte sur une tige. Nous avons pu observer que les pontes dposes dans Ferula communis, espce qui semble tre particulirement recherche en cas d'absence ou faible densit de l'asphodle, peuvent subir des attaques de pic (Dendrocopos sp.) ou encore d'hymnoptres parasitodes, notamment.
10.2307/3503575|The genus Radacridium was described (Carbonell 1984) on the basis of a single species, R. nordestinum, from the Caatinga plant formation of northeastern Brazil. Two new species are described here; R. adamantinum, from Chapada Diamantina in the interior of the State of Bahia and from the northeastern part of the State of Minas Gerais, and R. mariajoseae from the plant formation called "Agreste", which lies between the arid Caatinga and the humid Atlantic Forest (Mata Atlantica), of the State of Pernambuco.
10.2307/3503540|Two new subspecies from Iran and one new subspecies from Sudan-Somalia region in the species Pyrgomorpha (Pyrqomorpha) cognata are described. They are P. (P.) c. kevani, P. (P.) c. caputorugosa and P. (P.) c. caputagrava. A key to subspecies of Pyrgomorpha (P.) cognata Krauss is provided. The type specimens are deposited in the Lyman Entomological Museum of McGill University. /// Deux nouvelles sous-especes de l'Iran et une nouvelle souse spece de la region du Soudan-Somalie dans l'espece Pyrqomorpha (Pyrgomorpha) cognata sont decrites. Elles sont P. (P.) c. kevani, P. (P.) c. caputorugosa et P. (P.) c. caputagrava. Une cle pour les sous-especes de Pyrgomorpha (P.) cognata Krauss est incluse. Les specimens types sont deposes dans la collection du Musee d'Entomologie Lyman de l'Universite McGill.
20066565|Male and female nymphs of Heteracris littoralis were topically treated with serial concentrations of azadirachtin. Effects on mortality, development, oogenesis and spermatogenesis were observed. Mortality was dose-dependent; fourth and fifth instars died about the time of ecdysis. Overaging took place at low concentrations. Ovaries in treated adult females showed complete shrinkage with abolished oocyte growth, and the number of deposited egg pods/female decreased from 4 to 9 in normal females, to 1 to 3 pods in treated insects. Deformation in sperm tubes was observed in treated males. Electronmicrographs revealed disintegration and destruction in follicular cells and mitochondria in females. In males the testicular epithelia and the spermatids completely disintegrated. Treatment with higher doses inhibited cyst formation around the spermatogonia.
3503681|A new genus, Aerotegmina is proposed for an East African Listroscelidinae species occurring in the montane forests of Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania. Notes on distribution and habitat are given.
10.2307/3503545| A laboratory study was conducted to determine some life history parameters of the gregarious phase of the South American locust, Schistocerca cancellata. An age-specific life table was constructed based on laboratory data. Duration of egg, nymphal and adult female and male stages was 151.005, 33.241.302, 87.6034.84, and 89.8026.85 days, respectively. The mean life of the cohort was 175 days, and sex ratio of emerging adults was 1:1. Survivorship curve showed a high survival during most of the life time of the cohort. 9.10% of the cohort mortality occurred during nymphal instars V and VI and 90.90% during adult stage, most of it during the last 5 weeks. Mean fecundity was 160.793.10 eggs/female and the number of eggs per pod was 7318.94. Maximum values of the fecundity rates were reached at the age of 17 and 18 weeks. The reproductive values curve indicated that the highest contribution to the future population occurred at week 17. The values of the intrinsic rate of increase (r), the net reproductive rate ( R
10.2307/3503464|Intraspecific polymorphism with respect to color is reported in the leaf-mimicking katydid genera Pterochroza, Typophyllum, and Roxelana. Representative species of these genera as adults have three or more distinct color forms in at least some anatomical features. These color variants are described, and photographic illustrations are provided to facilitate their identification.
3657122|The arboreal camel cricket, Gammarotettix bilobatus Thomas, is abundant and widespread in California. It emerges in mid to late February, survives into late May and early June, and utilizes 8 host-plant species (coast live oak, barberry, Christmas berry, California lilac, California buckeye, Monterey pine, black locust, and California bay), some of which are toxic. It appears that G. bilobatus switches host plants intraseasonally and possibly acts as an inadvertent pollinator of some of its host plants.
4122938|We undertook a comparative study in 2004 at Writtle College, Chelmsford, Essex, UK, using box quadrat, open quadrat and transect sampling techniques, to ascertain the significance of emigration and immigration of individuals from survey plots during sampling and the implications for abundance estimation and subsequent calculation of assemblage diversity. Both open quadrat and transect techniques consistently produced underestimates of total Orthoptera density, Chorthippus nymph density and Chorthippus parallelus adult density, when compared to box quadrat sampling, although the differences between techniques were not statistically significant. We suggest that these underestimates of density using the former techniques were due to individuals escaping from the observer during sampling, whereas individuals jumped onto the high sides of the box quadrats. Both open quadrat and transect monitoring tended to miss the tettigoniids Metrioptera roeselii and Conocephalus discolor, leading to underestimates of species richness when compared to box quadrat sampling. We suggest that if surveyors wish to ascertain bushcricket abundance or species richness at a study site, methods that constrain movement of individuals, such as box quadrats, should be used.
10.2307/3503444|We examined the effects of mating and social grouping on the fecundity and fertility of female eastern lubber grasshoppers, Romalea microptera (Beauvois) in the laboratory. Our experimental design consisted of three treatments: (1) virgin females held in individual containers with no male contact, (2) females kept under similar conditions as Treatment 1, but mated three times, and (3) groups of females kept communally with groups of males throughout their adult life, and allowed to mate at will. Virgin females laid their first egg pod significantly later than isolated-mated females (Treatment 2) or grouped-mated females (Treatment 3). The grouped-mated females (Treatment 3) laid smaller 2
10.2307/3503412|Inevitably when a person attempts to catalog a group of organisms, some taxa are missed, some data is missed, or the author fails inadvertently to follow the latest, and presumably correct, treatment of a taxon. The following two pages contain new and revised data added to the computerized Orthoptera Species File in Philadelphia. I am especially thankful to T. J. Walker at the University of Florida for pointing out some problems with OSF 1. I urge other experts on crickets to be unmerciless in their attempts to find errors and omissions, for only then can rapid progress be made in building a stable taxonomy of crickets.
10.2307/3503629|Intersex individuals (phenotypic females with male genitalia) associated with parasitism by mermithid nematodes are reported for the first time in Orthoptera.
10.2307/3503423|A new grasshopper species, Parodontomelus luci n. sp., collected from the Udzungwa Mountains (Tanzania) is described and compared with the other species from the genus. Some notes on the ecology and phenology of the new species are made. The history of the genus Parodontomelus Ramme, 1929, is reviewed and a list of species with distribution records is given. Parodontomelus arachniformis Jago, 1983 is revived from synonymy. The main morphological characteristics for the taxonomy of the genus Parodontomelus are summarized and a modified key to the species is presented. The genetic distances of certain mtDNA sections (12S rRNA, ND1, ND5) between P. arachniformis and P. luci suggest a long period of isolation.
10.2307/3503538|The egg pods of grasshoppers with long egg diapause can be successfully cultured in sealed polypropylene cups. Females are allowed to oviposit directly into the sand-filled containers, which are then sealed with a tight-fitting lid. Sealed cups maintain a nearly constant soil moisture for several months and apparently hold enough oxygen for egg development and hatching. The method is simple, inexpensive, efficient, flexible and amenable to experimental manipulation.
3503710| The Neotropical genus Xyleus is revised. All existing types were examined, and many specimens from several large collections in different museums borrowed for study. A general confusion regarding Xyleus' species and their geographical distribution was found in the existing literature. Of the 25 specific names published between 1817 and 1935, only 13 were found to be valid, either as species or subspecies. Five new species and 1 new subspecies are described in this revision. The most reliable characters for the separation of species were found in the phallic complex. According to the materials studied, the genus has a discontinuous geographical distribution. A northern section includes Southeast Mexico, Central America, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela. A southern section includes most of Brasil, Paraguay, Uruguay, parts of Argentina, Bolivia and Per. Most species of the genus have been found north of parallel 4N or south of parallel 5S. While in the northern area only subspecies of Xyleus discoideus have been found, all known species of the genus are present in the southern one. Specimens of all species are figured, together with important characters for their identification. Maps of the known distribution of all species are given. 
10.2307/3503419| El desarrollo embrionario de la langosta mediterrnea o marroqu Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) que en condiciones naturales se prolonga por espacio de 9-10 meses, se complet en condiciones de laboratorio, por primera vez, en 3 y 3,5 meses cuando los embriones en diapausa, estado XIV, incubados a 20C y 25C se sometieron a 30 y 60 das de enfriamiento a 10C respectivamente. A la temperatura de 30C el estado de diapausa se alcanza con mucho retraso y adems, para continuar el desarrollo embrionario, la intensidad de la diapausa exige 90 dias de enfriamiento a 10C. /// The embryonic development of the mediterranean or maroccan locust, Dociostarus maroccanus (Thunberg), extends in natural conditions for 9-10 months. This development has now abreviated for the first time to 3 and 3,5 months at laboratory conditions when diapausing embryos at stage XIV and incubated at 20C and 25C, were chilled at 10C for 30 and 60 days respectively. At 30C the diapause stage is reached with delay and the eggs need 90 days of chilling at 10C to resume the embryonic development. /// Le dveloppement embryonnaire du criquet mditerranen ou marocain, Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg), qui dans des conditions naturelles s'tend sur 9-10 mois, s'accomplit au laboratoire, pour la premier fois, un 3 et 3,5 mois, lorsque les embryons en diapaus au stade XIV, incubs  20C et 25C sont soumis respectivement  30 et 60 jours de refroidissement  10C. A 30C la diapaus s'installe avec beaucoup de retard et, l'intensit de la diapause exige 90 joirs de refroidissement  10C. 
10.2307/3503609|A new species of Arachnoscelis is described from Costa Rica and compared with other members of the genus.
25822706|Scaphura nigra has a unique chromosome complement among approximately 100 species studied so far belonging to the subfamily Phaneropterinae. It is formed by 2n () = 26 and a FN = 29 and derived from the ancestral karyotype of the group 2n () = 31, FN = 31, by means of two centric fusions and one tandem fusion. The first between the X chromosome and a medium-sized autosome giving rise to a neo-XY sex chromosome mechanism of recent origin, and the second between two acrocentric ones, the bigger and a medium size, that gave rise to a large submetacentric element whose length is very uncommon in the subfamily. This process has created a bimodal karyotype that contrasts with the majority in this group, whose chromosomes usually can be arranged in a decreasing order of size. A third rearrangement incorporating the chromatin of a medium-sized autosome to the bigger one, explains the reduction observed in the number of chromosomes and the enlarged size of the submetacentric elements. These features demonstrate the effectiveness of chromosome number, their morphology and the change of the sex mechanism as useful tools for taxonomy.
23610405|In nature, Eastern Lubber Grasshoppers, Romalea microptera, tend to hatch in the morning, thus exhibiting a daily hatching rhythm. They also show high intra-pod hatching synchrony. We tested the hypotheses that both diel-hatching rhythmicity and intra-pod hatching synchrony are elicited by a daily temperature cycle. In the laboratory, we exposed egg pods to either a daily 15:26 C temperature cycle (12 h at each temperature) or a constant 26 C temperature regimen. Under the daily temperature cycle, hatching was strongly rhythmic, with peak hatching at 3 h after the beginning of the warm phase. Under the constant temperature, hatching rhythmicity was greatly reduced and eggs hatched throughout the 24-h period. There was little intra-pod hatching synchrony under either treatment. We propose that in nature both daily hatching rhythm and intra-pod hatching synchrony are controlled by a thermal threshold for hatching.
43738206|Two new species of the euryphymine genus Phymeurus are described, one from Moroto Mountain, eastern Uganda (morotoensis n.sp.), and the other from West Central Tanzania, near Lake Tanganyika (kisuluensis n.sp.). The genus now contains 20 species, the majority in southern Africa.
3503688| The predaceous katydid species Arachnoscelis meriti, n. sp. (Listroscelidinae) and Phlugiola arborea, n. sp. (Meconematinae) are described herein. Keys to species of both genera based on morphological differences are also provided. Both species were collected from rainforest canopies in northern Peru. Based on the numbers of additional new forms collected, sorted and identified during the course of this study, many species in addition to these are new to science, providing evidence of a very rich and diverse arboreal fauna in northern Peru. After reviewing literature on the tribe Phlugidini, Tenuiphlugis Kevan (with 4 species) is herein synonymized with the genus Lucienola Gurney /// Se describen las especies de grillos carnvoros Arachnoscelis meriti, n. sp. (Listroscelidinae) y Phlugiola arboreus, n. sp. (Meconematinae). Se incluyen claves de las especies de ambos gneros basadas en diferencias morfolgicas. Ambas especies fueron recolectadas del dosel de las selva la tropical en el norte Peruano. De acuerdo con los numeros de las nuevas formas recolectadas, clasificadas e identificadas en el transcurso de este estudio, existe fuerte evidencia de una fauna muy rica y diversa en la regin norte del Per. Despus de une revisin de la literatura en de la tribu Phlugidini, el gnero Tenuiphlugis Kevan (con 4 especies) pasa a ser sinnimo del gnero Lucienola Gurney. 
10.2307/3503583|A new species, Taiwanemobius formosanus Yang and Chang from Taiwan is described and illustrated. The character sets of coloration, external morphology, male genitalia and habitat are described in more detail. The external morphology and genitalia of the new species are compared with the holotype and the paratype of Apteronemobius darwini Otte and Alexander 1983. Additional descriptions of Apteronemobius darwini are also provided here.
3503673| We describe the development and appearance of Follicle Resorption Bodies (FRBs) and Oocyte Resorption Bodies (ORBs) in the grasshopper Romalea microptera (= guttata), and demonstrate that these structures can be used to determine the past ovipositional and environmental history of females. In R. microptera, one resorption body is deposited at the base of each ovariole following each gonotropic cycle. These structures are semi-permanent, and remain distinct for at least 8 wks and two additional ovipositions. Ovarioles that ovulate a mature, healthy oocyte, produce a cream-colored FRB. Ovarioles that resorb their oocyte, produce an orange-colored ORB. The number of FRBs equals the number of eggs laid, and the number of ORBs equals the number of oocytes resorbed. Healthy, well-fed R. microptera resorbed about a quarter of their developing oocytes. Starvation or other environmental or physiological stress increased the rate of oocyte resorption and thus increased the number of ORBs. By counting the number and type of resorption bodies in each ovariole, we determined the number of times a female laid, the number of oocytes resorbed, and the clutch size during each oviposition. These data were used to estimate the relative environmental stress experienced by laboratory females during each gonotropic cycle. Oocyte resorption occurred frequently in 1 oocytes, and rarely in 2 oocytes. In healthy, well-fed females, oocyte resorption was temporally staggered, and thus the number of resorbing oocytes increased toward the end of each gonotrophic cycle. Adult virgin females maintained at low density with no male contact, resorbed fewer oocytes than females maintained at higher densities with males, suggesting that high densities or continual male harassment stressed females. In comparison to locusts, R. microptera were relatively slow to initiate oocyte resorption following starvation, requiring > 12 d without food before massive resorption was detected. /// Nous dcrivons l'apparition et le dveloppement des follicules de rsorption ovocytaire (trace de ponte) (FRB) et des corps de rgression ovocytaire (ORB) chez le criquet Romalea microptera et nous dmontrons que ces structures peuvent tre utilises pour reconstituer l'historique du fonctionnement ovarien et pour valuer la qualit de l'environnement o les femelles avaient vcu. Chez Romalea microptera, il se forme  la base de chaque ovariole un corps de rsorption (folliculaire ou ovocytaire)  la fin de chaque cycle gonotrophique. Ces structures semi-permanentes sont discernables pendant au moins 8 semaines et aprs 3 pontes. Les ovarioles ayant ovul un ovocyte sain et mr, produisent une trace de ponte de couleur blanc crme (FRB) alors que les ovarioles ayant rsorb un ovocyte, produisent un corps de rgression de couleur jaune orang. Le nombre de traces de ponte est gal au nombre d'oeufs pondus et le nombre de corps de rgression au nombre d'ovocytes ayant rgress. Les R. microptera en bonne sant et nourris en abondance rsorbent environ le quart de leur ovocytes en croissance. La privation de nourriture ou le stress physiologique entrainent une augmentation du taux de rgression ovocytaire et par consquent du nombre de corps de rgression (ORB). Si l'on compte les traces de ponte et les corps de rgression dans chaque ovariole, on obtient le nombre de pontes, le nombre d'oeufs par ponte et dans une certaine mesure le niveau de stress caus par l'environnement durant chaque cycle gonotrophique. Les rgressions ovocytaires se produisent d'abord chez les ovocytes de rang 1, rarement chez les ovocytes de rang 2. Chez les femelles bien nourries et en bonne sant, les rgression ovocytaires sont temporairement retardes et le nombre d'ovocytes ayant rsorb augmente vers la fin de chaque cycle ovocytaire. Des femelles adultes vierges, leves sous faible densit, et sans contact avec des mles, rsorbent moins que celles leves sous forte densit et en prsence de mles. Ceci suggre que les fortes densits ou le harclement permanent des mles crent des situations de stress. Par rapport  des locustes, les R. microptera, lorqu'ils sont privs de nourriture, apparat comme une espce qui commence  rsorber les ovocytes relativement tardivement. 
4122936|Two new arboreal katydid species (Pseudophyllinae) were recently discovered from northern Peruvian rainforest canopies using pesticide-fogging methods. Although these two species are in different tribes, they share the distinction of being the smallest of the pseudophylline katydids. One species, belonging to the platyphylliine genus Brachyauchenus Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895, is known only from the male sex and differs from both described species of that genus by its more elongate pronotum, the mother-of-pearl markings on the pronotal disc, and differences in the shape of the male cercus and subgenital plate. The other new species belongs to the pleminiine genus Bufotettix Caudell 1918, but is easily distinguished from B. alpha Caudell by its unusually expanded pronotum and by genitalic characters. Both sexes of this species are described. The occurrence of these species in rainforest canopies suggests that many species of katydids may yet be discovered as this poorly known habitat is studied in more detail.
10.2307/3503471|This paper represents the only study of praying mantids of Pakistan since it became an independent country in 1978. The study focuses on seven additional species from Sindh Province, which are added to the previously confirmed number of five. The male of Iris splendida Uvarov is described for the first time. The following species are recorded for the first time from this area: Mantis religiosa L.; Parhierodula coarctata Saussure; Statilia ocellata Uvarov; Iris oratoria L.; Creobroter sp., and Hestiasula brunneriana Saussure.
3503721|The evolutionary relationships of the New Zealand representatives of the family Anostostomatidae were examined using DNA sequence data. All species of giant weta (Deinacrida), tree weta (Hemideina) and tusked weta (Anisoura, Motuweta) were included in the study plus 4 taxa from the large genus of New Zealand ground weta (Hemiandrus). Sequence data from 2 mitochondrial genes (COI and 12S) were analysed to obtain a hypothesis of the evolution of these species. The 3 New Zealand tusked weta species formed a monophyletic clade with respect to the ground weta and to the giant and tree weta clade. We found no support for the placement of Anisoura nicobarica Ander within Deinacridinae as has previously been suggested. The giant and tree weta (Deinacridinae) consistently formed a monophyletic clade with respect to the tusked and ground weta. However, we found little support in our data for the reciprocal monophyly of the tree and giant weta genera. The tree weta Hemideina broughi (Buller) appears to be more closely related to Deinacrida pluvialis Gibbs and D. talpa Gibbs than to any other Hemideina species. The deinacridine radiation of leaf-eating weta comprises at least 6 comparatively ancient lineages (Hemideina and Deinacrida). Habitat-specialisation in South Island appears to have evolved in response to habitat diversification associated with Pliocene mountain building.
3503666|The species of cricket Cicloptyloides americanus has males with 2n = 14 and females with 2n = 16 chromosomes. The autosomes are metacentrics and the sex determining mechanism is of the X
40344834|The Nicarchi (sensu Descamps 1976) are a group of flightless genera within the Vilernae, characterized by living on trunks of trees and by a series of mostly adaptive morphological features. They also have relatively wide thoracic sternal interspaces. It is shown here that this last is due to two processes: development of relatively wider thoraces and reduction in the size of the sternal lobes. The latter correlates with loss of flight and of the wings, as shown by a series of genera from within the Vilernae, and is associated with the atrophy and/or loss of the indirect flight musculature. A probable selective advantage of both processes is to increase the space available for the crop, the major organ of food storage and digestion.
20789566|Taxonomy is investigated and revised for some prophalangopsid insects, yielded by the Middle Jurassic Jiulongshan and Upper Jurassic-Lower Cretaceous Yixian formations in China. Flexaboilus retinervius Li, Ren & Meng, 2007 and Furcaboilus excelsus Li, Ren & Meng, 2007 are considered as synonyms of Allaboilus gigantus Ren & Meng, 2006. Protaboilus lini Ren & Meng, 2006 is considered a synonym of Aboilus stratosus Li, Ren & Wang, 2007. Hebeihagla Hong, 1982b, Habrohagla Ren, Lu, Guo & Ji, 1995, Grammohagla Meng & Ren, 2006, Trachohagla Meng, Ren & Li, 2006 are considered as synonyms of Parahagla Sharov, 1968; Athehagla Meng & Ren, 2006 is considered a synonym of Ashanga Zherichin 1985. Genera Allaboilus, Circulaboilus Li, Ren & Wang, 2007 and Ashangopsis Lin, Huang & Nel, 2008 are revised. In addition, one new genus Scalpellaboilus gen. nov. and four new species: Scalpellaboilus angustus sp. nov., Circulaboilus priscus sp. nov., Allaboilus robustus sp. nov. and A. hani sp. nov. are described. Some wing venation variability in Prophalangopsidae is briefly discussed.
10.2307/3503631|A dark mutant of Schistocerca gregaria, which appeared in a laboratory colony, is described. In this mutant, the coloration of the nymphs is similar to that of the normal phenotype and only the adults become dark a few days after fledging. The mutant is named, therefore, as "dark-adult". Crossing experiments demonstrated that this mutation is controlled by a single recessive Mendelian unit. This "dark-adult" mutant seems to be different from a conspecific "melanic" mutant described in the literature: in the latter, the coloration of both the nymphs and the adults is dark.
3657110| Fourteen new species of the predaceous katydid genus Phlugis Stl, 1860 (Meconematinae), collected using pesticide-fogging methods, were recently described from northern Peruvian rainforest canopies. This paper reports the presence of 2 new species of Phlugis from rainforest canopies in Costa Rica. Although most of our representation of Phlugis species in museums consists primarily of easily collected understory species, the occurrence of a very diverse fauna in rainforest canopies, suggests that many species of this genus are yet to be discovered. /// Catorce especies nuevas de esperanzas del gnero predador Phlugis Stl, 1860 (Meconematinae) fueron descritas recientemente del canap de la selva pluvial al noreste de Peru, se colectarn utilizando una nube de pesticida. Este articlo reporta la presencia de dos especies nuevas de Phlugis en los canaps de la selva pluviosa en Costa Rica. Aunque la mayor parte de las especies de Phlugis representadas en nuestros museos consiste principalmente de especies colectadas fcilmente. La gran diversidad de la fauna en los canaps de la selva pluviales sugiere que faltan mucho mas especies de este gnero por ser descubiertas. 
10.2307/3503429|A new species of the genus Strinatia Chopard is described. The new species differs from S. brevipennis Chopard, the only other known species of the genus, in body color pattern, chromosome number and the structure of the male and female genitalia sclerites. Strinatia shows affinities with Eidmanacris-they both have low chromosome numbers, a reduction of the tegmina to small pads, and the absence of tibial tympanum. However, they differ in the size of the stylet, which is very short in Strinatia and elongated in Eidmanacris species, and in the shape of the distal ectophallic sclerites.
20066567|There are several factors that may affect sampling with pitfall traps. Here we test the hypothesis that the mere walking of the researcher proximate to the traps could cause an increment in the capture of crickets. This would occur if the walking provoked vibration in the litter, to which crickets showed a jumping response, thus falling into the pitfall traps. We mounted 126 traps in 14 groups of nine. The traps within a group were positioned in three parallel rows of three traps each, one meter apart from each other. Each group of nine traps was separated from the other groups by at least 5 m. Each group of nine traps was submitted to one of seven levels of disturbance frequency. Exposure time was 7 d for all traps. Treatments (disturbance frequencies) were allocated randomly among trap groups. For the data analyses we adjusted mixed-effects polynomial models. We captured 723 cricket individuals, distributed in 10 genera, most in the nymphal stage. As expected, the number of captured individuals, as well as the number of genera, increased with disturbance frequency. However this response was not linear: at higher disturbance frequencies there was a decrease in captures. There was also an effect of trap positioning within each group: central traps were more affected by disturbance than peripheral ones, while peripheral traps captured more individuals and genera in the absence of disturbance. Therefore we recommend areas near pitfall traps not be visited during the trapping period. Alternatively, to enhance sampling efficiency, the researcher may do programmed visiting to the trapping area, but this must be rigorously designed to provoke exactly the same disturbance for all traps. Enhancing the distance among traps will augment efficiency in capturing individuals and capture larger cricket diversity. Further studies of the interaction between methodology and cricket behavior will refine our ability to design and interpret pitfall studies.
10.2307/3503487|Wernerella rugosa Bland n. sp., a small oedipodine grasshopper from Fuerteventura and Lanzarote, Canary Islands, Spain, is described and compared to the eight known species of African Wernerella.
3503741|Seven new species of Homeomastax are described, two from Panama and five from Costa Rica; a further new species from Colombia is noted, but not described owing to the lack of a male. The genus now contains 22 species. On the basis of the male genitalia the genus can be divided into 4 species groups, represented by the species surda, bouvieri, kressi and silvicola respectively; those species known only from the female (dentata, richteri, annulipes, and the new Colombian form) cannot yet be arranged in this scheme. Apart from male phallic characters, the species are externally recognizable only by the male and female subgenital plates and by morphometric ratios, especially E/F (elytron: femur). Of the three species redescribed by Rehn & Rehn (1934), the originally missing male of surda Burr and the female of veraguae Hebard are shown to have been correctly assigned by those authors. Their redescription of H. dentata Saussure, however, is invalid, as the type is a different taxon. The phallic complex of the genus is described in detail, and observations on copulation and the nature of the spermatophore are presented. We suggest that the hooked and tapered end of the spermatophore may be used as an intromittent organ by the copulating male. The natural history and geographical distribution of the genus is reviewed; it occurs west and north of the Andean chains, though it extends up the major inter-Andean valleys of Northern Colombia, and ranges from Ecuador to Honduras. The four species groups are largely disjunct geographically. The bouvieri-group is South American, with an outlying species (brachyptera) in Central Panama; the surda-group is confined to the Pacific slope, the kressi-group to the Caribbean slope, and the silvicola-group is known only from the Caribbean slope and mountains of northern Costa Rica and southern Nicaragua.
4122951|The song of Metrioptera caprai baccettii Galvagni 1958, an endemic subspecies of the Monti Sibillini region of Central Italy, is here described. The calling song consists of long series of polysyllabic echemes and differs from conspecific subsp. in having the lowest echeme repetition rate. The main differences between the subspecies lie in morphological characters: male subgenital plate, female ovipositor, lowest number of stridulatory pegs.
4122940|This research sheds light on the phylogenetic position of the recently described Caribbean species Duartettix montanus. Morphologically most similar to the Melanoplinae, especially the North American genus Melanoplus, it was assigned to that subfamily. The Orthoptera Species File, curiously, assigns Duartettix to the South American tribe Dichroplini. The present molecular phylogenetic analysis of portions of four mitochondrial genes, however, strongly rejects that allocation and instead supports an association with the northern melanoplines. Within the context of an "Out-of-South America" hypothesis proposed earlier for the subfamily's origin, it is speculated that the antecedents of Duartettix arose from ancestors on their northward movement, traversing a series of island arcs that intermittently connected the two Americas during the late Cretaceous. Of possible taxonomic interest, phylogenetic information is also provided for a number of South American melanoplines, notably members of the tribe Jivarini, which have not been previously analyzed using molecular methods.
20066562|A revision of the genus Zoniopoda is made on the basis of the material of several museums and also on that collected by the author. The genus as known at present is a rather small one, with nine valid species described from 1831 to the present, and an additional species described here. Among the names in the literature for species of this genus, three are here considered to be junior synonyms. This generic name has also been used for three species now placed in other genera. Species in this genus are of medium size, and fairly similar in form. They are divided in this text into two groups: the species in one of them have very distinctive colors and color-patterns, while those in the other are all rather uniformly colored green, and can be told apart only by some rather slight differences. All known species of this genus live in the southern part of South America, east of the Andes. Among the romaleine genera, Zoniopoda seems most closely related to Chariacris Walker 1870 and Diponthus Stl 1860, from which, however, it can be readily separated by some evident characters. All the species of the genus are illustrated, both in habitus and in some taxonomically important details.
10.2307/3503536|Gryllacridid behavior and morphology is referred to an unusual Raspy Cricket from south-east Queensland is described in a new genus and species, Urogryllacris gwinganna gen. & sp. nov. The species is unique in the Gryllacrididae in having an extraordinarily developed male subgenital plate which terminates in an elongate whip-like structure. The new genus and species are described with emphasis given to the proventriculus, the male subgenital plate and the egg. A mating sequence is described with a discussion concerning the possible function of the peculiar subgenital plate.
10.2307/3503561|The southern African genus Rhachitopis Uvarov of the Euryphyminae is revised. Six species and two subspecies are recognized, one specific synonymy is established, one new species, and one subspecies are described. A key is given to the species, both for males and females. Types or paratypes of all species were examined. All species are illustrated.
10.2307/3503437|The genus Loboscelis Redtenbacher is reviewed, and a new species from Peru is described. The phylogenetic affinities of this unusual genus with other copiphorines is currently under investigation and information derived from the descriptions herein will be helpful in evaluating other copiphorines under study.
40344848|A new species of Parasphena is described from southwestern Tanzania, occurring in the montane zone of the third highest mountain, Mt Hanang. Morphological details are given for P. hanangensis n. sp. and for species on the northern branch of the Eastern Arc mountains, Mt Kilimanjaro and the Kenyan highlands, morphologically related to this new species. A coenological comparison is made between several high mountains of East Africa; patterns of present-day distribution  the result of climatic fluctuations of the past  are discussed. Information on distribution, habitat and altitudinal ranges are given for all species of the genus Parasphena.
25822713|Melanoplus packardii Scudder was described in 1897. Three additional closely-related species were later described and their status as species has been questioned on numerous occasions. We examined morphology from specimens collected in Nebraska which fit descriptions of three of the four forms and specimens that appeared to be hybrids. We found distinct morphological characters suggesting species status for M. foedus and M. packardii, but not for M. foedus fluviatilis. Examination of aedeagi of these three forms suggests that M. foedus and M. packardii are each distinct, but that the aedeagi of M. f. fluviatilis and M. f. foedus cannot be distinguished. Molecular analyses of the three groups did not produce clear separations and suggest gene exchange between these three forms may be ongoing. Together, these data suggest that M. foedus and M. packardii should be recognized as sibling species, but M. foedus fluviatilis is best considered a form of M. foedus, typically found in low lying areas.
25473450|Body size is of primary interest to biologists because of its often positive correlation with fitness, in particular fecundity. The size-fecundity relationship is well established both within and among species. However, little is known about how the size-fecundity relationship differs among populations of the same species or whether it differs in response to environmental conditions experienced by a single population. This study examines the size-fecundity relationship in the pallid-winged grasshopper (Trimerotropis pallidipennis: Acrididae, Oedipodinae) among seven populations that extend along an aridity gradient in the southwestern United States. Results showed a positive relationship between body size of field-caught females and precipitation along the gradient, but only among those populations that receive less than 12 cm rainfall a year. There was a positive relationship between body size and the number of mature oocyte in the ovaries and with the number of hatchlings. Potential fecundity, measured as the number of ovarioles, was not correlated with body size in any analysis. All analyses showed that populations differ in their size-fecundity relationships. This relationship was also examined in laboratory conditions that mimic years of high, versus low, food abundance. Results indicate that across the whole aridity gradient, the size-fecundity relationship is largely a function of available resources. The populations at the xeric end of the gradient however, change their reproductive strategy in years of low food abundance and invest more into reproduction per unit size than they do in years of high food abundance. Together, these results caution against assuming, a priori, a positive relationship between size and fecundity; results indicate this relationship depends on the measure of fecundity used, that populations can differ in this relationship and that this relationship can change with changes in environmental conditions. Last, when examined among individuals, body size explained less than 20% of the variation in fecundity, suggesting that body size is not the main determinant of reproductive success in this species.
10.2307/3503428|A new genus Paranurogryllus, closely related to Anurogryllus Saussure, and two new species, P. capricornio and P. boraceia, are described. Photographs of male and female of the species and illustrations of the phallic sclerites and photographs of the chromosomes are provided. The species diverge in body size, shape of the endophallic sclerites and karyotype.
3503734|Version 2 of the Orthoptera Species File Online is now available on the Internet. The database tables are designed to provide improved reliability of the data contained. Other improvements include availability of more ranks in the hierarchy, more flexibility in the user's selection of information to be displayed, new search options, better conformity with the International Rules of Zoological Nomenclature, and automation of many editing functions. Current data cover Ensifera; data for Caelifera will be added. Orthopterists are invited to participate by editing data for groups in which they are working.
25473445|Insects are predicted to prefer larger partners for a number of reasons relating to fitness. In species where males provide an expensive nuptial gift, male and female preferences for a larger partner are likely to be more pronounced. In nuptial-feeding insects however, models of sperm competition and female choice predict that males and females should also prefer virgin partners. Here we test the relative importance of size vs virginity in a Greek bushcricket, Poecilimon laevissimus, in which males offer typically large nuptial gifts during mating. While only a small number of replicates could be implemented, and there is a clear need for further analysis, we found that all males and females preferred to mate with virgins, despite the fact that nearly 90% of the virgins were smaller in size than the nonvirgins offered. In terms of mate choice, virginity therefore appears more important than body size in P. laevissimus.
10.2307/3503404|Grasshoppers of the genus Taramassus Giglio-Tos 1907 (Acrididae: Eyprepocnemidinae) are unusual in having several segments in the apical half of the antenna of the male expanded to form a fringe. Courtship behaviour patterns of Taramassus from three widely separated localities in Kenya were analysed as part of a study of the possible function of the antennal fringes and of the relationships among populations with differing fringe morphology. Grasshoppers from the three localities utilise the same set of behaviour patterns, including several types of antennal movement. However, analysis of behavioural sequences demonstrates marked differences in the structure of courtship. Significant assortative mating was observeq between two of the stocks.
23071987|Although most pest grasshopper species in North America overwinter as eggs and hatch in late spring or early summer, some species hatch in late summer, overwinter as nymphs, and become adults in late spring. It is not well understood how nymph-overwintering species impact densities of later-developing pest grasshopper species. In an earlier study examining temporally separated competition, nymphal survival of an egg-overwintering species Ageneotettix deorum, was reduced when high densities of adult nymph-overwintering grasshoppers strongly reduced grass biomass. However, in nature, early instar A. deorum nymphs overlap in time with declining densities of nymph-overwintering grasshoppers, and thus may experience direct competition from them. A field experiment was conducted to examine competitive effects from nymph-overwintering grasshoppers on the survival of A. deorum when phenologies overlapped. Precipitation and grass production during the experiment were well above the long term average. Although the maximum density of nymph-overwintering and egg-overwintering grasshoppers was 100 per m, interspecific exploitative competition was weak. This study suggests that in years with above-average precipitation, competition between nymph-overwintering adult grasshoppers and later-developing nymphal grasshoppers is likely to be weak, even when densities are high.
10.2307/3503560|Five new species of phalangopsid crickets belonging to three new genera are described from the Atlantic Forest Morphoclimatic Domain of eastern Brazil.
24367397|The semiaquatic grasshopper Cornops aquaticum Bruner, which is highly specific of Eichhornia crassipes (Pontederiaceae), constitutes one of the most abundant herbivores in the Neotropical wetlands and a possible biological control agent of this weed in South Africa. The aims of this study were 1) to assess the performance of each age category of C. aquaticum on crop plants and the host plant E. crassipes; 2) to assess the feeding preference of this grasshopper on crop plants in the presence and absence of E. crassipes; and 3) to determine the presence of nymphs and adults of this grasshopper on crops and in the adjacent wetlands where Eichhornia plants are present. Crop plants included in this study were Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Saccharum officinarum and Ilex paraguariensis. The age categories of C. aquaticum population were nymphs A (instar I and II), nymphs B (instar III to VI) and adults (females and males). To assess grasshopper performance on E. crassipes and crop plants, survival and oviposition were recorded during the no-choice tests. To evaluate feeding preference, choice tests with crop plants in the presence and absence of E. crassipes were performed. Abundance of C. aquaticum in the crop patches and the wetlands vegetation was assessed using an entomological net. During the no-choice tests, high survival of most C. aquaticum individuals was observed on Z. mays and E. crassipes, except for nymphs A fed on Z. mays. Ovipositions were registered in E. crassipes, Z. mays and S. officinarum, but only eggs laid in E. crassipes were endophytic and viable. C. aquaticum showed high preference to E. crassipes, whereas Z. mays and S. officinarum were the preferred plants in the choice test without E. crassipes. We did not find C. aquaticum individuals in the crop patches of Z. mays, O. sativa and S. officinarum, whereas abundance of this grasshopper varied between 28 and 62 individuals captured per minute on Eichhornia floating meadows near these cultivated areas. Our results confirm the high specificity of C. aquaticum to E. crassipes because eggs laid on crop plants are not viable and nymphs A have no possibilities of surviving when fed on these plants. Finally, we recommend carrying out choice tests and field samplings throughout the whole native range of C. aquaticum.
41759712|I analyzed chapter VIII of William Henry Hudson's "The Naturalist in La Plata", a popular book published in 1895. Herein the famous naturalist ornithologist and writer relates many observations made by him in his youth in a region of Buenos Aires, Argentina, accounts of a large number of natural phenomena especially pertaining to animal life. Chapter VIII is called "Mimicry and Warning Colours in Grasshoppers ". Although very interesting by virtue of Hudson's considerations of aposematism and Batesian mimicry in grasshoppers and katydids, this chapter contains essential errors of identification of the orthopteran species he discusses.
3503727|A better understanding of the relative effects that nymphal and adult resource availabilities have on reproductive allocation is needed, given the potentially important implications for the prediction of grasshopper population dynamics. I conducted a field experiment to examine the importance of nymphal and adult resource availabilities on reproductive allocation in the grasshopper Melanoplus sanguinipes (Fabricius). Female nymphs were reared on either high or low nymphal resource availability, with watered and ambient-level adult resource treatments. Adult resource treatments were initiated below the carrying capacity, to allow an examination of food limitation effects on reproductive allocation, while minimizing strong density dependent effects. Although nymphs reared with ad libitum resources had higher adult body mass, nymphal resource availability did not affect reproductive allocation or adult survival. Female M. sanguinipes grasshoppers responded to the increased host plant availability in the watered treatment, by increasing reproduction allocation over the course of the experiment. M. sanguinipes females did not reduce vitellogenesis in response to decreased adult resource availability, but completed development of a lower percentage of ovarioles that initiated development. Although resource dynamics in semi-arid grasslands can change rapidly during grasshopper development, there were no direct effects of limited resource availability for developing nymphs that subsequently affected per capita reproduction of adults.
10.2307/3503439|This paper provides taxonomic description for 16 species of pseudophylline katydid. Analysis of the calling songs is given for all but one. Among 14 genera Mystron and Stetharasa are new. Eleven new species are described from four Provinces in Ecuador: Morona Santiago, Pichincha, Los Rios and Napo, and two southern Departamentos of Colombia: Valle del Cauca and Risaralda. The diverse species-specific calling songs of Pseudophyllinae are comprised of either transient or sinusoidal pulses. The carrier frequency song spectrum occurs in conjunction with these two pulse types, as either a band (transient pulse, low Q) or a single dominant narrow-peak carrier (sinusoidal, high Q). And stridulatory file morphology differs accordingly. Principal carriers in the songs of the species described here range from the audio to the low ultrasonic (20-30 kHz); overall among pseudophylline species whose songs are known (n = 65), a majority (75%) incorporate high Q pulses.
10.2307/3503433| Bryophyma debilis (Karsch, 1896), a rare West African grasshopper species, is described in some detail here, on the basis of material from Yagma, Ouagadougou region, Burkina Faso. Morphological and anatomical characters (including external and internal genital structures of both sexes, the egg pod and the chorionic structure of the egg) are given to describe the West African sub-species, whose taxonomic status has not yet been clearly established /// Bryophyma debilis (Karsch, 1896), un criquet rare d'Afrique de l'Ouest, est dcrit  partir de spcimens capturs  Yagma, dans la rgion de Ouagadougou au Burkina Faso. Diverses donnes morphologiques et anatomiques (gnitalias externes et internes, oothque, structure chorionique de l'oeuf), sont rassembles pour dcrire la sous-espce rencontre en Afrique de l'Ouest, dont l'identit taxonomique n'est pas encore clairement tablie. 
25822717|Insects of mesic and hydric habitats may be affected by increased frequency of summer droughts brought about by climate change, in addition to habitat degradation caused by scrub encroachment. The common green grasshopper Omocestus viridulus prefers moist grassland and is relatively rare in the County of Essex, perhaps being limited by low precipitation in southeastern England. The abundance and distribution of O. viridulus populations were compared for high- (Epping Forest) and low-precipitation areas using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) software. Populations were aggregated in Epping Forest (population isolation: 1 km), a high precipitation area (ca 69 cm precipitation/yr), and present on both well and poorly drained soils where acid grassland/wet heathland occurred. Outside of the Forest, where precipitation was generally lower (ca 58 cm/yr), populations of this grasshopper were highly isolated (isolation: 4 km) and more often present on clay soils with high water retention in winter/early summer than on well-drained soils. However, there was no significant difference in the abundance of this grasshopper within Epping Forest or outside it, and there has likely been an overall decline of 50% since 1997 for this insect in Essex Co. The decline has partly occurred due to unmanaged scrub encroachment and loss of favorable open grassland/wet heathland habitat. Intensive grazing (particularly by large numbers of rabbits Oryctoloagus cuniculus), regular mowing, and trampling by walkers, led to the creation of short swards (< 10 cm in height) in midsummer, effectively extirpating this tall-grassland grasshopper from many of its former sites not threatened by natural succession to woodland. Unfortunately, the predicted decline in summer rainfall may lead to this grasshopper becoming scarce in southeastern England, outside of relatively high precipitation areas such as Epping Forest. Given concern about this grasshopper it may be important to prevent further drainage of ecologically valuable wetlands and to promote appropriate conservation management of the remaining sites (such as cattle grazing in Epping Forest). Large-scale wetland creation should allow populations of this declining grasshopper to exist in a changing climate.
3657136|A new species of Miracanthops Roy, 2004 from Tambopata, Peru is described: Miracanthops eseejja n. sp. The diagnosis of the genus Miracanthops is also completed, with the description of the male, which was previously unknown. Based on the characters of the male, Acanthops occidentalis Lombardo & Ippollito 2004 is transferred to Miracanthops as M. occidentalis (Lombardo & Ippollito 2004) n. comb.
25473426|A modified Petraborg index is proposed to correct an underestimation error in the original formula and its use illustrated in censusing singers of Oecanthus niveus in Mexico. The unmodified index departs widely from observed densities; the modified index does not.
10.2307/3503442|The mandibular adaptation of the sixteen species of grasshoppers, including four families, five subfamilies, and five main mandibular types and subtypes, in the grasslands of Inner Mongolia was investigated using scanning electron microscopy. The insects were collected from a wide variety of habitats, ranging from meadow steppe, steppe, semi-desert to desert. Although the grasshopper species we examined are different from those of Europe and North America, the evolution of taxonomic groups with specialized food habits is very comparable. The mandible structures of graminvorous and forbivorous forms of these grasshopper species entirely agree with their food-habits. However, the herbivorous mandibles are not distinctly associated with the food-habits of these grasshopper species. The depth of central concavity in molar surface is positively correlated well with the proportion of dicot plants in food utilization
25473442|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) can be the result of sexual selection (SS) or natural selection (NS). Due to male-male competition for access to females, SS could favor an increase in male body size. On the other hand, larger size in females could be favored by NS, since egg production is directly correlated with body size. Rensch's rule states that SSD increases with increasing body size in animals, where males are the larger sex, and decreases when females are larger than males. Thus, Rensch's rule predicts that in those insects where females are larger than males, SSD should decrease with increasing body size, when comparing populations and species. We analyzed SSD in 19 Argentine populations of the grasshoppers Dichroplus vittatus and 25 of D. pratensis. Both species show latitudinal and altitudinal variation in body size, following the converse to Bergmann's rule: body size decreases with increasing latitude and decreasing ambient temperature. SSD occurs in both species across their geographical distribution ranges, also involving differences in allometry and shorter developmental times in males. In D. vittatus, the degree of SSD increased significantly with general body size, whereas in D. pratensis SSD decreased as body size increased. A plausible explanation of SSD is that SS favors a differential increase in female body size related to a preference by males for more fecund females. Given the close phylogenetic relationship between both species, the differences in SSD between them may be the result of differential natural and sexual selective pressures. In D. vittatus both sexes could be reacting differently to environmental conditions regarding body size, while in D. pratensis protandry could be the main factor behind SSD.
10.2307/3503410|Densities of M. sanguinipes were estimated during spring and summer 1985 in two pastures (LI and HI) of crested wheatgrass. On each sampling date, adult females were collected and brought to the laboratory. Specimens were dissected to check for parasitoids and to determine the status of ovarian development. The parasitoids recorded were Diptera of the following species: Blaesoxipha reversa, B. hunteri, Sarcophaaa kellyi, S. opifora, Neorhynchocephalus sackenii, and Acridomyia canadensis. These parasitoids showed a complete temporal coincidence with adult M. sanguinipes populations. Observations suggest that when the female was parasitized at or before the beginning of vitellogenesis, the parasitoid probably prevented any egg development. Parasitism of females that had advanced egg development or eggs in the oviduct resulted in a high proportion of egg resorption (59%).
41759706|Green-colored hatchlings appeared in the 2nd generation of inbred family lines in Locusta migratoria L. Female adults collected in Tsukuba, Japan were kept individually and eggs collected from them. Locusts of the first generation from each female were reared in a group and eggs of the 2nd generation obtained from them. Green and normal-colored (fawn) hatchlings appeared together from the same egg pods, originating from 2 of the 34 family lines established. When they were reared together in the same cage, the green morph suffered from a high rate of mortality. A few green-morph female individuals attained the adult stage with light body coloration, but died without producing any eggs. Although no information is available about their genetic background, it seems likely these green morphs represent a recessive, semilethal trait that appeared after inbreeding of wild-caught female adults. Photographs of hatchlings, nymphs and adults are presented.
40344836|We studied the calling patterns of common true katydids (Pterophylla camellifolia) from sound recordings made during August through October 2007 in an oak-hickory forest in western Maryland. Nightly patterns of calling frequency were determined using 1-s samples spaced five min apart. The relationship between calling frequency (i.e., the number of twelve 1-second samples per hour in which singing occurred) and time of night, date, and weather variables, was modeled using logistic regression. Model predictability was high (73% of variance explained), with temperature and two rainfall-related variables having the most influence on calling frequency. This species of katydid exhibits a highly predictable degree of consistency in calling frequency, and consequently is well suited for use in ecological, distributional and status surveys.
10.2307/3503509| A new species Propedies microsanguineus (Melanoplinae) is here described from the "Chaquea" biogeographic province in northern Argentina. P. microsanguineus is considered to belong to the fusiformis species group described for the genus and is closely related to P. sanguineus (Bruner). 
3503662|A new species of Phlugidia (Orthoptera: Tettigoniidae: Meconematinae) is described from the East Usambara Mts, Tanzania; a list is given of Saltatoria species occurring in the same habitat.
41759703|Topical application of a series of concentrations of lufenuron, a chitinsynthesis inhibitor, on the neck membrane of newly molted fifth-instar desert locusts, Schistocerca gregana, gave various ultrastructural changes in ovarioles, including a disintegrated follicular epithelial cell layer, vacuolated cytoplasm and the appearance of lysosomal bodies. In males, electron micrographs showed loosely disrupted testicular tissues with vacuolated testicularepithelia. In both sexes the neurosecretory cells in the pars intercerebralis exhibited trapped neurosecretion without normal liberation into their connecting nerves and the mitochondria appeared to be losing their cristae.
10.2307/3503467|Species of Phaneropterinae form sexual pairs as a result of males and/or females moving toward the sounds produced by the opposite sex. A heretofore undetermined pair-forming phonotaxic strategy is described in which conspecific males and females simultaneously move toward constant intensity sounds produced by the opposite sex. This contrasts to three previously described phonotaxic strategies, in which only the male or the female moves at a given time, and in which differences in sound intensity may elicit different responses.
20066574|Oedipodine grasshoppers occur throughout the major continents, making them the most widely distributed of the 30 subfamilies that comprise the Acrididae. Most species have been allocated to one of 15 tribes; some remain unassigned. The subfamily, according to Vickery, had an ancient origin, just after the breakup of Pangaea but before the separation of Laurasia from Africa. Thereafter, Oedipodinae continued to evolve in separate continental centers; some Nearctic species apparently descended more recently from Palearctic ancestors when land bridges still connected the two continents. Our objectives are to independently assess these biogeographic accounts, to examine the validity of several tribal constructs, and to shed light on problematic taxa such as Stethophyma and Machaerocera which have had, over the years, an ambivalent affiliation with Oedipodinae. To realize these goals, we sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed portions of four mitochondrial genes (coding for cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, cytochrome b, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit V), totaling up to 2254 bp, in specimens collected in the Americas, Eurasia, Africa and Australia. Methodology entailed applying weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian techniques. A member of the Pyrgomorphidae served as the outgroup. The ages of evolutionary divisions were estimated using the program "r8s"; the date of 100 Mya, previously estimated as the time of divergence between the subfamilies Oedipodinae and Gomphocerinae, was used to calibrate our chronogram. In general, taxa appear to assort themselves according to continental land mass, rather than by tribe. Aiolopini, Bryodemini, Oedipodini and Sphingonotini proved to be nonmonophyletic, whereas there was no evidence to reject monophyly in Acrotylini, Chortophagini, Locustini and Psinidini. Phylogenetically, both Machaerocera and Stethophyma were well-positioned within the Oedipodinae, with Machaerocera closely aligned with Chortophaga and Encoptolophus, and Stethophyma tightly linked to Aiolopus. Duroniella, presently regarded as an oedipodinid, emerged strongly connected to the Gomphocerinae. The current biogeographical distribution of Oedipodinae is the result of widespread intercontinental dispersion. In particular, with the assistance of DIVA analysis, we argue that Asiamerica was the center of initial oedipodinid radiation about 94 Mya. Through a series of early dispersals, the remaining clusters of taxa were established. Somewhat surprisingly, this includes the branch leading to the Australian genera Austroicetes and Chortoicetes. In contrast, the multiple dispersals to the African continent occurred more recently. It would appear that North American oedipodinids had both an ancient and a more recent ancestry. The single South American species analyzed evolved very recently from North American ancestors.
25473440|Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is a common phenomenon in animal taxa. While males are the larger sex in many birds and mammals, female-biased SSD predominates among insects, including Orthoptera. We analyzed size differences of 1503 Orthoptera species, suggesting that SSD is rather uniform in Ensifera, with the females being on average 9% larger than the males (ranging from -20 to +40%). In contrast, SSD is usually much stronger in Caelifera (37%) and also more variable (ranging from -20 to +140%). Caelifera with larger females exhibit stronger size differences than smaller species, whereas in Ensifera SSD decreases with male body size, but is not related to female size. Sexual size differences in Orthoptera are usually associated with a higher number of nymphal instars in females, leading to an earlier emergence of adult males (protandry). Both growth rates and the number of instars seem to be affected by genetic and environmental cues. Two major hypotheses have been proposed to explain the ultimate causes for SSD: the intersexual competition hypothesis and the differential equilibrium hypothesis. The first suggests that sexual dimorphism is a mechanism to reduce intraspecific competition, enabling the sexes to specialize on different food items. The differential equilibrium hypothesis proposes that the different body sizes represent sex-specific fitness optima, which are caused by their specific life-history strategies. Females may maximize their reproductive success by increasing the number (or size) of eggs (fecundity selection), whereas males may maximize their reproduction by being more mobile and fertilizing many females in a short period of time. These fundamental differences in the life-history strategies of the sexes may also lead to sexual selection, which has sometimes been referred to as an additional hypothesis. There is still a need for more empirical research on the ultimate causes for SSD. At present, there is much more support for the differential equilibrium hypothesis, but the intersexual competition hypothesis has rarely been tested. We propose some experimental approaches to test both hypotheses in micro- and macroevolutionary contexts.
25473460|We investigated the relationship between body size (weight) and hearing sensitivity in response to a high-frequency, bat-like stimulus in a number of phaneropterine katydids on BCI, Panama. These phaneropterines are nocturnal flying species and thus potential prey of various insectivorous bats on the island. We tested the prediction that larger species compensate for the disadvantage - of producing stronger echoes for searching bats - by being more sensitive to bat calls, thereby increasing safety margins towards this predator. Contrary to this prediction, larger katydids were not more sensitive. This was corroborated in neurophysiological experiments in the nocturnal rainforest, where simultaneous recordings of the T-fibre activity in response to searching bats revealed no substantial difference between small and large katydids. We offer three explanations for the lack of correlation between body size and high-frequency sensitivity in these species.
10.2307/3503500|A preliminary observation on the effects of food plant on Eurycantha calcarata Lucas is given. Twenty plants were tested for the preference of food plants. Three of them were selected for the experiments on the insects biological development.
10.2307/3503565|Adjacent males of Amblycorypha parvipennis Stal alternate 4-5 s phrases. Phrases of different males overlap frequently and, where overlap occurs, phrase subunits are synchronized. Females "tick" in response to male phrases and males move to ticking females. In previous two-choice discrimination tests, in which males were free to move to ticking females, females preferentially mated with louder and heavier males and males that were more successful in initiating phrases without overlap. The current study involved two-choice discrimination tests in which females moved to sound-producing, caged males. We suggested that if females use the same parameters in determining phonotaxis, these parameters would be implicated in female mate choice. The results were that females moved to louder males, males that produced longer phrases, and males that overlapped their competitors' phrases for a shorter period of time then vice-versa. Since movement to louder males may indicate a mechanism by which females move toward larger (= louder) groups of males, we have provided no convincing evidence for female mate choice. The finding that females tick more in response to the male they eventually move toward uncovers another potential signal for the mating game.
25473437|We studied geographical body-size variation and sexual size dimorphism in three isolated populations of the bush-cricket Pholidoptera frivaldskyi in Central Europe (Slovakia). We measured six body traits in females and seven in males, from 93 individuals (46 males and 47 females): lengths of body, right hind femur, right hind tibia, pronotum, right cercus or ovipositor, length of wing (only in males) and body weight. Not all linear traits in both sexes were correlated with body weight. Generally, females were significantly bigger than males in all parameters. Although discriminant function analysis indicated some significant differences in male traits, there were no strong morphological difference among local populations. Morphological variability among the three populations was not higher than that within populations. This relative somatic uniformity should be verified on the level of genetic variability of the studied populations, since cryptic species diversity can be expected.
3503674|During early 1999 the second author made an extensive search for specimens of Timema in southern and central California. Two undescribed species were found, T. petita and T. landelsensis. New collections provided additional data on T. monikensis Vickery & Sandoval, T. boharti Tinkham, and T. knulli Strohecker. The latter is reinstated as a valid species. A third new species, T. morongensis, received from a another researcher, also is described.
10.2307/3503570|A study of coloration in Rhammatocerus schistocercoides (Rehn 1906) grasshoppers in natural conditions revealed substantial variability, with evidence of a new case of chromatic polymorphism. Green coloration is much more common in this species than previously assumed. The percentage of green adults, or those with a partially green integument, varied seasonally within the same generation according to the phenology and especially the sexual maturity of the population. The most important coloration change occurred in September, during the sexual maturation period, when the grasshoppers turned progressively from brown to green or partially green. The present study also highlights evidence of a geophagy phenomenon (consumption of large amounts of soil) that has never before been reported in locusts or grasshoppers. This yet unexplainable behaviour was particularly spectacular in terms of its scale.
10.2307/3503461|More than 370 species of katydids have been identified and many of them observed over extended periods of time at three collecting sites in Loreto Province, Peru (40-160 km NW Iquitos). Defensive adaptations against diurnally active predators are reported in detail in this paper. Strategies include (1) primary defenses or adaptations to avoid contact with predators, including camouflage (e.g., green and brown color generalism, and bark-, twig-, lichen-, and leaf mimicry), concealment within leaf parts or forest debris, and territoriality in the form of defending roosting sites against other competing katydids, and (2) secondary defenses or adaptations used when contact is made with predators, including colorful displays by distasteful species, various forms of aggressive counterattacks, aposematic wasp mimicry, and visual and/or acoustical alarm displays by otherwise cryptic species. These strategies are quantified for the first time for an entire tettigoniid fauna in a neotropical rainforest habitat. Of the 378 species, 71.4% exhibited color generalism (208 green, 46 brown, and 19 with both green and brown morphs), 13.8% showed a more refined level of camouflage (2 wasp mimics, 5 bark mimics, 13 twig mimics, 29 leaf mimics, 4 lichen mimics), 4.8% were hidden from view during the day by concealing themselves within vegetation, debris, etc., and 9.8% could not be categorized because of lack of sufficient data based either on observations or relationships with similar species that had been observed. Most species with generalized color patterns were phaneropterines; most species with more specialized primary defenses of mimicry and concealment were either phaneropterines or pseudophyllines; while those with specialized secondary defenses were mainly listroscelidines, agraeciines, and copiphorines. All species that conceal themselves in debris, vegetation, etc. were observed returning just prior to dawn to the same site for up to twenty-one consecutive days; some of them were observed to successfully defend their roosting sites against other katydids. Twig mimics alter their substrates-twigs-by chewing notches on the undersides of the twigs and nestling their bodies into the depressions. Though exposed to view, katydids of these species are well concealed. They too return daily to the same site over a period of several consecutive days.
10.2307/3503522|In the laboratory, female lubber grasshoppers, Romalea guttata (Houttuyn) (Orthoptera: Romaleidae), aggregate when ovipositing. We examined the stimuli that mediated site selection and group oviposition in a series of two-choice trials. Females preferentially oviposited in sand containing egg pods, suggesting that egg pods release attractive or arresting pheromones. Females also preferred to oviposit near tethered live conspecifics, paper decoys, sticks, and near images of grasshoppers taped to the walls of the test container. These results suggest that visual, and possibly chemical and tactile stimuli influence oviposition site preference in this grasshopper.
40344850|The genus Chromothericles is reviewed. Data on distribution, habitat and ecology are given for most species and four species new to science described. Along with a key to all species (excepting C. pulchripes Descamps, for which only the female is known), phenological data are provided for C. uguenoensis n. sp. and C. kanga Sjstedt. I discuss climatic fluctuations of the past as the driving force for patterns of allopatric speciation found in several flightless Saltatoria taxa in East Africa.
24367403|Concise characterization of allergy is presented and allergy to insects is discussed. Three kinds of allergy to locusts and grasshoppers are reviewed: 1) occupational allergy, i.e., allergy of personnel working with rearing and breeding these insects; 2) allergic reactions to acridid aggregations in the field; and 3) food allergy. Occupational allergy is the major subject, detailing the results of several relevant studies. Some inconsistent issues regarding reports on field allergy are illuminated and anaphylactic reaction to consumption of locusts/grasshoppers is discussed. Prevention and treatments of allergy to locusts and grasshoppers are described. Approximate molecular masses of locust allergens, as found in three studies, are summarized. A major allergen is the peritrophic membrane (today often termed peritrophic matrix or peritrophic envelope) which is secreted by the gut and excreted as a wrapping around the feces. It is concluded that the molecular stmcture of locust and grasshopper allergens should be revealed for full characterization.
3657114|The effects of different food plants (spinach, carrots, organic and nonorganic lettuce, defrosted frozen oak leaves) on the longevity, growth rate and survival of the Annam stick insect Medauroidea extradentata (Brunner von Wattenwyl) were studied. Among the food plants tested, organic lettuce and defrosted oak leaves were the best food alternative during winter time for maintaining live cultures of M. extradentata.
3657127|Acridid pests, locusts and grasshoppers, pose continuing threats to rural communities in developing countries, including sub-Saharan Africa, where human and material resources for controlling these insects are meager to none. The past 15 y have witnessed invasions, upsurges and/or plague of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, mixed at times with the migratory locust, Locusta migratoria migratorioides, and the Senegalese grasshopper, Oedaleus senegalensis-in outbreak and invasion areas in the Sahel, northwestern Africa, the Red Sea region, and southwest Asia. Strained by lack of resources to develop and implement integrated pest management strategies that embrace effective preventive control alternatives, affected countries often resort to spraying enormous quantities of synthetic chemical pesticides to control these pests. During the 2003-05 and 1993-94 upsurges, and the 1986-89 locust/grasshopper plague, close to 25 million liters of pesticides were sprayed, largely with the help of the international community. At current estimates, that may have meant upwards of US$500 million in control cost alone, not to mention associated environment and nontarget costs. This paper attempts an overview of the challenges, impacts, and implications of the current approach, its perceived and actual benefits to rural communities and the dilemma in donors' actions or inactions. It also tries to capture lessons learned and experiences gained from recent and past campaigns and to draw conclusions and offer recommendations for future directions.
25822723|Recent palaeo-oceanographic work (Ali & Huber 1910) shows that strong surface currents existed from the East Africa coast to Madagascar and beyond in the Palaeogene, making the rafting of masses of African vegetation possible during this period. Source Euschmidtiinae are common on the East African coast. The only African relative of the Miraculinae is the chorotypid genus Hemierianthus of West and Central Africa. This leads to the hypothesis that the Miraculinae are closer to the Chorotypidae than to the Episactidae, as suggested by Descamps (1973), which is testable by molecular systematic methods.
10.2307/3503524|Anurogryllus typhlops n. sp. is described from Isabela Island, Galapagos Archipelago, Ecuador. A second species, known only from a nymph, occurs on Santa Cruz Island. These are the only member of the subfamily known from Ecuador. They are blind subterranean species, and considered to be a relicts which descended from an earlier and now extinct epigean colonist.
23034221|Adeclus is a genus of Neotropical thorny katydids composed of two species: A. spiculatus (Stl, 1873) from Colombia and A. brevipennis Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895 from Mexico. A new species of this genus, A. trispinosus n. sp., is here described from the Colombian Andes and the species A. spiculatus is redescribed. Information on distribution data, biological notes, and a key to separate the three species is also provided. Adeclus es un gnero poco numeroso de pseudofilinos espinosos neotropicales, que consta de dos especies: A. spiculatus (Stl, 1873) de Colombia y A. brevipennis Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895 de Mxico. En el presente artculo se describe una nueva especie de este gnero, A. trispinosus n. sp., proveniente de los Andes colombianos y se redescribe la especie A. spiculatus. Adicionalmente se proporciona informacin sobre distribucin, notas biolgicas y una clave para separar las tres especies.
23610415|In this paper seven new species are described: Machimoides sofiae n. sp., from the Colombian Andes, Lichenodraculus holgeri n. sp., from the Guiana Shield and Venezuelan Amazon, Markia nicolasi n. sp., from Costa Rica, M. agudeloi n. sp., from Guyana (previously British Guiana) near the border with Suriname, M. bolivarensis n. sp., from the states of Bolvar and Amazonas in Venezuela (located on the Guiana Shield), M. guerreroi n. sp., and M. gaianii n. sp., from the Venezuelan Andes. A female of Apolinaria hygracantha (Karsch, 1896) is described and illustrated. Keys to species of all genera treated here are provided. The distribution of the genera Markia and Machimoides is discussed; for the latter genus discussion focuses on the current status of its species. Description of new species treated herein expands considerably the distribution range of the genera studied, also the generic diagnostic characters are enriched and reinforced. En este artculo se describen siete nuevas especies: Machimoides sofiae n. sp., de los Andes colombianos, Lichenodraculus holgeri n. sp., proveniente del Escudo Guyans y amazonia venezolana, Markia nicolasi n. sp., de Costa Rica, M. agudeloi n. sp., de la Guyana (antigua Guiana Britnica) en los lmites con Surinam, M. bolivarensis n. sp., de los estados de Bolvar y Amazonas en Venezuela (ubicados sobre el Escudo Guyans), M. guerreroi n. sp., y M. gaianii n. sp., de los Andes venezolanos. Tambin se describe e ilustra una hembra de la especie Apolinaria hygracantha (Karsch, 1896). Se proporcionan claves a especie de todos los gneros abordados. Aspectos sobre distribucin geogrfica de especies y grupos de los gneros Markia y Machimoides son discutidos; la discusin sobre el ltimo gnero se centra en el estatus actual de sus especies. La descripcin de las nuevas especies aqu tratadas, expande considerablemente el rango de distribucin para los gneros en estudio. De igual manera, los caracteres genricos de diagnstico son fortalecidos y enriquecidos.
3503723|Understanding the relationships between intraspecific diversity and habitat has been greatly enhanced with the advent of molecular markers. Such understanding may help to elucidate complex microevolutionary processes. Melanoplus alpinus, a montane/alpine grasshopper species found in the central and northern Rocky Mountains, has a disjunct distribution with highly divergent mtDNA lineages, structured among meadows and drainages within mountain ranges. Previous analyses showed that genetic differentiation is not distance driven, so habitat factors may account for genetic structuring and diversity within the species. In this study, 3 mtDNA lineages were analyzed for their association with ecological variables, and PCR-RFLP haplotype genetic diversities were analyzed for relationships with elevation, elevation-latitude index, and meadow size. Chi-square analysis revealed mtDNA lineage predominance in particular soil textures, indicating the potential of soil to function as a limiting environmental factor in the distribution of lineages within this species. Genotype-habitat associations did not extend beyond soil, however. No significant relationships existed between genetic diversity within meadows and elevation, elevation-latitude index, or meadow size.
25473446|During mating, male insects of certain species transfer a costly nuptial gift, a large spermatophore, which is eaten by the female as sperm transfer into her. The spermatophore components (the sperm-free spermatophylax and the sperm ampulla) vary greatly in size between species, and have a direct influence on male fitness. Studies of the relationship between spermatophore size variation and male fitness have concentrated on associations between evolutionary changes in spermatophylax size and either ampulla size or sperm number. Two main hypotheses have been put forward to explain the function of the spermatophylax: the ejaculate-protection hypothesis and the paternal investment hypothesis. A strong correlation between the spermatophylax and ampulla or sperm number suggests an ejaculate-protection function because it protects the ampulla from being removed prematurely. However, comparative support comes mainly from disparate bush-cricket species (Tettigoniidae), that vary greatly in relatedness and diet. Furthermore, data are often from animals reared under laboratory conditions. Our study describes the significance of size variation in bush-cricket nuptial gifts, with an analysis from field populations of 33 species within the genus Poecilimon. Poecilimon share similar diets and the variation in spermatophore size within the genus approximates family-wide variation, so confounding influences from diet and relatedness are, to a certain extent, controlled. Previous support for the ejaculate-protection hypothesis is almost universal, so we expected to find similar results. However, unlike previous studies, there was no relationship between body mass and each of the three spermatophore components when body mass was accounted for, or between spermatophylax mass and sperm number. We also found only a weak relationship between ampulla mass and sperm number, suggesting that caution is needed when using ampulla size to predict sperm number or sperm number to predict ejaculate size. In support of the ejaculate-protection hypothesis we found a positive relationship between spermatophylax size and ampulla mass. While our results support the ejaculate-protection hypothesis, they are not inconsistent with the paternal investment hypothesis.
10.2307/3503636|The single Megacrania species of Australia is described and compared with M. tsudai Shiraki, M. wegneri Willemse and the lectotype of M. batesii Kirby. We conclude that it is M. batesii.
10.2307/3503434|Hopper instars of Bryophyma debilis, an acridian species from Burkina Faso, are described here for the first time. Males have a five instarcycle and females six. Each instar is fully described on the basis of ten different morphologic and pigmentation characters, thus facilitating field reports on this poorly known West African grasshopper.
25473415|A revision of the genus Aleuas is made, and the genus is redefined. Four known species are redescribed on the basis of the examination of their types and of newly collected specimens. Four new species are described from materials collected by the author or found in the collections of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia and the Museu Nacional of Rio de Janeiro. All species of the genus live in the southern part of S. America, east of the Andes. The genus Zygoclistron is closely related, and together with Aleuas, these genera constitute the tribe Aleuasini of the Acrididae Copiocerinae. The position of the Aleuasini within the Copiocerinae has been recently contested on the basis of certain anatomical and cytological evidence.
10.2307/3503539|In the majority of bushcrickets, copulation ends within minutes after the transfer of a spermatophore which consists of two parts: a sperm-containing ampulla and a spermatophylax which the female eats during sperm transfer. Recently, the function of the spermatophylax in bushcrickets has been the subject of considerable debate. Here, I describe prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer which appears to have partly replaced the spermatophylax in function in the bushcricket Uromenus rugosicollis (Ephippigerinae). I contrast this with the copulatory behavior of 15 other members of the Ephippigerinae. In U. rugosicollis, copulation following spermatophore transfer is long, lasting about 100 minutes, and the spermatophylax is small, representing about 7% of male body weight. This stands in contrast to the 15 other species of ephippigerine, in which copulation following spermatophore transfer is typically brief, lasting an average of about 5 minutes, and the spermatophylax is large, representing over 20% of male body weight. The association of prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer with the considerable reduction in spermatophylax size in U. rugosicollis suggests that the spermatophylax and prolonged copulation following spermatophore transfer are analogous in function. This supports the hypothesis that the spermatophylax functions to prevent the female from eating the ampulla before complete sperm transfer, but does not rule out the possibility of the spermatophylax additionally functioning as a form of paternal investment in offspring
10.2307/3503440|Hatchlings of Melanoplus sanguinipes (F.) (the lesser migratory grasshopper) were fed for five days on Triticum aestivum L. (wheat cv Katepwa), Avena sativaL. (oats cv Harmon) or one of the following perennial grasses; Andropogon gerardii Vitman (big bluestem), A. scoparius Michx. (little bluestem), Bouteloua gracilis (HBK) Lag. (blue grama), Bromus inermis Leyss. (smooth brome), Festuca ovina 'glauca' L. (sheep's fescue), or F. sulcata Hack. (sheep's fescue). Survival of the grasshoppers fed B. inermis and F. sulcata was comparable to those fed wheat (86%), whereas survival of the grasshoppers fed on the remaining grasses was lower than those fed oats (73%), ranging from 68% on F. ovina down to 27% on B. gracilis. The mean weights of surviving grasshoppers after the five-day feeding interval followed a similar trend, except that all the grass-fed grasshoppers were significantly lighter than those fed either wheat (13.7 mg) or oats (9.6 mg). The mean weights of these grass-fed grasshoppers ranged from 8.5 mg on those fed F. sulcata down to 6.3 mg on B. gracilis. In a spot test for tannins, only the two species of Andropogon tested positive. With the exception of A. scoparius, leaf homogenates from each species were assayed for their capacity to inhibit trypsin and chymotrypsin in grasshopper digestive fluid. Trypsin activity was reduced from 6.6% (F. sulcata) to 40.6% (B. inermis), and chymotrypsin activity was reduced from 13.5% (B. inermis) to 18.9% (Harmon oats), whereas A. gerardii, both species of Festuca and Katepwa wheat homogenates enhanced chymotrypsin activity. The results are discussed in the context of herbivore resistance through known defense mechanisms and their significance to grasshopper management strategies.
3503692|We propose a hypothesis of relationships in a subset of the mole cricket family (Gryllotalpidae), based on morphology and call type. Living and preserved specimens of six species were examined and a literature analysis conducted, as preliminary steps in a comparative study of this family, known world-wide in tropical and temperate regions. In the literature, 76 species in 5 extant genera are described; we included in our analysis 34 species from four genera for which the most complete morphological data were available. All analyses were rooted by the outgroup method, with Gryllus texensis Cade & Otte as the outgroup and the presence of mole-like digging forelimbs as the synapomorphic character diagnosing the ingroup. Seven other characters in the analysis were restricted to discrete traits for a total of 8 characters in the analysis. Phylogenetic analyses of the complete data set yielded >15,000 trees to which we applied various consensus analyses by PAUP without high levels of resolution. The Adams method, however, revealed a resolved group of 14 ingroup taxa from four genera, but mostly from the genus Gryllotalpa, that we subjected to re-analysis with PAUP. Two equally parsimonious trees were roughly organized into clades by call type. Our hypothesis supports previous work that has placed the genus Scapteriscus in a separate subfamily and other work that suggested the New Zealand endemic, Triamescaptor aotea Tindale, is more closely related to two Australian species of Gryllotalpa than to Gryllotalpa species as a whole. Additional field studies of songs of this family and addition of characters based on molecular data are important to resolving relationships suggested by our hypothesis.
10.2307/3503605|Pterophylla beltrani (Bolivar & Bolivar 1942) is an important forest pest in north-eastern Mexico. The species exhibits green and pink morphs. Allopatric populations differ greatly in size, wing venation and colour. To gain insight into the status of different populations, we studied variation in acoustic signals and morphometric characters within and between three allopatric populations of P. beltrani. Some divergence in acoustic signals has occurred but a discriminant analysis of the signals failed to separate the populations completely. Despite the divergence in acoustic signals males and females from all populations still recognize each other as mates and readily mate if brought together. Divergence in morphology has ocurred more rapidly than in acoustic signals as the populations can be completely separated by a morphometric analysis. Indications of genetic incompatibilities between the populations were revealed by lower numbers of eggs laid, reduced percentage of egg hatch and distorted sex ratios of interpopulation crosses. From these results we suggest that P. beltrani is one species consisting of several subspecies which are in the process of developing into separate species
3657123|Very little research has been conducted into the impact of grassland management on insect populations of Culm grasslands located in northwest Devon, UK. This paper presents the effects of agricultural improvement and burning on Orthoptera populations of these wet, heathy pastures at Dunsdon National Nature Reserve. The results from this 2-year study should aid conservation management of this important UK habitat. Orthoptera populations and habitat variables of improved (drained and cropped from 1840-1875) and unimproved pastures, were monitored in 2002 and 2003. There was no significant difference in Orthoptera abundance between pasture cropped from 1840-1875 and unimproved grassland, suggesting that mobile grasshopper species such as the meadow grasshopper Chorthippus parallelus, recolonised the improved swards from surrounding pastures, after a lengthy period of arable cropping in the 1800s. Winter burning led to higher numbers of Orthoptera in the post-burn year, perhaps due to the reduced sward height and biomass on the burnt swards, making them more favorable for postdiapause development.
10.2307/3503602|An Israeli population of Locusta migratoria (L.) is described. It does not exhibit density related changes in morphometrics and in the abundance of small basiconica, antennal sensilla presumably involved in contact chemoreception. In these respects it differs from L. m. migratorioides (Reiche & Fairmaire) and could be described as "persistently solitariform". Solitariform characteristics are retained in the F
3503751|We studied the occurrence of glands in preserved specimens of Vanzoliniella spp., using a new comparative scanning electron microscopy technique. The method proposed here is an alternative to histological studies that cannot proceed due to the unavailability of well-preserved or recently collected specimens. It can also be used to study other subsurface structures. Some hypotheses to explain the function of the meso and metanotal glands in male crickets are presented.
10.2307/3503515|Management of locust populations requires an accurate understanding of the critical factors leading to population increase. The spur-throated locust, Austracris guttulosa (Walker), is common in tropical inland Queensland, with reproduction occurring during the summer wet season. The normal patchy rain in the inland means many areas do not receive rain during egg and/or early nymphal development, leading to substantial mortality. Outbreaks originate after several seasons when there is widespread rain early in locust development that ensures egg and nymphal survival. Outbreaks of the migratory locust Locusta migratoria (L.), follow rain during winter that provides soil moisture for the survival of overwintering eggs. These critical factors occurred in 1995 for both species, leading to the implementation of a preventative control program. Preventative control aimed to reduce population increase by controlling a significant proportion (half or more of the locust population) each generation. The most difficult part of control was actually finding the locusts because locust swarms cover only a small percentage of the area. An estimate of the area that needed to be sprayed was made to allow an earlier shift of resources from time-consuming search to control. With the spur-throated locust during 1996, the Queensland State government provided a 50% subsidy of insecticide costs for direct crop protection, and over 270,000 ha were sprayed by landholders to protect crops. Another 23,000 ha of very dense swarm were sprayed in the inland by the Queensland Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and the Australian Plague Locust Commission (APLC) to reduce further invasions of cropping areas. Few swarms survived the control and, in spite of good rains for survival during 1996-97, there was limited invasion of cropping areas and only 3,000 ha of crop were sprayed by landholders. With the migratory locust, there were 7 generations between the winter of 1995 and the winter of 1997, and during 4 of the last 5 generations, more than half of the locusts were controlled by landholders and the Queensland DNR. As a result, populations of the migratory locust did not increase and the population of this species is well below the plague levels that occurred after the same number of generations in the past.
3503696|Studies on the rarely reported Australian leaf insects reveal that Phyllium species from northern Queensland, P. frondosum Redtenbacher 1906 and P. siccifolium (L.), are misidentifications. Consequently, a new species Phyllium (Phyllium) monteithi is described and figured, including the egg. Nanophyllium pygmaeum Redtenbacher 1906 is confirmed as Australian, although it may be a different species, similar in appearance or related to Phyllium (Phyllium) frondosum Redtenbacher. Females are needed to clarify its position. A third Australian species is also reported, Chitoniscus lobiventris (Blanchard 1853), based on a single museum record from 1903. Keys are provided to distinguish Australian leaf insects.
3503687| Proscopiidae is an orthopteran family endemic to South America. Some species, such as Stiphra robusta, are considered sporadic pests in drought areas in the northeastern region of Brazil. This study establishes, for an undescribed Stiphra species, parameters for stadia and mortality that accompany its postembryonic development, as well as the sex ratio of females (no. female: total emerged adults) under laboratory conditions (67.4% mean relative humidity and 26.7C). The adult stages were attained by three different developmental regimes involving different numbers of instars: four (4.8% of the population, males only), five (64.5%, sex ratio 0.24) and six instars (30.7%, sex ratio 0.94). The species is univoltine with the following mean duration for postembryonic development: males 71.8 d to complete four instars, 83.8 d for five instars, 110.7 d for six instars; females 85.6 d for five instars and 103.1 d for six instars. Overall mortality from neonates to adults was 13.1%, highest in the first instar. 
20066570|Comparing closely related species from disparate habitats can uncover habitat-specific adaptations. We compared 32 environment and oviposition characteristics in two closely related grasshoppers from opposite environments: Romalea microptera from the Florida Everglades wetlands vs Taeniopoda eques from the Chihuahuan Desert. These closely related species can interbreed, but differ in oviposition characteristics. Desert T. eques deposited long, straight, deep pods containing more eggs, and tended to lay within vegetation where they were shaded and hidden from predators. They did not oviposit in the early morning, late afternoon or evening, and males did not mate-guard. In contrast, wetlands-inhabiting R. microptera laid smaller pods closer to the soil surface, and often laid exposed to full sunlight on elevated ground away from water and nearby vegetation, in the morning or even after dark, and were usually mate-guarded. Oviposition phenology also differed, with R. microptera ovipositing in the summer and T. eques in the fall, possibly as a consequence of life-history shifts driven by local seasonal rainfall patterns. Our results suggest rapid trait divergence in these sister species. These divergent behaviors appear to be adaptive, given the divergent (desert vs wetland) environments of these species.
10.2307/3503569|The cuticular hydrocarbons of four groups of grasshoppers were identified and quantified by capillary column gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) and GLC-mass spectrometry (GLC-MS), including samples of: 1) a modern species, M. sanguinipes (Fabricius), 2) a morphologically similar extinct species, M. spretus Walsh, 3) 650-year old fragments recovered from a receding glacier in southwestern Montana, and 4) 140-year old whole bodies from a glacier in northwestern Wyoming. Quantitative data from 20 n-alkanes and methyl- and dimethyl-branched alkanes were compared using discriminant analysis, which showed differences in cuticular hydrocarbon patterns between the putative species M. sanguinipes and M. spretus. The resulting discriminant model classified the glacially preserved whole bodies as M. spretus, but the identity of the fragments remains ambiguous
23034222|The genus Dysonia White, 1862 (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae) is revised in the present paper. Large morphological differences between species that currently make up the genus, justify separation into three new genera: Lichenomorphus n. gen., Lichenodentix n. gen., and Valna, the latter is removed from synonymy and separated into two subgenera. Taxonomic keys for the Dysonia complex and species lists, relocating all species in this new classification, are herein provided. In addition two new species are described: Dysonia holgeri n. sp., and Lichenomorphus montealegrezi n. sp., as well as a true female of Dysonia alipes (Westwood, 1844). Locusta sellata Stoll, 1787 and Dysonia ephippium (Stoll, 1813) are considered as nomina oblita of Lichenomorphus fuscifrons n. comb. & nomen protectum. En el presente artculo se revis el gnero Dysonia White, 1862 (Tettigoniidae: Phaneropterinae). Las grandes diferencias morfolgicas entre las especies que actualmente integran el gnero, son suficientes para separarlo en tres gneros ms: Lichenomorphus n. gen., Lichenodentix n. gen., y Valna; ste ltimo es revivido y dividido en dos subgneros. Se proporcionan claves taxonmicas para el complejo Dysonia y listados, reubicando las especies en esta nueva clasificacin. Adicionalmente se describen dos nuevas especies: Dysonia holgeri n. sp., y Lichenomorphus montealegrezi n. sp., as como la hembra verdadera de Dysonia alipes (Westwood, 1844). Locusta sellata Stoll, 1787 y Dysonia ephippium (Stoll, 1813) son consideradas como nomina oblita bajo Lichenomorphus fuscifrons n. comb. & nomen protectum.
3503669| The reproductive system and sexual maturation in Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) were studied by dissecting males and females. The number of ovarioles per ovary ranged between 31 and 36: the closer a female is to the gregarious phase, as indicated by the ratio between the length of tegmen and the hind femur, the larger the number of ovarioles. Changes in the length of terminal oocyte and of body weight are associated with maturation of females, as revealed by the high correlation between these two parameters until the first oviposition in both field-collected and laboratory-reared females. Using these criteria, field samples of females were classified into nine categories, which correspond to the first three gonadotrophic cycles. Among field-collected D. maroccanus females, the number of corpora lutea per ovariole provides a good estimate of the number of egg pods laid per female. None of the field-collected females showed more than 2 corpora lutea. The male genitalia are composed of a pair of testes, enclosed within a common sheath, with about 60 follicles, 15 pairs of accessory glands and one pair of seminal vesicles. Spermatogenic activity within the testicular follicles was studied by histological analysis. Spermatogonia divide mitotically throughout nymphal and adult life. Meiosis is first observed in the third instar and spermiogenesis begins late in the fifth instar, being finished at adult emergence, at which time fully formed spermatozoa are observed. The number of sperm ultimately produced by a cyst was 64. Increasing body weight of males is proposed as a "marker" of sexual maturation since the presence of sperm in the seminal vesicle was not detected in any (>120) dissected males before they reached their basic weight, 7-10 days after emergence. This work provides simple criteria for assessing the maturation of D. maroccanus females and males and the realised reproductive potential of the species under field conditions. /// El sistema reproductor y la maduracin sexual de Dociostaurus maroccanus (Thunberg) han sido estudiados mediante la diseccin secuencial de machos y hembras. En la hembra, el nmero total de ovariolos oscila entre 31 y 36, es mayor a medida que aumenta el grado de gregarizacin determinado mediante el cociente entre la longitud del litro y el femur posterior. La maduracin de las hembras est asociada a cambios en la longitud del oocito terminal y en el peso corporal, revelada por la gran correlacin existente entre estos dos parmetros hasta la primera oviposicin tanto en hembras de campo como de laboratorio. De acuerdo con estos criterios, las muestras de hembras de campo fueron clasificadas en nueve categoras, que corresponden con los tres primeros ciclos gonadotrpicos. En las hembras de campo, el nmero de corpora lutea por ovariolo proporciona una buena estimacin del nmero de ootecas que pone cada hembra. Ninguna de las hembras recogidas en campo mostr ms de 2 corpora lutea. La genitalia del macho est compuesta por un par de testculos, encerrados en una membrana comn, con un nmero total de 60 folculos testiculares, 15 pares de glndulas accesorias y un par de vesculas seminales. La actividad espermatognica en los folculos testiculares fue estudiada mediante histologa. Las espermatogonias se dividen mitticamente a lo largo de todos los estadios ninfales y el estado adulto, la meiosis I se observa por primera vez en el tercer estadio y la espermiognesis, que comienza al final del quinto estadio ninfal, est terminada al emerger el adulto, momento en el que se observan espermatozoides completamente formados. El nmero de espermatozoides producidos en cada cisto fue de 64. Se propone el incremento del peso del macho como un marcador de maduracin sexual puesto que la presencia de semen en la vescula seminal no se detect en ninguno de los ms de 120 machos diseccionados antes de que se alcanzara el peso bsico, 7-10 das despus de la emergencia. Este trabajo proporciona criterios sencillos para evaluar la maduracin sexual de hembras y machos de D. maroccanus as como su potencial reproductor en condiciones de campo. 
10.2307/3503465|The adult female leaf-mimicking katydid Typophyllum bolivari Vignon is described for the first time, based on specimens collected or reared from northeastern Peru. Descriptions of all nymphal instars are also presented, representing the first time all stages of development of a leaf-mimicking katydid have been documented. The differences in diurnal resting postures exhibited by immature individuals compared with those of adults are correlated with morphological differences. Abdominal lobes, wing pads, and other ornamentation on the nymphs combine with protective coloration to convey an appearance of twigs, forest debris, or leaf fragments that have accumulated on vegetation, resulting in effective camouflage for immature forms of this species. For adults, the presence of fully developed tegmina presents a leaflike appearance that, when combined with its diurnal resting posture, effectively camouflages the insect in this stage of its development. Photographs of all life stages are presented.
3503682|Two new species of the genus Amytta (Meconematinae) are described from the submontane and montane forest of Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tanzania (East Africa). Notes on habitat demands of the species and the occurrence of syntopic Saltatoria are given.
23034223|This paper proposes new synonyms and combinations for species of Bolidorhynchus, Cephalocoema, Orienscopia, Pseudastroma and Scleratoscopia; phallic complexes, seminal receptacles and distributions are illustrated. Most of the synonymized species were originally described by Dr. Salvador de Toledo Piza Jr., whose types were found in the collection of the Museu da Escola Superior de Agricultura "Luiz de Queiroz", Piracicaba, So Paulo, Brasil. Tetanorhynchus insignis Hebard, 1931 is transferred to Bolidorhynchus; T. montanus Piza, 1977 and T. fornicator Piza, 1981 are synonymized under Cephalocoema dubia (Mello-Leito, 1939), and the lectotype of T. fornicator is designated; T. rostratus Piza, 1977, T. proximus Piza, 1981 and T. spitzi Piza, 1981 are synonymized under Cephalocoema sica (Serville, 1839); T. guairai Piza, 1981 is synonymized under Cephalocoema simillima (Piza, 1943); T. uruguaiensis Piza, 1977 is synonymized under Orienscopia angustirostris (Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1890); Cephalocoema multispinosa Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1890 is transferred to Pseudastroma and Cephalocoema leonardosi Mello-Leito, 1939 is synonymized under it; T. taeniatus Piza, 1981 is synonymized under Pseudastroma perducta (Mello-Leito, 1939) and Tetanorhynchus silvai Rehn, 1957 is transferred back to Scleratoscopia and T. mamanguapensis Piza, 1981 is synonymized under it.
41759713|A new genus and two new species of phalangopsid crickets are described from the High Andean forest surrounding Bogot city, Colombia. Lecticusta n. gen. is placed in the C ensemble, considering its internal genitalia characters, such as development of ectophallic apodemes and presence of epiphallic projections (Desutter 1990). Se describe e ilustra un nuevo gnero y dos nuevas especies de grillos falangpsido, provenientes de los bosques alto-andinos prximos a la ciudad de Bogot, Colombia. Lecticusta n.gen., fue ubicado en el ensamble C por los caracteres de su genitalia interna, tales como desarrollo de apodemas ectoflicos y presencia de proyecciones epiflicas (Desutter 1990).
41759705|Short-winged adults appeared in the 2nd generation of inbred colonies of migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria, originating from Tsushima Island, Japan. Of 14 family lines, two produced several short-winged adults in the 2nd generation. These short-winged adults also had shorter hind femora than long-winged adults, indicating they may represent 'the short-winged morph' rather than monsters with abnormally short wings. The two wing morphs could be separated by the ratio of forewing length to head width. Crosses between the two wing morphs revealed that the short-winged morph was controlled by a simple recessive Mendelian unit. It is unknown whether the short-winged morph occurs in the field.
3657118| Lobeatta schneideri gen. and sp. nov., Anegertus cubitalis Handlirsch 1911, and Nectoptilus mazonus gen. and sp. nov., from the deposit of Mazon Creek (IL, USA; Upper Carboniferous), are described. They are shown to be close relatives of the genera Eoblatta Handlirsch 1906 and Ctenoptilus Lameere 1917. The latter genera, from French deposits nearly contemporaneous with Mazon Creek (Commentry, Montceau-les-Mines), have been previously assigned to Archaeorthoptera Bthoux and Nel 2000. Additional evidence of archaeorthopterid affinities of the Mazon Creek species is provided. Ongoing reviews of North American and European Upper Carboniferous insect faunas might reveal more similarities than expected in their respective composition, although at a suprageneric taxonomic level. 
10.2307/3503638|The degree of mandible abrasion was investigated in three species of adult short-horned grasshoppers reared on grass leaves and cabbage. Age estimation was possible from SEM photographs of right mandibles of female and male Chorthippus parallelus from eight age groups (0-7 weeks). More precisely, in this grass-fed species the incisor length/width ratio declined linearly with age. In two other species, Locusta migratoria and Pezotettix giornae, the length of the second incisor did not change markedly with age. We conclude that mandible wear is a useful measure for adult age in grass-feeding Gomphocerinae in the field.
10.2307/3503516|Spermathecal secretion of the female Atractomorpha lata Motschulsky consists of variable prominent protein fractions ranging from 31 to 75 kD in 0 day-old females and from 30 to 140 kD in day 10 to 50 fernales. The number of prominent fractions in mated fernales at 20, 40, and 50 day-old were more than those of the unmated females of the same age. The protein patterns, appreciable number bands in once- and twice-mated females are similar. The staining intensity and the distribution of fractions were not affected by differences of sex ratio during maintenance and repeated matings. The present study suggests the flushing out of sperm from the spermatheca of female A. lata before the male copulates
3503704| Mauritiophasma n. gen. (Phasmatidae: Acanthomimini), which includes the sole species M. motalai n. sp., is described; Mauritiophasma is close to the genus Anophelepis Westwood 1859, which is transferred to the tribe Acanthomimini. Another genus, Monoiognosis n. gen. (Anareolatae, incertae sedis), is described; it includes 2 species: M. bipunctata n. sp. (type species) and M. spinosa n. species. Epicharmus guerinii (Phasmatidae: Xeroderinae) is synonymised with E. marchali. All these taxa are endemic to Mauritius at the generic level. They all feature eggs glued to a support by an operculum, a character new for Phasmatodea, believed to be the result of convergent evolution. /// Mauritiophasma n. gen. (Phasmatidae, Acanthomimini), qui comprend l'unique espce M. motalai n. sp., est dcrit; Mauritiophasma est proche du genre Anophelepis Westwood 1859, lequel est transfr dans la tribu Acanthomimini.. Un autre genre, Monoiognosis n. gen. (Anareolatae, incertae sedis) est dcrit; il comprend 2 espces: M. bipunctata n. sp. (espce type) et M. spinosa n. sp. Epicharmus guerinii est mis en synonymie avec E. marchali. Ces taxons sont endmiques de Maurice au niveau gnrique. Ils prsentent tous des ufs colls  un support par l'operculum, caractristique nouvelle pour les Phasmatodea, considre comme le rsultat d'une volution convergente. 
25822707|This contribution briefly reviews the importance of grasshopper chromosomes in evolutionary studies and in achieving a comprehensive view of cytogenetics, emphasizing that meiotic chromosomes have been the traditional means for analyzing the nature of such problems. Structural changes occurring in the sperm, as a direct consequence of some chromosomal changes, have received less attention. We propose that grasshopper sperm could be a good model for the study of: 1) aspects of genome territoriality, and 2) consequences in the sperm DNA molecule, derived from a compromised meiotic process, linked with naturally forced genome hybridization. The results presented here, by using appropriate DNA probes for genome regionalization, allow the proposal of a grasshopper sperm chromosome organization. Centromere regions are distributed and concentrated at the proximal end of the sperm head where the flagellum is inserted. Also, chromosome arms are longitudinally organized from the proximal to the distal end, where the telomere of the longest autosome is the most distant genome region from the flagellum insertion. Subsequently, and because the length of the chromosome arms is different among non-homologous chromosomes, the telomeres are distributed along the length of the sperm head. Sperm DNA quality was analyzed using the sperm chromatin-dispersion test, demonstrating that in sperm nuclei of early spermatids containing fragmented DNA, there exist large haloes of dispersed chromatin, while those nuclei remaining compact, contain an intact DNA molecule. Interestingly, and as a main difference with respect to other analyzed species, the DNA loops remain attached to a central proteic core. The aforementioned observation is clearly visible in partially elongated spermatozoa and the DNA loops forming the halo expand from this central region. This aspect of sperm chromatin organization found in grasshoppers is a new contribution to orthopterology. Further, it provides a unique insight and allows questioning the possible existence of this kind of chromatin organization in other noninsect species, where reproduction is based on gamete production.
23610404|The second known specimen of the genus Oshwea Ramme 1929 was captured in Southern Uganda; it appears to be the unknown male of O. dubiosa, previously recorded only from West-Central Congo. At present it seems best to retain it in the subfamily Catantopinae, though it differs from other members of that taxon in several anatomical features.
10.2307/3503563|The present paper refers to the acridoids that have been heretofore included in the genera Agriacris, Camposia and Elaeochlora. The latter two generic names are junior synonyms of Agriacris, which thus becomes the only genus available for the whole assemblage. The presence of two well defined groups of species within these insects is here recognized by the erection of the new genus Staleochlora for one of them. Agriacris s. str. comprises nine valid species, one of them with three subspecies, two of them here described as new. Thirteen additional specific names are here treated as junior synonyms, and other two considered to be nomina dubia. Staleochlora includes nine species, one of them with two subspecies and other with three; two species and three subspecies are here described as new. All species are redescribed and illustrated. A table and a figure are given for the separation of the genera, and also keys for the separation of species in both of them. Geographical distribution is indicated in the treatment of each species and in three maps. Species distribution is also related to biogeographic provinces of the Neotropical Region, as defined by Cabrera and Willink (1973). Out of 83 papers containing references to the insects studied, 42 have been selected as the most important and are included in the reference list at the end.
3503670|Phasmotaenia lanyuhensis sp. nov. is described from four female and three male specimens collected in Lanyuh Island (south-east Taiwan). This species is characterized from others in the genus by its shorter hind wings, and shorter length of operculum. A key to females of the genus is provided; males have not previously been recorded. Adults and eggs are described and figured.
20066575|A study was made of Orthoptera assemblages of crossfield and headland (field-edge) public footpaths in the Chelmsford area of Essex, UK, in 2006. Orthoptera populations were monitored using a standardised transect counting procedure in both footpath types to determine whether headland footpaths provided benefits to Orthoptera on intensively managed farmland. Species richness of Orthoptera was significantly higher on headland footpaths (6 species) than on crossfield rights of way (3 species), suggesting that footpaths along the edges of fields may provide refuges in arable farmland. It seems that the absence of regular ploughing on the headland footpaths may be beneficial to mesophilous grasshopper species, the crossfield footpaths constituting too much of an ephemeral habitat (due to annual ploughing and cropping) to support the full range of species. Abundance of all Orthoptera and of individual species was not significantly higher on headland footpaths, although replicates on the sheltered and sunny eastern side of hedgerows had relatively high densities.
10.2307/3503411|Five species in the genus Hadrolecocatantops Jago are redefined and three described as new: ohabuikei, royi and uvinza. Five species in the genus Vitticatantops Sjostedt are redefined and two species described as new: botswana and moxico. A new species is described in the genus Catantops Schaum (C. kasengo). bringing the number of described species in that genus to fifteen. Species are defined on male characters since females are very similar within a genus. Keys are given to adult males.
43738196|The sparse descriptions of the stick insect (Phasmatodea) digestive system as reported/provided in the literature are highly contradictory. This paper describes the digestive systems of several families of Phasmatodea (Timematidae, Heteropterygidae, Diapheromeridae, Pseudophasmatidae, and Phasmatidae) plus the gut microbiome of these and one other (Phylliidae) to both verify past findings and provide a general description of the Phasmatodea alimentary canal. The constrictions imposed by this anatomy on phasmid gut microbiology, its connections to recently released Phasmatodea transcriptomes, and how it differs from the anatomy of related orders in the Polyneoptera are discussed. All Phasmatodea have ridged proventriculi lined or covered with small spines. Anterior projections of the midgut, sometimes described as gastric caeca, are only found in Euphasmatodea and often obscure the proventriculus. We define the cardia as the complex of foregut and midgut tissue where the type II peritrophic matrix is produced. Appendices of the midgut are an autapomorphy for Phasmatodea, but Timema have fewer and larger appendices relative to body size. We suggest caeca-like projections and the loss of large, proventricular teeth are apomorphies of Euphasmatodea. We identify a possible facultative symbiosis in Eucalyptus-feeding species that requires further study.
25822705|All four species of the genus Dichromatos now cytologically analyzed, including D. montanus and D. corupa (Cigliano 2007), studied in the present paper, are 2n = 21()/22() (FN = 23/24) with a XXY  / XXXX  sex-determination mechanism. The possibility that this mechanism arose from a single ancestral species from which a rapid process of speciation and dispersion took place is discussed.
3503657|Lactista eustatia n. sp. is described from St. Eustatius, West Indies. This is the first record of the genus in the West Indies.
3503747|Studies on the genus Extatosoma Gray 1833 have revealed that there are two valid Australasian species represented by Extatosoma tiararum tiaratum, Extatosoma tiaratum bufonium stat. n., Extatosoma popa popa, and Extatosoma popa carlbergi stat. n. A lectotype has been designated for Extatosoma bufonium. The male of Extatosoma popa popa is described for the first time. Adults (including differently shaped female specimens) and eggs of the two Extatosoma species are figured for comparison. Variation within species is discussed, which includes size, color, degree of spination, shape of legs and expansions on abdominal segments. A literature review and summary of distribution records are provided.
10.2307/3503607|Owls are known to locate their prey acoustically. Therefore it could be expected that in the diet of Scops owls which feed intensively on bushcrickets, a higher portion of males, which signal acoustically, than females might be found. When the sex ratio of animals brought to the nest was examined, however, the frequency of males and females was the same for large bushcrickets (Tettigonia viridissima), whereas in the small species significantly more females than males were observed. The results are discussed in respect to the limited hearing sensitivity of owls in the ultrasonic range and the increased mobility of female bushcrickets because of phonotactic mate localization and oviposition when compared to males.
25473436|We analyzed geographical variation in body size in males and females of nine Greek populations of the bushcricket Poecilimon thessalicus Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1891. We found significant geographic variability in P. thessalicus, with all three morphometric body-size characters (hind femur, front tibia, and pronotum) highly correlated within populations. Populations differed in mean size between three mountain ranges, and were larger on moist eastern, than on dry western slopes. We suggest that the observed smaller size of the bushcrickets on western slopes is mainly the consequence of a shorter growing season due to summer drying on western slopes. Sex-specific growth rates might contribute to the observed smaller body size in males in all populations. Rensch's rule that sexual size dimorphism (SSD) decreases as body size increases is supported, with males growing relatively larger compared to females in populations with larger body sizes. This pattern might be sexually selected, as males that produce larger nuptial gifts are favored as mates in Poecilimon bushcrickets.
10.2307/3503430| Heavy outbreaks of migratory locusts were observed in southwestern Chad and northern Cameroon from September to November 1997. For many years, similar outbreaks were a recurrent phenomenon in this region, with the last one occurring in 1989. An analysis of rainfall distributions from 1986 to 1997, according to the ecological requirements of this locust, demonstrated that the observed outbreaks were strongly linked with the extent and distribution of rainfall during 1988, 1989, 1996, and early 1997. A simple index, calculated on the basis of rainfall data, was correlated with outbreak years /// Des pullulations importantes de Criquets migrateurs ont t observes dans le sud-ouest du Tchad et le nord du Cameroun de septembre  novembre 1997. Des pullulations analogues surviennent de manire rcurrente depuis de nombreuses annes; les prcdentes remontent  1989. L'analyse de la rpartition spatio-temporelle des pluies de 1986  1997, et la connaissance des conditions cologiques optimales pour cet acridien ont permis de montrer que l'intensit et la distribution spatiale des pluies de 1988, 1989, 1996 et 1997 taient trs vraisemblablement responsables des pullulations observes. Un indice simple, calcul  partir des donnes pluviomtriques, est corrl avec les annes de pullulation. 
10.2307/3503630|The phasmid Lamponius nebulosus is described and information is provided about host plants, defensive behavior, and distribution.
41759692|Newly discovered species of Central American bactrophorine grasshoppers in the genera Rhicnoderma Gerstaecker, Lempira Rehn (n. stat.) (from El Salvador) and Pararhicnoderma n. genus (from Costa Rica) reported and/or described. The genus Rhicnoderma is reviewed, and keys provided to the described species of all three genera.
10.2307/3503604|Two new genera of nemobiine crickets, Amanayara and Monopteropsis are, respectively, described from the forests of eastern Brazil and the mountains from Magdalena, Colombia. We also describe two new species belonging to each genus
3657126|Plague locusts are a major problem in many developing countries. For the desert locust, control by a preventive strategy proved effective, and led to a dramatic decrease in outbreak frequency and duration over the last 40 y. Principal problems are now of an organizational nature. Natural-risk management plans for locust outbreaks, associated with new financial mechanisms, must be implemented in order to ensure early reaction, efficiency of control and sustainability of the preventive approach. Studies of these outbreaks should be based on the ecological mechanisms considered to date, but also be broadened to include economic, social, organizational and cultural mechanisms that have been largely overlooked in the past. New concepts, such as risk-management systems, stakeholder strategies, and governance, should be given serious consideration. A new approach to locust issues is suggested, using techniques derived from sociological and anthropological sciences.
4122943|The gomphocerine grasshoppers, comprising over 1000 species, occur on all continents excepting Australia and Madagascar. This work provides an independent examination of previous accounts of their taxonomic relationships and intercontinental connections, focusing on selected North American and Eurasian taxa. Our study is based on portions of four mitochondrial genes (coding for cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit V) which were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed using weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods. Maximum resolution was achieved using weighted parsimony (counting transversions at third codon positions only) and Bayesian methods, and treating all four sequences, totalling 1892 bp, as a unit. The subfamily is provisionally accepted as monophyletic. The tribe Chrysochraontini is monophyletic, whereas the monophyletic status of Aulocarini and Dociostaurini is unclear. Tribes, Arcypterini, Chorthippini and Gomphocerini, are not monophyletic and require further scrutiny. Regarding biogeographic origins of the subfamily, our molecular data generally support Vickery's assertion that there were multiple periods of dispersal, most likely from Eurasia to North America. Assigning the range 50 to 70 Mya to the time of gomphocerine divergence, we provide estimates of the times of these biogeographic events.
10.2307/3503466|A study was conducted to examine the spatiotemporal characteristics of two regional outbreaks of rangeland grasshoppers in Montana during the periods 1959-1966 and 1984-1992, and to evaluate the temporal relationship of grasshopper abundance to both vegetation types and geomorphological regions. Results showed that grasshopper outbreaks, in Montana, can be characterized as follows: 1). Outbreaks are aperiodic and short-lived. 2). Over the long-term, the extent of the areas exhibiting high densities fluctuates to the extremes. 3). Areas of high densities are present every year, although they may be geographically restricted. 4). Areas of high densities can remain stable, decline, expand, or collapse from one generation to the next. 5). High densities can arise or fall simultaneously over wide areas. 6). Densities generally vary inversely with distance away from the edge of high density areas. 7). New regional outbreaks do not appear to be the result of grasshopper influx from active infestation areas, although migration may occur. 8). If areas exhibiting high densities expand, the extension of the boundaries or the appearance of separate new high density areas beyond those boundaries does not follow any specific pattern. 9). Although no chronically high density areas could be detected, some vegetation types appeared to be more inclined to high densities. 10). The Western Sedimentary Plains was identified as the most affected region during outbreak years (1965 and 1986-1987). 11). Outbreaks appeared not to be self-perpetuating. In terms of the prevailing hypotheses concerning insect outbreaks, the geographical behavior of high density areas prevented their being classified as either gradient or eruptive; they appeared to exhibit behaviors of both. Our results suggest that there is a need for an extension of the existing paradigm concerning insect outbreaks.
10.2307/3503431|Oxya fuscovittata (Marschall) is a multivoltine and widely distributed grasshopper species in India. Its breeding capability, growth rate and survivability is very high and it can be easily reared in small cages under normal laboratory conditions. Laboratory studies revealed that 84 females of Oxya fuscovittata are capable of producing an estimated gross biomass of 1 kg in 29-35 days
20789564|A new genus and species of cricket belonging to the Hapithinae: Neomorphini (Podoscirtidae) is described from the forests of the Iguau National Park, State of Parana, Brazil. The new genus is thoroughly compared with Neomorpha Desutter, 1987, the only other member of the Neomorphini described so far.
10.2307/3503459| For the past 10-15 years Brazil has undergone wide-ranging outbreaks of locusts and grasshoppers. Rhammatocerus schistocercoides (in the State of Mato Grosso/western central region, 1984-88/1991-92), Schistocerca pallens and Stiphra robusta (in Pernambuco, Paraba, Piau, and Rio Grande do Norte/northeastern region, 1984-86/1991-92); Rhammatocerus conspersus, R. pictus, and Staurorhectus longicornis (in Rio Grande do Sul/southern region, 1989-1992) are some of the species that have become major pests. At present there are locust/grasshopper outbreaks in at least five Brazilian States, including Mato Grosso, Paraba, Rio Grande do Norte, and Pernambuco. Although climatic conditions play an important role in locust outbreaks, the major factors that have originated this problem in Brazil are related to changes in land management, deforestation, introduction of new crops, and to some extent the lack of monitoring and vigilance once the outbreaks are suppressed. As a result of the implementation of locust/grasshopper control campaigns in Mato Grosso (1984-1988) and Rio Grande do Sul (1991-92), it has become evident that the locust/grasshopper problem in Brazil needs a different approach. To deal properly with the situation the Government needs to establish an integrated locust/grasshopper control program, but little is known about alternative control methods, and in some cases even the ecology of the species is poorly understood. Preliminary studies on biological control and ecology of several species involved are being carried out at present in Brazil in order to undertake a long term project to establish an integrated locust/grasshopper control program. This paper outlines the present situation of the locust and grasshopper problem in Brazil. It provides up-to-date information on the most recent outbreaks and analyses those factors that may have caused an increase in locust/grasshopper populations in several states. The limitations and implications of current control campaigns are discussed, and the need to establish an integrated control program is stressed 
25622289|A list of the Caelifera (Tetrigoidea, Eumastacoidea, and Acridoidea) of Mt Kilimanjaro is presented. A total number of 139 Caelifera was recorded for this mountain, of which 8 species belonged to Tetrigidae, 5 to Eumastacoidea and 126 to Acridoidea. Of the 126 Acridoidea, 2 species belonged to the family Pamphagidae, 14 to the family Pyrgomorphidae, and 3 to the family Lentulidae. The family Acrididae is comprised of 107 species; only one species was recorded for the subfamilies Spathosterninae, Oxyinae, and Euryphyminae, two species within Tropidopolinae, 4 species within Coptacridinae, 5 species each within Hemiacridinae and Calliptaminae, and 7 species each in Eyprepocnemidinae and Cyrtacanthacridinae. The majority of species were found within the four subfamilies Gomphocerinae and Catantopinae (each 14 species), Acridinae (21 species), and Oedipodinae (25 species). Mt Kilimanjaro harbors about 25% of the Acridomorpha species recorded for Tanzania. Together with Mt Meru, with which Kilimanjaro is connected by a ridge at submontane level, 9.4% of the Caelifera are endemics.
23034224|Female grasshoppers can affect the fitness of their offspring through their selection of oviposition sites. Successful embryological development depends on suitable temperature and moisture levels, factors which may vary greatly on a fine scale in natural environments where grasshoppers occur. Knowledge of parameters defining acceptable oviposition sites can provide guidelines for habitat manipulations that reduce the availability of such sites. This paper compares oviposition-site selection in two species of grasshopper from Alaska, Melanoplus borealis and M. sanguinipes, and a population of M. sanguinipes from Idaho. Laboratory experiments did not detect any differences in preferred substrate temperature among the groups of grasshoppers. In field cages containing a choice of different ground covers (bare ground, single clump of grass or turf), M. sanguinipes from Idaho were less selective in terms of the distribution of egg pods among the different cover types, whereas both M. borealis and M. sanguinipes from Alaska deposited the fewest egg pods under the turf. Results suggest that differences in oviposition behavior between the grasshoppers from Idaho and those from Alaska may stem more from differences in the above-ground physical structure of the vegetation, than from differences in responses to below-ground temperature.
10.2307/3503468|After the relative roles played by males and females in pair formation were determined in the field, the mating preferences of females were examined in more detail in the laboratory. Males of the oedipodine grasshopper, Chortophaga viridifasciata (De Geer), spent 48% of their time perched on vegetation that offered an unobstructed view of areas where social interactions took place, "patches" with less than 20% cover. Male-male interactions were of short duration. Both males silently raised and then lowered hindlegs, (femur tipped or flicked) before separating. The first male to enter a patch was usually the first male to leave, and males produced sound while flying (crepitation) to new patches. Thus, a male signaled his arrival in an area with crepitation. The frequency of crepitation flights was more influenced by social than climatic factors. Receptive females also crepitated while flying. Local clusters of crepitating males resulted when numbers of males followed moving females, as females crepitated, flew silently, or walked from patch to patch. Males were unresponsive to crepitation by other males in the absence of female activity and if the view of the flyer was unobstructed. Females played an active role in initiating, and the dominant role in maintaining, pair formation in interactions terminating in copulation. Females would femur tip or flick, sometimes "waving" or moving the legs so that the stripes on the inside of the femur opposite the male were most conspicuous. Males responded by attempting to mount. Young females in the laboratory mated, after interacting with two to five males sequentially, with the next male who was heavier than the first male allowed to mount. Mated males did not differ from unmated males in size (such as femur or body length) or behavior (such as activity level or the number of interactions initiated). Females believed to be carrying eggs were less choosy, and often mated with the first male encountered. Females struggled less if mounted by heavy males. Also more heavy males than light males transferred complete spermatophores. In the laboratory, but not in the field, males approached copulating pairs and tried to displace the mating male. Heavy males were more successful. Females may have incited some displacements and when females re-mated, they did so with heavy mates. Thus, females exhibited active mate choice before, during, and after mating. In nature, receptive females were uncommon, relative to the number of males searching for mates. Males in the field avoided interacting with other males, instead devoting most of their time and energy into maximizing the probability of contacting females.
20789568|Non-pollinating florivores (animals feeding on floral resources) represent severe antagonists that have negative impacts on the plants' reproduction. Plants would thus benefit by excluding them from their flowers. In this study, we tested whether floral scent compounds that are attractive to many pollinators, also have the potential to prevent facultatively flower-feeding herbivores from consuming flowers. For feeding trials, we chose the bush cricket Metrioptera bicolor, a species that mainly consumes grasses, but also feeds occasionally on flowers. Linalool and -caryophyllene (mono- and sesquiterpenoid, respectively) turned out to be effective antifeedants, while other floral scent compounds had no effect. Furthermore, bush crickets completely rejected flowers of Convolvulus arvensis (Convolvulaceae) and Melilotus alba (Fabaceae), while preferring flowers of Echium vulgare (Boraginaceae) over leaves. In addition to feeding experiments, excrement of bush crickets and other orthopterans were searched for pollen. Most individual bush crickets had pollen in their faeces, largely from Poaceae and Gymnosperms, suggesting accidental ingestion of wind-dispersed pollen, rather than targeted consumption of floral pollen. Our results support the hypothesis of a dual role of floral scents in attraction and defence.
10.2307/3503640|The correlation between grasshopper densities and environmental conditions has long been recognized. However, the relationship is not well understood and may involve very complex interactions. The objective of this study was to determine the environmental factors which are most closely linked with changes in grasshopper densities. Multiple regression and stepwise discriminant analysis (DA) were used to identify the soil and weather variables which best distinguished among changes in Colorado grasshopper densities from 1995 to 1996. Grasshopper density in 1995 was the most important variable in DA, followed by mean precipitation for April, 1993, and mean temperature in October, 1993. Our results indicate that soil characteristics are not as important to changes in density as are population level and stochastic weather events. In addition, our findings confirm the importance of time lags in the effects of weather conditions on population changes and highlight the need to incorporate weather events from previous seasons into predictive population models.
20066564|In order to test the hypothesis that parents influence offspring body size, crosses between male and female Schistocerca americana of various sizes were made in the laboratory. Measurements of the offsprings' body characteristics were made after every instar. No correlation was found between the mother's characteristics and that of her offspring; however, paternal size was positively correlated with adult offspring body size. Other studies have shown that variation in the size of both males and females significantly affects reproductive success. Thus, the current study is significant in that a father can influence his offsprings' adult size.
10.2307/3503527|The genus Nodutus Liana 1972 is redefined on the basis of Liana's original description and additional characters given by Jago (1989). The species Proscopia spinosa Klug 1820 (Corynorhynchus spinosus in Brunner von Wattenwyl 1890) is transfered to Nodutus. A new species, Nodutus rowelli, is described. The importance of the structure of the spermathecae for the diagnosis of genera and species in the Proscopiidae is emphasized.
10.2307/3503549|Eight species of Gryllus (Orthoptera: Grylloidea: Gryllidae) have been discovered on the Galapagos Islands. G. galapageius Scudder is known from two islands-Santa Cruz and Santa Fe. Seven species are new: G. abingdoni n. sp. and G. pinta n. sp. from Pinta, G. genovesa n. sp. from Genovesa, G. marchena n. sp. from Marchena, G. isabela n. sp. from Isabela and Fernandina, G. abditus n. sp. widespread in the islands, and G. darwini n. sp. from Darwin.
3503744| Since October 2000, the commercial product Green Guard, based on the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum produced by SGB Pty. Ltd. Wodonga, Victoria, has been used by the Australian Plague Locust Commission for operational control of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetes terminifera. The production, formulation, storage, efficacy and non-target effects are reviewed. Between October 2000 and January 2001 over 23,000 ha were treated at doses of 12-25 g/ha in 500 ml of oil. Under most temperate or hot conditions, control of over 90% of Australian plague locusts was obtained by day 14 post spraying, but under less favorable conditions control could take up to 21 d. The factors which make Green Guard attractive for locust control in Australia include low cost, the absence of environmental effects, especially on aquatic organisms, and its suitability for use in organic beef production areas and where the use of chemical pesticides is undesirable. Large-scale field trials against migratory locusts, Locusta migratoria, have shown that doses of 50-75 g/ha are effective. Spurthroated locusts, Austracris guttulosa, are very susceptible in the laboratory, but field trials have proved difficult to assess because of the high mobility of the adults and the absence of hopper bands at the nymphal stage. Results with the wingless grasshopper, Phaulacridium vittatum, have been variable, with the control being difficult to achieve during cool weather. Laboratory studies on Beauveria bassiana have shown that isolates of this fungus, derived from field-infected grasshoppers, are very virulent and will kill better under cool conditions. 
43738194|Phaneropterinae is the largest subfamily within the bush-crickets/katydids (Tettigonioidea), with about 2451 species, and with a world-wide distribution. Its acoustic communication differs from all other tettigonioid groups in that females primarily and typically respond to the male calling song with their own acoustic reply, a behaviour referred to as duetting. This type of response seems to have been lost only in a few species with wingless females. According to our literature review, information about the song patterns of about 330 species of Phaneropterinae have been published world-wide. Included in this number are ca 170 species of Barbitistini, a flightless West Palearctic tribe, which are treated separately. In the present study we summarize information from the above 330 species. We examine the morphology of stridulatory and hearing organs, and analyze the acoustic signals for frequency, number of syllables and number of interval types. We also have examined if and how responding by sound may have influenced other aspects of the acoustic communication system, especially the structure of the male calling song. Overall, the songs of male Phaneropterinae are similar to those of other tettigonioids. However, some Phaneropterinae species with very long and complex songs are found on all continents, exceeding in these characters nearly all other Ensifera species. These songs contain several different types of syllables and intervals of various duration. Because of this high interspecific variability (reaching from very simple to extremely complex), male phaneropterine songs are by far more variable than those of other tettigonioid families. However, since there are so few data on the behaviour of most Phaneropterinae species, and especially for females, we still are limited in our understanding of the reasons behind the song variability. Sexual selection by females choosing to respond preferentially to certain song types could be an important evolutionary force, but probably only in combination with some unknown ecological and behavioural factors.
23610406|One new species, Ocellarnaca conica sp. nov., one new combination, O. angulata (Gorochov, 2004) comb. nov., and one new recorded species, O. braueri (Griffini, 1911) of the genus Ocellarnaca from China are reported. Photographs of known species, a key to the species and a distribution map are provided. The material is deposited in the Museum of Heibei University.
25473443|Sinipta dalmani is an Argentine grasshopper whose chromosome polymorphisms have been widely studied through cytogenetic and fitness-component analyses. This paper reviews the available information on its body-size variations as they relate to differences between sexes, karyotype and mating success, and shows a preliminary analysis of a pattern of geographic variation. A significant body-size sexual dimorphism was evident, with females being significantly larger than males. Polymorphic populations for M pericentric inversion showed considerable variation in both adult male and adult female sizes, a variation in part related to this chromosomal rearrangement, which has a negative effect on body size. Simultaneous cytogenetic, morphometric and fitness analyses showed direct evidence of phenotypic directional selection within populations favoring larger males and smaller females. The patterns of body-size differentiation among populations in relation to geographic conditions suggest local adaptation. Our results in S. dalmani demonstrate significant variation in body size within polymorphic populations and among geographical populations, which may be expalined under a selective scenario.
23034225|The genus Poecilimon, with more than 150 species, is the largest genus of the family Phaneropteridae. According to DNA data (Ullrich et al. 2010) the most basal branch of the genus is formed by the P. hamatus group (Hamatopoecilimon n. subgen.). The coloration and a male calling song composed of series of short syllables, which follow each other at a relatively high frequency (9 - 26 Hz at 25C), are important characteristics of this group. For all species of the subgenus, male calling songs, stridulatory movements (except for one species), and diagnostic genital morphology are described and figured. The females respond acoustically to the male song with a delay of about 30 ms. In four of six species the males have been observed to use two types of calling song, obviously connected to the female response behavior. The reasons for this behavior are discussed, as well as the phylogeny of the group, considering also its biogeography.
10.2307/3503520|The ephippigerine bushcricket Steropleurus stali produces an extremely large spermatophore of up to 40% of the male pre-mating body weight. It has been hypothesised that the spermatophylax (the non sperm-containing edible 'nuptial gift') of tettigoniids functions primarily either as a paternal investment or to prevent the female from removing the sperm ampulla before the completion of sperm transfer. The influence of the large spermatophylax of S. stali on measures of female fitness (longevity) and egg fitness (size, mass, number produced per female) was examined. No influence was found, providing no support for the paternal investment hypothesis. The potential function of the large spermatophore in sperm protection/ competition is discussed.
10.2307/3503639|A list and notes on species and subspecies of Orthoptera collected in western Turkey are given. One new genus, Bolua gen.n. and four new species, Poecilimon ataturki sp. n., Poecilimon kocaki sp. n., Bolua turkiyae sp. n. and Stenobothrus (Crotalacris) selmae sp. n. are described.
10.2307/3503537| This study is based on a study of Mantodea in the collection of the Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen (ZMUC) containing 39 species. Tarachodes (Tarachodes) rhodesicus n. sp., Prohierodua enghoffii n. sp., and Tarachodes (Tarachodes) oxyonotus tenuis n. ssp. are new to science. Females of Sphodromantis lagrecai Lombardo and Sphodromantis citernii kenyana La Greca-Lombardo, and the male of Chlidonoptera werneri (Giglio-Tos) were found in the collection and described. Furthermore, other interesting species such as Antistia maculipennis Stl, were studied. This species is here from Eremiaphilinae to Amelinae. 
10.2307/3503625|Dajaca napolovi sp. nov. is described and illustrated. The species is based on two pairs collected from north Vietnam in 1998, which differ from existing taxa by distinctive coloration. A key is given to distinguish the Dajaca species.
3657102|Delimitation of species and identification of specimens to the species level continue to be difficult problems for practising entomologists, particularly those in tropical countries who often have no access to the holotype specimens or original literature of their local fauna. As a first step to the development of accurate Web-based species identification keys for Indian gryllids, we have examined the utility of morphological and song characters in correctly delineating species boundaries among 4 sympatric species of tree crickets of the Genus Oecanthus. Using a numerical taxonomic approach, phenetic clusters and ordinations were constructed on the basis of morphological and song characters. Quantitative and qualitative morphological characters were analysed independently and the results compared. The efficacy of the clustering and ordination techniques in species delimitation was examined by both internal and external allocation of individual specimens. Both the delimitation of species and the allocation of new specimens were 95 to 100% accurate using song or qualitative morphological characters. Quantitative morphological characters could also accurately delimit species, provided a large number of characters were used, irrespective of the specific characters chosen. For quantitative morphological characters, ordination was found to be more accurate than cluster analysis, both for delimiting species and in the allocation of new specimens.
24367401|This paper examines the relationships between male body size, spermatophore size, and number of sperm per spermatophore, in four cricket species: Teleogryllus commodus, Acheta domesticus, Gryllus bimaculatus, and Gryllus assimilis. Within each species, individuals varied considerably in all three characters measured, and generally, spermatophore size, number of sperm, and body size were all correlated: i.e., ampulla diameter and sperm number per spermatophore significantly increased with body mass (p < 0.001 ) according to a linear regression function. Interspecific investigations found considerable differences between species: G. assimilis had the largest mean male body mass and length, largest ampullas, and highest numbers of spermatozoa per spermatophore, whilst A. domesticus had a small body mass and length, the smallest ampullas, and lowest sperm numbers. Regression analyses of all four cricket species revealed similar results as intraspecific regression computations. Hence, both intra- and interspecifically, larger males produce larger spermatophores containing more sperm, than do smaller males. These results differ from bush crickets (Tettigoniidae), where larger male body size does not necessarily correlate with larger ampullas and more sperm. Possibly male bush crickets have evolved to invest a higher proportion of their resources in the size of the nuptial gift, as opposed to number of spermatozoa.
3503743|In most central European grasshopper populations, matings are very rarely observed. For five species we here quantify how frequently matings are observed. In total, only 78 matings were recorded over a period of 1100 observation hours in five acridid grasshopper species. We formally define the term mating activity (MA) as the proportion of individuals mating at a given time. MA in Oedipoda germanica, but not Euthystira brachyptera, took place preferentially around noon. In Stenobothrus lineatus, Gomphocerippus rufus and Chorthippus parallelus, matings possibly extended into the night. We also found evidence for a seasonal decrease in MA in S. lineatus and G. rufus but not in C. parallelus and O. germanica. Mating females were younger than the population average in S. lineatus, G. rufus and O. germanica. A review of the literature revealed a seasonal decline in MA in other species as well. Diel mating peaks are not very distinct, though some species seem to mate exclusively at night, some have peaks during the hottest parts of the day, and a third group seems to avoid the hot midday periods.
25822720|Melanoplus ingrami n. sp. is described from the cedar glades of central Tennessee.
4122934|Hybrid zones may serve as arenas for the evolution of barriers to gene exchange while still allowing the exchange of favorable alleles between species. Differential introgression of linkage groups indicate favored, neutral, and disfavored genomic regions with respect to intrinsic (epistatic interactions, linkage to specific genes) and extrinsic (environmental selection, behavior, ecological interactions) environments. Additionally, the ability of alleles to introgress will depend on hybrid zone structure (opportunity for individuals to interact) and maintenance (criteria for favorable traits). Thus, trait differences that influence local distribution within these hybrid zones contribute to species coexistence and persistence in the face of hybridization. The mosaic hybrid zone between two North American field crickets, Gryllus firmus and G. pennsylvanicus, is structured by underlying soil heterogeneity in Connecticut. Despite this, it is not clear what role soil type plays in maintaining this hybrid zone. A companion study demonstrated that abiotic characteristics of different soil types do not cause significant viability selection on diapausing cricket eggs that overwinter in the soil. Instead, other environmental factors, such as winter weather, play larger roles in egg survival. Here I investigated one biotic factor that potentially has a large effect on egg survival - predation by ants. These results show that when ants are present, egg mortality is dramatic, increasing 2.5 fold against areas without ant infestations. Although not significant, there is some indication that ant activity may vary among sites and soils. Hence, this biotic factor may influence the distribution of cricket species in this hybrid zone and consequently the dynamics of their interactions.
10.2307/3503595|A problem with previous studies of orthopteroid phylogeny is that the proposed evolutionary trees were not subjected to rigorous reliability tests. This paper uses current cladistic software packages to reanalyze earlier morphological data obtained by Blackith and Blackith and by Kamp and assigns levels of confidence to derived associations. Although our trees do not differ remarkably from the original ones, resolution in many cases is poor, as indicated by low bootstrap values and low decay indices. Monophyly of the Gryllopteran taxa, for example, is strongly indicated by the Blackiths and by Kamp, but our analyses lend little support to such an association. Assigning levels of confidence to branch points provides valuable information that was not available at the time of the original analyses of these data.
23071988|This paper summarizes eight years of field study on the Red Locust, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville) in southwestern Madagascar and presents management recommendations for its control. This crop pest exhibits a fairly uniform annual life-cycle phenology in southern Madagascar, which involves seasonal migration and adult reproductive diapause. There is one generation/y. Eggs are laid at the beginning of the rainy season in November and December. Eggs hatch in 24-36 d, and the hatchlings reach adulthood in 50-70 d. Fledgling adults enter a reproductive diapause in March and April, and then migrate north and northeast to higher elevations (refuge area where rainfall is > 80 cm/y) where they remain throughout the dry season (May-October). In November (the beginning of the rainy season), the adults migrate south and west to lower elevations (breeding area where rainfall averages 40-80 cm/y) where they mate and initiate oocyte development. Females possess ~ 162 ovarioles, and typically lay two or three egg pods, each containing ~ 100 eggs. The six-month adult reproductive diapause is controlled by photoperiod. Eggs and nymphs can experience high mortality, and hence, these stages are key to predicting population dynamics. Based on our findings, we recommend concentrating surveys in the main breeding areas (including one small southwestern fringe with the strongest probability of gregarisation and outbreak), better monitoring of local rainfall abundance and distribution, and better monitoring of deforestation, which increases locust habitat. Cet article est le rsultat de huit annes d'tudes de terrain sur le Criquet nomade, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville) dans le sud-ouest de Madagascar et propose des recommandations pour la gestion prventive de cette espce. Ce ravageur prsente un cycle biologique annuel relativement uniforme dans le sud de Madagascar. Il n'y a qu'une seule gnration par an, des migrations saisonnires et une diapause imaginale. Les oeufs sont dposs au dbut de la saison des pluies, en novembre et dcembre. Ils closent en 24-36 jours, et les jeunes larves atteignent le stade imaginal en 50-70 jours. Les jeunes imagos entrent en diapause reproductive en mars et avril, puis migrent vers le nord et le nord-est vers des zones d'altitude plus leve (zone refuge recevant plus de 800 mm de pluie par an) o ils demeurent pendant toute la saison sche (mai-octobre). En novembre (dbut de la saison des pluies), les imagos migrent vers le sud et 1'ouest vers les zones plus basses (zone de reproduction recevant entre 400 et 800 mm de pluie par an) o ils s'accouplent et commencent leur maturation sexuelle (dveloppement des ovocytes). Les femelles possdent en moyenne 162 ovarioles et dposent deux ou trois oothques, chacune contenant environ une centaine d'oeufs. Les six mois de diapause imaginale sont controls par la photopriode. Les oeufs et les larves peuvent subir une forte mortalit et, en consquence, ces tapes sont essentielles pour prvoir la dynamique des populations. Sur la base de nos travaux, nous recommandons de focaliser et de renforcer la surveillance dans la zone principale de reproduction (dont une petite frange sud-ouest prsente la plus forte probabilit de grgarisation et de pullulation), de mieux suivre l'abondance et la distribution des pluies, et de porter une grande attention au dboisement susceptible de crer de nouveaux habitats favorables.
10.2307/3503475|This paper provides information on the fauna of Mantodea in China. Based on literature records of Beier (1933) and Tinkham (1937) and material identified by the authors, 110 species and 2 subspecies of mantids - belonging to 8 families, 19 subfamilies and 48 genera - are reported from China. Nine genera and 7 species were recorded for the first time from China. About 88% of the Chinese mantid fauna is Oriental in origin, while 7% is Palaearctic and about 5% widespread. China is rich with endemic species, amounting to 65 species.
10.2307/3503436|The morphology of the internal male genitalia of selected genera of Melanoplinae (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was studied. A detailed comparison of these structures was carried out, in an attempt to identify new characters that may be useful in analyzing relationships between the members of the subfamily. Twenty two genera were examined, mostly of North American distribution, using one exemplar species for each of them. Standard dissection and drawing techniques were followed. The epiphallus and the apical parts of the aedeagus were found to be the most important taxonomic characters. The genera Aptenopedes and Buckellacris were highly divergent from the rest of the melanoplines, while the close relationship between Appalachia, Dendrotettix and Podisma was confirmed by genital characters. Internal male genitalic characters did not provide significant support for many currently recognized tribes and subtribes, suggesting that there is a great need for reclassification in the subfamily.
25473424|Chortophaga australior Rehn and Hebard (Orthoptera: Acrididae) is considered a species distinct from Chortophaga viridifasciata (DeGeer). Collections across Nebraska have shown that the characters used to separate these two species are inconsistent and that the average state of these characters appears to be related to the time of the season during which the adults are collected. Until further study clarifies the status of C. australior, we suggest that its specific status be considered questionable.
41759716|New species of the genera Mezentia Stl, Taeniophora Stl, Nautia Stl, Caenolampis Descamps and Inbiolampis n. gen. (all members of the Bactrophorinae Amedegnato 1974) are described from Costa Rica and Panama. The previously unknown male of Taeniophora rubrosignata Descamps & Rowell 1984 is described; its cereal structure links it to South American species of the genus, rather than to the other Central American species. A key to the Central American species of Mezentia is provided. New species: Mezentia prymnocerca, M. proracerca, Taeniophora pirrensis, T. santosi, Caenolampis copensis, Inbiolampis herediensis.
24367400|The genus Anaxipha has at least 13 North American species, eight of which are described here. Ten species fall into these three species groups: exigua group (exigua Say, scia Hebard and n. spp. thomasi, tinnulacita, tinnulenta, and tinnula); delicatula group [delicatula Scudder and vernalis n. sp.); litarena group (litarena Fulton and rosamacula n.sp.). The remaining three (imitator Saussure, fultoni n.sp., and calusa n.sp.) have no close relatives among the other species. Most new species were initially distinguished by their calling songs, and in most cases sympatric populations proved cleanly separable by features of male genitalia and tooth-counts of stridulatory files. Species groups were based mostly on comparisons of male genital structures and the results of DNA barcoding. Species are here characterized not only by their songs and morphology, but also by geographical, ecological, and seasonal distributions. At a given temperature the pulse rate (PR) of the male's calling song is a key aid to identification. PR at 25C has a narrow range of variation within a species and among the 13 species its mean value varies from 5 to 79 p/s. As in other crickets, pulse rates plotted as a function of temperature have a positive, linear trendline. When trendlines for 11 Anaxipha species are extrapolated downward, the temperature at =0 p/s is 2.72.2 (meanSD)  i.e., the lines tend to converge at about 3C. This makes possible a simple formula for estimating the PR at 25C from any Anaxipha calling song recorded at any temperature. Other aids to identifying species from their calling songs are the duration and regularity of breaks between pulse sequences and the relationship between PR and carrier frequency (CF). When CF is plotted as a function of PR, the relationship deviates noticeably from linear only in vernalis. We propose that in Anaxipha spp., as well as in six other genera in four gryllid subfamilies, the synchrony of tooth impacts and the fundamental vibrations of the CF is maintained by the scraper moving continuously over evenly spaced file teeth  rather than by the much-studied (and well-established) catch-and-release mechanism of Gryllus spp. Our proposal is based on the high rates of change in CF with temperature and on differences in the teeth of the stridulatory files. The PR at 25C of each of the 13 species is remarkable in the degree to which it predicts the mean values of these five characters: file tooth number, tooth density, file length, pulse duration, and pulse duty cycle (Fig. 17). A neotype is designated for Gryllus pulicaria Burmeister (1838), the type species of the genus Anaxipha. With the e-version of this paper, extensive Supplementary Materials provide permanent access to data sets that are basic to our conclusions. These materials include detailed records of the specimens examined and of the more than 1300 recorded songs that were analyzed. Digitized versions of more than 450 of the recordings are archived in Cornell's Macaulay Library of Natural Sounds.
10.2307/3503478|The orthopteran suborder Ensifera is a group of interest to many biologists because members of several families within this group communicate by sounds. The evolutionary history of singing and other social behaviors of crickets, katydids and weta (Gryllidae, Tettigoniidae and Stenopelmatidae, respectively) are unclear because of different published opinions on the relationships among ensiferan subgroups (Ander 1939, Zeuner 1939, Judd 1948, Ragge1955a, Sharov 1968). These opinions were not based on formal quantitative analyses. I undertook a cladistic analysis of ensiferan families using mainly anatomical characters. The single most parsimonious (shortest-length) tree divides the Ensifera into two clades: the 'tettigonioids' which comprise (((((Tettigoniidae & Haglidae) Stenopelmatidae) Cooloolidae) Gryllacrididae) Rhaphidophoridae), and the 'grylloids' ((Schizodactylidae) (Gryllotalpidae & Gryllidae)) (my parentheses enclose separate clades). I used this phylogeny to construct the most parsimonious hypotheses for the origins of certain social behaviours from those present in the ancestor of extant Ensifera (an insect that used a burrow as a retreat). There were two origins of sound communication using tegminal stridulation and foretibial ears, three to four origins of a complex spermatophore that is eaten by the female and about seven origins of maternal care of eggs and/or nymphs, a trait correlated with loss or reduction in the ovipositor. I review support for the hypothesis of dual origins of tegminal stridulation and tibial ears, complex structures that are usually regarded as homologous within the Ensifera.
3503764|Orthopteran species on the Lesser Antilles islands of St Eustatius and Saba are poorly known. Recent field surveys and examinations of museum collections revealed 24 species separated into the following families: Acrididae, 6; Tettigoniidae, 6; Gryllidae, 2; Mogoplistidae, 1; Oecanthidae, 1; Phalangopsidae, 2; Podoscirtidae, 5; Trigonidiidae, 1. Seven species are new, 2 of which are described herein (Mogoplistidae: Cycloptilum eustatiensis; Trigonidiidae: Cyrtoxipha orientalis). Crickets alone are represented by 12 species. Among all species, 1 is cosmopolitan, 2 are neotropical, 4 are distributed in most of the Caribbean region, 5 occur in one or several provinces located in the Greater Antilles, and 12 are distributed in the Lesser Antilles province only. Among these last species, 8 could be endemic to St Eustatius and/or Saba. Species diversity and distribution patterns are discussed in relation to island habitats and groupings.
41759696|A detailed redescription and review of the north Central American genus Paracalynda Zompro, 2001 is presented, which presently contains only two known species. A re-description is provided for the type-species P. picta (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907), which is only known from the unique male holotype. P. utilaensis (Zompro, 1998) was originally described as a subspecies of P. picta (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) but obviously represents a distinct species, hence it is here raised to species rank (n. stat). Both species are illustrated and detailed figures show the significant genital morphology of Paracalynda. A detailed study of genital features has proven Paracalynda was previously misplaced in the "Bactena group" (tribe Diapheromerini) and as a result the genus is transferred to Eusermyleformia Bradler, 2009. A discussion on Sermyleformia: Eusermyleformia is provided, which includes a list of the seven genera now contained in Eusermyleformia as well as an extended and more comprehensive diagnosis of this supposedly monophyletic rank-free taxon.
25822704|We review historical and pioneering work as well as recently published papers about orthopteran sex chromosomes and neo-sex mechanisms, highlighting Michael White's significant contributions. Meiotic research in Orthoptera in the early twentieth century was central to confirming that sex determination had a chromosomal basis: the study of sex chromosomes produced fundamental support to the chromosome theory of heredity. We also explore recent theoretical models of sex-chromosome evolution and consider the possible causes of crossing over restriction in proto-sex chromosomes, as well as the progressive differentiation (erosion and degeneration) of the Y chromosome in neo-chromosome systems in different taxa. We discuss neo-XY and neo-XXY chromosome systems of South American Melanoplinae (Acrididae) as potential experimental models to study steps in sex-chromosome evolution because these systems fall within a continuum of evolutionary stages, some of them recently established. We also provide an explanation for the disproportionate frequency of neo-sex systems and Robertsonian-derived karyotypes in Neotropical Melanoplinae, based on the centromeric drive theory, and propose that Neotropical melanoplines' high karyotypic diversity supports an ancient South American origin of the subfamily. We discuss the hypothesis that neo-sex chromosome systems produce favorable new linkage relationships between genes in the X and the involved autosome, some of which could be sex determination related, creating a new balance between sex chromosomes and autosomes. We also review Mesa's hypothesis that, based on the observed fact that no major taxon of orthopterans shows neo-sex chromosomal mechanisms in all their species, the acquisition of a neo-sex chromosome system could condemn species of grasshoppers to a short evolutionary career. Little is yet known about the role of neo-Y chromosomes in Orthoptera, thus mostly speculative explanations about neo-sex chromosome function can be made at present. New studies with modern molecular techniques are needed to understand chromosomal sex determination in Orthoptera, which could in turn help explain the role of new chromosomal sex systems in grasshopper species.
10.2307/3503627|This paper is a textual and illustrative description of two new species of bushcricket: Rossophyllum maculosum and Idiarthron cerosum, from the Osa Penninsular of Costa Rica, together with intra-generic comparisons.
25473433|The semi-aquatic grasshopper Cornops aquaticum is native to South America and inhabits lowlands from southern Mexico to Central Argentina and Uruguay. It is host-specific to aquatic plants in the genera Eichhornia and Pontederia. A quarantine population has existed in South Africa for 10 y, and it is planned to release it there as a biological control agent of water hyacinth, E. crassipes. Various studies of C. aquaticum are coordinated under HICWA (www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de). This paper compares the morphometry of the release population and 11 native populations in South America. We tested four hypotheses: 1) South African and South American populations of C. aquaticum differ in morphology; 2) the South African laboratory population is more similar to other isolated populations in South America than to nonisolated populations; 3) morphology differs across sites; 4) morphology differs with host plant. South African populations differed from continental nonisolated populations, but not from continental isolated ones. Isolated populations presented smaller individuals than nonisolated, but there was also a change in male morphology: while in nonisolated populations male wing length was similar to their body length, in isolated populations, male wings were smaller than body length. Females were larger when on Eicchornia azurea than on E. crassipes, while males presented larger wings than their body on E. azurea, and similar lengths on E. crassipes. These morphological changes may have resulted from phenotypic plasticity, selection for small size, or because of a loss of genetic diversity in quantitative traits.
20789577|A study at Khelcom, Central Senegal, from September 2008 till June 2009 tested two different dose rates (25 and 50 gconidia/ha) of the mycoinsecticide Green Muscle (Metarhizium acridum) and an untreated control, against grasshoppers in a field trial on nine 400-ha plots in three blocks. The study area was a deforested sylvo-pastoral reserve, 12.5% cultivated, whereas the remainder was fallow or grassland in succession. Grasshopper densities were calculated by executing transect and quadrat counts on plots. The grasshopper community structure was assessed by systematic sweep-net sampling on plots. From these data grasshopper biomass on plots was calculated for each sampling date. Bird numbers were counted on the same transects by the Distance Sampling technique and their densities calculated from Effective Strip Widths (ESW). Energetic requirements of individual bird species were calculated from digestibility-corrected Field Metabolic Rates (FMRs) and for acridivorous species their daily intake of grasshoppers was calculated. Grasshopper densities were very high, with up to 90 ind./m in September and 30-35 ind./m in October. Numbers and biomass decreased on treated plots as grasshoppers became infected, and remained significantly different from control plots for three months (until January). The relative importance of grasshopper consumption by birds increased between October (high grasshopper densities) and December (medium densities) from an initial 0.06 (0.03) %/day to a ceiling of 1.6 (0.9)% per day. Total grasshopper removal during the dry season was 70%, whereas during the rainy season this was < 1%. Birds specifically captured large and medium-bodied grasshoppers, but rarely small-bodied species, whose numbers initially increased. These findings were corroborated by field observations and by analysis of regurgitated pellet contents of Montagu's Harriers, i.e., small-bodied grasshoppers were only 1.4 - 2.6% of all grasshoppers taken, whereas they constituted 61 - 68% of random samples from the field. Densities of acridivorous Palaearctic migratory birds, in particular White Stork, Ciconia ciconia, Montagu's Harrier, Circus pygargus and Lesser Kestrel, Falco naumanni, were very high and unprecedented elsewhere. Their numbers largely exceeded the 1% criterion for international importance.
3503765| In Africa and Asia in recent years (1986 to 2002), repeated outbreaks and plagues of the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria (Forskl), have prompted the international community, through early intervention, to focus on preventing plague status from being reached. The relative lack of applied research breakthroughs on desert locust monitoring and control, means that for preventive or proactive control, direct access to the breeding areas is essential for both operations so that conventional, short-residual pesticides can be applied to gregarizing or fully gregarious populations. There are a number of challenges to desert locust survey and control as it is currently practiced: these include lack of funding and training, weak regional organizations, and remote and rugged terrain in breeding areas. The most intractable challenge to overcome, and arguably the chief cause for desert locust outbreaks to develop without suppressive interventions to plague status, is armed conflict, especially in countries with key breeding areas. Salient areas of armed conflict in countries where key desert locust breeding areas exist, and the impacts of those conflicts on desert locust survey and control, are described. Possible solutions of the problems presented by armed conflict for desert locust operations are discussed. 
3503622|The entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum Metsch. Sor. (Deuteromycotina: Hyphomycetes), was tested under laboratory and field conditions against the Central American locust Schistocerca piceifrons Walker (Orthoptera: Acrididae). Adults of S. piceifrons treated under laboratory conditions with the isolate MaPL40, 1.5 10
10.2307/3503503|Timema coffmani sp. nov. is described from southwestern Arizona. It is a specialist feeder on juniper (Juniperus). Morphologically it is similar to T. ritensis Hebard from southeastern Arizona. The previously unknown female sex of T. ritensis also is described and both sexes are compared with T. coffmani. Measurements and distinguishing features are given for both species.
25473438|We studied 12 species of Acrididae (4 Oedipodinae and 8 Gomphocerinae) associated with three ecological stages of succession in herbaceous environments in mine tailings near Limoges, France. The pioneer, medium and late stages of succession each contained four different dominant grasshopper species. We measured morphometry variables possibly linked with displacement (locomotory) capacities, taking advantage of previous analyses on walking and jumping-flight performances on the same species. Early succession species were characterized by long hind and fore wings and a wider pronotum. Their wings also exhibited greater sexual dimorphism in length than grasshopper species from middle or late successional stages. These morphological characters are associated with jumping-flight performances and walking speed, because the best jumpers are the best walkers. Although the ratio of wing length to body length decreases with succession, the overall body size does not, and overall body size is not correlated with displacement performance. /// A l'intrieur d'une succession cologique primaire dans des milieux herbacs peuplant des striles miniers prs de Limoges (France), nous avons tudi 12 espces d'Acrididae (4 Oedipodinae et 8 Gomphocerinae). Les sres pionnire, moyenne et tardive comprennent chacune 4 espces. Des variables morphomtriques en relation possible avec les capacits de dplacement ont t mesures, bnficiant de travaux prcdents sur l'analyse de la marche et des sauts volants sur les mmes espces. Les espces pionnires sont caractrises par des ailes antrieures et postrieures longues, ainsi que par la grande largeur de la mtazone du pronotum. Leurs ailes prsentent galement un dimorphisme sexuel plus affirm que les espces des sres moyenne et tardive. Ces caractres sont associs aux performances de saut volant, mais de manire inattendue,  la vitesse de marche, sachant les espces qui volent le mieux sont aussi celles qui marchent le plus vite. La taille globale du corps ne varie pas significativement avec l'ordre de succession, ni avec les performances de dplacement.
10.2307/3503578| The genus Tithrone Stl is analyzed and two new species are described. T. viridipennis differs from T. roseipennis are compared. In addition a new genus Paratithrone (with one new species, P. royii) are described. Tithrone and Paratithrone form a phyletic clade within the tribe Acontiothespini. 
4122950|Proscopiini, new tribe (Proscopiidae, Proscopiinae) is here defined. As presently known, it includes six genera and a considerable number of species. A description of the tribe and keys for the recognition of its males and females to genera are given. As is the case with the tribe Tetanorhynchini (Bentos-Pereira 2003a), the species in this new tribe are very homogeneous in their external anatomy, which has been, in the past, the cause of a general confusion in its taxonomy and the making of many synonymies.
3503654|This research expands upon our previous molecular phylogenetic analysis of the genus Melanoplus by incorporating additional mitochondrial genes, taxa and specimens. Included are two monotypic genera suspected of close affiliation with Melanoplus: Phoetaliotes and Bohemanella. Portions of four mitochondrial genes, coding for cytochrome b, cytochrome oxidase subunits I and II, and NADH dehydrogenase subunit II, were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed using (weighted and unweighted) parsimony and neighbor-joining methods. Maximum resolution of relationships was achieved using weighted parsimony and by treating all sequences, totaling 1716 base pairs, as a unit. The following large clades emerged in parsimony analyses, supported by moderate to poor bootstrap values: A - sanguinipes, femurrubrum, devastator, gaspesiensis, fasciatus, borealis, madeleineae, dawsoni; B - packardii, foedus, angustipennis, gladstoni, aspasmus; C - bivittatus, franciscanus, keeleri, calidus, littoralis, differentialis; D - infantilis, alpinus, aridus, Phoetaliotes, scudderi; and E - confusus, Bohemanella, marginatus, microtatus. M. lakinus was basal to all species. Deviations from the conventional literature in which species are organized into species groups or series are discussed. It is concluded that many such groups are phylogenetically questionable; their validity warrants serious reconsideration. Two phenomena - a rapid burst (or bursts) of speciation occurring early in the genus' evolution and an absence of complete lineage sorting for certain closely related species - are nicely illustrated by Melanoplus. We provide evidence that the massive radiation that took place within the past 4 My, inferred previously by Knowles and Otte, extends to a wider base of taxa, beyond the particular species studied by these authors.
10.2307/3503637|Laboratory procedures previously used by other authors were employed to conduct experimental bioassays with Nosema locustae on cultured Schistocerca cancellata. Third-instar nymphs were individually, per os inoculated with 10
4122933| Two new species of Maculiparia Jago 1980 are described from Panama, one (M. coibensis n. sp) from the Island of Coiba, and another from Darin province (M. embera n. sp.). Both are brachypterous, unlike the previously described M. rotundata Stl, which is common only in the central part of the country. 
3657113|Behavioral thermoregulation, by basking in sunlight, is very common in acridids. The resulting increased body temperatures may be beneficial by accelerating feeding and developmental rates and by enhancing disease resistance. The absorption of solar energy is affected by the degree of cuticular melanization. In this paper, we quantify differences in color and thermoregulation between subarctic and temperate populations of Melanoplus sanguinipes. We also quantify effects of rearing temperatures and density on melanization of 5th instars. Alaskan grasshoppers tended to be darker than those from Idaho when reared under the same conditions and Alaskan grasshoppers also responded to cooler rearing temperatures by increased pigmentation. Density-dependent melanization was evident in both populations. Increased pigmentation enhanced the ability to thermoregulate. Absorption of wavelengths in the near infrared region was similar to that in the visible range, confirming that visible color is a reliable measure of relative absorption of total solar irradiance. Strong selection for efficient thermoregulation at high latitudes was suggested by the population differences in pigmentation.
10.2307/3503648|Five independent lines of research provide information that is a basis for a number of conclusions regarding the evolution of phallic structures of Acridomorpha, excluding Eumasticoidea. Skeletal portions of the phallus are discussed to clarify terminology and offer evolutionary hypotheses. The terms "pre-epiphallic diverticulum," "arch sclerite," and "antero-ventral flange of endophallic sclerite" are introduced. The phallic muscles of Romalea microptera are covered in detail and figured. Homologies with Atractomorpha sinensis, Ommexecha virens, Dissosteira carolina, Melanoplus differentialis, M. bivittatus, Paulinia acuminata, and Marellia remipes are discussed. Evolutionary hypotheses regarding the evolution of the endophallus are presented. Pyrgacridinae is removed from Pyrgomorphidae and given status as the family Pyrgacrididae within Acridoidea. Lithidiinae is raised to the level of family within Acridoidea. Dericorythinae, Conophyminae, and Iranellinae (new subfamily), all previously included within Acrididae, are placed in the new family Dericorythidae. The subfamily Illapeliinae is moved to Ommexechidae. Marelliinae is recognized as a new subfamily within Acrididae. Presence of a well-developed arch sclerite should be treated as a crucial character in defining the family Acrididae.
3657103|Studies on the rarely reported Australian genus Onchestus have revealed a confusing situation where only one of the 4 species currently included, belongs to the genus. A new species from north Queensland, Onchestus rentzi, is described and figured, including the egg. Keys are provided.
3503714| Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum Driver & Milner (=Metarhizium flavoviride Gams & Rozsypal), isolate CG423, is being developed as a mycoinsecticide against grasshoppers in Brazil. Conidia were harvested and stored in a drying chamber during a study period of 260 d, in a room at 25C. Water content (dry weight) of fresh and dried conidia was 70 and 4%, respectively. Conidia from fresh and dry preparations produced similar in vitro germination patterns and were both infective of the American grasshopper Schistocerca americana Drury. The drying process greatly enhanced the survival of CG423 conidia, as witnessed by nearly 100% germination rates after more than a 100-d desiccation period. Prolonged 135 and 176-d storage in the drying chamber at room temperature decreased viability to 72.5% and 28.5% respectively. In contrast, fresh conidia sealed in plastic bags and stored at ambient conditions for 52 d were inactive (<10% viable). The low germination rate (28.5%) of conidia exposed to 176 d in dry storage was altered by exposure of the dry conidia to high humidity (96% RH). Dry conidia exposed to a 4-h rehydration period had germination rates of 50%, whereas 24-h preincubation at high humidity resulted in 90% germination rates. However, the germination rates were reduced at 204 (81%), 323 (70%) and 260 (23%) days in storage. In addition, preincubation of the CG423 dry conidia in water produced similar positive effects on germination as compared to germination of fresh conidia. At 24h post-inoculation, dry conidia produced significantly lower germination rates (21%) than rehydrated conidia (germination rates > 91.7%, p < 0.05). However, after 48h on SDAY plates, the germination rate of dry conidia (88.3%) was comparable to the germination of conidia rehydrated in water, water + Tween-20, or in high humidity. 
4122941| The northern Great Plains of North America has experienced a number of severe grasshopper infestations over the last 100 y. Grasshopper densities have been observed to be in synchrony over vast geographical areas. Weather is probably the most significant factor that affects fluctuations in population abundance of Melanoplus sanguinipes, the migratory grasshopper. Inferential modeling was used to develop a bioclimatic model of M. sanguinipes that closely agreed with current distribution and abundance patterns of this species in North America over a 30-y period. Incremental climate change scenarios were then applied to the bioclimatic model to predict changes to potential distribution and relative abundance of M. sanguinipes, resulting from climate change. Compared to predicted range and distribution under current climate conditions, model results indicated that M. sanguinipes would have increased range and relative abundance for temperature increases between 1 and 7C. The model predicted that the range of this crop pest would be extended to regions that are not currently used for agricultural production in North America. 
10.2307/3503572|Isolates of the hyphomycetous fungus Metarhizium have recently been found which are highly pathogenic to acridoid grasshoppers. These isolates have been described as M. flavoviride group 3. This has led to a re-examination of the taxonomic characters used to distinguish between species within the genus. M. flavoviride has been described as having swollen, or flask-shaped phialides, while those of M.anisopliae have straight-sided, or cylindrical, phialides. To test the validity of this character, the phialide morphology of 11 isolates representing 3 species (M. anisopliae, M. flavoviride, and M. album) have been examined by scanning electron microscopy using frozen whole mounts. It was found that phialide morphology of a single isolate could vary within the same culture as well as between different substrates. No consistent differences between the species were found. It is concluded that phialide morphology is not a good taxonomic criterion.
3503699|The composition and members of the Tcholmanvissiinae (representatives of the 'oedischioids' stem-group) are revised. One of us (O.B.) examined all available specimens, allowing a better appreciation of intraspecific variability in the wing venation and a proposal of new diagnostic specific and generic characters. Several genera and species are synonymized. Finally, close relationships between Tcholmanvissiinae and Tettoedischiinae are supported by data on relief of veins and organization of the cubital area. Previous hypotheses of relationships between Tcholmanvissiinae and Titanoptera or Caelifera are dismissed.
10.2307/3503586|The subfamilies Truxalinae and Acridinae are discussed. Acrida maxima Karny 1907 restored to species status from synonymy under Acrida turrita (L. 1758). The subfamily Truxalinae cannot be sustained as a separate taxon and is synonymised under the subfamily Acridinae since on grounds of male epiphallic morphology, femoral stridulatory apparatus and wing venation there is no means of clearly differentiating it from the Acridinae. The decision is supported by examples of functional anatomy from Chromotruxalis Dirsh 1951, Acrida Linnaeus 1758, Truxalis Fabricius 1775, Truxaloides Dirsh 1951, Acridarachnea I. Bolivar 1908, and Chromacrida Dirsh 1952.
3503737|Three instances were observed in Costa Rica, of an adult cockroach feeding on or palpating the waxy material secreted on the tegmina of a fulgorid; in one instance, the cockroach was a female Macrophyllodromia sp. and the homopteran a fulgorid, Enchophora sanguinea. In another, the cockroach was Macrophyllodromia maximiliani and the fulgorid was Copidocephala guttata. These are the first observations of trophobiosis in a cockroach. Brief descriptions of known species of Macrophyllodromia, and the male genitalia of 2 species are given.
10.2307/3503521|The author describes a new species of Paraphotina Giglio-Tos 1915 P. occicentalis sp. n.) from Peru. Characterized by its large size, it appears related to P. reticulata (Saussure 1870), from which it differs in the shape of its male copulatory apparatus.
4122942|The genus Taxiarchus, reinstated by Jago (1989), is revised, incorporating characters derived from the female genitalia. The outcome is to synonomize the genus with Proscopia Klug 1820, as has previously been suggested on the basis of external morphology alone. However, these new characters and Jago's restrictive definitions of the proscopiid genera Taxiarchus have the effect of allowing this synonomy only for some species of Proscopia, leaving the other species originally described under that genus now belonging to other genera, which will be erected later in another paper. In this work the boundaries of the genus Proscopia are defined for both sexes, Taxiarchus is synonomized with Proscopia, and two new species are described.
10.2307/3503547| The new genus Tainacris is erected for three new species of Eumastacids from southwestern Dominican Republic, Hispaniola. They inhabit transitional dry to humid montane forests in low to medium elevations (200 - 700 m) of Sierra de Neiba and mountains of the Cordillera Central. Additionally, two new species are described in the genus Antillacris Rehn & Rehn 1939 from high humid elevations (over 1,200 m) of the same mountain systems. As revealed by its weakly sclerotized and disk shaped epiphallus, Tainacris belongs in the subfamily Episactinae, together with the two previously known Hispaniolan Eumastacids Antillacris and Espagnola Rehn & Rehn 1939. Also a new fossil genus and species of Eumastacidae (Paleomastacris ambarinus) is described from Miocene Dominican amber. Along with the new species of Tainacris and Antillacris, this fossil is compared to known extant Episactinae in Hispaniola and Central America. It represents the first fossil true grasshopper (Acridomorpha) described from amber. /// Se erige el nuevo gnero Tainacris para tres nuevas especies de Eumastcidos del suroeste de Repblica Dominicana, Hispaniola. Estas habitan bosques transicionales con vegetacin seca a hmeda de montaa en elevaciones bajas a medianas (200 - 700 m) en montaas de la Sierra de Neiba y Cordillera Central. Adicionalmente, se describen dos nuevas especies en el gnero Antillacris Rehn & Rehn 1939, de altas elevaciones (sobre los 1,200 m) en los mismos sistemas montaosos. Como lo revela su dbilmente esclerotizado epifalo en forma de disco, Tainacris pertenece a la subfamilia Episactinae, al igual que los dos gneros de Eumastcidos previamente conocidos de la Hispaniola, Antillacris y Espagnola Rehn & Rehn 1939. Se describe tambin un nuevo gnero y especie de Eumastcido fsil (Paleomastacris ambarinus) del mbar Mioceno de la Repblica Dominicana. Junto a las especies de Tainacris y Antillacris, este se compara con los Episactinae actuales conocidos de la Hispaniola y Centroamrica. Este representa el primer saltamontes (Acridomorpha) fsil en mbar que se describe. 
3503658|It has been hypothesized that some herbivores may increase the cycling of nutrients in ecosystems, thereby increasing plant production even after herbivore consumption is considered. Such herbivory could maintain the productivity of ecosystems and should not be curtailed. This contrasts with the traditional view whereby herbivory always reduces plant production. Two grasshoppers (Melanoplus sanguinipes and Ageneotettix deorum), considered pest species in Western US rangelands, are experimentally shown to enhance plant production under certain conditions and to diminish it under others. Plant production increased when grasshoppers' consumption increased nitrogen cycling, nitrogen being the limiting resource for plants at the study sites. This happened when grasshoppers consumed plant species with slowly decomposing litter, favoring plants whose litter decomposed rapidly, such that their store of nitrogen was more rapidly released to the soil. However, feeding preferences change between sites and with grasshopper species, creating a spatial mosaic in which grasshoppers can increase and decrease plant production. Because changes in plant species composition are the major reason for changes in nutrient cycling rate, plant communities are created that will persistently exhibit enhanced or diminished production. Therefore, grasshoppers cannot be generally viewed as detrimental to rangeland productivity and grasshopper control may need to be more judiciously applied.
10.2307/3503523|The spermatophores of the majority of species of tettigoniid consist of two parts: an ampulla which contains the sperm and a spermatophylax which the female eats following the end of copulation. One hypothesis for the function of the spermatophylax is that it is maintained by selection for paternal investment. In order for this to be possible, the donating male must fertilize a significant proportion of the eggs which stand to benefit from his spermatophylax nutrients. In order to determine whether or not this was the case, the pattern of sperm precedence was examined in the tettigoniid Steropleurus stali, using the sterile-male technique. The duration of the female's refractory period, the number of eggs laid in this period and the number of mature eggs stored by females were also recorded. The results indicated pronounced last-male sperm precedence (median P
41759697|The two Central American genera Hypocyrtus Redtenbacher, 1908 and Rhynchacris Redtenbacher, 1908 (Xerosomatinae: Hesperophasmatini) are revised at the species level. Extended redescriptions of both genera are presented along with keys to the species contained. Detailed descriptions and illustrations of all seven known species are provided. Hypocyrtus Redtenbacher, 1908 is here confirmed as a valid genus and now contains three distinct species, all of which are restricted to southern Mexico, Guatemala and Belize. Ocnophila ornatissima Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907 is removed from Ocnophila Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907 and transferred to Hypocyrtus (n. comb.). H. postpositus Redtenbacher, 1908 is removed from Lamponius Stal, 1875 and returned to Hypocyrtus (rev. stat). Two new synonyms are established in Hypocyrtus: Anophelepis vittatus Westwood, 1859 = Anophelepis scythrus Westwood, 1859 (n. syn.) and Hypocyrtus substrumosus Redtenbacher, 1908 = Hypocyrtus postpositus Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The male and egg of H. ornatissimus (Brunner v. Wattenwyl, 1907) and the egg of H. scythrus (Westwood, 1859) are described and illustrated for the first time. Rhynchacris now contains four known species distributed throughout southern Central America (Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama) and northeast Colombia. The monotypic genus Pseudoceroys Hebard, 1923 was previously misplaced in Diapheromerinae: Diapheromerini: "Clonistria-group" and is here shown to be a synonym of Rhynchacris Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The type-species P. hanoweriHebard, 1923 automatically becomes a member of Rhynchacris (comb. n.). R. chocoense n. sp. from the Choc Province is described from the female and is the first record of the genus from Colombia; the holotype is preserved in the Natural History Museum, London (BMNH). Ceroys bigibbus Rehn, 1904 was previously misplaced and is here transferred to Rhynchacris (comb. n.). Hesperophasma lobata Redtenbacher, 1908 is a synonym of the type species Rhynchacris ornata Redtenbacher, 1908 (n. syn.). The male of R. ornata Redtenbacher, 1908 is described and illustrated for the first time. Lectotypes are designated for Anophelepis scythrus Westwood, 1859 and Hypocyrtus substrumosus Redtenbacher, 1908.
3657119|Nymphal instars of Xyleus discoideus discoideus, a romaleid grasshopper, are described for the first time. The following characters are recorded for each stage: body length, head width, pronotal length, hind femoral length, number of antennomeres, number of longitudinal eye stripes and the morphology of wing pads and external genitalia. Criteria that can be used to distinguish the instars and sexes are identified. Males and females have a 5-instar cycle under laboratory conditions. Females are larger as adults than males and this is linked to a longer nymphal period in females.
3503680|A new subspecies of Pamphagidae (Purpuraria erna lanzarotensis) is provided, and additional distributions, and nomenclature changes of Orthoptera (sens. lat. to include Blattaria, Mantodea and Phasmida) of the Canary Islands. A significant inter-island difference in body size of the acridid Calliptamus plebeius is discussed.
10.2307/3503647|This paper provides an analysis of the taxonomy of the two taxa generally considered as forming the family Pauliniidae, and describes their phallic complexes, including their muscles. From the bibliography related to the group, and also from the present research, it is concluded that the family is an artificial one, and that external similarities of its species are due to parallel adaptations to the aquatic habitat and not to close phylogenetic relationship. Paulinia acuminata (De Geer 1773) would be the only species of the subfamily Pauliniinae of Acrididae (family rank seems unwarranted). Marellia remipes Uvarov 1929 has an uncertain position, probably also within Acrididae. For the latter species, new synonymies are indicated.
25473423|Surfaces of the eggs of acridids show chorionic sculpturing - distinct features that can be used to identify species. With a scanning electron microscope, we document dimensions and surface detail for eggs of two common Indian acridids: Hieroglyphus banian and Acrida exaltata. Their eggs are characterized by distinguishing features: A. exaltata by many small tubercles scattered almost uniformly, H. banian by thick-ridged hexagonal polygons. The similarities and dissimilarities of their egg-surfaces to those of other acridid species are not consistent with subfamilial classification.
20789562|A global imperative for the conservation of biodiversity brings into focus the need for taxonomic research. However, this biodiversity crisis is reflected in a parallel taxonomic crisis. Whereas molecular information is increasingly the evidential basis for delimiting species, revisionary taxonomy is frequently dismissed as merely 'descriptive' and lacking a hypothesis-driven nature. Phylogenetic classifications are optimal for storing and predicting information, but phylogeny divorced from taxonomy is unrealizable. Taxonomy, systematics, and phylogeny are interwoven, hypothesis-driven sciences with a shared theoretical base. Taxonomic knowledge remains essential to biological research and knowledge acquisition is made urgent by the biodiversity crisis. Taxonomy needs to prepare to take advantage of new information technology capabilities. Rapid advances in bioinformatics have provided unprecedented opportunities to conduct taxonomic research more efficiently; cybertaxonomy is emerging as an exciting new branch. Here we argue the great potential for using the orthoptera Species File online (http://orthoptera.speciesfile.org/) as a tool for monograph and revisionary studies of Orthoptera and we also draw attention to a method of integrating many cybertaxonomic tools with species descriptions: this to engage both the specialist taxonomic community and a wider public in the gathering and deepening understanding of taxonomic knowledge.
3657137|Results are presented of a study on the armature of the hind and fore tibiae in 39 species and 4 additional subspecies, out of 54 (formally recognised) species and 9 additional subspecies, belonging to Rhacocleis and Pterolepis. The armature of the hind tibia, traditionally used to separate Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, varies within taxa from very slight in most taxa to extensive in a few. The armature of the upper inner margin of the fore tibia proved a more reliable character than the traditional hind tibial armature to separate Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, indicating that the synonymy of Rhacocleis with Pterolepis proposed in Heller et al. (1998), should be re-evaluated. Observations suggest a possible re-arrangement of species described under Pterolepis and Rhacocleis, but no nomenclatural changes are proposed. It is argued that nomendatural changes, if any, should only be taken after a much needed review of the generic definitions in the Platycleidini (s.l.). An updated checklist of Pterolepis and Rhacocleis taxa is included. Pterolepis ramburi Serville 1838 is proposed as a species incertae sedis.
20066582|Caeliferan species belonging to the Ibero-Balear fauna are inventoried. Lists are drawn up on the basis of data available in the literature and from a study of specimens collected by the authors during the last 30 years. The last inventory of species and subspecies belonging to the fauna of the Iberian Peninsula and Balearic islands was in 1987. In five different lists we take into consideration contributions from various authors since 1987. Listings are: 1) species belonging to the Ibero-Balear fauna, which include 153 taxa belonging to three superfamilies, five families and eight subfamilies, 2) species from the Arn Valley not found in the Peninsula itself: two taxa, 3) alien species: five taxa, 4) species of doubtful presence in the Iberian Peninsula: six taxa and 5) nullified species for the Iberian Peninsula: 19 taxa.
10.2307/3503557|Patterns of orthopteran distributions are described for North and Central Asia. Distribution of higher taxa, genera, and species shows that the position of their range boundaries is chiefly determined by current conditions, mainly zonality and continentality. It reflects the southern thermophilic character of these insects and the association of most species with grassland ecosystems. Distribution of the centers of diversity and endemism corresponds in outline to the general distribution. Types of biogeographical boundaries and orthopteran ranges are also described. A scheme for the regionalization of North and Central Asia is proposed.
23610399|A new species of Phaneropterinae from northeastern Mexico, Pterodichopetala alfredoi n. sp., is described. P. alfredoi n. sp., may be easily separated from congeneric P. cieloi on morphological characters such as length of tegmen (shorter in P. alfredoi n. sp., leaving exposed the last abdominal tergites), male cerci composed of three processes vs two processes in P. cieloi, internal genitalia made up of two subtriangular processes, proximally and distally very produced (not so in P. cieloi), stridulatory file with ca 113 teeth (9-10 mm in length, 8-15 teeth/mm) vs P. cieloi stridulatory file ca 70 teeth (7-8 mm in length, 8-12 teeth/mm). Information on acoustic signals, ecology and distribution of P. alfredoi n. sp., is provided and discussed.
3503700|The effects of wildfires on the Orthoptera fauna of extensive dry grasslands were investigated at 25 random sites in a military training area in Eastern Austria. Using a space-for-time substitution, a time span of 1 to about 20 y after fire was considered. Fire-induced trajectories of habitat characteristics such as microclimate proved to have a determining effect on the occurrence of most acridids and some tettigoniids. Dispersal capacity and fire-shelter characteristics of egg deposition sites did not significantly influence postburn occurrence patterns of the investigated species. Of a total of 20 species, seven were favored by wildfires, two were adversely affected by fire and eleven did not show significant responses to postburn age. Four species, amongst them Celes variabilis, which is highly endangered in Central Europe, can be considered fire-dependent in the study area. Therefore, fire can have beneficial effects for the conservation of acridid grasshoppers in particular. A reconsideration of the present legal ban on the use of prescribed burning in Central Europe is recommended.
43738197|Top-down control by spider predators on grasshopper herbivores can produce trophic cascades, which may enhance plant biomass and alter plant community composition. These trophic level effects may be the result of either predator reduction in prey numbers (i.e., consumptive effects) or decreased prey foraging time in response to predator presence (i.e., nonconsumptive effects). However, predator-prey interactions can be context dependent and do not always affect the plant trophic level. We conducted a field and laboratory experiment in a Northern Wisconsin (USA) old field ecosystem to uncover whether consumptive or non-consumptive effects of spider predation on grasshopper herbivores result in a trophic cascade, and if so to determine the underlying mechanisms that drive these trophic cascades. In a field experiment, four treatments examined the effects of multiple trophic-level interactions on plant biomass: 1) control treatment of vegetation only, 2) a two trophic-level interaction (grasshoppers and vegetation), and two different three trophic-level interactions: 3) the presence of "predator spiders" to examine consumptive effects, and 4) "risk spiders" with their chelicerae disarmed with beeswax to examine non-consumptive effects. In addition, a lab experiment was conducted to examine behavioral responses by grasshoppers in the presence of both an armed-spider predator and a risk spider to assess whether food quality (high vs low C:N ratios) had an effect on this interaction. Both risk and predator spiders decreased the impact of grasshoppers on plant biomass in the field experiment, and equally reduced overall grasshopper survival, indicating a non-consumptive effect. At the behavioral level, grasshoppers exhibited anti-predator behavior at the expense of reduced food intake. Food quality had no effect on the survival of grasshoppers as foraging was sacrificed for predator avoidance. Taken together, our results indicate that the resulting trophic cascade was the result of non-consumptive effects and that spider presence alone may reduce grasshopper herbivory rates.
3503663|Two new species of Acrometopae and the female of Lamecosoma inermis Ragge are described from Tanzania, East Africa. Horatosphaga parensis n. sp. occurs in montane forest clearings of the South and North Pare Mountains. Peronura uguenoensis n. sp. inhabits herbaceous vegetation in the North Pare Mts. Notes on altitudinal distribution and habitat requirements are given for both species. L. inermis is an inhabitant of the savannah grasslands in the colline and submontane zone of southeast and eastern Kilimanjaro.
4122956|The phallic anatomy of all the modern Hispaniolan eumastacids and of representative species of all genera of the Central American Episactinae has been examined. Two new genera, Neibamastax from the Dominican Republic and Paralethus from El Salvador, are erected to accomodate species which were found to have very divergent phallic morphology. Additionally, we have examined isolated species of the Teicophryinae and Miraculinae. A cladistic analysis of the Central American and Hispaniolan genera was performed, which divides these into two well-supported monophyletic clades, corresponding to the two areas of distribution. These we equate with the Episactinae Burr 1903 and the Espagnolinae Rehn 1948, and offer diagnoses of these two subfamilies. We present new data from the Teicophryinae which supports their inclusion in the Episactidae as well.
10.2307/3503510|Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPDs) was utilized in the following study to examine its potential in paternity assessment of two grasshopper species. Initially, primer screening was undertaken and a list of 42 primers generated that were found useful in differentiating among individuals. Next, the inheritance of markers in a Mendelian fashion was verified before testing for paternity. It was concluded that RAPDs is an efficient and useful technique in that paternity can be assigned to a particular male via inclusive data (the presence of a band in the offspring and with one parent over the others). Recommendations of methodology are included in the paper.
25473455|Metabolic rate determines an individual's rate of resource acquistion, assimilation, growth, survival and reproduction. Studies involving a broad range of taxa and body sizes typically result in whole-organism metabolic rate scaling to the  power of body mass. Competing models have been proposed to explain this allometric relationship. The nutrient supply network model of West et al. (1997) proposes that the  power relationship results from the fractal nature of space-filling nutrient supply networks. The model of Kozlowski et al. (2003) proposes that the scaling of metabolic rate with body mass will vary from 2/3 to 1 among different taxa, depending on the degree to which increasing body size depends on increasing cell size or number. The present study measured resting metabolic rates across a broad range of body sizes in nymphs of Melanoplus sanguinipes F. and also analyzed published reports of metabolic rates in adult Orthoptera. The two sets of data were in close agreement: the scaling exponent for the ontogenetic series of M. sanguinipes was 0.92, and for the interspecific, phylogenetically corrected regression with adult Orthoptera, was 1.06. Both scaling exponents were significantly greater than the 0.75 predicted by the nutrient supply network model.
25473422|The insecticide diflubenzuron (DFB), a benzoylphenyl urea, decreases fecundity in insects by a still unknown mechanism. The objective of this study was firstly to see the effects of DFB on female reproduction, after its ingestion by Schistocerca gregaria females five days following imaginal molt. DFB significantly delayed the timing of the first and of the second laying when compared to control females. DFB-treated females laid eggs only twice, while control females had, as typical, up to five ovipositions. DFB action on ovarian development and hemolymphatic ecdysteroid levels were also evaluated in females. Ecdysteroid titres in control females fluctuated according to the ovarian cycle, reaching a peak of around 170 pmol/mL hemolymph during the vitellogenic phase. In DFB-treated females, hemolymph ecdysteroid titres remained very low and oocyte growth was reduced. The treatment caused early oocyte resorption and any eggs deposited never hatched.
10.2307/3503504| In eastern Australia, parasitism of eggs of the Australian plague locust, Chortoicetesterminifera (Walker) by the wasp Scelio fulgidus Crawford was surveyed between 1975 and 1994. In the arid interior, where most plagues of C. terminifera originate, parasitism was moderate to high (15-45% of eggpods), yet locusts increased to plague proportions in spite of parasitism. The consistently moderate parasitism of C. terminifera in the interior, in spite of its low rainfall, is a result of S. fulgidus development being well synchronized with that of its host. After several generations in the interior, C. terminifera typically migrated from the interior to sub-coastal agricultural areas. When locusts invaded agricultural areas during summer, parasitism was only slightly lower than that in the interior, though parasitism declined between summer and autumn. Often the locust population in agricultural areas collapsed before the next summer and parasitism was very high in the eggpods of remnant locusts. The high post-outbreak parasitism levels were not reached during 1990-94, when a preventative control program kept locust populations from reaching plague proportions: lower host numbers mean a lower absolute abundance of S. fulgidus, so that when host populations collapsed, the parasitism in residual locust populations increased less. 
23610400|Somewhat surprisingly, the rather speciose subfamily Catantopinae has largely evaded phylogenetic scrutiny. This note describes relationships among a small, but larger than that heretofore studied, subset of members based on an analysis of mitochondrial sequence characters. Analysis of portions of 4 mitochondrial genes, some sequenced in this laboratory and some obtained from GenBank, was applied to 12 specimens of Catantopinae. Also included were representatives of the subfamilies Calliptaminae, Cyrtacanthacridinae, Eyprepocnemidinae, Melanoplinae and Oxyinae. Pyrgomorpha conica served as the outgroup. Sequences were analyzed by weighted and unweighted maximum parsimony and Bayesian methods. Both weighted parsimony and Bayesian approaches, with some minor exceptions, yielded similar relationships. Although some clusters of catantopines do occur, molecular results appear to confirm earlier suspicions that the subfamily is not monophyletic and therefore should be subdivided. More work clearly needs to be devoted to the Catantopinae in order to determine the nature and extent of the subfamily's inevitable sundering.
20789565|Two new species of the flightless genus Parepistaurus, occurring on high mountains of northern Tanzania, are described in this paper. P. hanangensis n. sp. is an inhabitant of the montane zone of Mt Hanang, a solitary volcano of northwestern Tanzania. P. uguenoensis n. sp. occurs in the North Pare Mts, a mountain range of the northern branch of the Eastern Arc chain. Both species have their closest relatives in species of adjacent situated mountain areas, as seen in their morphology and molecular phylogeny. Phylogenetic reconstruction were performed for three genes [16S rRNA gene, cytochrome oxidase subunit I (COI) and the histone gene H3], using different assumptions on sequence evolution. The closest relative of P. uguenoensis is P. deses from Mt Kilimanjaro, a geologically young volcano. The closest morphological and molecular relative of P. hanangensis is P. manyara, distributed along mountainous ranges of the rift-valley escarpment. The molecular relationship of the investigated taxa suggests that the subspecies of P. deses should receive species status.
10.2307/3503571|Schistocerca americana males were found to crepitate during interactions with other males in the field. More research will need to be conducted to determine if such behavior is involved with male-male aggressive interactions or if it is involved with courtship signalling to females or both
25622283|The species niedermoschelensis sp. nov. (Nosipteron niedermoschelensis gen. and sp. nov. under Linnaean nomenclature) is described on the basis of a single fossil specimen from the the Permo-Carboniferous deposits of Niedermoschel, Saar-Nahe Basin, Germany. The species is assigned to the higher taxon Archaeorthoptera (including among others, orthopterans and some stem orthopterans). The forewing morphology of the species suggests close relationships with lobeattid insects, a group widely represented during the Late Carboniferous, and one for which the monophyly is uncertain. The occurrence of niedermoschelensis sp. nov. near the Gzhelian/Asselian boundary constitutes the latest record of this group (assuming that it is monophyletic). In addition the new species exhibits a new combination of character states, including a comparatively long free part of CuA.
25473417|A junior homonym was detected among phasmid genera and the following replacement name is proposed: Redtenbacherus nom. nov. for Ernodes Redtenbacher, 1908. New combinations are proposed for the species group names currently included in this genus. Redtenbacherus antennatus (Redtenbacher, 1908) comb. nov.; Redtenbacherus jacobsoni (Rehn, 1912) comb. nov. and Redtenbacherus sumatranus (Redtenbacher, 1908) comb. nov.
10.2307/3503511|The mechanism of sperm transfer and sperm organization inside the spermatheca was investigated in Dichromorpha viridis (Scudder). Spermathecae from single- and multiple- mated females whose copulations were interrupted at various prescribed time intervals, were examined histologically. Sperm organization inside the spermatheca from 24 to 120 hours after copulation had terminated was also investigated. The first observation of sperm inside the spermatheca did not occur until 30 minutes had passed into copulation. The majority of sperm transferred into the spermatheca were in the form of sperm bundles, or spermatodesmes, and the rate at which sperm bundles were transferred appeared to decrease after 13 hours into copulation (average mating duration in the laboratory was 28 hours). The occurrence of abundant sperm with sperm bundles was observed only in females that had mated before and less than 9 hours into copulation, and so believed to be from previous matings. As mating continued, less and less individual sperm was observed, and by 15 hours into copulation only sperm bundles were observed inside the spermatheca. The interrupted multiple matings indicate that at least some sperm bundles remain inside the spermatheca while individual sperm were removed by some mechanism, possibly sperm flushing by an excess of seminal fluid provided by the mating male. Some sperm bundles were shown to keep their bundle integrity for at least 7 days after copulation had terminated. The sperm bundles must disassociate into individual sperm prior to fertilizing the female's eggs; therefore, it may be the female that provides the mechanism or chemical stimulus to initiate sperm bundle disassociation prior to oviposition and/or a multiple mating. The results of this investigation implicate sperm competition, perhaps mediated by female choice, as a primary reason for lengthy copulations in D. viridis. Males may also act as mechanical plugs by remaining in copula for an extended duration after a sufficient amount of sperm has been transferred, or males may be overcompensating the process of sperm removal by transferring an excess of seminal fluid to "flush-out" any sperm present from previous matings.
3657112|An analysis of the development of infestations of the Australian plague locust (Chortoicetes terminifera) (Walker) (Orthoptera: Acrididae) from 1977-1995 in eastern Australia is presented which traces the sequence of generations and redistribution of gregarious populations through migration. Migration in this species has previously been viewed as a one-way trip, locusts reaching southern regions of the species range were thought to have no reliable means of return to the areas of summer population increase in western Queensland. However, a study of outbreaks over recent years, using new technologies for simulating and observing migratory events, suggested a pattern of exchange migrations, with northward movements in November and December. In this paper we provide further evidence of migrations to western Queensland from populations in the southern or eastern parts of the species range. Several northward or westward migrations from New South Wales, South Australia or eastern Queensland are identified from historic distribution data and supported by meteorological records. These migrations were significant in that they allowed the rapid re-establishment of gregarious populations in arid western Queensland after summer rains. The frequency of late-spring northward migrations is comparable to that of the better-known southward migrations in autumn. The evidence for previous conclusions about the source of historical plagues and the importance of spring breeding in arid southwest Queensland are re-examined in the light of these findings.
10.2307/3503493| The genus Pterophylla Kirby is characterized by great morphometric and acoustic variation among allopatric populations of the different species (Alexander 1967, Shaw 1968, Barrientos 1988). The plasticity of the group and much intraspecific variation have caused a history of taxonomic confusion (Hebard 1941, Shaw and Carlson 1969, North and Shaw 1980, Barrientos and Den Hollander 1994, Den Hollander and Barrientos 1994). Acoustic and morphometric characters have been useful in demonstrating geographic variation and separating species of Pterophylla (Shaw and Carlson 1969; Barrientos 1988). The present work examines morphometric variation between allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. in northern Mexico. Males of seven allopatric populations of Pterophylla spp. were considered, with a sample size of 20 males per population, measuring 18 characters per male. The analysis separated populations into two groups: group 1 consisting of populations 1, 2, and 3, which corresponded to P. beltrani; and group 2 consisting of populations 4, 5, 6, and 7 which corresponded to P. robertsi. Mate choice and hybridization experiments between the populations confirmed the above results. The geographic range of P. beltrani was determined to extend from Nuevo Len, at the base of the eastern Sierra Madre, to Cuidad Victoria and Jaumave, Tamaulipas; the geographic range of P. robertsi was determined to extend from Llera, Tamaulipas to San Luis Potos, including three additional populations of P. robertsi previously unknown in the State of Tamaulipas. Intermediate populations, i.e., populations 4, 5, and 6, were also intermediate in morphological characters with respect to the extreme populations of the geographic range of the species (north extreme population = population 1, P. beltrani; south extreme population = population 7, P. robertsi). The possible existence of a hybrid zone between the populations occurring where the geographic range of the species overlap is hypothesized. 
43738195|Members of the family Phaneropteridae are well known for their acoustical duetting behaviour, used for locating and meeting a mate. In Poecilimon affinis, typically the male approaches a responding female phonotactically. A set of behavioural experiments, bioacoustic and neurophysiological measurements (some with a relatively low sample size, but not repeatable under the same circumstances) indicates the following system: the male song (92 dB SPLpeak at a distance of 1 m) is about 10 dB louder than the female song. The females respond to male signals only if these are ~15-20 dB above their hearing threshold. The males start a phonotactic approach towards a stationary, responding female only if she is no more than ~12m away. Females, on the other hand, may respond to singing males up to a distance of 28m, and to more distant males with softer signals than to closer ones. A possible function of these weak signals, inaudible for the duetting male, may be to attract eavesdropping males. The communication system will work at densities as low as 0.003 females or 0.0005 males per m.
3503683|This paper adds to Naskrecki's (1998) revision of the neotropical katydid genus Acantheremus. The male of Acantheremus granulatus Karny is described for the first time. A newly discovered Peruvian species from the rainforest canopy-Acantheremus arboreus Nickle, new species-is also described.
3657132|A better understanding of the mechanisms that underlie phase transformation in a solitarious desert locust population is an important prerequisite for the development of a quantitative gregarization model and for predicting locust outbreaks. Two types of processes are involved: 1) clustering at diminishing spatial scales, which brings dispersed locusts together and which, in patchy micro-environments with a concentrated food resource, gives rise to nuclei of pheromone-emitting, gregarizing insects; and 2) recruitment processes which promote the horizontal spread of gregarious traits from such nuclei. Because of the heterogeneity of typical breeding habitats and divergent behavior of the 2 phases of the insect, there is a dynamic interplay between the forces of crowd formation and those of dispersal. All the key steps in the course of phase change are reversible and for successful development of a viable gregarious population, all must proceed at optimal pace toward the gregarious phase. The process resembles a chemical transformation that involves a series of reversible sequential steps and may, likewise, be treated as a series of equilibria. Such a conceptual model may constitute a useful framework for quantitative studies in desert locust primary breeding areas and in the development of a predictive gregarization model.
3503732|Based on analysis of more than fifty species of neotropical grasshoppers with a neo XY sex determining mechanism, the authors suggest that species acquiring such mechanisms are finally extinct at the end of a relatively short evolutionary process.
20066584|A junior homonym was detected recently among the katydid genera, and the following replacement name is proposed: Beierotettix nom. nov. for Colobotettix Beier, 1960. Accordingly, new combinations are herein proposed for the species currently included in this genus: Beierotettix marginatus (Brunner von Wattenwyl, 1895) comb. nov. and Beierotettix viridis (Beier, 1960) comb. nov.
25473444|Conspicuous sex differences in size, shape, color and behavior are pervasive throughout both the animal and plant kingdoms. Although previous work has shown that sexual dimorphism can evolve purely as the result of either natural (intersexual resource competition) or sexual selection (fecundity selection, male-male combat), a handful of studies have also shown that these mechanisms need not be mutually exclusive and may even act synergistically to enhance dimorphisms. More recent studies have focused on the factors that act to constrain the evolution of sexual dimorphism. For example, a high genetic covariance among traits between the sexes is thought to retard adaptive sexual differentiation or place an upper limit on the degree of intersexual divergence. However, high genetic correlations themselves are often the result of selection for functional coherence amongst traits (integration), and thus divergent selection between the sexes could theoretically drive sexual dimorphism in the genetic variance-covariance matrix (G). To address this issue, we consider the phenotypic variance-covariance matrix (P), within the context of the evolution of sexual dimorphism in the eastern lubber grasshopper (Romalea microptera). We show that: 1) adult female lubbers have relatively wider heads than adult males; 2) most morphological traits show significant integration with one another, but males show a higher degree of integration than females; 3) P in lubbers is not strongly correlated across the sexes. These results suggest that phenotypic integration does not constrain the evolution of sexual dimorphism in R. microptera. Hence, sex-related traits can evolve separately from other traits.
10.2307/3503507|A quantitative assessment of pest status in Orthoptera s.str. is currently difficult. While estimates of crop-damage are sometimes available and relatively easy to obtain, this is rarely translated into crop-loss nor is reduction in productivity of domestic animals as a result of damage to rangelands. Crop damage rarely has a simple relationship to crop-loss. Obtaining a direct measure of harvest weight is complicated by harvest methods. Effect of prolonged attack over a number of years must be taken into account. The varying market value of the crop lost will alter the status of a pest locally. Most published annual data does not take these subtleties into account. Published government harvest loss data may be exaggerated either upwards (perhaps to get aerial spraying into an area to kill cattle ticks) or downwards (to achieve forecast government productivity targets). Most Orthopteran pests attack as associations of two or more species, each of which oscillates in numbers independently. Monitoring studies rarely continue for periods long enough to understand what drives these changes. Exceptions are to be found in the mid-west of the U.S.A. (Anderson 1970, Hewitt, and Onsager, 1982), central Asia, and eastern Australia. Long-term changes in farming practice, e.g. replacement of millet by sorghum in the Sahel, may be indirect clues that Orthoptera pest damage is having an effect. Intercrops and poor weeding may favor greater attack by acridids. Qualitatively centers of Orthopteran pest activity can be chosen. These include North America, Central America, the southern Caribbean, central and northeast South America, sahelian Africa, Ethiopian highlands, southwestern and southern Africa, eastern Europe, central Asia, northern Africa, India, East Pakistan and Afghanistan, parts of the Arabian peninsula, China, Philippines, and Australia. Severe damage is often evident where there has been displacement of farming communities during recent wars and agriculture has been abandoned. Ecological disequilibrium is more frequent where marginal lands have been occupied recently, e.g. Kenya, or arid lands irrigated (as in Libya) or overgrazing incurred (as in Central Asia) accompanied by drought. Some vegetational changes seem to be natural, e.g. reduction of wild sorghum on clay plains south of Lake Chad. The Orthoptera should never be monitored in isolation, because they are usually a component of an interacting insect pest complex including other insect orders. Crop phenology is also required, as we must build up more information on timing and degree of foliar damage and effect on yield.
10.2307/3503463|The behavior and biology of true leaf-mimicking katydids from lowland Amazonian rainforests in northeast Peru include several unusual features. A unique form of pair bonding or pair maintenance, called "riding", is reported for the first time; a male clings to the tegmen of the female for long periods of time between mating events. Species belonging to the genera Mimetica, Pterochroza, and Typophyllum display color polymorphism (with up to seven color variants in some species) and sexual dimorphism (males are significantly smaller and have different tegminal shapes than conspecific females). Some species of Pterochroza, Tanusia, Ommatoptera, Rhodopteryx, Porphyromma, and Typophyllum have secondary defense displays, wherein brightly colored hindwings and the undersides of tegmina with eyespots are displayed, when the katydid is disturbed by a potential predator. Parasitism by sarcophagid and ceratopogonid flies is also reviewed.
3503617| Seventeen new species of the predaceous katydid genus Phlugis Karny (Meconematinae) are described and figured. All of these species were collected from rainforests in northern Peru. Three of them - along with the already described species, P. teres (DeGeer) - regularly were captured along trails at ground level; the remaining 14 were collected from treetop canopies 10 to 30 m above ground level, using pesticide fogging methods. Based on the numbers of new forms collected from tree canopies, it is probable that many species of this already large genus are yet to be discovered as this niche is explored more thoroughly. /// Diecisiete nuevas especies de grillos depredadores del gnero Phlugis Karny (Meconematinae) se describen s ilustran. Todas estas especies fueron recolectadas de las selvas tropicales en la regin norte del Per. Tres de ellas - junto con la especie ya descrita, Phlugis teres (DeGeer) - fueron capturados regularmente a lo largo de los trillos a nivel del suelo; las catorce restantes fueron recogidos de los pabellones de las copas de rboles a 10-30 m sobre el nivel del suelo, usando el mtodo de pesticidas que empaaba. De acuerdo con los nmeros de las nuevas formas recogidas de las copas de los rboles, es probable que muchas especies de este gnero, ya numeroso, van a ser descubiertas conforme este nicho sea explorado ms a fondo. 
10.2307/3503525|We describe one new species of Hygronemobius, two new species of Pteronemobius from the highlands of Santa Cruz and San Cristobal and a new genus and species of Trigonidiinae. The new Hygronemobius daphne and the new Trigonidiine, Jarmilaxipha ecuadorica n. gen., n. sp. are believed to have been introduced into Galapagos (from an unknown source) within the last 20 years. We provide songs for all species discussed here.
3657105| In laboratory and field trials in China, the Australian isolate (FI-985) of the fungus Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum caused high mortality of nymphs of the oriental migratory locust, Locusta migratoria manilensis. In the laboratory, various dilutions of Green Guard, the commercial M. anisopliae var. acridum product, caused 70 to 80% mortality of 4th instar nymphs. In field trials conducted at Tianjin and in Henan province, backpack sprayers were used to treat 40 ha (2002) and over 160 ha (2003) with an ULV formulation of Green Guard. The spray was applied at a rate of 50 to 125g spores in 1125 to 1500 mL of oil/ha and, 8 to 11 d later, field populations had declined by 65 to 97%. 
3657128| The search for alternatives to the widespread use of chemicals to control locusts and grasshoppers has led to the development of mycoinsecticides based on Metarhizium anisopliae var. acridum. Two products are available commercially: Green Muscle in Africa and Green Guard in Australia. Only Green Guard has been used in large control operations, with nearly 80,000 ha treated since operational use began in 2000. Research, though important, was not sufficient to lead to operational use of Green Guard: the critical factor was the formation of the Locust and Grasshopper Biocontrol Committee that consisted of research providers, end-users and a commercial partner who together favored the rapid development of a commercial product. In Australia, M. a. var. acridum is used in environmentally sensitive areas such as near waterways, or where there are rare and endangered species, and on the many properties, in locust-source areas in the interior, that produce organic beef for export. However, an increasingly important use is by landholders, who are now required to list all the chemicals used for pest control when they sell their products. This, potentially very large, use is limited by the myopesticide's slower action and higher price. Slower action is not a major problem when Metarhizium is used in preventive control programs. The higher price is, in part, a consequence of its narrow host range. M. a. var. acridum is specific to locusts and grasshoppers, so research, development and registration costs must be divided amongst 1 or 2 users, not dozens, as is common with chemical pesticides. Yet one of the greatest problems is the sporadic nature of locust and grasshopper outbreaks, which results in an intermittent need for Metarhizium and a lack of ready availability when outbreaks do occur. Use of Metarhizium in a number of countries, including those that have more regular outbreaks, may be one way of ensuring high-volume production at a reasonable price. Only then will there be a regular operational use to prove that this mycoinsecticide works under a wide variety of environmental conditions, so that it can take its place as part of the integrated pest management of locusts and grasshoppers throughout the world. 
25473457|Autotomy, the 'voluntary' shedding of a limb or other body part, is a highly effective escape mechanism to avoid predation or other forms of entrapment. Autotomy, however, comes with costs to locomotion, reproductive behavior, regeneration etc. It has been suggested that increasing body size and 'robustness' may allow for less reliance on this extreme form of predator defense, but this theory has never been tested. Here we present behavioral observations ('willingness' or time taken to lose an entrapped limb) of Orthoptera of a range of body size and mass. These data strongly suggest that body size and mass may be an important determinant of the use of autotomy as an escape mechanism within the Order, possibly due to the effects of body size upon the efficacy of autotomy, as well as other defense mechanisms. An ontogenetic study for Gryllus bimaculatus, however, shows no clear trend in willingness to autotomize a limb with body mass, suggesting that this defense tactic may be less affected by body size per se, but rather by the tactics developed by each individual species.
3503740|A recently developed PCR-based assay, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), has been used for assessing phylogenetic relationships and the genetic structure of populations in many organisms including insects. Preliminary studies show that the procedure does not work well in acridid grasshoppers since it leads to very large numbers of indistinct bands, probably due to the large size of the genome. To overcome this drawback, we developed long primer sets with four selective nucleotides, and used these for the grasshoppers Chorthippus brunneus and C. jacobsi in northern Spain. This approach has allowed us to reduce the number of bands, so that we can compare homologous bands easily. Using the revised method, it appears that the degree of interspecific genetic differentiation of C. brunneus and C. jacobsi is relatively small.
25473421|Orthopteran community composition varies with habitat quality. The distribution of Orthoptera species depends primarily on which vegetation type provides food resources and habitat. For insight into this relation between distribution and habitat quality we studied the 21 most-abundant orthopteran species in El Cimatario National Park (State of Quertaro, Mxico) in four vegetation types. We found that nearly half of these species tended to inhabit a particular vegetation type. This study is a first contribution exploring the relation between vegetation and distribution of Mexican Orthoptera.
10.2307/3503644|A new species of cricket of the genus Petaloptila is described, Petaloptila pyrenaea is collected in limestone caves from the central Pyrenean mountains. It can be distinguished from the other Iberian species of the genus by its external morphology and the male genitalia.
20066583|Le Criquet nomade, Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville, 1838) a t tudi depuis longtemps en Afrique australe o ses aires grgarignes sont connues et suivies rgulirement. Ce locuste est aussi prsent  Madagascar, mais c'est seulement rcemment que des individus grgaires ont t observs et dcrits: en 1997 dans le sud et en 2002 dans le nord de l'le. Ce criquet fait une reproduction par an et passe la saison sche en diapause imaginale. Le prsent travail vise  recenser les signalisations de Nomadacris septemfasciata collectes depuis 1907 et d'tablir une premire chorologie du taxon au niveau national. Pour complter ces archives, d'autres donnes ont t recueillies par des enqutes paysannes et des prospections de terrain. Ces donnes sur la distribution ont t compares  des variables physiques (altitude) et mtorologique (pluviomtrie et temprature). Au total 717 signalisations ont t recueillies. La confrontation avec les variables physiques du milieu ne permet pas de dterminer d'optimum thermique ou pluviomtrique pour ce locuste. Au contraire du criquet migrateur, un autre locuste menaant  Madagascar, le criquet nomade semble s'adapter  des conditions varies. Le criquet nomade se rpartit entre 0 et 2000 m d'altitude. Une zone de diapause peut tre dlimite sur le rebord des hautes terres et sur la cte-Est. La zone de reproduction est beaucoup plus tendue, elle concerne les zones de moyenne altitude et l'ensemble du versant occidental du sud au nord. Le climat est de type tropical chaud et contrast. La rgion de la Sofia (au nord-ouest) concentre l'essentiel des signalisations de populations groupes. C'est dans cette zone que des individus grgaires ont t dcrits dans des essaims et des bandes larvaires entre 1999 et 2003. /// The red locust Nomadacris septemfasciata (Serville, 1838) has been studied for a long time in Southern Africa where its outbreak areas are known and regularly assessed. This locust is also observed in Madagascar, but only recently have gregarious individuals been observed and described: in 1997 in the south and in 2002 in the north part of the island. This locust has only one generation per year, with a long immature adult period throughout the dry season. In this work, by means of all data recorded since 1907, a first chorology study of Nomadacris septemfasciata is set up at the national level. Archival data were improved with data collected during rural investigations and field surveys. Chorology data were analyzed with physical and weather ecological parameters (altitude, rainfall and temperature). Altogether, 717 measures were collected. By contrast with the migratory locust, another pest in Madagascar, the distribution and ecological requirements of the red locust do not seem to correlate only with altitude, rainfall and temperature: its response to the micro-environment also plays a prominent role. The red locust ranges between 0 and 2000 m elevation. An area of diapause can be delimited on the edge of the highlands and the east coast. The breeding area is wider and more extensive, from middle areas to the whole of the western slope, from south to north. It is in the Sofia area (in the northwest of the island) that most of the populations (hopper bands and swarms) were observed between 1999 and 2003.
3503678|The authors studied a rich collection of mantids from Ecuador, belonging to the Pontificia Universidad of Quito. Forty species were identified, among them 18 are new for the Ecuadorian fauna and Chopardiella poulaini is new to science.
25473452|Life-history theory suggests that the existence and persistence of phenotypic variation within species must be maintained through some advantage accruing to an individual following one developmental pathway over another. Here, we consider the adult lifespan of two highly differentiated male morphs and the female in the bladder grasshopper species Bullacris membracioides (Orthoptera: Pneumoroidea). Our results show that the adult longevity of small, uninflated males is twice that of both the larger inflated male and mature females. Uninflated males have a type II survivorship curve, whereas inflated males and adult females both have type I survivorship curves. This difference indicates that the latter two morphs die due to senescence, while the uninflated male does not. The longevity difference between the male morphs shows that while the volant inflated males have the ability to locate many females, they can do so only over a short term, whereas the flightless uninflated male has comparatively limited mobility, but twice as much time to search for mates. This lifespan extension may impart some reproductive advantage for the uninflated male in the longer term, allowing for more female encounters, and increasing its chances for reproduction.
3503659|The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources has identified a new State Natural Area in the Lower Chippewa River region of western Wisconsin. This 100,000-ha+ area contains 800 ha of prairie remnants- 25% of Wisconsin's remaining remnant prairie. Diversity of grasshopper populations (Orthoptera: Acrididae) was assessed in these remnant prairies. Remnants ranged in size from <1 ha to > 60 ha, and contained from 6 to 15 species from four subfamilies. Half of the remnants contained 10 or more species. Data from this survey provides the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources with a tool to evaluate remnant prairies, and a snapshot of what grasshopper communities may have looked like in Wisconsin prior to settlement. This research also updates the Orthopteran literature database for acridid distribution records for this region of the USA.
10.2307/3503555|Field maps of calling males were obtained for two species of Hawaiian crickets. Males of Laupala tantalis tended to aggregate at the base of tree trunks, whereas L. pacifica males were usually evenly spaced. Possible explanations for this interspecific difference in spacing are considered.
40344841|Hemagglutinating activity (HA) of the serum of the 5th-instar desert locust Schistocerca gregaria was detected against a range of vertebrate blood cells (RBCs). Serum strongly agglutinates RBCs of rabbit. In contrast, no agglutination was observed for RBCs from guinea pig or horse and a very low level was observed for human, sheep, and rat RBCs. HA is Ca-dependent, heat-labile, and was strongly inhibited by -linked-D-galactosides and rhamnose. Developmentally, a relatively low level of HA (32) is present in the extracted fluids from centrifuged homogenate of 1 to 12 day-old eggs. Also, a limited level of HA was observed in the 2 nd and 3rd instars. However, prominent and cyclical patterns were observed in the 4th and 5th instars. In each of these cycles, HA starts low (64), maximizes (128, 512, in the two instars respectively) at about midstadium, then declines again prior to ecdysis to the next stage. On the other hand, adult stage HA starts at a low value (512), then maximizes and is sustained at a fairly constant value (1024), without any difference in the sexes throughout the period of measurements (up to day 73 of the life cycle). HA is independent of sex and season but conspicuously and reproducibly varies with stadium, stage and age.
10.2307/3503534|The natural history of the giant sand treader camel cricket, Daihinibaenetes giganteus Tinkham, was studied from 1992 to 1994 at the type locality, Great Sand Dunes National Monument, Alamosa County, Colorado. This insect undergoes six nymphal instars, overwintering usually as fourth instar nymphs. Individuals were found to have traveled as much as 200 m in a single night while foraging. These nocturnal insects apparently have a general omnivorous diet, consuming both living and dead plant and animal material. They have several natural enemies and potential natural enemies at the Monument. Communication was not observed for this species. Mating behavior was recorded in a few instances and was described. Males were rarely observed to be aggressive while foraging, but would aggressively defend their burrows, sometimes using their hind leg armature for this purpose. Three types of burrows-simple, branched and complex-were classified, and burrow contents were recorded. Some males were found to defend harems of one to four females, but these relationships were not long term. Daihinibaenetes giganteus displays an unusual mating system, which combines short-term female defense polygyny and resource defense polygyny in an attempt to maximize mating opportunity in an ephemeral, unstable environment.
10.2307/3503645|A visit to Kauai in 1997 revealed a catastrophic drop in Laupala cricket populations in the Keahua region of the island. Ants, previously unknown at collection sites, were now found in large numbers. This study investigates the possible effects of ants on Laupala. Localities from Hawaii, Kauai, Oahu, and Maui, previously known to possess large cricket populations were examined for the number of crickets heard singing and the presence of ants. Cricket songs provide a method by which cricket abundance can be assessed. No sites were found to have both an abundant Laupala population and a population of Pheidole megacephala. The data suggest that in eastern Kauai the decline in crickets, and the peculiar distribution patterns observed, can be attributed to predation by this ant.
25822708|In the past few years large-scale genome sequencing has demonstrated that inversion rearrangements are more frequent than initially hypothesized. Many examples suggest they may have played an important function in delineating the evolution of biodiversity. In particular, clinal patterns of variation for this type of rearrangement point out its significance in relation to the evolution and adaptation of organisms to changing environments. Within grasshoppers, Trimerotropis and Circotettix show high incidence of inversion rearrangements, either in fixed or polymorphic state, according to which several hypotheses about phylogenetic relationships have been proposed. Herewith we review the evolutionary significance of inversions in Trimerotropis pallidipennis, whose South American populations show clinal variation for pericentric inversions along environmental gradients. We report a new phylogeographic analysis that includes populations of this species from North and South America, and also other species of Trimerotropis and Circotettix. This study was performed in order to gain further insights into the phylogenetic relationships of this group of species, the dispersion routes followed by T. pallidipennis in South America and the evolutionary significance of inversion clines.
10.2307/3503541|Males of the bushcricket Steropleurus stali produce very large spermatophores. The relative lengths of the male and female refractory periods were investigated and shown to influence the operational sex ratio (OSR), such that the females show a high degree of intrasexual competition. It was also found that females do not show a preference for larger males who produce larger spermatophores. Altering the sex ratio, however, so that the OSR becomes male-skewed, influences the mate-choice behaviour of the females, such that they do show this preference.
20066563|Several species of mantids perform defensive displays during close-range encounters with predators. In adult Mantis religiosa, this display entails both visual and acoustic components, the latter being abdomino-alary stridulation. Stridulatory modifications of the abdomen and hindwings and acoustic properties of the defensive sounds of M. religiosa are characterized here for the first time. Defensive sounds are generated via an abdomino-alary mechanism involving contact between teeth found on the longitudinal veins of the metathoracic wings and pegs located on the abdominal pleura. Defensive stridulation in M. religiosa is highly variable in both spectral and time domains. Inter-individual variability may be stochastically greater than intra-individual variability for at least one acoustic parameter (peak frequency). The loudest portion of a sound emission (syllable), or down-pulse, has an average duration of 195 ms and features an abrupt rise to maximum amplitude. Inter-syllabic intervals are irregular and rate of syllable production depends on a mantid's sex. The acoustic output of M. religiosa is nonresonant, broadband, and of relatively low intensity. A minor ultrasonic component may be present in the spectra of these mantids (particularly in males). The modal peak frequency range (4 kHz interval) is 8-12 kHz (mean range 7.4-9.4 kHz). Acoustic parameters which appear to vary between the sexes and/or among females at different reproductive stages, may be related to the sexual size dimorphism of this species and morphological constraints associated with egg-bearing. The acoustic output of M. religiosa is considered with reference to its intended receivers and plausible mechanisms of predator deterrence.
10.2307/3503418|A wide range of grasshopper studies utilize caged populations for complete life cycle in an environment-controlled cabinet. The scope of these studies is often constrained by space limitations and high operating costs. These costs must be rationalized within the context of research budgets. New grasshopper cages were designed, constructed and implemented to optimize use of cabinet floor or shelf area. In our research, biotic potential studies are used to determine the effect of cereal cultivars on grasshopper growth, development and reproduction. A two-year trial period has shown that the new design resulted in major improvements in terms of: cost efficiency and research productivity. The advantages are: (i) A 60% decrease in the cost of evaluating a crop cultivar for resistance to grasshoppers; and (ii) Efficient space utilization permits the use of a standard cultivar as a check in each cycle of experiments, hence, a better statistical design of the trial. In addition, a compact cage with a hand hold is much easier to maneuver within the confines of an environment-controlled cabinet.
25473435|We examined size clines for various external body structures in two grasshopper species (Chorthippus vagans and Oedipoda miniata) and one katydid species (Poecilimon birandi), along an altitudinal gradient ranging from sea level to 1,980 m in southwest Anatolia (Turkey). In O. miniata and P. birandi all measured structures (body, tegmina, pronotum, and hind femur) were smallest at the highest altitude for both sexes. Hence, in these species, different structures covaried in the same direction, with increasing altitude. In contrast, there was no clear relationship between altitude and size in C. vagans, and different structures covaried in different directions in males and females (i.e., some structures became larger at higher elevations, whereas others became smaller, and this differed with sex). For some other C. vagans traits, there was no significant intraspecies variation. Hence, O. miniata and P. birandi followed the converse Bergmann's Rule, whereas there was no consistent pattern for C. vagans. For C. vagans, small body size was not associated with either local population density (measured as relative abundance) or local species richness, suggesting that neither intranor interspecific competition determined body size for this species. For O. miniata, the smallest individuals were found at the site with the highest grasshopper diversity, suggesting that interspecific competition could have influenced O. miniata body sizes at this altitude. However, the largest O. miniata individuals generally occurred at the sites with the highest relative abundance of O miniata. Hence, in this species, body sizes were generally larger at sites with high population densities - consistent with sites that were most favorable and so able to support high densities of O miniata also producing the largest individuals of this species. Observational data on P. birandi similarly suggested that, for this katydid, there is little relationship between local diversity/abundance and altitudinal size-clines.
10.2307/3503512|We used phylogenetic analysis of three different genomic regions (parts of the 18S nRNA gene and of the 12S and 16S mtRNA genes), singly and in combination, to position the Orthoptera within the Polyneoptera and to examine the higher systematics of the Caelifera. Analysis of the Ensifera was hindered by the fact that all the grylloid sequences are highly divergent and do not align readily with those of other orthopterans. Within the Polyneoptera the Orthoptera form a clade together with the Phasmida and Embiidina, which are their closest relatives. Both the Ensifera and the Caelifera are monophyletic groups. We propose the following division of the Caelifera into superfamilies, corresponding to the major branches of their phylogenetic tree: Tridactyloidea, Tetrigoidea, Eumastacoidea, Trigonopterygoidea s. nov. (including the Xyronotidae), Tanaoceroidea, Pyrgomorphoidea, Pneumoroidea, and Acridoidea s. nov. (including the Pamphagidae). The question as to whether the Proscopiidae are a component of the Eumastacoidea or a separate superfamily is not resolved. The classical families within the Tridactyloidea, Tetrigoidea, and Eumastacoidea are supported as unitary clades, as are some but not all of the traditional subfamilies of the Acrididae and Romaleidae. The oldest clades within the Acridoidea appear to be some lentulids, the Oedipodinae, and the Abracrini of the Ommatolampinae. Most of the acridoid clades, however, appear to have arisen more or less simultaneously at a slightly later date, and their branching order is not resolved in our analysis. We find little phylogenetic support for dividing the Acridoidea into more than one family.
23034218|This paper treats the genus Phaulotettix Scudder, 1897, which previously included only three species. In this work we describe 12 new species: P. adibilis n. sp., P. optimus n. sp., P. altissimus n. sp., P. ablusus n. sp., P. adiaphoros n. sp., P. ambrosius n. sp., P. arcadius n. sp., P. flaccidus n. sp., P. affinis n. sp., P. adynatos n. sp., P. nimius n. sp. and P. jocundus n. sp. Species separation is based on male cerci and internal genitalia. The members of this group are distributed mostly in northeastern Mexico: Cohauila, Nuevo Len, Tamaulipas, San Luis Potos, Hidalgo and north Veracruz. Two species, P. compressus Scudder, 1897 and P. eurycercus Hebard, 1918, extend their distribution into Texas, USA. Many of the species treated here overlap geographically, and many occur sympatrically. We also provide a brief discussion of the geography of northeastern Mexico.
10.2307/3503526|A new species of the southern African genus Damaracheta is described. It is one six species in a genus which ranges from Lake Malawi to the Cape.
41759698|The tribe Bactrophorini of the Bactrophorinae is briefly reviewed. Two new genera are erected; Mayalina, and Hylaezentia. Three new species (M. cohni, M. teapensis and M. chajulensis) of Mayalina are described. A key to the genera of the tribe is included. A cladistic analysis of morphological characters indicates that the Bactrophorini genera fall into two well-supported clades. The first, ("Hyleacrae", after its most basal member) has as its basal branches, the exclusively Amazonian Hyleacris and the Amazonian and Central American Bactrophora; as its crown group it contains all the remaining Central American genera except Mezentia. The Central American genera of the Hyleacrae fall into two lineages: first, the sister genera Cristobalina and Mayalina (the "Cristobalina genus group") of Mexico, Guatemala, and Honduras, and secondly the "Rhicnoderma genus group", composed of four genera (Rhicnoderma Gerstaecker, 1889, Lempira (Rehn, 1938) and Pararhicnoderma Rowell, 2012, which occur from Southern Mexico south to Panama, plus the Panamanian endemic Panamacris Rehn, 1938, which is apparently the sister genus of Rhicnoderma). The second clade of the tribe ("Borae", after its most basal member, Bora) contains four exclusively Amazonian genera, plus the fifth and most derived genus, Mezentia, which has both Central American and Colombian species. In the Borae there is a second basal genus, Silacris, and then a crown group consisting of three very closely related genera, Mezentia, Andeomezentia and Hylaezentia, here referred to as the "Mezentia genus group".
3503679|Grasshopper populations (Orthoptera: Acrididae) were surveyed on reconstructed and remnant prairies in Wisconsin. Twenty-seven species were observed on 17 different sites. Most sites ranged from dry to mesic habitats. Two species were very common, Melanoplus femurrubrum and Chorthippus curtipennis, being found at 15 and 14 sites respectively; 12 species were collected only at one site. Reconstructed prairies generally lacked the overall grasshopper species diversity observed on remnant prairies, with one exception, Lake Wissota - a 48 ha reconstructed dry site that contained 10 species of grasshoppers. Important factors for grasshopper conservation and prairie restoration may not be dependent on the age of the restoration, but the size and type of prairie being reconstructed as well as proximity to remnant sites. Management plans that include fire should also consider those species that overwinter as nymphs.
10.2307/3503532|The new genus Ronderosia is proposed for the South American melanoplinae Dichroplus bergi species group. Ronderosia presently includes nine species distributed in Southern Brazil, Paraguay, Uruguay, and north-central Argentina. Dichroplus distinguendus Giglio-Tos, Dichroplus brasiliensis Bruner, and Dichroplus bicolor Giglio-Tos are synonymized under Ronderosia bergi (Stal). The cladistic analysis performed to analyze the relationships of Ronderosia with its closest genera, yielded one most parsimonious tree that showed Ronderosia related to Atrachelacris, Scotussa, and Leiotettix.
3503733|Melanopline grasshoppers are known to transfer both sperm and nutritive secretions, from the accessory reproductive glands in the form of internal spermatophores, to females during mating. It remains difficult in most species, without extensive destructive sampling, to determine numbers transferred. This study documents that for Melanoplus differentialis, remnants of spermatophores, which have already discharged their contents into the spermatheca, can be found associated with the external genitalia after mating. For males mating for the first time and with virgin females, the numbers of spermatophore casings found were significantly positively correlated with copulation duration. Casings were not found on the external genitalia after most matings in M. femurrubrum. This study also examined mating behavior in M. differentialis and M. femurrubrum. In both species, mounting followed relatively simple behavior by the male, such as antenna pointing, indicating that the male was aware of a conspecific's presence. No obvious attempts at courtship were observed beyond preparations to mount.
10.2307/3503550|A wide range of injuries was recorded over two years in a field population of Decticus verrucivorus (L.). Injuries to the antennae and legs were most frequent. In the year of the most detailed investigation, 13.3% of immatures and 30.8% of adults were injured. The frequency of injured individuals in the population increased during nymphal development and adult life, but did not differ between sexes or years. Causes of injuries to adults included avian predation and moulting failures, but 100% of injuries to immatures and over 90% of injuries to adults were unexplained. We believe the causes and consequences of sublethal injuries warrant further study.
4122949| Proceeding from the revision of the genus Proscopia Klug 1820, two groups of species are separated which do not have the characters of that genus. These species are grouped forming two new genera: Paraproscopia n. gen. and Pseudoproscopia n. gen. Both are described here, together with Carbonellis n. gen., a genus that contains two new species and one junior synonym. The type species are defined, tables of dimensions and keys for the identification of species provided, and new species described, principally from the collections of the National Museum of Natural History of Pars, France, the Instituto de Ciencias Naturales de la Universidad Nacional de Colombia, Museu de Zoologia of Universidade de Sao Paulo and the Museu de Ro de Janeiro, Brasil. 
10.2307/3503479|Leichhardt's grasshopper Petasida ephippigera White is found only in the wet-dry tropics of northern Australia. Small populations are known from Kakadu National Park (KNP) and Keep River National Park (KRNP), Northern Territory. Kakadu National Park is a major tourist destination for national and international visitors, and the attractive adult coloration of P. ephippigera has resulted in its wide use in advertising literature by park and safari operators. However, despite its high profile, the ecology of P. ephippigera is poorly understood. A pilot study of P. ephippigera was conducted over two successive wet seasons at three sites in KNP. Juveniles are well camouflaged, in size and color, and adult coloration is aposematic. The occurrence of P. ephippigera is linked to the distribution of the strongly aromatic shrubs Pityrodia jamesii Specht in KNP and Pityrodia ternifolia (F. Muell.) Munir (Family Verbenaceae) in KRNP; these are primary food sources for both juvenile and adult P. ephippigera. Further research is needed on the impact to populations of P. ephippigera by tourism and current burning practices, in order to formulate management strategies to prevent localised extinctions of this grasshopper.
10.2307/3503501|The effect of parasitic worms (mermithid nematodes and nematomorphs) on the behavior of their cricket host (Orthoptera: Rhaphidophoridae) was examined. Adult stages of both these worms live in freshwater while the juvenile stages infect terrestrial hosts. Behaviors of adult crickets related to nocturnal activity were measured in the laboratory by time-lapse video. No significant differences were found in four behavioral measures between infected and uninfected hosts. The results are discussed in relation to the life histories and transmission strategies of the parasites.
3503722|The aim of this study was to establish whether feeding preferences exist in Chorthippus parallelus among 4 grass species: Cynosurus cristatus, Dactylis glomerata, Festuca rubra and Lolium perenne. Ten grass microswards, each composed of equal areas of the 4 grass species, were established in early 2003. These were placed in insect cages in early June and the number of feeding signs monitored over a 2-week period, for early instar nymphs (1-2), late instar nymphs (3-4), early adults and late adults. Dactylis glomerata and Lolium perenne were the preferred food choices of late instar nymphs, early adults and late adults, perhaps because of these foods' superior nutritive value and palatability. Festuca rubra was less favored by C. parallelus at all stages of insect maturity, perhaps due to leaf hardness making it difficult for the mandibles to penetrate. An aphid infestation of C. cristatus during early July caused the leaves to senesce and resulted in reduced feeding on this species by early and late adults.
23610401|There are nine Necroscia species recognized in China, among which N. inflata (Redtenbacher) and N. marginata (Gray) are reported for the first time from China. One new synonym is discovered: N. maculata (Chen & He) is regarded as a junior synonym of N. multicolor (Redtenbacher) n. syn. First description is given for the female and egg of N. hainanensis (Chen & He) n. comb., which is transferred from Sosibia Stl. A list and key to all Chinese species are given.
25822703|Chorthippus parallelus parallelus (Cpp) and Chorthippus parallelus erythropus (Cpe) are two grasshopper subspecies whose distributions overlap in the Pyrenees, where they form a hybrid zone at those points where the topography and their ecological requirements allow. This hybrid zone is a consequence of secondary contact between endemic Iberian (Cpe) and continental European populations (Cpp) that expanded after the most recent glaciations from the refugia in which they had diverged genetically in allopatry. The morphological, physiological, genetic and behavioral differences between these subspecies (and their natural and laboratory-reared hybrids) have been intensively studied in recent years, for which reason this hybrid zone is considered a singular model in evolutionary biology. These studies reveal a complex pattern of factors involved in the origin, structure and maintenance of the hybrid zone. They offer an excellent panorama of evolution "in action". Wolbachia is a genus of obligate endosymbiont bacteria that induce changes in the reproduction of arthropods and nematodes. In previous studies we have reported the existence of these bacteria in individuals and populations of Chorthippus parallelus. Now we show that they produce a significant reproductive barrier in this hybrid zone, implying, as proposed elsewhere, that Wolbachia may be involved in speciation phenomena.
3503738|The revision of several taxa previously attributed to the plesion 'Protorthoptera' yielded information about the venation pattern of Orthoptera and the sister-group relationships of Orthoptera. A new wing venation pattern is proposed, i.e., (1) a basal composite stem M + CuA, distally separated into M and CuA; (2) distal free CuA fused with the anterior branch of CuPa (CuPa 'alpha'). We consider the clade Orthoptera as an apomorphy-based group (sensu Brochu & Sumrall), on the basis of this complex structure and, also by the presence of two branches of MA, MA1 and MA2 (but reversed in some recent taxa, having a MA simple). In the stem group of Orthoptera, the free part of CuA is fused with CuPa, i.e., CuPa is not ramified into CuPa 'alpha' and CuPa 'beta'. Also, MA is simple.
10.2307/3503472|The Phalangopsidae are one of the most important cricket families of the world, both in terms of taxa number and ecological diversity. Although they can be directly observed in the field and easily raised in laboratories, few data are yet available on their biology. In this paper, the present state of the systematics of Phalangopsidae is briefly indicated, and available data are given on their habitats and acoustic and mating behavior (mainly on the basis of my observations in the field). The methodological framework recently developed in comparative biology is used to analyze the evolution of phalangopsid biological characteristics in reference to phylogeny (ancestral state and evolutionary changes). Evolutionary scenarios based on my phylogenetic studies are proposed. In particular, the evolution of the habitats and mating behavior of Central American Amphiacustae is analyzed. Evolutionary changes of habitat could be the consequence of the exploitation of a new resource, or of geographical expansion. Moreover, the evolutionary potentialities of members of a clade appear constrained by the characteristics of its ancestral habitat (exaptations). Our data finally support the conservatism hypothesis of ecological evolutionary change (Funk and Brooks 1990). The scenarios constructed for morphological structures involved in acoustic and mating behavior show that their evolution is complex and probably the result of several factors. Data at hand do not allow to test the role of predation, and suggest that the habitat could influence the acoustic and mating behavior by modifying the structure of interindividual interactions. It is hypothesized that the physical structure and spatial distribution of habitat could be most important.
10.2307/3503543| First data on the communicative behaviour and sound production in captivity of Sphingonotus arenarius (Lucas, 1849), Sph. coerulans corsicus Chopard, 1923 and Truxalis nasuta (Linneo, 1758) are offered, as well as oscillograms and physical characteristics of the sounds. /// Se presentan los primeros datos conocidos sobre el comportamiento comunicativo y la produccin de sonido en cautividad de Sphingonotus arenarius (Lucas, 1849), Sph. coerulans corsicus Chopard, 1923 y Truxalis nasuta (Linneo, 1758). Se aportan las representaciones grficas de los sonidos y ciertas caractersticas fsicas de los mismos. 
